. i can overstate the federal governments obligation to equip our nations veterans with the "tools" they need to find fulfilling and productive work.  can i overstate the importance of education in the attainment of that goal. i have always supported programs to improve and to expand educational benefits for all our veterans and i am pleased that the bill we are considering today. senate bill 457. the veterans education benefits act. would expand those educational benefits. however. while i believe this bill contains many worthwhile provisions. i also feel it has some shortcomings which work to the detriment of some veterans. and. therefore. i am supportive of efforts to correct those defects. s. 457 provides an acrosstheboard costofliving increase in the amount of educational assistance allowance granted under the gi bill. this increase. which is retroactive to october 1. 1977. will protect a veterans current course of study from the ravages of inflation. the bill will also correct the existing problems with our 85/15 program and our 2year program for overseas education programs. these reforms will prove beneficial for many schools which have large overseas programs. especially universities in the theast. at the present time. the "2year rule" creates a "catch 22" situation for college level programs on military bases in foreign countries. as my colleagues k. this rule prohibits the payment of veterans assistance to persons enrolled in programs of study which have been in existence for less than 2 years. if education institutions apply for the exemption from the rule which is provided in the law for certain courses. civilian and foreign nationals can be prohibited from enrolling in their courses.  only might this result in as much as a 25percent loss in enrollment. but it effectively violates the terms of the contracts which these schools have with the department of defense and the understanding reached with host countries. and if. on the other hand. educational institutions comply with the rules provisions. military bases can be adversely affected. for then. person eligible for veterans assistance can receive benefits if enrolled in courses at new military bases for the first 2 years of operation. the veterans education benefits act corrects these deficiencies by authorizing the administrator of the veterans administration to waive the 2year rule for branch campuses if he determines that the waiver would be in the best interests of eligible veterans and of the federal government. i am confident that this provision will eliminate the problems currently burdening universities with overseas programs for veterans. also. since the legislation we are considering makes the 85/15 rule inapplicable for courses offered by american universities abroad. then universities such as boston university. which has 73 percent of its students at foreign study centers receiving veterans assistance. would  be penalized as the number of its civilian students approaches the 15percent level. the legislation also includes other provisions which will benefit both veterans and education institutions. these provisions would: increase the educational counseling currently provided for veterans who are eligible for va benefits. continue to exclude basic educational opportunity grants (beogs) and secondary education opportunity grants (seogs) in determining benefits until a study is completed on the need to count beogs and seogs in the 85/15 determination and on the method to count them if necessary. require a study to be conducted and recommendations to be submitted on possible administrative and legislative changes in the veterans vocational rehabilitation program. and increase by 10 percent the amount of expense money reimbursed to state approving agencies for expenses incurred for approving educational institutions for purposes of gi bill enrollment. however. while i am pleased these measures have been included in this bill. i am disappointed with two actions taken by the veterans affairs committee. one of these actions was the 5to4 decision to exclude a provision to extend the delimiting period for veterans who want to pursue their education. the other action was to include a provision for accelerated payments instead of a tuition equalization formula for veterans.  very long ago. 483.000 veterans lost their gi education benefits. because their delimiting period expired. many of these veterans were fulltime students. and all of them were in the process of completing their education and training programs. i think it is unfair for us to cut off their benefits and. in many cases. shatter the dreams of our veterans for eventually improving their chances in the job market they face today. therefore. i favor extending benefits for veterans for a 2year period. critics of extending education benefits argue that money for veterans should be spent on other veterans programs. i agree that we must increase our programs for medical care and treatment. pensions. and compensations. but. we must  sacrifice educational benefits to achieve these other goals. a second argument against extending benefits is that we have  extended education benefits for veterans of other eras. however. i think that we must consider the particular circumstances which warrant extension today. schools were experiencing a time of turmoil in the late 1960s. student costs were escalating. veterans were  welcomed on some campuses and some veterans had a difficult time adjusting to society upon their return from vietnam. for these reasons. many veterans delayed entering school. these distinctions justify the efforts to extend benefits for all veterans. however. if we are unable to pass a provision to extend benefits for all veterans in need who were discharged after august 4. 1964. the date of the tonkin gulf resolution. then i support the provision to extend benefits for the 400.000 veterans who are currently fulltime students and must be allowed to finish their education. the proposal to do this is modest. it would provide only 50 percent of the regular benefits during the first extension year and 33 percent during the second year. i also feel that the proposal to institute a tuition equalization formula will help more veterans than the bills accelerated payments provision. the equalization formula. which is similar to legislation which i am cosponsoring in the senate. would pay 70 percent of the veterans tuition above $400. with a maximum tuition assistance payment of $700. the accelerated payments provision would do hing more than allow a veteran to accelerate his gi bill benefits to the extent that he has a sufficient number of months of entitlement to complete his course of study. although the latter proposal will help some students attending schools with higher tuition and fees. it will  assist those veterans who lack egh months of entitlements for meeting costs during the academic school year. in fact. the accelerated payments provision is estimated to provide assistance to only 13 percent of currently enrolled veterans and only in public institutions in four states. however. the equalization formula would increase the number of eligible veterans to 65 percent and extend benefits to public institutions in 45 states. the tuition equalization formula would allow all students to attend schools regardless of their state of residence. we would thus be ending the current discrimination against veterans in the midwest and the eastern states. since 1968. veterans from the midwest and eastern states have received $8 billion in benefits. while veterans from the south and west have received nearly $12 billion. and. i am certain this change would improve the situation for veterans in massachusetts. for. while my state ranks 10th in population for vietnamera veterans. it ranks 33d for its college participation rate under the gi bill. only 28.9 percent of the veterans in massachusetts are currently enrolled in programs at schools under the gi bill. the equalization formula would rectify this injustice and would increase educational opportunities in the future. therefore. i enthusiastically support senator javits amendment authorizing a tuition equalization formula and i urge my colleagues to support equitable and viable provisions to assist all of our veterans.
