. israel is celebrating the beginning of its 17th year as an independent reborn nation on april 16 amidst mixed signs of impressive achievement and yet threatening dangers to its very existence. when israel was created. she became the 59th member of the united nations. since then. the u.n. membership has almost doubledit  stands at 103 countries--and israel. in addition to her own problems. has shared to the fullest extent the responsibilities arising from the problems of independence that these new nations faced. unlike the new nations who have been generously endowed by nature with natural resources. israel had to face ithe task of building a nation in a narrow strip of territory almost totally devoid of any natural resources and surrounded by enemies. moreover. the human resources from which this nation was built consisted of people who came from 70 different nations. with different languages. different social environments. and different climates. the task of unifying and assimilating its people. over 1 million of whom were admitted to israel since 1948. was carried on successfully in the face of crushing burdens for defense and without weakening israels free and democratic institutions. the state of israel is confronted by an extraordinary international situation created by bitterly hostile neighboring governments led by the united arab republic. which openly proclaim their determination to wipe out the small state and its population. it is incredible that strong reaction did  take place when such threats were made by member states of the u.n. to annihilate aher u.n. member state. egypts ability to mount an offensive in yemen. 1.000 miles away. proves that this is idle threat that can be put down as mere words for internal consumption. to defend herself against these threats. israel is forced to spend vast sums for the purchase of arms in order to maintain at least a qualitative balance with the massive and sophisticated arms of all kinds that the sovietbloc countries are pouring into the united arab republic. she receives grant aid for arms from the united statesas some arab states doand must buy her vital armaments out of her own resources. despite these special problems. israel has steadfastly lived up to the great humanitarian commitment made when the state was created. namely. to admit and resettle all jews who wanted to return to their homeland. hundreds of thousands of jews in the displaced persons camps in 1949 came to israel. many hundreds of thousands came from countries where they had to flee for their lives. leaving behind everything they owned except the clothes on their backs. one might well ask what the international community would have done with this problem of vast numbers of penniless. homeless men. women. and children if there had  been a state of israel to give them homes and an opportunity to rebuild their lives. israel has developed an ecoy close to viabilityif it did  have to contend with a boiling arms race in its areawhich is based on a growing industry. diversified agriculture. and increasing international trade. the pipelineto carry israels share of jordan waters to the negev opens up new avenues for future growth and development because it will make large areas of desert land available for farms and towns.  content with this role. israel is also emously helping the free world by sending missions and giving technical help to many new african and asian countries which can profit so much from israels experience. israel is a force for peace. progress. and freedom in the middle east. and the free world has every reason to regard as good fortune the day 16 years ago when israel proclaimed her independence. but while we hail israels spectacular achievements. let us  relax our vigilance and care for its security and progress. the maintenance of close and friendly relations between the united states and israel and the assurance of our support are essential to israels security so that she can fulfill her great humanitarian mission.
