. on behalf of myself and my colleague. the senior senator from new york . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill authorizing the surgeon general of the united states to establish a hospital on ellis island. in new york harbor. especially equipped for the treatment of persons addicted to narcotics. then senior senator from new york and i. joined by our colleague in the other body. representative anfuso. of new york. are urging the mayor of the city of new york and the gover of the state of new york to make such agreements as are practicable for all parties with the authorities of the united states in order to bring about this highly desirable reform. we point out in our communication to the mayor and gover that it is possible to devote to 100percent public benefit this very valuable facility. provided suitable arrangements are made for its operation. we also point out other states in the theast are similarly interested with us in new york. and that this reprezents an interesting opportunity for an interstate compact. we have an estimated 20.000 reported addicts in the new york areathat is. in the whole complex of states which represent that areain addition to thousands of unkn narcotics victims. we feel the establishment of a narcotics hospital on ellis island would be extremely humanitarian and would present a very useful opportunity to utilize this very valuable piece of real estate to the greatest advantage. i emphasize that ody ks better than the senior senator from new york and i the practical problems which are involved. the expense. and other arrangements which need to be made. we only lend our aid to those problems. we wish  to make it very clear that we think everyone is acting in the desire to do the greatest good. in terms of our city and state of new york. in this whole matter. but we point out that our desires and our willingness to do the right thing in this regard will  be egh. because we have certain deadlines to meet with respect to the sale of the property under the law. therefore. we must activate ourselves to make the best financial proposals we possibly can make on that subject. i hope this may prove to be a model of unpartisan cooperation in the way we work out a use for ellis island in new york harbor.
 george adams put forward a daring proposal to relocate the entire hospital service center in an abandoned factory building located just 10 blocks from the present hospital plant. the plant. which was given to the city of new york last april. is close to the brooklyn waterfront in the "sickest" part of the sunset park community. industry. which once thrived in the area. has gradually moved out. leaving blighted conditions and decay in its wake. the immediate neighborhood has become a breeding place for poverty and disease. contributing to a downward ecoic plunge which affects all of sunset park and. inevitably. the adjacent middleincome community of bay ridge. the lutheran medical centers offer to move to the site was prompted in part by the urgent need to replace its present obsolete and indaquate physical plant. most of which was built before 1910. more important. however. was the firm belief of the hospital leadership that the conversion of the vacant factory into a modern. fullservice medical center could restore confidence in the community. reverse its downward trends. and stimulate a new surge of prosperity in sunset park. they envisioned the hospitals multimillion dollar investment as the first step in a much larger project of revitalization. which would include the development of new housing and commercial. educational. recreational. industrial. and other facilities necessary to the rebirth of a healthy community. after 6 months of intensive efforts on the part of the medical center. community groups. the city of new york. and interested individuals. the foresight of the hospital leadership has already been rewarded. what seemed like an "impossible dream" only a short time back is  on the road to becoming reality. the first breakthrough came with the completion of a report on the feasibility and estimated costs of converting the poured concrete shell of the building into a modern medical center. the report. prepared by a wellkn hospital architectural firm. concluded that this unprecedented venture in transforming an obsolete industrial structure into an important community resource was both feasible and ecoically sound. the architects present a detailed description of how the factorys usable floor space can house a 484bed general hospital with extensive ambulatory care facilities. almost doubling the hospitals present bed capacity and number of employees. large areas of unused land around the factory provide ample space for planned future development of healthrelated services as a day care center. geriatrics centers. extended care facilities. drug and alcohol addiction services. enlarged educational programs. doctors offices. industrial health services and hospital staff housing. estimating the total cost of constructing a comparable new hospital from the ground up at about $37 million. the architects concluded that use of the existing shell will cut approximately $6 million off that amount. as well as providing a considerable financial savings on terms of planning and construction time. the office of the mayor of the city of new york received the lutheran medical centers proposal with great enthusiasm and undertook to coordinate efforts throughout the city government to make the property available to the hospital. to encourage an environment conducive to community deveolpment around the proposed hospital. the city planning commission has initiated zoning changes in the area surrounding the site. previously zoned for heavy industry. the city provided a part of the funds to develop a comprehensive plan for rehabilitation of the sunset park community. the recommendations of the planners. focusing on the proposed new hospital as the hub of the redevelopment programs. will be completed by january 1. 1970. a most important facet of this project for sunset park has been the active involvement of a historically fragmented community in a cooperative planning process. early last summer. the medical center initiated meetings with leaders from throughout the community to explore their reactions to the concept of the move. universal support was given from all organized community groups reaching across traditional ethnic. cultural and ecoic lines of division. a 16member redevelopment committee. elected by representatives of more than 25 community organizations. has worked closely with the urban planners to insure a significant community input in the final recommendations for redevelopment. in less than a year. what began as a new concept of the responsibility of a local hospital to its neighborhood has expanded into a communitywide movement that may well mark the turning point in the history of an entire urban area. the willingness of one institution to come forward as an aggressive advocate for its neighborhood. as the rallying point for a unified community effort and as a bridge between the people. their government. and private ecoic interests. can serve as an experimental model for future programs of renewal in urban areas throughout america. i ask unanimous consent that the text of a letter from 40 representatives of these groups to mayor john v. lindsay and other city agencies. indicating their unqualified support for the project. be included in my remarks.
