may i say to the senator. because we sometimes unexpectedly get an element of truthalthough it is rather late in the evening. and the world is  particularly listening to what we are sayingthat this points up in a very real way the real issue in this debate. to assume that antisegregation laws will settle the total ferment in the negro community in the united states is to assume too much. i believe that we are  expiating a century of both abuse and neglect. i believe those two words express the difficult situations we face. i would  attempti can join the senator in attemptingto evaluate the intensity of the disorders. the grief. and the tragedy of the riots. the deaths and the destruction in jacksonville. fla.. or in jackson. miss.. or in montgomery or in birmingham. ala.. or in cambridge. md.. as contrasted with or compared with the situation in new york. like the senator from florida. i feel deep grief in my heart for every american. neither do i compare the situation in new york with the inhumanity of the bombing of churches or. of the killing of negro children. american can rest content in the face of that situation. but i think the nubbin of the difference between us in this debatei do  say necessarily with the senator from florida. but in this debateis that persons like myself feel that the substratum must be dealt with. a calculated social order of segregation founded on law is gradually being dismantled because it is unconstitutional. that is the bedrock on which this essential revolt is founded. the totality of the revolt comes also from the fact that there has been a retardation of opportunity in various fields. such as housing. jobs. and education. even in areas where there is antisegregation law. we must start by trying to deal with the situation.  only in upgrading these people in terms of their education. training. and opportunity. but even beyond the aspects that law will compel. people such as myself feel that this is the very basis for the tremendous turmoil in dealing with problems in connection with which the constitution. in our judgment. is being violated and flouted. the builtin social order which is the basis for all of this revolt just can persist in the face of modem times and the deep protests of millions of people who longer will be subjected to that kind of social order. thus. without exculpating new york in any way for all the things it should be doing and has  done. i do  believe there is any excuse for a situation in which the social order flies in the face of the constitution. the basic revolt started where oppression is. in the eyes of negroes. the worst. it is based  only upon the result of 100 years of neglect. but also upon abuse. the negroes will  tolerate it any longer. this vast earthquake is affecting the whole nation. all americans suffering because of it. so i said what i did without trying in any way to derogate the sincerity and the philosophy of southern senators. certainly the senator from florida is as eloquent. as able. and as fine a human being as there is in the senate. i feel very deeply that the sooner we as a nation give to all americans the basic guarantees of the constitution. the sooner shall we be. as it were. ending the earthquake and providing greater hope that the situation will have a bedrock of stability upon which we in the thern cities. which already have a network of lawsalthough there are still grave problems beyond the lawsmay work and build. if the senator from florida will allow me to do so. let me say i was speaking more as a witness than as an advocate. based upon by own profound kledge. i do  say that arrogantly. but from my own lifetime of experience with the situation. i feel that we are facing a very grave threat to order and tranquility in the country. i feel very strongly that we need this body of federal law. in order to start on the road back. the conditions of quiet and order which senators from the south have described were shattered in the south by the sheer march of time. when negroes who listened to their radios and watched on the television and saw the kinds of opportunities available to citizens elsewhere in the land. would longer allow themselves to be kept as a separate class of people. to be the drawers of water and the hewers of wood. this is the end of that kind of life for them. they found a way in which to revolt. they call it the sitin. it began in greensboro. n.c.. and that movement is sweeping the country. we as legislators must honestly and sincerely try to find what to do about it. i believe. and many other senators also believe. that the first essential should be the enactment of some form of national guarantee for these basic rights. which in many states. including my own. have already obtained. the senator from florida will tell me. "well. you have your disorders and your difficulties." yes. we do. but at least we have a reasonable answer to them. and we are trying extremely hard to work the problems out. i believe that. on the whole. the majority of the people are with us in this very trying time. i shudder to think of what could happen if the "lid were to continue to be kept on"-although it will  bein the southern states. then there really could be a very dire situation. each of us is responsible only for his own views. and that is all i am trying to do. i assure the senator from florida that although i do  just use the word "humility." i feel it very deeply in so profound. serious. and dangerous a situation as the one i believe all of us find ourselves in.
