. on may 3. 1791. 172 years ago tomorrow. the polish constitution was signed. this document gave the polish people for the first time the principles of representative government. we have watched with sadness how those principles have been trampled by the sovietcommunist regime in the years since world war ii. american hearts go out to the polish people. who have so gallantly resisted the forces of tyranny and oppression in poland. and to their compatriots here in our own nation. i hope the members of the house will join with me in paying tribute to the polish people on their constitution day. the spirit of that constitution lives in poland today and in the hearts of americans of polish descent and their friends. let us hope that the principles that inspired the 1791 constitution will one day govern poland again.
. sunday. may 3. marks the anniversary of the adoption of the polish constitution of 1791. the constitution represented a bulwark of sovereignty and political liberty in poland. a liberty which has been ground under the heel of the soviet boot since world war ii. the 1791 constitution represents a political philosophy which parallels our own. consider this quotation from the constitution: all power in civil society should be derived from the will of the people. its end and object being the preservation and integrity of the state. the civil liberty and the good order of society. on an equal scale and on a lasting foundation. how close this is to our own ideals of majority rule and miity rights. due process equality and limited government. ment. the tragedy of communism which has befallen poland has  dimmed the light of liberty among the polish people. we must express our gratitude for the countless contributions that have been made to the united states by people of polish descent by continuing to support the polish people in their unending struggle for freedom.
. this week we mark the anniversary of the polish constitution of 1791. while we are free here in the united states to speak out publicly in commemoration of this triumph of liberty. those who live in poland today must mark it as a silent holiday. the democratic impulse of the 1791 constitution has been silenced by the oppression of a communist regime. but it has  been stilled. millions of poles join with us in rededicating ourselves to the pursuit of freedom for eastern europe. as we observe this anniversary. we are reminded also this year of the 150th anniversary of the death of thaddeus kosciuszko. the polish patriot who gave so much to american liberty. his spirit gives courage to us all in the struggle for freedom.
if i may ask the senator from ohio one more question. i agree with him that socalled executive agreements which involve foreign commitments must be brought to an end. i think the president of the united states has the goodfaith responsibility to the people of the united states to submit proposed commitments or understandings to congress for approval in advance of entering into them. because in my opinion. every time the president enters into such an agreement. in view of present world condition he circumvents the adviceandconsent clause of the constitution with respect to treaties. because such an agreement amounts to an alliance and is in effect a treaty.
i should like to point out to the senator from vermont that the new york state constitution takes care of the situation to which he refers quite thoroughly. there is a provision in it  whereby any such steal as that to which he refers would be impossible at this time. the people of the state of new york intend to control their water resources in perpetuity. and it is so provided in our state constitution.
. in order to explain what i have proposed. i want to point out that if senators will look at page 2. line 12. of senate joint resolu.tion 191. they will find the basis of the amendment which i have offered. beginning in line 12 the amendment reads: america: provided. that the consent of congress to this compact shall  in any way be construed as an endorsement of segregation in educationi stop there. because i deleted. in the amendment which i have just offered. the words "an endorsement of" and substituted the single word "approving." i read further: provided further. that the planning. establishment. acquisition. and operation of educational institutions be  in conflict with the constitution of the united states under the said compact entered into february 8. 1948. i make a change there by adding in line 16. as it appears in the senate joint resolution this language. after the word "institutions" i incorporate: "shall include uniform standards of education for all such institutions under the said compact entered into february 8. 1948. and shall  be in conflict with the constitution of the united states." if it be desired to change that language and return to the original wording as it appears in the amendment to the senate joint resolution. this can be done by offering perfecting amendments or modifying amendments to the amendment which i have offered.
. yesterday and again today in this debate on the proposed constitutional amendment aimed to provide equal rights for women. a strong case has been made against the amendment itself. amendments to the amendment are being offered. and it would appear that on the basis of the intrinsic merit of the proposed constitutional amendment alone. as it stands and of itself. it might  receive sufficient support in the senate to permit its approval. i listened yesterday with much interest. as i have again today. to the remarks of my distinguished colleague from new york . in which he gave a partial outline of the many legislative enactments in our state which. over the years. have been provided for the special protection of women. as he so generously indicated in his remarks. i also contributed in substantial degree in promoting many of these legislative enactments. i concur with many of his observations regarding the merit of the proposed constitutional amendment itself. although i feel that the situation which it provokes is one open to broad and searching debate and probable court determination. i am  speaking in favor of the proposed constitutional amendment. i am speaking on what i consider to be the primary question before the senatethe matter of the submission of this amendment to the states for ratification or rejection. as has been pointed out so frequently in this debate. this question has been before the congress for 27 years. during this same period the submission of the amendment to the states for ratification has frequently been advocated in platform planks of both major political parties. it has been a constantly recurring question. it is one which can be iged. neither do i believe that it can be resolved satisfactorily by the alternative proposal in the form of the substitute amendment. meritorious though such a proposal may be in and of itself and apart from the main question of the proposed constitutional amendment. it seems to me that this proposed constitutional amendment is so vital and so farreaching in its implications and potential consequences that it should be submitted for the individual consideration of the several states. affecting the fundamental rights of the states themselves to so great degree as does this proposed constitutional amendment. the states in turn by direct action should be required to make the decision. each state ks far better than can we in the congress how the proposed amendment might affect it. furthermore. this is a very basic matter in our society which would have a direct and powerful effect upon the wellbeing of at least half of our population. probably amendment to the constitution having a greater effect upon more people in the united states has ever been proposed. here again it seems to me to be of the utmost importance that the states themselves should be called upon to make direct and individual determination. at the same time. two of the amendments which have been proposed. the one by the senator from georgia [mr. russell]. which would place a time limitation for ratification. and the one offered by the senator from arizona . which is aimed to prevent any impairment of "any rights. benefits. or exemptions conferred by law upon persons of the female sex." seems to be most desirable. as a former member of the legislature of my state for many years. i long ago became convinced of the ever present need for a time limit for the ratification of amendments to the constitution of the united states. and i long ago reached the personal decision that i would  support any proposed constitutional amendment. matter how meritorious. unless it carried with it such a time limitation provision. for the reasons i have briefly indicated. i expect to vote in favor of senate joint resolution 25. if either the amendment to it offered by the senator from georgia or one of a similar nature is adopted. in so voting. however. i do  wish my action to be. construed in any sense as an endorse"ment of. the proposed constitutional amendment itself. i thank the senator from iowa.
. i desire to join my distinguished colleague. the senator from new jersey . in his most appropriate remarks concerning the one hundred and sixtyfirst anniversary of the adoption of the polish constitution. which will be observed on the coming saturday. may 3. as we all k. the polish constitution is one of the most inspiring and le documents ever produced by free men. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record at this point in my remarks a statement i have prepared in commemoration of this historic occasion.
. recently a resolution regarding the independence of poland was unanimously adopted at a mass meeting held in buffalo. n. y.. in commemoration of polish constitution day. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution be printed in the record and appropriately referred.
. at the outset i want to commend my colleague from new jersey for the excellent presentation he has just made. i have intention of consuming the time of the senate in repetitious argument or presentation. in the debate of yesterday and today almost every aspect of the question before us has been covered in one way or aher. i rise. however. to express my personal feeling concerning this vital matter. i favor the pending motion as indicated by the fact that i am one of its cosponsors. i favor the pending motion because i believe deeply that every public legislative body periodically should adopt rules of procedure. in this discussion much has been said for and against the idea that the senate is a continuing body with continuing rules. i shall  enter into this controversy where it concerns the nature of the senate itself. to me it seems immaterial whether or  the senate is a continuing body. for the sake of argument i am willing to agree that it is a continuing body. on the other hand. the assumption that because the senate is a continuing body its rules also must be tontinuing. seems to me to be without foundation. such an assumption is part and parcel of the fallacious theory that any course of human conduct having been. it must always continue to be. just as congress can commit a future congress. so senate can commit a future senate. hing in the constitution requires that the rules of the first or any subsequent senate must remain unchanged in perpetuity. the record of the senate since 1789 furnishes resounding denial to such a ridiculous ion. neither does the constitution deny to the senate the authority to adopt former or new rules on the first. the last. or any other day of any congress. whether or  one accepts it. the fact remains that by acquiescence or default. or however one wants to term it. the senate in the first instance in each new congress has approved the rules by which it operates. in the few cases where this course of action has been challenged directly. subsequent senate action in effect has approved the senate rules. this approval has taken the form of their acceptance for want of something else and for want of sufficient opposition to them. it is perhaps unfortunate that the question of civil rights has become entangled in the immediate debate. civil rights is a vitally important question in this country. but there are also other vitally important questions. to pick out any one particular subject and to assume by emphasis that the importance of that subject is transcendent where the question of senate rules is concerned. must detract inevitably from the basic and overshadowing question here at issue. this question is a simple one: shall senators exercise the right which nearly every senator seems to think he possesses as a member of the senate. the right to vote in fact and  in theory on its rules. it is claimed by those opposed to the pending motion that the rules of the senate in the eightysecond congress provided a guaranty of the exercise of this right. but all of us k that such guaranty was more than an empty gesture. all of us ke of us is deceivedthat the rules of the senate in the last congress. while theoretically permitting their own amendment by a majority vote of the senate. in reality denied the use of that vote by allowing unlimited and unrestricted debate on any motion "to take up" a proposed amendment to the rules. in other words. all of us k that there is at least one type of amendment to the senate rules of the eightysecond congress which. under those rules. can never be brought to a final vote. as a matter of fact. far fewer than 20 opposing senators would be able to prevent a final vote on any amendment to the rules. it has been stated that the establishment of a precedent. as would be done by the adoption of the pending motion. would constitute dangerous action on the part of the senate. the theory seems tc be that the sense and wisdom of a majority must be continually inferior to the sense and wisdom of a miity and that the will of a majority should be subordinated constantly to the will of a miity. this is to say that the preponderance of error lies consistently with commission and never with omission. it is to say that. by the law of averages. more is always to be lost by affirmative action than by negative action. it is to feign advance by backing forward. i do  subscribe to this kind of doctrine. i do  believe that rules adopted by the senate at the outset of a new congress must be worse than are former rules accepted by default. i do  believe that former senate rules. revised and adopted at the beginning of a new congress. must be less desirable than would be such rules where revised and adopted later in the life of that congress. it seems to me that the pending motion by the senator from new mexico which i am very glad to cosponsor. offers a practical. forthright means by which to obtain an expression of majority sentiment in the senate. with all due respect to the obviously sincere intentions of those who propose to amend rule xxii by means of later senate action. i must point out that the chance of success of such an effort is most remote. i well remember the debate on the socalled haydenwherry resolution in 1949. which. to prevent a filibuster at the time. was finally resolved by the adoptioer the vigorous opposition of some of usof the cloture provisions contained in senate rule xxii of the eightysecond congress. the surest way to bring about the change in rule xxii. which has been proposed and which many senators support. is through the adoption of the pending motion.
. as the distinguished senator from michigan has just stated. next sunday. may 3. will mark the 162d anniversary of polish constitution day. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record. following these remarks. the text of a statement i have prepared in recognition of this memorable occasion.
. i am pleased to join my fellow citizens of polish descent in the commemoration of polands constitution day. this observance reminds us  as always of the strong and abiding bonds between freedomloving americans and freedomloving men in poland. all of us k that human liberty must be universal if it is to achieve its lest meaning. the people of this nation hold the firm conviction that freedom must and will be restored to the people of poland and this day gives us the opportunity to share that belief with all courageous poles who wait so patiently for their time of deliverance from communist domination. that time will come. the fortitude of those who strive for it in poland today stands as an inspiration for all the world. courage like theirs can never be defeated.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a joint resolution providing for acceptance by the united states of america of an instrument for the amendment of the constitution of the international labor organization. this change in the ilo constitution provides for a slight increase in the membership of its governing body and was supported unanimously by the delegates at the 1953 conference. obviously. this support included the members of our united states delegation. i expect to have more to say concerning it when it comes before the senate for a vote. i ask unanimous consent that the joint resolution be printed in the body of the record at this point in my remarks.
. today marks the 164th anniversary of polish constitution day. in this connection. i have prepared a statement which i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record. following these remarks.
. tomorrow will mark the 166th anniversary of polish constitution day. i have prepared a statement in this connection. which i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record. following these remarks.
 until i finish my statement. so. . i must be counted among those who oppose any amendments. other than technical ones. to this bill. it is already an extremely moderate bill. in fact. all it would do is pave the way for the enforcement of already existing statutes and constitutional provisions. what legislation could be more righteous. the motion to recommit for a specified period of time. regardless of the high purpose of its mover. can only result in delaying the legislation. to what purpose would we refer the bill to a committee which already has had similar proposed legislation before it for 6/2 months. without reporting anything on the subject to the senate. to what end should hearings be held on the bill by a committee which already has held more than exhaustive hearings on like proposed legislation. i have a high regard for the distinguished senator who makes the motion. but i can follow his reasoning in this instance. i feel that the administration. in proposing this legislation. has been more than moderate. it has been most considerate of the situation in the south. i have termed this bill puny. and. comparatively speaking. it is puny. amendments to it can only make it less effective and still weaker. and to purpose. but while i consider it a puny bill. i also feel it is a step. and a constructive step. in the right direction. it does place us on the path which we should be traveling. it is in line with other laws and with the constitution of the united states. if enacted. it can do much good. but to amend it. to delete this or that salient provision. is to make this bill scarcely more than an empty gesture. once we start taking it apart. there may be end to which we shall go before we have completely emasculated it. i am therefore opposed  only to its reference to the judiciary committee. but to any amendment of more than a technical nature.
. the coming saturday. may 3. will mark the 167th anniversary of the polish constitution. on that occasion. let us pause to e this polish national holiday and applaud its survival. for in poland on that day constitution day will be observed in the hearts of the polish people. even though their communist masters would have this le tradition liquidated if they could. there can be question about it: the government of poland is communist. the polish people are . the polish constitution of 1791 was inspired by the ideals of the american declaration of independence and the french proclamation of the rights of man and citizen. it is a document which will live long after the nightmare of communism has passed from the polish homeland. the poles are our friends. and we are theirs. we who enjoy the blessings of liberty must join in the hope that  too much time shall elapse before the polish people. staunch lovers of liberty and battlers for freedom. as they have repeatedly proved themselves to be. will be able to celebrate their constitution day openly and in fact. as they will celebrate it this coming saturday. within themselves.
. this report is totally unacceptable to those of us who believe that the u.s. constitution guarantees to the american people the full application of the concept of "one man. one vote." there i3 little. in my judgment. that can be said in defense of this attempt to subvert our constitutional guarantees. it is my hope that the members of this body will put principle above shortterm political gain and defeat this proposal today.
. bill mcculloch. the distinguished ranking miity member of the judiciary committee is a member of conviction and compassion. bill mcculloch stands for courage in this house. and when the voting rights bill was under attack by this administration he stood firm and stanch to insure its passage. to make totally plain that every man and woman would have the right to vote. i wish bill and mabel the very best. bill mcculloch has hoed this house by his service. bill mcculloch ranks as one of the great members of the committee on the judiciary. and a man whose arm could never be twisted. he fought for the future of this country for the constitution and for all the american people. courage shines out in bill mcculloch. and again i wish him and his family many happy years back in his beloved ohio.
. on july 25. 1966. in the 89th congress. i voted to bring the 1966 civil rights bill. h.r. 14765. from the rules committee to the floor of the house under the 21day rule. the vote was close. 200 to 180. 13. p. 16839.] anyone who was a resident of new york and believed in civil rights would have been present to vote at that time unless unavoidably detained. the gentleman from the 18th district of new york was reported to be in bimini. i believe there is a serious question of whether the representative from the 18th district is a resident of the state of new york. he may be a resident of bimini or puerto rico. the constitution of the united states. article i. section 2. clause 2. provides as follows: person shall be a representative who shall . when elected. be an inhabitant of that state in which he shall be chosen. regardless of residence. there is a serious question as to whether the representative of the 18th district is an inhabitant of the state of new york. the problems of the gentleman with the courts of the state of new york is  the business of the congress. as a lawyer. it is my opinion that the courts of the state have  functioned as well as they could on the question of enforcement of judgments. but that does  mean the congress should intervene. problems such as employment of a wife or other forms of nepotism and lack of service for pay require action of the whole house directed toward all members. while i am perturbed by the poor image given to the congress by the action or attitude of one individual member. we must proceed properly under the constitution. general morality is a problem for the congressmans constituents. the valid basis for inquiry here is whether or  the state is represented by an inhabitant. under the constitution of the united states. such inquiry is. i believe. the duty of congress.
. it is with great pleasure that i take this opportunity to annce the new senate officers and executive committee for the environmental study conference for the 97th congress. the distinguished senator from vermont was elected senate chairman by unanimous vote of the executive committee on may 13. the dist:nguished senator from washington
as i understand the amendment that is on the floor. the weicker amendment. it says: except that hing in this act shall be interpreted to limit in any manner the department of justice in enforcing the constitution of the united states.  shall anything in this act be interpreted to modify or diminish the authority of the courts of the united states to enforce fully the constitution of the united states. am i correct in reading this.
but to say that we are going to get around the constitution by saying that the law enforcement agencies of the united sthtes can proceed to enforce the constitution is the most ridiculous and obviously unconstitutional act that could possibly be taken. let me ask the distinguished senator a question: has anything like this ever come before the congress on a prior occasion that he ks of.
that will be the next technique. the constitution says one thing. but those who do  like the constitution and do  have the votes to change it will then come up here and then. with a 51to49 vote on the floor of the senate. will say that the justice department can enforce the constitution and the laws thereof of the united states.
let me ask a question here. what arguments do the proponents of this measure give. do they say the constitution is just a little bit of unnecessary baggage we should  have around and it is unfortunate. it says what it does. but we will take care of it through the appropriations process. does that seem to be the rationale. i have  heard the proponents of this measure. has the senator received any answer to their position.
. as an original cosponsor of the equal rights amendment. i am pleased to say a few words on its behalf. today marks the beginning of a new effort to gain ratification of the equal rights amendment. this effort will  stop until ratification is achieved. many of us experienced great disapointment over the failure of a few final states to ratify this muchneeded measure. it was painful to come so close. and to come up short. at the same time. the emous support which the amendment received means that. as a nation. we are ready to grant men and women equal protection under the law. it will be a n rk of our civility and maturity as a nntion when we finally ratify this amendment. we will be taking a huge step forward. such steps have  always beeti taken with grace or with ease. witness the battles waged over granting women the right to vote. or those over providing members of miity groups with basic civil rights. the country was torn over whether to make such advances. yet we made them. and it  seems incredibleand indeed shamefulthat we labored so long before making them. the merits of the equal rights amendment have been debated) .n my view. it has been shown beyond any doubt that this amendment is necessary to assure that governments  take actions which discriminate against individuals on the basic of sex. in the absence of this amendment. discrimination goes onin education. in employment. in the granting of credit and insurance. and in the receipt of benefits. i thank that we have shown that state action is  egh. indeed. the very suggestion that an issue as basic as "equality of rights under the law"for this is what the era addressesis a state or local matter reflects a misunderstanding of the principles on which this country has been and ought to be based. should we have iged the need for the 13th amendment by arguing that the states would resolve the problem of slavery at such time. and in the manner that they saw fit.  should we have retreated from our commitment to equality with suggestions that we were "tampering with the constitution."  supporters of. the era have thoroughly demonstrated the shallowness of the objections to it. but we stand to meet further any objections that may be raised. we will continue to discuss those objections and prove that they are based on erroneous assumptions. or on principles that are in opposition to the direction in which we want this country to move. on rare occasions. the constitution needs to be amended.  to reflect a passing social or ecoic view.  to limit the jurisdiction of courts. and  to distort the principles which underlie this great document. on rare oocasions. the constitution needs to be amended to insure that our system of law is serving the best interests of all americans. the equal rights amendment does just that. - the era is an amendment for men and women. it will benefit both by helping to eradicate distortions and biases in the law. and discriminatory practices which have made legitimate the ion that unequal treatment is acceptable. it is . the era says that governments will  practice discrimination. let us affirm that commitment and pass this amendment.e
i am very grateful to the senior senator from california for his generous remarks. i k he has worked extremely hard on this. and i commend him because when this started out it appeared to have the speed of a sball going downhill. everybody was suggesting that the deed was done. that all we had to do was just count the votes and move on to the next item of business. i think people are having second thoughts on what is taking place here. believing that amendments to the constitution should be treated with great care. i ice there are a host of constitutional amendments coming flooding onto this floor. it appears we are going to amend the constitution just as we enact a law. i think any changes in the constitution should be approached with extreme care and  rushed through. therefore. i think the debate. in which the senior senator from california has been the principal opposition leader. has been very worthwhile. hopefully. some minds are being changed. at least i hope that more thought is being given the matter.
well. my answer is that clearly this body should  be held hostage to the threat that the states will force a constitutional convention to amend the federal constitution. never in the history of this nation since the adoption of the constitution has there been a constitutional convention called by the states. it could do all kinds of mischief to the federal constitution. some suggest that we ought to get on and pass this constititional amendment because the states. some of themi believe the number is over 30have moved for a constitutional convention. i think that should be irrelevant to this debate.
before the distinguished senator from texas leaves. i want to say i always appreciate the opportunity to hear him debate on the floor because he is very good. in his admiration for the efforts that the senator from kentucky is making to defend our constitution. as he outlines. i hope we can enlist the support of the senator from texas against an amendment that is clearly against the constitution and restricting efforts there. and that is the socalled "burning of the flag" amendment. we would be glad to have him sign up against that pernicious proposed additioni hope it never passes herein connection with the constitution.
before the distinguished senator from texas leaves. i want to say i always appreciate the opportunity to hear him debate on the floor because he is very good. in his admiration for the efforts that the senator from kentucky is making to defend our constitution. as he outlines. i hope we can enlist the support of the senator from texas against an amendment that is clearly against the constitution and restricting efforts there. and that is the socalled "burning of the flag" amendment. we would be glad to have him sign up against that pernicious proposed additioni hope it never passes herein connection with the constitution.
the burden is also on the senate of the united states to act. there is going to be initiative from the executive branch of government. this has hing to do with president nixon. those of us who have been in state legislatures k that the gover likes the state legislators to go home as soon as possible so he does  have to deal with them. there is the same situation with the council of the city. the mayor likes them to close up shop and go away so he can deal with problems in his own way. the same holds true of the executive branch of the federal government as compared with the legislative branch. if we are going to enact this legislation. we are going to do the pushing. it is  going to be pushed at the executive level. whether by a democrat or republican. but is there one man who can stand on the floor of the senate and look at the powers given to the senate of the united states under the constitution and say that we have been exercising those powers over the past several decades. the answer is clearly "" is there one man who can dispute the fact that these powers have drifted into the hands of the president. republican or democratic. the answer is "" the system has been criticized over the past several years. there is  a thing wrong with the systemif we follow the system. the only time we get into trouble is when we deviate from it. there is hing magical or spectacular about the proposal of the senator from virginia and the senator from new york. as a matter of fact. it should have the support of the strict constructionists of the constitution. it should have the support of the conservatives. because. in effect. it enunciates the constitution as originally written. what it argues against is the practice of the past several decades. where slowly and gradually. we drifted further and further away from the provisions of the constitution. what i am saying and what the senator from new york and the senator from virginia are saying. is that national opposition is  to the system as written by the founders of this country. but to the system as followed by the practice of the congress and the executive. i definitely fear for this legislation. as i said when it was originally introduced months ago. there was great enthusiasm for it. but my predictions made then are coming to pass. if this legislation is  passed in this session of congress. there is one standing on the floor here who will see this legislation pass until and unlessgod forbidwe get into trouble with aher situation like vietnam. then there will be a great hoopla for it. as soon as it subsidies. we will get back to business as usual. i hope this legislation will be moved forward in this session.
. in the name of efficiency. can we afford to have debate on the floor in order to determine whether we should participate. i assure the senator. in the name of efficiency. is  a sufficient reason to turn over a concept embedded in our constitution to one man to engage in hostilities. we had better devise better procedures than giving such power to the president. we should  say that. in the name of efficiency. we had better leave it in the decision of one man rather than that of the representatives of the people. so my response to the senator from arizona is "yes." if we have a treaty. do i think we should sit here and debate the commitment of this nation anywhere in the world. my answer is "yes." i am  willing to leave that in the hands of one man. i do  think the writers of the constitution were. either.
well. to the senator from arizona i would say this. that ours is a small country. small in population compared with many other areas of the world. that is true today. and has been the case throughout our history. where we have been confronted with enemies of far greater size than ourselves and with far greater power. yet we have prevailed with our strength way beyond our numbers because the people of this country believed in what they were doing. and they fought beyond their actual members or armaments or money. why. because they made the decision to offer their lives on behalf of their nation. the difficulty  is that when we take away participation in that decision and. for the sake of efficiency. leave it to one man. we again become only so big as our actual numbers or our actual stockpile. when we arrive at that day. we will longer be the leader of the world. so there is a basic disagreement here. i appreciate our colloquy. i k the commitment that the senator from arizona has. to the constitution and maintaining the strength of the nation and the voice of each person in it. but. s commitment to destruction. if  done at that point. it becomes a bootstrap operation. because we have a. send b. because we have a and b over there. we have to send c and d. and on and on it goes. i can only repeat. speaking on behalf of myself. and. i hope. of my constituents. that i want as many camel es in the tent as possible when we make such a commitment of human lives. be it here or anywhere else in the world. once that commitment has been made. then the elements of security and efficiency enter the picture. that is the point. the commander in chief comes into play under the constitution.
. i intend to vote on the conference report. and i urge all of my colleagues who are sworn to "support and defend the constitution of the united states" to do the same. maybe that is the greatest boost we can give to higher education in this country.
ial campaign activities. and in doing so. we learned that "new" was  such a great adjective when it applied to a political morality that embraced bugging. and burglary. and "old" was  such a bad word when it was applied to constitutional principles and human rights. at a critical point in our nations history. a country lawyer helped us reach way up and take the constitution down off the shelf. it needed a little dusting. and some of the pages were faded. but we found it was pretty interesting reading just the same. it will be a lifetime memory and an unceasing ho to have served with this most uncommon american. future generations will  hear his voice on the floor of the senate. or see his flashing eyes on television. or wear sam ervin tshirts. but. they will live in an america which has rediscovered the origins of his greatness and the value of painful truth. every generation needs a founding father in its midst. sam ervin has been ours.
. i suggest to my colleagues that the constitutional way out of this dilemma. and the equitable way out of it. is to exercise our power to determine our own membership by referring this matter to the electorate of new hampshire. then we have done right by our authority. by our traditions. by our commonsense. and by our future. and by our precedents. and most importantly. will have done right by the people of new hampshire. the argument. and i have to emphasize this point because i k the fear. and it is the fear that i had myself. i have to emphasize the point because i do  want senators to feel that by referring this to new hampshire we are. de facto. eliminating article i. section 5 of the constitution which gives to the u.s. senate the right to determine its own membership. it is just that we are so traditionbound that we de facto have come to look upon the rules committee route as a part of that same constitutional right. it is . it is just a custom or a practice that has been built up. so. on the one hand. we have the law. the constitution of the united states and. on the other hand. the practices of the u.s. senate.
. in the course of the debate several weeks ago. i tried to ascertain as to what some of the difficulties were with this method of sending the matter back to the people of new hampshire. all sorts of strange reasons popped up. hing of which had to do with the constitution or. indeed. with the legal situation. the legal facts surrounding the situation. one was that louis wyman. being a senator. would be the incumbent and would have an advantage. louis wyman was the u.s. senator from new hampshire. he filled the unexpired portion of senator cottons term. so technically. he can call himself senator wyman. then. too. there was the fact he might have additional financing and mr. durkin would  have any. listen. we are  living in a day and age. in which the electorate is  fully cognizant of what is going on. the better financed candidate is  going to win this next election in new hampshire. the fact that louis wyman was a senator for 3 days is  going to impress him upon the people of new hampshire more than his opponent. as to the matter that apparently bothers some of my colleagues on the other side. the closeness of the election. it really does  make any difference whether the final result was 2 votes. 4 votes. 10 votes. 100 votes. 200 votes. it is the principle that is involved here. it is interesting to e. and we can slide around all we want to. but under similar circumstances we seated the distinguished senator from oklahoma pending satisfactory outcome of the challenges in oklahoma. however. we failed to do that for louis wyman from new hampshire. because the oklahoma situation was a disparity of. i think. some 3.000 votes and new hampshire was 2. if principle applies. it applies. as far as i am concerned. as a matter of precedent. but what is important. i believe. is that as among ourselves we look  only to this. but to what the future could hold. how are we going to determine these matters next year or the year after. it is going to happen again everyone says it is a rather unusual situation. but it will happen again. take a look and see the closeness of the elections in this day and age and. surely. it is  beyond the realm of possibility that a similar situation will confront this distinguished .body. again. i would advocate under a similar set of circumstances that the constituency itself make the decision. my comments might be suspect if. indeed. it were louis wyman that had lost the election by 2 votes and trying to get it back in the state of new hampshire. but that is  the case. he won. according to the laws of new hampshire. he won. and there is federal law which says that he was  the winner or that mr. durkin was.
but the senator will agree that there is hing in the u.s. constitution that says the only way the u.s. senate can make the determination of its own membership is by way of the rules committee of the senate.
i am  going to condemn the senator from rhode island on his views. i understand the difference involved here. but i want to say that the same concerns the senator exhibits in his views are exactly the ones i have. the senator says that it should be delegated to a neutral body chosen by a panel recommended by the american arbitration association or aher impartial group agreed upon by the contestants. both the senator and i feel that the image we give the american people of impartiality. of neutrality. of fairness is what is important. just as important as the specifics of the legalities of the matter. i agree that we do have a constitutional mandate. i wish i had been here to listen to the senators arguments with reference to the constitution. because the constitution only says that we shall determine the qualifications of our own members. it does  say how we shall do that. by first going to the rules committee and then to the senate floor. it just says we shall do it. frankly. i think we could use the american arbitration association. the voters of new hampshire. or the rules committee. i think constitutionally we would be complying with the requirement that it contains by proceeding either way.
here the distinguished senator from florida is very positive and vey correct when he cites the constitution as to the word "shall" as to the fact that we have the duty and we have the power. all that is correct. then he uses the words "but is it  more consistent." . we fade away from the constitution. and then it becomes a matter of interpretation. what i am saying to the distinguished senator from florida is. if he would read that book. where does it say that we shall arrive at such a judgment by sending the matter to the committee on rules and administration and then bring it back to the senate chamber. there is such requirement in the constitution.
the fact is that we have. what i consider to be. a valid disagreement between two u.s. senators as to how best to handle it under the powers given to us by the constitution. so that is getting exactly to the point of why it should be sent back to new hampshire. so i respect the opinion. i respect both the correct recitation of the constitution by the distinguished senator from florida. and then i respect his opinion. but there are two things that are being offered by the distinguished senator from florida.
. i would like to read a passage from "a connecticut yankee in king arthurs court." because it definitely applies to the situation before this body. you see my kind of loyalty was loyalty to ones country.  to its institutions or its officeholders. the country is the real thing. the substantial thing. the eternal thing. it is the thing to watch over. and care for. and be loyal to. institutions are extraneous. they are its mere clothing. and clothing can wear out. become ragged. cease to be comfortable. cease to protect the body from winter. disease. and death. to be loyal to rags. to shout for rags. to worship rags. to die for rags--that is a loyalty of unreason. it is pure animal. it belongs to monarchy. was invented by monarchy. let monarchy keep it. i was from connecticut. whose constitution declares "that all political power is inherent in the people. and all free governments are founded on their authority and instituted for their benefit. and that they have at all times an undeniable and indefeasible right to alter their form of government in such a manner as they may think expedient." under that gospel. the citizen who thinks he sees that the commonwealths political clothes are worn out. and yet holds his peace and does  agitate for a new suit. is disloyal. he is a traitor. that he may be the only one who thinks he sees this decay. does  excuse him. it is his duty to agitate any way. and it is the duty of the others to vote him down if they do  see the matter as he does. and  here i was. in a country where a right to say how the country should be governed was restricted to six persons in each thousand of its population. for the nine hundred and ninetyfour to express dissatisfaction with the regnant system and propose to change it. would have made the whole six shudder as one man. it would have been so disloyal. so dishoable. such putrid black treason. so to speak. i was to become a stockholder in a corporation where nine hundred and ninetyfour of the members furnished all the money and did all the work. and the other six elected themselves a permanent board of direction and took all the dividends. it seemed to me that what the nine hundred and ninetyfour dupes needed was a new deal. that is what i speak for here today.  a diminution of our constitutional authority but. rather. to go ahead and to permit the people of new hampshire to involve themselves in the election of their senators rather than us have to do that job for them. that is the duty i speak for.  in any way eroding the constitution or the powers under it. but. rather. to reinforce the belief of the people of this country in the u.s. senate. that it can hang onto its constitutional powers while also doing a job excellently and relevantly.
the term "dilatory tactics" is used. this could have been out of the senate yesterday. yesterday this could have been out of the senate. believe me. and i hate to disagree because i seldom do with the distinguished majority leader. we would  have eroded the constitutional authority.  would we have denied the constitutions provisions. there is hing in the constitution that says when we make this judgment on qualifications that it has to go to the rules committee or it has to go to the senate floor. it just says that we have to make the decision. the judgment. that could have consisted of sending it back to new hampshire. but we did  choose to do that. so the dilatory tactics are. rather. on the other side. it is indeed the distinguished majority leader and the distinguished senator from nevada that care to have this matter in front of the senate for the next several weeks. rather than having it back in new hampshire.
i think the point being made is that we are  in the process of a procedural debate and if senators are  on the floor because they think we are  involved in procedural debate. they have made a very sad mistake. we are discussing issues. in this particular case the issues we are discussingi will read it so there is mistake: (1) is it the sense of the senate that the committee should conduct a recount as requested by mr. wyman of the following precincts. which it lists. the senator from connecticut has said to that. i want to add also those precincts protested by mr. durkin and let us get on to the count. there is hing procedural about that one. there is forgoing of our constitutional authority. that gets to the essence of the question raised in section (1). one point which i think important to reemphasize day after day is the matter of fulfilling our constitutional obligations. the constitution of the united states provides that this body shall determine the qualifications of its members. here in that constitution does it state how that shall be done. i have stated all along in my arguments. the arguments to send it back to new hampshire. or what have you. that this power is vested here. it is absolute. it should  be whittled away at. changed any way whatsoever. that what can be changed. what can be inated relates to how we exercise that power. it used to be that these matters were decided by a rules committee or a special committee. that does  mean to say it has to be resolved that way in the year 1975. if. indeed. the issues are so complex and confusing as they present themselves. and we have clearly shown. i think. over 5 days. then it seems to me we best exercise that constitutional responsibility by allowing the people of new hampshire to make a decision. so let us just get aff the constitutional kick. i have heard it up and down the line and it holds water. we have that authority in this body. how we exercise it. where in the constitution does it say it shall go to the rules committee. where does it say in the constitution it comes to the floor of the senate. it is absolutely mute on those points. where. anywhere. does it set forth the procedures to be followed in fulfilling that obligation. here in the constitution. what i am saying to my colleagues today is there are better ways. again i repeat. i abide by the decision  to send it back to new hampshire. but it seems to me there is hing wrong with saying in section (1) that we can best resolve this particular issue by having the count started. by having the ballots counted. the ballots of both contestants. and hopefully providing a way out of this rock and the hard place we are presently in. 
. i have already expressed my thanks to members on this side of the aisle and most particularly to senator hatfield for his leadership in this matter. i intend. at the appropriate time. to ask unanimous. consent to withdraw the time set aside tomorrow. i believe. to the senator from connecticut. at which time he was going to raise this matter. i just say this. it has been a good. tough. and fair fight. we presented the constitutional issues. the distinguished senator from nevada and the distinguished senator from montana presented their interpretation of the constitutional issues. and we presented our interpretation of the constitutional issues on this side. i do  recall any claims. regardless of what was interpolated in the press as charges of stealing the election or charges of cover up. such charges were made. it was just a good. hard fight on the facts. there were charges. there was charge of stealing of an election or an attempt to steal an election. there was cover up. these matters did  occur. the logic of the situation of having people in new hampshire decide an election in the final analysis. in the final analysis that is what prevailed. but i do  think there are any winners or losers. i certainly have regrets over the dialog that occurred. it was a great historical moment for the u.s. senate. this time we chose to exercise our power by sending it back to new hampshire. but the senator is entirely correct. it could well choose to exercise that power in a different way at aher time. so. we have given up  one whit of our constilutional autliority. i thank the majority leader and the distinguished senator from nevada. and also very particularly the distinguished senator from alabama for the assistance which he has provided in this whole matter on the part of the constitution and the matter of principle. logic. and commonsense. i am just delighted that the people of new hampshire will have the opportunity to choose their own senator. i think we are going to feel a lot better about it when it occurs. in the meantime. i extend my thanks to the other side.
. i will vote against h.r. 8617. which would remove the restrictions on federal employee participation in elective politics. this can help but be a difficult vote for anyone who cherishes political involvement and the rough and tumble world of competitive politics as much as i do. yet. as long as this type of legislation is presented with virtually e of the required distinctions between federal employees involved in different types of work. i have choice. as long as distinction is drawn between the foot soldiers of the government and the policymakers whose selfinterested footdragging could deeply undermine the constitutionally mandated powers of the presidency. this legislation is bad news for america. i believe greater friend of liberty ever existed than thomas jefferson. yet he saw the question of any federal employee participating in partisan politics as an erosion of our constitutional system. i do  go that far. yet the stern warnings of this champion of liberty demonstrates the seriousness of the dilemma: it is expected that he (the government employee) will  attempt to influence the votes of others  take any part in the business of electioneering. that being deemed inconsistent with the spirit of the constitution and his duties to it. frankly. i am amazed that after all this country has experienced of the effects of political partisanship in our nations taxing. law enforcement. and similar agencies. that we should be voting today on a bill which paves the way for partisan political activity by the employees of those vital and necessarily political agencies. the fact that efforts had to be made on the floor to exempt from the legislation the more obvious agenciesirs. cia. fbidemonstrates that the committee failed to cope with the legitimate expectation of american citizens that their government carry out policy in an evenhanded. partisan fashion. until the proponents of this type of legislation make the necessary effort to delineate those agencies which can be safely and rightly unhatched from those that can. they will  find me in their corner.
. with the directors of the cia and fbi or with the empirepreservers of the senate. when this resolution is agreed to. an important step in defense of our constitution will have been taken. laws.  memories. executive orders or waiting games. are our business. ody will benefit politically today from legislation that essentially relates to the condition of the american spirit. but our children tomorrow will have something better than we received and that is reward egh.
. i address myself to the amendment of the distinguished senators from texas and mississippi. in the "dear colleague" letter they sent out. they said: the amendment would provide: 1. it would remove from the proposed  select committee legislative jurisdiction over department of defense intelligence. the rationale is twofold. first. it would minimize the possible disclosure through the long and debated process of authorization of sensitive intelligence figures. rather than being separately "authorized by a bill or joint resolution passed by the senate". as required by the substitute. defense intelligence figures would continue to be included in various parts of the military authorization and appropriation acts. i can overstress the damage to defense intelligence that could flow from budget clues which would enable foreign powers to determine information and trends on our highly sophisticated electronic and satellite activities. the difference i have with the stennistower amendment is that i think it is absolutely unconstitutional. i bring to the attention of the distinguished senators article i. section 9 and that clause which reads: money shall be drawn from the treasury. but in consequence of appropriations made by law. and a regular statement of account of the receipts and expenditures of all public money shall be published from time to time. what seems rather unsettling to me is that as men sworn to uphold the constitution of the united states apparently we have some system or some procedure that de facto supersedes the very specific requirements of the constitution. it does  say in the constitution an account of the receipts and expenditures of all public money except those allotted to intelligence activities. it says all public money. all money. and as much as i appreciate the thrust of the comments in the chamber. which is to try to keep these moneys from public view. it seems to me that. if that is what they desire to have accomplished. then i suggest a constitutional amendment. but to me the duty placed on us in this body. in the legislative branch. and the executive branch. is very clear. as mandated by the constitution of the united states. regardless of what the process has been in the past. and the process has been a direct violation of the constitution of the united states. i ask either the senator from texas or the senator from mississippi as to whether or  they feel that the way matters have been handled in the past. in fact. is an exception to this requirement of article i. section 9.
to go back to the old system invites the disasters that have been revealed during the course of the past year. but i repeat. i do  care what was done. i am insisting. as i think others are. that the constitution be explicitly followed. and to me it is  whether we want to obey it or do  want to obey it. the language is very specific: ... a regular statement of account of the receipts and expenditures of all public money.... is the senator from texas telling me: yes. there should be an exception insofar as this public money is concerned. that is all i ask.
 did it. it could  be illegal. i suggest we look at exactly what has happened over the last 5 years as we moved from a government of laws to a government of men. where everybody. in his own selfinterest. says the law applies to everyone else save himself. i feel joy in differing with my distinguished colleague from south dakota. but i could  let this moment go by without pointing out that we longer can use one man in history as an excuse for this march toward a government of men. toward everyone writing his own constitution when it suits his purposes. yet that is exactly what every element of our society is in the process of doing. so if salaries or emoluments should be paid to that individual. i think it might be wise also to modify the amendment to include many other institutions and many other individuals until we once again come to a realization of what it is that is of value in this country. it does  deal so much with personalities as it deals with some pretty great principles.
i raise these questions because the senator from south carolina and i have just gone through this kind of exercise on the question of childrens advertising on television. in that case we tried to make it clear that the constitution and  the government should be the arbiter of what this nation sees. hears. or reads. the senators replies here today assure me that our intentions in that case will be carried through to this bill. i thank the senator. . . i ask for the yeas and nays on the amendment of the senator from michigan.
i thank the distinguished senator from virginia. . let me emphasize that i approach the extension issue as an ardent advocate of eraas one who. i might add. will vote against the rescission amendlmentsand my analysis of the proper procedure for extension is predicated on a concern that it  fail for violation of constitutional requirements. adherence to proper procedures. however onerous. is better than taking any easier. riskier. and possible illegal route. the question has been asked whether or . if this twothirds amendment fails. i will vote for the era. the answer is "yes." because. unfortunately. this issue will  be settled finally on this floor. it will be settled in the courts. in 1 or 2 years. however much time is taken to settle the issue will be wasted in the sense of pursuing this matter to its successful conclusion. i realize that emotions run high on this issue. as they do on any issues confronting any generations. but there is one constant guidepost for all of usthe constitution of the united states. it is i the check against our emotions and the best possible source of assuring that the great principles which founded this nation will be continued in all its future deliberations. it is my prediction. on the floor of the senate. that. even though it is  the most ropular of the amendmentsthe final rescission amendment will get by far the closest vote. as it did in the house of representatives-
. i am vehemently opposed to the house language and strenuously object to it. this language will result in an unconstitutional governmental intrusion into the religious choice of americas indigent pregnant women. accordingly. i urge my colleagues to insist upon the original senate language which did  limit funding for abortions. i am going to continue to object to any further compromise. indeed. i am going to start the ball going the other way and get back within the spirit and the letter of the constitution of the united states. let the preachers do their job on sunday and i will do mine on monday through saturday and we will be a better nation for it. if the preachers can do their job on sunday. then they ought to go out of business. i am going to make certain that a preacher has the right to stand up in the pulpit on sunday. but that is all. i will  carry the ball for them on the floor of the senate. the rest relies on the conviction of purpose. on their morality. on the acceptability of their views in the eyes of their congregation. but it does  rely on the congress of the united states or subverting the constitution of the united states. i would hope that my colleagues  would start to reflect on their oath of office. and to listen the beliefs of this nation. and the majority of the country. i hope that we will stop getting tied up into ks on what i characterized at the outset as the greatest issue in this country.
if the senator from th carolina will allow me to continue this thought . the fact remains that the weicker amendment only assures that the appropriate branch of government. the judicial branch of government. is  going to be restricted in any way in its consideration of violations of * the constitution of the united states. and in fashioning appropriate remedies. * i find it amazing that senators can stand on this floor and argue against the enforcement of the constitution of the united states. there is interpretation by senator weicker in his amendment as to a particular circumstance of a violation of the constitution shall be moved against in the courts. there is hing in here except the mere statement of the fact that the department of justice is  restricted in initiating or participating in litigation to secure remedies for violations of the 5th and 14th amendments of the constitution of the united states. what i am adding on the senate plan is that the 5th and 14th amendments of the constitution of the united states. and probably a lot of other provisions of the constitution. have become rather distasteful in the public eye and/or actions by the courts in enforcing the constitution have become distasteful in the public eye. but the fact is that the constitution and the interpretation thereof is established until. i might add. changed. which it well might be by subsequent justices. it is  the job of the legislative branch of government to go ahead and accomplish such by. in the sense. of in any way restricting either the prosecution of discrimination cases or the remedies asked for by the appropriate arm of the executive branch or the remedies given by the judiciary branch. when the day comes that congress injects itself in the judicial process to that extent. i would suggest that american would be guaranteed of an independent forum in which to hear a particular complaint. or that in that forum claims will be heard in an equitable impartial manner. again i repeat that what is at issue and what is before this body has hing to do with busing. hing. what is before us is a reaffirmation of action taken by the u.s. senate on september 26. which action merely stated that the department of justice is under restriction in initiating or participating in litigation to secure remedies for violation of the 5th or 14th amendments to the constitution. the weicker amendment does  define permissible remedies. it does  define specific remedies for violation of the 5th or 14th amendments of the constitution of the united states. i might add that  the shoe is on the other foot.  the election of 1980 is over. the election of 1982 is my electionit is my election. i intend to speak the same way before the election of 1982. my election. as i spoke before the election of 1980. i have difficulty at all. e whatsoever. in standing and speaking for these principles at this time. i took my oath of office to the constitution of the united states. when the qay comes that i stand with the power of that office in a position saying that the processes. the institutions of government. can enforce that constitution of the united states. that will be the day i ought to be kicked out of office in a landslide. that is the responsibility of the leadership of this senate. i do  pretend to be better than anybody else. we have the same problems in connecticut as in other places in the united states. the south is  special. or unique in its problems. but the one constant factor has to be that constitution. and enforcement of its provisions does  change from state to state. does  change from year to year. from election to election. that is the point being made here. i hope my colleagues will support me in the effort to defeat the motion to table which will be made by the distinguished senator from south carolina. i promised to respond to the senator from th carolina on a question.
. that the amendment of the distinguished senator from th carolina will be defeated. the comments of his fellow th carolinian withstanding. sam ervin was a great senator. ody ks that better than i. that does  mean to say that senator ervin is infallible on all points. certainly. i would listen to him and did listen to him in many regards. but on this issue. the constitution speaks louder than any man.
. that as 100 senators of the united states our job is to lead. even though it might  fit the political wisdom of the times. it fits the constitutional wisdom of centuries. even though there is ody to say. "thank you." in the more traditional political ways of fundraisers. it still seems to me to be far more valuable to feel that one has been true to the constitution and all that it embodies. i realize in a personal sense the difficulty many will have in voting this bill down. but i hope they will do it. in effect. what they do in this simple way is to reaffirm the oath of office which they took. that oath was  to philosophy and political party. but to a constitution and to the bill of rights of the constitution. it was to that which has been declared the law of the land. and we k that it should be the law of the land. i would hope that the bill would be defeated. and that the matters encompassed by the bill would be handled in the continuing resolution.
. i will read again what is being proposed. i find it incredible that anybody could  vote for this amendment as is. the collins language remains in the conference report. i will  read the amendment: hing in this act shall be interpreted to limit in any manner the department of justice in enforcing the constitution of the united states  shall anything in this act be interpreted to modify or diminish the authority of the courts of the united states to enforce fully the constitution of the united states. believe me. if this goes over to the house and the house does  vote for this. they all ought to resign from office.
but i would hope that we could get this passed. just so everyone reaffirms their oath of office to the constitution of the united states on the house side. in effect. the conference report includes the thoughts eloquently articulated by the distinguished senator from th carolina while at the same time embodying the thoughts articulated by the senator from connecticut as to constitutionality. i hope that my colleagues will see it in the same light
i thank my distinguished colleague from maryland. i do  wish to get into a prolonged debate or a repetition of the debates that took place in the chamber previously. but i think it important  to clearly nt out the importance of the constitution to every point of view within this body. it is important to point out to the nation and to every point of view held within the nation the importance of the constitution of the united states and the strict construction of that document. i read some absurd statement by i think a james kilpatrick where he states that congress should exercise the power of the purse in telling the courts what to do. that is a rather interesting proposition. i hope when  or the supreme court. let senators stand and say we want the constitution of the united states enforced by the appropriate bodies within the constitutional structure. those bodies are the justice department of the executive branch and the courts of the judicial branch. so i hope my colleagues will see fit to agree to this amendment.
my response is twofold. one. i intend my amendment to apply to the entire conference report. that would obviously include section 607. indeed i would intend my amendment to apply to everything we do out here. the justice department and the courts of the united states will enforce the constitution of the united states. that is why i would  be afraid to vote for the substance of this amendment under any set of circumstances. unless i was trying to violate the constitution of the united states. . apparently. there must be some special reason for protecting section 607. is section 607 something separate and apart. is it a transgression on the constitution of the united states. i think the senator from th carolina probably thinks so and therefore does  wish to have that section subjected to legal or constitutional judgments. the second part of the question was what.
. just prior to moving to table the amendment of the distinguished senator from th carolina. i am going to speak about 1 minute my amendment simply addressed itself to the entire conference report in the f ollowing mannerparticular section. to the entire conference report. i repeat what it said: hing in this act shall be interpreted to limit in any manner the department of justice in enforcing the constitution of the united states  shall anything in this act be interpreted to modify or diminish the authority of the courts of the united states to enforce fully the constitution of the united states. in effect. what was done in the first amendment by the distinguished senator from th carolina was to say that the courts and the justice department can enforce the constitution of the united states. with the exception of section 607. this amendment. with all due respect to the ruling of the chairand i am  appealing itis exactly the same in effect. that it will apply except as it applies to section 607. i hope my colleagues will vote to table the amendment. as i will move. i do  want to do so until i give the distinguished senator from th carolina a chance to speak.
s of the united states of both parties. senators of both parties. congressmen of both parties. indeed both parties themselves. have felt that the issue of civil rights longer needs our attention and indeed that it longer has any political appeal. in fact quite the opposite is true. the presumption is that to achieve the equality which is to be desired. as a matter of ideal and as a matter of law. feathers are going to be ruffled. so we should hunker down and avoid what is a disagreeable subject. and i suggest to my colleagues that rather than putting on a hair shirt as to what we achieve in terms of the various remedies applied to the discrimination that existed in this country. rather than put a hair shirt on as to how effective those remedies were. we should state that they were effective and they still are effective. to have somebody suggest. as the basis for an argument on civil rights. that we are using too much gasoline. i think is just preposterous. what is of far more concern. and should always be to this body. is flesh and blood.  whether x number of vehicles and x number of gallons of gasoline are being used to eliminate the vicious and evil practices of discrimination among our citizenry. the fact is that that discrimination existed in its total form prior to the application of different kinds of remedies. one of which just happened to be busing. is there anybody that is going to stand up and say we have  made monumental progress in this country within the lifetime of each person sitting in this chamber and in the galleries. whether in terms of ecoics. in terms of living conditions. in terms of education. in terms of opportunity. it is a totally different united states of america today than it was 20 and 30 years ago when it comes to the quality of life enjoyed by those of our citizens who were black. the difficulty is that the job is  complete or anywhere near so. the idea that equality has been achieved is an idea without merit. whether in the thern states. such as mine of connecticut. or in any other part of the country. the fact remains that discrimination exists in all of its forms. perhaps it has gone further underground. maybe it has become more insidious. but it is there. and just on the matter of those of our citizens who are black. as you look across this country and see the opportunity available to them. the housing available to them. the jobs available to them. how could anyone say that we have completed the task relative to achieving equality on their behalf. or indeed. equality for all of us. which i guess is the better way to phrase it. in a few minutes i intend to amend the amendment of the senator from th carolina in the same fashion as i did last year. stating that: hing in this act shall be interpreted to limit in any manner the department of justice in enforcing the constitution of the united states  shall anything in this act be interpreted to modify or diminish the authority of the courts of the united states to enforce fully the constitution of the united states. and it will be interesting to see how this is received by the author of this amendment or indeed how it is received by the rest of my colleagues.
in response to my distinguished colleague from ohio. the answer is that this type of mischief has been going on with increasing frequency during the last several years because. to raise these matters in the appropriate way. before the appropriate forums. with the appropriate hearings. would almost insure their defeat. heaven forbid that the american public should understand the kind of mischief that is being perpetrated on the floor of the senate. they might become a little irritated. so we have riders on appropriations bills and we have educational matters appearing in judiciary committee bills. we have the legislative branch of government saying what it is the judicial branch is going to do. . i rememberas a matter of fact. even today. but in the last several days. many times. people in the media taking this book. this constitution. they read the bill of rights and they usually present it on a street corner.  under the label of "constitution." they just have it listed there. what is stated there. they ask people. "would you sign this petition. please." the bill of rights. and more often than . a majority of people will  sign it. more often than . the answer comes back. "i am  going to sign that communist document." well. the words have  changed. they are the same words that have been with us for hundreds of years. what has changed. we have changed. we have become more affluent. instead of just a few people enjoying a quality of life to be desired. millions of us do. we forget that this is what brought us to where we are. all of a sudden. it becomes liberal. those of us who speak for the constitution of the united states are liberals. i have seen conservatives slash this document to ribbons. it means hing to them. they are the ones who are supposed to speak for law and order and the constitution and patriotism and god and country. to stand up for this. even when you have everythingand i am talking about everything in terms of power. political and monetary. jobwise. or whateverto stand up for this when you have all of thatoh. there is the task. there is the fight. i assume. ladies and gentlemen. that this document means what it says and it says a lot of things which fly in the face of the oratory on this floor.
i will be glad to try to elicit from the senator a response. let me put it this way: will the senator deny his previous act. the amendment  before the senate is an amendnient that says: "except that hing in this act shall be interpreted to limit in any manner the department of justice in enforcing the constitution of the united states  shall anything in this act be interpreted to modify or diminish the authority of the courts of the united states to enforce fully the constitution of the united states." after that very fine and articulate presentation as to the senators cominitment to civil rights. this amendment does  mention the word "busing." has hing to do with busing whatsoever. it merely is an affirmation of the right of the justice department to enforce the constitution and the courts to enforce the constitution. does the senator intend to vote for that amendment.
. senator. i make reference to anybody on this floor. my characterization of a group out there is my characterization. maybe censorship is a part of the senators philosophy. it is  mine. if the senator finds anything personal in that. if the shoe fits. wear it. otherwise there was reference made to the senator. so what is needed is for this nation.  a senator from ohio or. connecticut. to stand up against this kind of business. the nation has to stand up and say. "yes. that constitution means more to us than any particular discomfort. and. yes. we are goingto involve ourselves in this process. we will be told what is in that constitution and we are  going to be told any more than that. otherwise we want to make sure that all we can do 3 is to have full expression. to have whate ever resides within each of us. given full 1 expression and growth within the laws - of this nation." the senator from ohio indicated he had a question.
madam president. i would point out to the chair that the senator from ohio had been on his feet for 20 seconds when the senator from louisiana raised his point of order. i think whether by construction of law or by commonsense it must be clear that the senator from ohio has  even had an opportunity. thanks to the interruption. the rude interruption. by the distinguished senator from louisiana. to ask his question. maybe it is that we are all going to be told what it is we can do visavis the constitution. but i do  think we need to be told how we can ask our questions on this floor. maybe that is the style of politics in other parts of this country. but again it does  come under senate rules. the constitution or anything else. i ask that the distinguished senator from ohio be granted the courtesy of asking his question.
the attorney general and the president of the united states have made their views very clear on this point. and very strongly. i think. they have the right to imtolement those views. implement those views as a matter of policy. and. again. maybe that policy would include legislation passed here on the floor. what they do  have a right to do is to give away the constitutional powers of the presidency by this incursion on the part of the legislative branch of government and what they do  have a right to do is to take away from the civil rights of all americans by permitting the violation of the constitution of the united states. that they do  have a right to do.
well. i agree. and i would say this. in response to the distinguished senator from ohio. that really the attorney general of the united states ought to be out here on this floor arguing the position expressed by the senator from connecticut. it is his executive branch. it is  mine. i should cheer the fact that. "well. lets go ahead and nibble away at the executive." because that is what we are doing. we are doing it apparently in the name of some popular cause. but that it what we are doing. he is  here to protect the executive branch. the president is  here to go ahead and protect the executive branch. i expressed. i say to the senator. my willingness to the administration this morning. through the distinguished majority leader. to accept both the helms amendment. which to me is an abomination. and the weicker amendment. . at least in that way the policy. odoriferous as it is. can be adopted by the administration but the constitution is protected. so. indeed. if i have any difficulties with that kind of a compromise it is that i have made out of this lemon a constitutional lemon. but ody is interested in that. apparently there is too much political capital to be made by saying. "oh. we are all against busing." there is where the political capital is. never mind the constitution. ody ks about the constitution. ody cares about the constitution. but everybody ks about busing. it does  make any difference at all as to whether or  the power of the presidency has been eroded for future presidents. it makes difference at all. e. it does  make any difference if the civil rights of all americans have been eroded just a little bit. ody cures about those things. the fact is everybody will sleep tight and comfortably and secure in their beds tonight king that their president and senator helms have eliminated busing from the american scene. that is a terrible price to pay. i say to the senator. it is a terrible price to pay for one good nights sleep as a nation.
the answer is it is very easy to achieve. without damage to the constitutional process. what it is that the senator from th carolina is trying to do. indeed. as i read the great republican platform and i hear the admonition from the president and his attorney general. i have doubt what he seeks to do in this particular piece of legislation is going to happen anyway. it is right out there. there is a big differeneqo between people saying these things and turningthe constitutional process upside down to achieve these things. let us say in answer to the question that we could defeat the amendment of the senator from th carolina. and we are  going to. and the practical effect would be exactly the same as what it is he is trying to achieve. the difficulty comes  with his amendment but with openly rejecting the amendment of the senator from connecticut which says the justice department shall enforce the constitution of the united states and the court shall enforce the constitution of the united states. we have people running around here who do  like the courts. they do  like what the courts have done. well. that is a little bit different. my answer to the senator is that. yes. there are many ways by virtue of what has already been stated as administration policy. by virtue of an affirmative act. i might add. which was passed by constitutional amendment. article v of the constitution of the united states. you can go ahead and do it through a bill. run it through the authorizing and appropriation process. signed by the president and approved by the president. every way. this is unconstitutional. totally out of the stream of the legislative process. and. indeed. telling the president of the united states what the policy is to be. i repeat for my more conservative colleagues who believe and quote the constitution of the united states. i wonder how thrilled the president is that from  on the congress is going to be able to tell his branch of government what to do. this is where the president ought to be. on the floor right  defending that aspect of the proposition. sure. approve the helms amendment. that is problem. but there is the congressional incursion into the constitutional authority of the president.
i thank my distinguished colleague from oregon for his questions and his commitment to these and all other matters. i do  believe there is anyone who treasures human life more than he does. is more understanding of the views of others. is firm in his own belief. never trying to impose himself on others. to me. he stands as the highest example of a man dedicated to the constitution and to life and the magnificence of life and the potentials of life in all its forms. he is a credit to everything that is good.
 i would  agree with the senator on that point. frankly. i again turn to the constitution and read the portion which says that the president of the united states shall see to it that the laws be faithfully executed. i am sure i could win my case. as it goes through the courts. on the basis of that presidential power.
i have to respond to that. because that is the very issue we have raised on the floor. the fact is that the act has  been brought up before a committee. the fact is that the act has had hearings. it is  before a committee. it is  on the floor. it is  before the house. it is  before the senate. that is the whole point we made. we said there are two waysyou can change the law: either change the law through the constitutional. legislative process. or change it through the constitutional process of getting an amendment to the constitution of the united. states. however. what is being done here. as i understand itsee if i am correct. maybe it is the wrong bill. this is an authorization bill upon which we are trying to affix appropriations language. am i correct.
that is what i find so appalling about what happens here. i do  care if there is one person out there who does  have that educational opportunity. if there is one person being discriminated against in any form whatsoever. we. as a nation. should make that our concern. what do we do when somebody falls down a well. the whole nation stands in anticipation that everything will be done to get that one person out of the well. or that one person trapped in a building. that is the spirit of this country. you k it as well as i do. if there has ever been a nation that has been for the underdog. it is the united states of america. are you sure that is still the way we look at it. i wonder. we got banged around a little bit in vietnam. we got banged around a little in watergate. so we have all licked our wounds  and have gone home when we ought to be out looking for trouble. and there is so much of it out there. we are so wellequipped constitutionally and spiritually to handle it. i have apologies for what we have done. and i have fears as to what it is we are capable of. this is an amendment of fearan amendment of fearpolitical fear. fear of competition. the whole thing just is riddled with the thought of fear. there is  one person in this chamber.  one. who can vote for the weicker amendment who could  hold their head high. and even turn around and vote for the next amendment. if they want to. to protect their backside. but at least you can stand up and vote for the first one. what. someone is going to accuse you during your campaign of being for the constitution of the united states. "he voted for the weicker amendment." i want to see your opponent stand up and say. "that man voted for an amendment that said the justice department can enforce the provisions of the constitution of the united states." do you think you could be beaten on that. "this man voted to enforce the constitution of the united states." do you think you will be beaten. amendment  2vote for it. do you honestly think that in the course of a political career. because you stand up there for the independence of the judiciary and those who need some special assistance. that because you voted for that. you are going to be beaten. do you think this nation wants to be inspired. do you think this is inspirational. it is my understanding that in a few minutes. things are going to be wrapped up. the evening is going to close. everything has been set out on the floor. if i may have the attention of the senator from th carolina. for whatever transgressions. real or imagined. against my distinguished colleague from th carolina. i apologize. there is reason why. if i am going to be here fighting for what i consider the rules. i should  abide by them myself. you have the advantage. sometimes i think it is better to have the votes than the rules. and i am  so sure you do  have them. in any event. i think you k the depth of my feeling as to the substance of the matter before us. and it certainly should  spill over in my respect for somebody who has always been a gentleman to me.
first of all. i would like to bring to the attention of my colleagues. more particularly the distinguished senator from louisiana. section three of article ii of the constitution of the united states. which enumerates the duties of the president. more particularly the executive branch of governmenthe shall he mighthe shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed. it is very simple and very direct. it does  make any difference as to whether or  there is any civil rights act of 1964 or whatever other legislation is passed. the laws shall be faithfully executed. "he shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed." how can he take care that the laws be faithfully executed when the agency of that branch that has that responsibility is removed from such activity.
well. let me say this: i certainly accept the senators statement as fact. it sounds very heartening. as a matter of fact. to this senator. but. the president has made statement upon statement as to what his views on busing are. the fact is. again. that is  the issue. the issue is what was stated by former president carter when he threatened the veto. the precedent that would be established if this legislation became law is dangerous it would effectively -allow the congress to tell a president that there are certain constitutional remedies that he can ask the courts to apply. if a president can be barred from going to the courts on this issue. a future congress could by the same reasoning prevent a president from asking the courts to rule on the constitutionality of other matters upon which the president and the congress disagree. for any president to accept this precedent would permit a serious encroachment on the powers of this office. i have a responsibility to my successors and to the american people  to permit that encroachment to take place. i intend to discharge that responsibility to the best of my ability. this letter was written a month after jimmy carter had been defeated. what he was doing was preserving the powers of that office for ronald reagan. i do  k why i am on this floor preserving the powers for the president. this is something that he should be actively engaged in. he is . so if it passes. if it becomes law. then the office is a little bit less than the office that was handed to him. e of which has anything to do with busing or civil rights. there is the issue. i think it is time the president spoke up. ii read in the press accounts of this debate that the liberals are out here fighting this proposition. and i turned to one of the reporters in my home state and said:* i look upon myself a sa conservative wher it comes to the constitution. on matters ci social policy. characterize me as you will. but i am a conservative. i am arguing the conservative position. i iced just this past friday. july 3. 1981. in the new york times a marvelous articulation of this very point by richard taylor. a professor of philosophy at the university of rochester. entitled. "what a conservative really is. and isnt." he says: trumansdurg. n.y.- am a political conservative. of the- traditional kind. who enthusiastically voted for and supports president reagan. in spite of his occasionally distressing proncements. but.i protest the increasing use of the label "conservative" by people who have idea what it really means. indeed. it is sometimes associated with sheer narrowness of outlook. a political conservative. within the framework of united states politics. tries to conserve something quite specificnamely. the values embedded in the constitution. those values were eloquently articulated in the presidents inaugural address. when he reminded us that our government is supposed to be one of limited powers.  one that tries to determine for free citizens what is best for them and to deliver them from all evil. more precisely. a conservative recognizes the constitution as a statute. a charter of government. and a definition of rights. political subversion. on the other hand. is the attempt to subordinate that c:onstitution to some other philosophy or creed. believed by its adherents to be ler. wiser. or better. it would be subversion. for example. to subordinate the. constitution to the communist manifesto. even if done without violence and from a sincere conviction of the superior justice of a communist state. similarly. if anyone were to try to replace the constitution by. say. the koran. then one could doubt that this would be an act of subversion. the extreme improbability of anyones attempting this does . of course. affect my point. similarly. for anyone to subordinate the principles embodied in the constitution to those of the bible. or to those of one of the various churches or creeds claiming scripture as its source. is political subversion.  is subversion made less so by the good and sincere intentions of its advocates. or by their great numbers. or by the ility of the alternatives advocated. an act of subversion would be less subversive if carried out by a bishop. by an army general. or by a political party. than if done by agents of a foreign government. subversion is  defined in terms of the means by which the basic principles of the constitution are undermined.  by whom this is attempted.  in terms of the truth or falsity of the doctrine by which one seeks to replace those principles. the attempt itself is subversion.  is it a question of what is really le or ultimately true or good. the question concerns instead the historical and traditional foundation of our political society. which is the united states constitution and whether it should be conserved. religions may be based upon holy books. ecoic policies upon the doctrines of learned theorists. and morality upon .creeds or the promptings of this or that conscience. but e of these things constitute the foundation of government in our beautiful country. however common elsewhere.  will they ever be. without subverting the real foundation. which is lawthat is. an actual constitution. it is sad indeed. then. to a conservative to see such spokesmen for higher morality as ljerry falwell. jesse helms. phyllis schiafly. iand the chorus of others. all with their ions of what is best. usurp and misuse the name "conservative. they are right. of course. in saying it is  the function of the government to pour blessings upon us in the forms of art. health. and education. however desirable these things may be. but it is likewise proper business of government. as envisioned in our constitution. to convert schoolrooms into places for prayer meetings for our cldren. or to compel impoverished and unmarried girls. or anyone else. to bear misbegotten and unwanted children. or to make proncements on the theory of evolution. or to instruct lawabiding citizens on what is and what is  allowable with respect to family values. or to determine which books can and which can be put in our libraries or placed within reach of our children. perhaps there is a religion. or a political philosophy. whose truths are ler than those held by our pounding fathers. perhaps there are persons who have a clearer vision than our judiciary. guided by our constitution. of what is right and wrong. but it can never. in the eyes of the genuine conservative. be the role of government to force such.cialms upon us. the constitution explicitly denies. to government any such power. and a conservative is simply someone who thinks the provisions of that document are worth conserving. . wait until you see the scramble for funds that is going to take place by virtue of these budget cuts. wait until you see that scramble.
 i wish to speak for a few minutes. i have listened patiently and i might add with great interest to what the distinguished senator from louisiana has to say.  i wish to make a few comments. my understanding is we are  going to much farther this aftern. i am sure the senator will have ample additional time. i thought at this point it might be interesting to place in the record an editorial and an article in the charlotte observer dated june 29. 1981. and ask that they be printed in the record. i shall read the editorial because  we get to the more sensitive parts of the argument of the senator from louisiana. i realize that a small victory for the senator from connecticut has occurred on this floor when all of a sudden there is a flinching by the other side when it comes to being accused of being in violation of the constitution or its principles. they do  like that thrown at them or the fact that they are operating somewhat outside the principles that govern this nation in terms of fairness and eqluality and so on. and they are starting to flinch because for too long so many of my colleagues flinched when the senator from louisiana and the senator from th carolina swung the word "busing" around this chamber.  the shoe is on the other foot. one likes to be accused of being in opposition to the constitution. good. good. at least we have a little equality then insofar at least as the demagoguery is concerned on both sides. the editorial from the charlotte observer is dated june 24. 1981. and is called "timely hos. an example for. the nation." just written a week ago:
the amendment of the distinguished senator from louisiana may be mriny things and it might have merit. it m.ght have merit insofar as it is an excellent piece of special purpose legislation for rapides parish. but it is  constitutional. it is  lawyerlike. it does  embody those principles of american jurisprudence that would have the admiration of any association of lawyers in this country. so let us  make any more of it than what it is by discrediting the valued opinion of men and women who have made their careers that of american jurisprudence. who have desire to dictate the policies of this body but. by the same token. have hesitation in pointing out the fra.lty of legislation where that frailty impinges upon treasured longstanding constitutional principles. this bill or rather these particular amendments. whether they go under the title of the amendment of the senator from th carolina or under the aegis of the distinguished senator from florida . the longer they stay out here the worse they smell. and that is exactly the purpose for this debate so that everybodyks full well what it is that is transpiring on the floor of the u.s.senate. this senator has absolutely objection whatever to a clean authorization bill as it applies to the department of justice. what i object to most strenuously is an attempt to circumvent the constitution of the united states. by statute rather than by the very precise. carefully worded. amending process as contained in that document. in the constitution. it is my intention  to go ahead and read to the chamber the report of the u.s.commission on civil rights.
my president. i rise in opposition to the position taken by the distinguished senator from louisiana. to reiterate very simply. the issue that will be decided tomorrow has hing to do with busing at all. it has to do with the constitution of the united states. more specifically the separation of powers as among the legislative. executive. and judicial branches. it has to do with whether or  the legislative branch of government will dictate politics to the courts or whether the courts will remain independent. i shall read into the record at this time a letter dated august 24. 1981. on the stationery of the american bar association. from the president of that association. david ri. brink. addressed to this senator. dear senator wzxczczn: on august 11. the house of delegates of the american bar association overwhelmingly approved a resolution opposing congressional curtailment of the jurisdiction of the supreme court or the inferior federal courts for the purpose of effecting changes in constitutional law. this resolution was brought to the house of delegates because of the many bills which are pending in congress to strip the federal courts of jurisdiction to hear cases on controversial subjects such as busing. school prayer and abortion. a copy of the resolution. and a copy of the report which accompanied it before the house of delegates are enclosed. at best the pending legislation is of questionable constitutioniality. but in any event it is. in my judgment. expressive of an extremely poor policy with serious. adverse implications for the future. if lawmakers. or others. believe our constitution. as interpreted by the branch of government t- which its interpretation was entrusted is wrong. the answer iles either in the appellate judicial process itself or in the amendment of the constitution by the means. provided in that constitution. anything else represents a change in our basic system of government that might please some persons today and be used tomorrow to destroy things in our system that the same persons hold dear. although the secretary of the association will formally advise the president. the attorney general. the chief justice. and the relevant committees of the congress of the action taken by our house of delegates. because of the grave importance of the subject. the fact that it will again be before the senate immediately upon the reconvening of the conigress. and my strong support for the action of the house of delegates. i personally call it to your attention and urge your assistance in defeating any such legislation. sincerely.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on the constitution of the committee on the judiciary be authorized to meet during the session of the senate monday. ember 16. at 1:30 p.m.. to hold a hearing on senate joint resolutions 17. 18. 19. and 110. resolutions all dealing with abortion.
i would  like to review what it is that has occurred. what we have before us here on the senate floor. first of all. let me say this to my colleagues: this has  been one of the easier tasks that it has been my fortune to be a part of during my 12 years in the senate. since its inception on june 16. 1981. this matter has been clouded over by political. philosophical. and emotional argument. the fact is that hing has changed. this legislation still poses the most dangerous constitutional threat ever posed during my lifetime. it threatens to demolish the concepts of checks and balances and three separate but equal branches of government and politicize the judicial branch of government. giving the legislative branch aveto power over the executive branch of government. first. let me say that with all the pressing matters before the nation i consider it a travesty that we are engaging in this unconstitutional exercise for what seem to me to be solely political purposes. we may pose the rhetorical question. is this of any particular assistance to me in the state of connecticut. insofar as the state of connecticut stjpporting the concept of busing. the answer is  i do  think the consensus in the state of connecticut is any different from the public opinion samplings that seem to show that many people are against this particular remedy. so there is particular advantage to be had in taking this position. but this can always be a game of politics on the senate floor. and certainly the one matter that transcends politics has to be the constitution and its preservation and. if need be. its defense in terms of the type of attack that is represented by s. 951. i would be perfectly willing to accept a policy change by means of legislation. so it is  a matter that my philosophy. whatever that might be. is on the losing side in this country at this time. the best way to illustrate the point that i am making is that president reagan should be on the floor right here arguing with me in order to preserve the powers of his office. he can change the policies in the administration of the justice department insofar as busing is concerned. he can do that without the congress of the united states. we might all disagree and we could take up some time during morning business to express our disagreement. but to stand idly by while the powers of the executive branch of government are seriously eroded is. to me. unconscionable. he has every right to tell his attorney general  to seek busing orders. he has every rightalthough i would be highly critical of such a posture to get into the matter of discrinination within any particular school system in this country. these are all his prerogatives. but the powers of his office do  belong to him. they belong to the people of the united states of america as enuniciated in the constitution of the united states. i said this matter commenced on june 16. 1981. actually. it commenced earlier than that. the first time this amendment was before this body was during the lameduck session of the last congress. the body had passed an amendment very similar to the helms amendment.  the johnston amendment. but the helms amendnent. and before that legislation got off the floor. president carter sent back a letter to then chairman of the appropriations subcommittee on statejusticecommerce. senator fritz hollings. i would like to read from that letter . in case anybody thinks this is some offthewall idea of mine in the sense of constitutional interpretation. let us see what the man who had been defeated by ronald reagan said in that letter. dear  to accept this precedent would permit a serious encroachment on the powers of this office. i have a responsibility to my successorsand i might parenthetically interject here. since he had already been chosen. ronald reaganand to the american people  to permit that encroachment to take place. i intend to discharge that responsibility to the best of my ability. the purpose of this letter is to ensure that there is doubt about my opposition to the objectionable provision in the statejusticecommerce appropriations act. my opposition also applies to the inclusion of such a provision in the continuing resolution. i would of course prefer to avoid a veto of the resolution. i recognize the difficulties such a veto could impose on critically important operations of the government and on the congressional schedule. but i would be shirking my constitutional responsibilities if i allowed this unprecedented and unwarranted encroachment on executive authority and responsibility to prevail. sincerely.
 coolidges time to cast the first stone at the supreme court. what is at stake in the 97th congress as so often before is the linchpin of our democracy which is. in the long run. the last safeguard of us allrepublican and democrat. liberal and conservative. black and white. believer and agtic. george washington had the foresight to realize that the countrys overriding commitment must forever be to the constitution and the separation of powers it ordained. he said in his 1796 farewell address: it is important that the habits of thinking in a free country should inspire caution in those entrusted with its administration to confine themselves within their respective constitutional spheres . . . the spirit of encroachment tends to consolidate the powers of all departments in one. and thus to create. whatever the form of government. a real despotism. if in the opinion of the people. the distribution or modification of the constitutional powers be in any particular wrong. let it be corrected by an amendment in the way which the constitution designates. but let there be change by usurpation: for though this in one instance may be the instrument of good. it is the customary weapon by which free governments are destroyed. usurpation and the destruction of our free government are what this colloquy is about and what these courtstripping bills are about.  busing or school prayer or abortion. i hope my fellow members of congress will keep that in mind as they consider this legislation in the months ahead.
. we needed the 13th amendment to abolish slavery. the 15th amendment to extend the fran chise to black americans. and the 19th amendment to extend the right to vote to women. we need to make the equal rights amendment the 27th amendment to our constitution to afford men and women equal rights under law.e
. i send to the desk for appropriate reference legislation to amend the organic legislation for the virgin islands and guam. and for other purposes. this legislation was prepared by the department of the interior and the department of justice at my request to reform the judicial systems in the virgin islands and guam and to identify those provisions of federal law contained in early organic legislation for the virgin islands which have been superseded by subsequent enactments but never repealed. this request resulted from the ember 3. 1981 defeat of the fourth constitution of the virgin islands. which action necessitates the retention of local government authorizations in the organic legislation of the virgin islands. those local government provisions would have been repealed under title i of s. 1674 in order that the constitution could have become fully effective as the basic law for selfgovernment in the virgin islands. title i. however. also sought to clean up the statute books by removing various archaic or superseded provisions dating back to 1917. title i would also have reformed the relations between the local and federal courts. in order that we  lose these beneficial provisions. i requested the drafting service and specifically asked that the draft be sent to the local territorial governments for comment. this legislation does  represent the formal position of either the administration or the local teritorial governments. i am introducing it so that formal views may be requested and considered later this session. i ask unanimous consent that tle text of the legislation together with an explanation and sectionbysection analysis and my letter requesting the drafting service be printed in the record.
i thank the distinguished chairman. . 25 to elect a senator or 20 percent a congressman. wonder they do  feel compelled to stand up for all the people when so few are standing up for themselves. to those members of congress who subscribe to the amendmentamonth club i say this: leave the constitution alone. do  try to make it a trash basket for every new political gimmick or a crutch in times of controversy. if we are unable to deal with the realities of the budget debate. i would suggest that the fault lies  in our constitution but in ourselves
 and congress. then we would  have to go through this great series of events whereupon every time we disagree with something in this country we make certain that there shall be judicial review. i find it ironic that anyone claiming to be of a conservative bent would try to decimate the constitution of the united states and. de facto. eliminate the protection which all of us as americans are provided through the judicial system.
. before the senator from maryland speaks. i just want to express my great admiration for all he has stood for over the years as being a man of great courage. great perception. and certainly one of those who has proven in a lifetimes work of his adherence to and his advocacy of the constitution of this nation.
. it is the most serious threat to constitutional government. maybe this is  the gravest crisis that has ever come before the senate. but it is one of the gravest and the least understood. so i will continue to vote against cloture. and i will do everything i can to defeat this amendment and any other amendment that tries to repeal the constitution of the united states by a simple majority vote. almost by whim and caprice
i thank the distinguished senator from rhode island i believe efforts such as his have indeed reacquainted a nation with the constitution of the united states. and efforts such as his that have preserved some very basic freedoms that have been under attack here on the floor. .  without losing my right to the floor. without this being considered as the end of a speech for the purpose of the twospeech rule. and i ask unanimous consent. also. that at the end of the senators remarks i be recognized
. i oppose this amendment because it fails the fundamental test of any proposed amendment. it leaves the perceived problems unsolved and can possible culminate in the sense of resolution that an amendment ought to promote. (5) the amendment is silent as to the matter of enforcement. deleted are the earlier provisions which stated that "the congress and the several states.shall have concurrent power to restrict and prohibit abortion." perhaps the enforcement provisions are deleted because they emphasized the courtstripping purpose of this amendment. all previous amendments to the constitution have attempted to put in place an affirmative principle of constitutional law. this amendment attempts to remove a right that the supreme court has interpreted to be embodied in the constitution in the right of privacy. harm to constitutionally protected interests occurs when controversial rights are singled out for exclusion from federal jurisdiction. where the specific circumstances surrounding congress deliberations conspire to send an apparent message of congressional disapproval of federal judicial doctrine. the harm is aggravated. especially when the motivation is political.  constitutional. i urge my colleagues to embrace aher portion of george washingtons farewell address which reminds us that: it is important that the habits of thinking in a free country should inspire caution in those entrusted with its administration. to confine themselves within their respective constitutional spheres avoiding in the exercise of the powers of one department. to encroach upon aher. i urge my colleagues to oppose senate joint resolution 3. the additional sources referred to are as follows:
. i might suggest to my good friend from th carolina that. in the case of his vote. probably discretion was the better part of his generosity in the sense that the leadership had agreed that the matter should be tabled. indeed. when in the middle of a vote. he offered to withdraw the amendment. obviously. that had an impact on those senators who felt that. under those circumstances. it was unnecessary for them to support the leadership on this particular matter. the point i want to make is that i am going to let an occasion go by to have either this body or the american people misled on the issue of busing. busing was  the issue here. the issue goes back to the constitutional question of three separate. equal branches of government. i will leave senators with this point. this is the same u.s. senate that by 78 to 22 voted martin luther king day and just 2 days later went ahead and by a vote of 51 to 29 gutted. or tried to gut the civil rights of black schoolchildren. . talk about a contradiction.  one to be very proud of. but there you have it. i think holidays are great. especially when they ho pbople like dr. king. but what i think is more important is that we through our actions and in our lives make possible what he talked about. this particular exercise does  stand to the credit of this body and repudiates what we did 48 hours ago. i can assure my good friend from th carolina that every time one of these matters comes up we are going to talk about it. we are going to have votes on it. we are going to continue to debate it. i admire him for his intellectual integrity. obviously. in terms of philosophy we disagree. in terms of our interpretation of the constitution of this nation. we disagree. but in the final analysis it is  helms or weicker who are going to go ahead and discuss the issue. it is 98 other senators and a lot of american people out there that better get involved
 and that is why i want to make this point so as to display my respect for the integrity and for the candor and for the great depth of commitment of the senator from iowa. but let me just comment on those other persons who are delivering themselves of the reasoning behind the positions that many of us takemore committed to the constitution of the soviet union than we are our own. these are the opinions of larry flynt and hugh heffner and madalyn murray ohair. and right on down the list. the one thing that is a common bond here between the senator from iowa and the senator from connecticut is our deep religious conviction and how best to express it. that is the only element. if you will. of difference between us the fact that there are  100 people of deep faith in this body. but how best to express it. so. let the garbage collectors and those that care to find the basis for their arguments in reason get out of the debate. they have place in it.* on the contrary. this is the most important debate that any of us have faced. at least i believe that to be the case during my career in the u.s. senate. i am well pleased. i might add. in the te of that debate. as to what has been said on both sides of the issue by all persons. these has been meanness. vituperation. dirt. but rather each side forcefully trying to explain. in historical terms. contemporary terms. the reasons for what it is they are doing. . again. i repeat. on the matter of the authors of the first amendment. thomas jefferson and james madisonand they were the authors of the first amendment of the constitution of the united statesi am afraid you are going to have to find your authority elsewhere. it does  lie in those two men. writing after writing. which i will be glad to read or submit for the record. clearly sets out what it is they meant. what they intended was to avoid the great tragedies of history in this country. i might add that even in their timeyou can blame our nation for drawing apart from its constitutioneven in their day you had the establishment of religious in state after state. my state of connecticut was the worst on this point. the state of connecticut. the state of new hampshire. and the state of massachusetts were the three states that had established religions. long after the first amendment was passed.
. this very process is what led to the enactment of the first amendment. the fact that various states had established certain religions and it was the disestablishment process. mainly highlighted by the statute of religious freedom in virginia. that led to the first amendment in the constitution of the united states. even after the first amendment was passed. states continued to hold onto their established religions. my state of connecticut being one. congregationalist. they went on to disestablishment soon thereafter. let me point to aher thing. having to do with the question the senator from arkansas asked. i want to make sure i was correct in hearing the response. in his hypothetical of a prayer meeting on the senate floor. the senator from utah indicated that senate rules would prevail over the constitution of the united states. am i correct.
article vi of the constitution states: the senators and representatives before mentioned. and the members of the several state legislatures. and all executive and judicial officers. both of the united states aid of the several states. shall be bound by oath or affirmation. to support thib constitution. but religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the united states. is the senator telling me that we could require a religious test as we enter the well to take our oath as a matter of senate rule.
. i commend the distinguished senator from washington for his very eloquent statement. indeed. he points out with precision the difficulties that we encounter when considering any constitutional amendment proposed on the floor. and more specifically. how we as legislators could improve on what we have . which is the first amendment of the constitution as it is  written. before trying to give a little background as to where we are right . visavis. the amendment before us. i would like to ask the senator from illis a question. this question has been propounded to the senator from utah and to the senator from iowa. but i have yet to get an answer. however. the distinguished senator from illis ks of something that has  yet been revealed in response to the following question. i wonder if the senator from illis is able to cite one court decision. one law. state or federal. or one portion of the constitution that prohibits anyone. child or adult.
what i am saying is that substantively. the plan that is before us is irresponsible. that. is the point being made. when the senator asks me the ques. tion was i aware of the role of the senator from oregon. i certainly was. a role. i might add. one that he can be proud of.  the time has come to have the mltter before all of us. i see hing in the constitution which sets up the rose garden as some branch of government.
. i oppose this amendment because it fails the fundamental test of any proposed amendment. it leaves the perceived problems unsolved and can possible culminate in the sense of resolution that an amendment ought to promote. (5) the amendment is silent as to the matter of enforcement. deleted are the earlier provisions which stated that "the congress and the several states.shall have concurrent power to restrict and prohibit abortion." perhaps the enforcement provisions are deleted because they emphasized the courtstripping purpose of this amendment. all previous amendments to the constitution have attempted to put in place an affirmative principle of constitutional law. this amendment attempts to remove a right that the supreme court has interpreted to be embodied in the constitution in the right of privacy. harm to constitutionally protected interests occurs when controversial rights are singled out for exclusion from federal jurisdiction. where the specific circumstances surrounding congress deliberations conspire to send an apparent message of congressional disapproval of federal judicial doctrine. the harm is aggravated. especially when the motivation is political.  constitutional. i urge my colleagues to embrace aher portion of george washingtons farewell address which reminds us that: it is important that the habits of thinking in a free country should inspire caution in those entrusted with its administration. to confine themselves within their respective constitutional spheres avoiding in the exercise of the powers of one department. to encroach upon aher. i urge my colleagues to oppose senate joint resolution 3. the additional sources referred to are as follows:
. i might suggest to my good friend from th carolina that. in the case of his vote. probably discretion was the better part of his generosity in the sense that the leadership had agreed that the matter should be tabled. indeed. when in the middle of a vote. he offered to withdraw the amendment. obviously. that had an impact on those senators who felt that. under those circumstances. it was unnecessary for them to support the leadership on this particular matter. the point i want to make is that i am going to let an occasion go by to have either this body or the american people misled on the issue of busing. busing was  the issue here. the issue goes back to the constitutional question of three separate. equal branches of government. i will leave senators with this point. this is the same u.s. senate that by 78 to 22 voted martin luther king day and just 2 days later went ahead and by a vote of 51 to 29 gutted. or tried to gut the civil rights of black schoolchildren. . talk about a contradiction.  one to be very proud of. but there you have it. i think holidays are great. especially when they ho pbople like dr. king. but what i think is more important is that we through our actions and in our lives make possible what he talked about. this particular exercise does  stand to the credit of this body and repudiates what we did 48 hours ago. i can assure my good friend from th carolina that every time one of these matters comes up we are going to talk about it. we are going to have votes on it. we are going to continue to debate it. i admire him for his intellectual integrity. obviously. in terms of philosophy we disagree. in terms of our interpretation of the constitution of this nation. we disagree. but in the final analysis it is  helms or weicker who are going to go ahead and discuss the issue. it is 98 other senators and a lot of american people out there that better get involved
 and that is why i want to make this point so as to display my respect for the integrity and for the candor and for the great depth of commitment of the senator from iowa. but let me just comment on those other persons who are delivering themselves of the reasoning behind the positions that many of us takemore committed to the constitution of the soviet union than we are our own. these are the opinions of larry flynt and hugh heffner and madalyn murray ohair. and right on down the list. the one thing that is a common bond here between the senator from iowa and the senator from connecticut is our deep religious conviction and how best to express it. that is the only element. if you will. of difference between us the fact that there are  100 people of deep faith in this body. but how best to express it. so. let the garbage collectors and those that care to find the basis for their arguments in reason get out of the debate. they have place in it.* on the contrary. this is the most important debate that any of us have faced. at least i believe that to be the case during my career in the u.s. senate. i am well pleased. i might add. in the te of that debate. as to what has been said on both sides of the issue by all persons. these has been meanness. vituperation. dirt. but rather each side forcefully trying to explain. in historical terms. contemporary terms. the reasons for what it is they are doing. . again. i repeat. on the matter of the authors of the first amendment. thomas jefferson and james madisonand they were the authors of the first amendment of the constitution of the united statesi am afraid you are going to have to find your authority elsewhere. it does  lie in those two men. writing after writing. which i will be glad to read or submit for the record. clearly sets out what it is they meant. what they intended was to avoid the great tragedies of history in this country. i might add that even in their timeyou can blame our nation for drawing apart from its constitutioneven in their day you had the establishment of religious in state after state. my state of connecticut was the worst on this point. the state of connecticut. the state of new hampshire. and the state of massachusetts were the three states that had established religions. long after the first amendment was passed.
. this very process is what led to the enactment of the first amendment. the fact that various states had established certain religions and it was the disestablishment process. mainly highlighted by the statute of religious freedom in virginia. that led to the first amendment in the constitution of the united states. even after the first amendment was passed. states continued to hold onto their established religions. my state of connecticut being one. congregationalist. they went on to disestablishment soon thereafter. let me point to aher thing. having to do with the question the senator from arkansas asked. i want to make sure i was correct in hearing the response. in his hypothetical of a prayer meeting on the senate floor. the senator from utah indicated that senate rules would prevail over the constitution of the united states. am i correct.
article vi of the constitution states: the senators and representatives before mentioned. and the members of the several state legislatures. and all executive and judicial officers. both of the united states aid of the several states. shall be bound by oath or affirmation. to support thib constitution. but religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the united states. is the senator telling me that we could require a religious test as we enter the well to take our oath as a matter of senate rule.
. i commend the distinguished senator from washington for his very eloquent statement. indeed. he points out with precision the difficulties that we encounter when considering any constitutional amendment proposed on the floor. and more specifically. how we as legislators could improve on what we have . which is the first amendment of the constitution as it is  written. before trying to give a little background as to where we are right . visavis. the amendment before us. i would like to ask the senator from illis a question. this question has been propounded to the senator from utah and to the senator from iowa. but i have yet to get an answer. however. the distinguished senator from illis ks of something that has  yet been revealed in response to the following question. i wonder if the senator from illis is able to cite one court decision. one law. state or federal. or one portion of the constitution that prohibits anyone. child or adult.
what i am saying is that substantively. the plan that is before us is irresponsible. that. is the point being made. when the senator asks me the ques. tion was i aware of the role of the senator from oregon. i certainly was. a role. i might add. one that he can be proud of.  the time has come to have the mltter before all of us. i see hing in the constitution which sets up the rose garden as some branch of government.
i feel rather passionately on this subject. indeed. i might add at least it will give it the dignity it should have as a freestanding issue rather than being tacked on to the small business administration authorization bill. . the senate spoke last year but the constitution spoke to the matter more than 200 years ago. anyone has a right to pray at any time anywhere in this nation. and the right  to pray. these rights should  be diminished by congress and they will  be if we leave the constitution alone.
. i remember. and  i speak from my personal point of view. obviously.  as cosponsor of the legislation. when i first challenged my good friend senator helmswho. i might add. is with me on this issueon the matter of the independence of the judiciary. what he called busing. and what later came to be called by editorial writers court stripping. the press reported that senator helms had offered an amendment and its passage was expected the next day. everywhere i was criticized. even in my state of connecticut. for "being for busing." it took close to 8 to 9 months to have this body and the nation understand that what was involved was  busing. but. rather. the independence of the judiciary and its maintenance as a separate but equal branch of government.  many people had read their constitution up to that point. or their constitutional history. it took that much time. i lost the fight. but the battle was won. . the legislative year was up and it died in the house. so on to the other constitutional battles where. for the first time in years. this nation was forced. by virtue of the length of the debate in this body. to read the constitution of the united states. we have expended about everything else that we can in this nation in terms of our money and hocking our future. but some things i think should be left intact for our children. one of them being the constitution. even tlhough ody understands it. to bring that about requires all of those protections embodied in the rules of this chamber: germaneness. the motion to proceed. the reading of the journal. all of that. i have quarrel. i might add. with those rules changes that are proposed for once issues are resolved. that is what i referred to earlier. that sense of fairness. the sense that once you have had your shot. that is it. fair egh. i think a postcloture filibuster is an abomination. i say that even though i would lose. in effect. under the cloture. i have had my shot. in effect. be done with it. but i can assure my colleagues that i would have had a futile 15 years in the u.s. senate were it  for these protections which we are  debating. i might add. i also find it very demeaning that this is a horsetrading situation between television and senate rules. but that is the way it comes to us. someday. i kand this is my famous immodesty showing forthi k that many of you. such as my good friends. bill armstrong and jesse helms. are going to be in the miity. and even though it seems that i am fighting for what i believe in . i can assure them these principles have to last long after the democrats or republicans control. long after it is a conservative or liberal philosophy. this is the genius and the greatness of this country and of this chamber. i urge that this amendment be approved.
 and even less for other elective jobs. across the spectrum of public affairs. goals and policies and priorities are set with a icable lack of public participation. ben franklin said. "in this nation the people rule." and he was right. that is the legacy of the constitution. to its credit. this document also ensures that the wheels of representative democracy will always roll matter the level of public participation. but to its descendants in the third century of the constitution. this generation is leaving its own version of the franklin quote: "in this nation. the active miity rules." the topic of this years law day observance is the "foundations of freedom." and the first foundation is the very sort of participation we find missing today. uniting this nation under a constitution was the result of the greatest debate among individuals in history. that debate must be constantly renewed if the law and the government that upholds it is to maintain its vital connection to american life and values. for its parts in pursuing citizen involvement in the law. i again congratulate the waterbury bar association and all participants.o
. this bill is virtually identical to h.r. 3558. which was reported out of the house merchant marine and fisheries ocearaphy subcommittee on march 18 of this year. it is the culmination of years of revision and controversial testimony from numerous hearings. i believe that we finally have a bill all parties can agree to.e by mr. thurmond: s.j. res. 364. joint resolution proposing an amendment to the constitution of the united states. to the committee on the judiciary.
i thank my distinguished colleague from south carolina. s 8541ial inees. i would only say what we are seeing here is again a convoluting of the process to achieve a particular end as in the case of so many matters convoluting the legislative process to get at the constitution. that is done mostly by my conservative friends and  those on my side of the philosophical spectrum are using the filibuster. using the cloture process to achieve their end when clearly that is  provided for in the constitution. if mr. manion gets inated and further conservatives are appointed to the court. maybe that will galvanize an american population and american constituency out there that is just sitting on its duff.  participating in the political process. and then being stuck with the results of that participation. by that inactivity is  going to be excused by this senator.  am i going to substitute a convoluting of the process for that inactivity at the polls. matters of philosophy are decided by the electorate.  by running in at the last minute and. in effect. through the legislative process. defiling the intent of the constitution of the united states. i would hope that cloture is invoked. and i would hope then that the ination of daniel manion is defeated
. reserving the right to object. i think .hat the record should show that the ntroduction of this legislation relative to drugs comes at a time and in such a form that e of us have had an opportunity to see in its entirety what it is that we are being asked to give our unanimous consent to. and. i might add. this applies. since this is a joint leadership bill. to both the democratic and republican side. and so that it is understood. we are going .ahead and doing this by unanimous consent because it is  following the rules of the senate. and maybe that is deemed proper and necessary at this juncture. but the reason i am raising this point  is i think we will find. throughout the course of the legislation or the progress of the legislation. that time and again we will be asked to set aside mal procedure and mal consideration because of the urgency of the moment or. i might add. the politics of the time. and. of course. involved here is  any quickfix to a drug problem but rather the constitution of the united states. whether the end to be achieved will be achieved by sacrifice on all of our parts or whether it is to be achieved by the sacrifice of others who need our special care and who are the weakest among us. these are all important issues that will arise in the course of the next 48 to 72 hours. so i do  intend. in any manner. shape. or form. to prohibit or lengthen consideration of the matter. but i make the point that mally what is being done here would have to lay over for at least a day or two before we could move to its consideration. that is  going to happen. so the first exception has been made. i will accept it. i will accept it. i will  object to the unanimousconsent request. but only point out at this junctureand then i will take my seatthat however important the problem of drugs. the resolution of it will have to be done constitutionally and will have to be done with sacrifice by all in a political way. otherwise. this matter is better resolved after election day 1986.
. if we are going to mount a serious effort on addictionalcohol. drugs. smokinga serious effort as it relates to mental health. schizophrenia. et cetera. we need new money. we can redirect it and we can leave it up in the air. hoping that somebody will come along with a painless idea as to how we are going to resolve all these problems. the last point. as i say. is what i intend to emphasize at a later date. the constitutional point i think stands rather clearly on its own two feet. i expect we will have the first vote. at around 1 oclock this aftern. i k everybody is going to feel pressured to pass a drug package. but at least where the issue is so clearcut. let us  override the constitution of the united states. however pressing our needs. however pressing the problems. the one thing that has withstood the problems and the partisanship and the philosophy is this document. this is  the time to abandon it.
. i thank the distinguished majority leader and the distinguished miity leader. i think my only comment would be that most importantly. more importantly than satisfying my objections. they have satisfied the constitution of the united states and the bill is  in its proper perspective.
. there are real problems with this. there are certainly problems with the whereas clauses. it is the sense of congress that. whereas illegal drug consumption and the trafficking in those illegal drugs is a major problem in the united stateswe all agree. whereas this problem is particularly prevalent among and harmful to the nations young peoplewe all agree to that. whereas the values and mores portrayed in various forms of commercially produced entertainment have a profound effect on the attitiudes of young people in this country we are starting to enter the gray area. the entertainment industry should voluntarily. refrain from producing material meant for general entertainment which in any way glamorizes or encourages the use of illegal drugs. how about the written media. how about broadcasting. tell me. who is going to define "which in any way glamorizes or encourages the use of illegal drugs". certainly. there are egh lawyers present in this body to realize there is  very much precision in that phrase. that could very well be used against anyone. in any form of communication. that is exactly what this bill was  meant to be. ody is going to disagree with the problems that confront us. if we are going to save the entertainment industry. then somebody. i am sure. will have a similar amendment to apply to the written media. the press. we will have it apply to those engaged in the electronic media. and so on down the line. in many way glamorizes or encourages. define it for me. then i am told. and the distinguished senator from new mexico has every right to refute this. i am told in my discussion with thesenator from new mexico that that means in their definition. because they can define it for themselves. so what is the point- of having the resolution then. this is exactly the type of danger that comes along under the guise of drugs. to start encroaching on the matter of free speech. ody denies the problem. but this is the first step toward encroaching on the constitution. i do  intend to go ahead and in any way have an extended debate on this matter. i would suggest you read the amendment. i think i have made the words plain as to what it encompasses. i would hope it would get voted down. i suggest to you that the problem that is raised is the most serious problem in a bill of this sort. politics and panic take over and the constitution takes a hind seat. can anyone of you in this room define for me the term "in any way glamorize or encourages the use of illegal drugs". even factual reporting: even a factual film. you could apply that standard. i do  care what they do in the house of representatives. that. is their business. that is  the basis for adopting an amendment over here. this is the great deliberative body. it is exactly this type of thing that is supposed to come under our careful scrutiny. i would hope that this amendment is  adopted because of the dangers it represents. we are  trying to moralize for anybody in this bill. what we are trying to do is to address a specific problemthe drug problem. if we are going to address it. we are going to address it by education. by rehabilitation. and by scientific research. i have seen this brave body perfectly willing to go ahead and vote an amendment to throw the switch on someone and yet ody yet is standing up here who has the courage to say. "let us pay for the bill. let us pay for the education. for the scientific research. and for the rehabilitation." this amendment is just one more easy solution to the drug problem. let us go ahead and point the finger "at the entertainment industry which in any way glamorizes or encourages the use of illegal drugs." if there is one thing that this body is. it is the last protection of the constitution of the united states. this ought to stand out like a red flag in the eyes of every person on this floor. i hope the amendment is defeated.
 has the right to suspend the constitution in times of war or national emergency. fortunately. the constitution protects all americans whether they are familiar with the document or . it touches our lives daily as we gather to worship. as we assemble to debate. as we share our opinions. in this bicentennial year of the constitution. lawyers have a special opportunity to help instill in their fellow americans a deep appreciation and undrstanding of our unique constitutional system. as the origins of the constitution and the great freedoms it espouses reach the forefront of the nations consciousness. more americans will realize it is their right and their privilege to participate in public policymaking. i k the waterbury bar association and all law day participants will rise to the challenge of educating americans about their rich heritage. once again. i congratulate them for the role they play in citizen involvement.e
i thank the distinguished senator from massachusetts. i think he has pointed out statistically what the case is. again. i want to repeat that the bill as written specifically states that any entity which is controlled by a religious organization is eligible for an exemption. what the distinguished senator from utah is trying to do is expand that to entities that are "closely identified with the tenets of a religious organization." this is a civil rights restoration act. what we are dealing with is the constitution of the united states and. very frankly. any exemptions that are granted should be very narrow in terms of scope. the constitutionthat is what prevails in this land. that is what allows every faith to go ahead and practice as they will. but in wise should it contravene the tenets of the constitution. in this particular instance. all sorts of untold mischief would occur as to title ix were the amendment to be adopted. i think appropriate consideration has been given to peoples religious beliefs insofar as an entity is controlled by a religion. but to go ahead and expand it as closely identified with. i can assure you anybody that is in contradiction to the civil rights laws of this nation is all of a sudden going to find themselves closely identified with one faith or aher and the whole purpose of the legislation goes by the boards. so. i would hope that this would be roundly defeated in the sense that it once again reaffirms the constitution of the united states. this is  a theocracy. this was set up as a democracy. and in order to preserve that freedom which attaches to all faiths or faith. it is essential that we have clearcut guidelines and touchstones as to what the rights of every american are. regardless of what our religious beliefs happen to be. and they can vary. and i would hope that the amendment of the distinguished senator from utah will be defeated.
s vietnam policies were invited. implying that those who had questioned our involvement in vietnam were either against peace or were dishoable men and women. some of these incidents were matters of life and death and were well publicized. others were matters of principle and were little iced at the time. in each instance a significant outrage had taken place. what was common to all. in each instance one complained. a constitutional stillness was over the land. tie next chapter was entitled. "the uproar." that american decency. idealism. honesty and reverence for the constitution that some thought bought off has been stirring and reasserting itself for many months . yes. a fewstill shout treason when questions are asked. a few still espouse the end as justifying the means. a few still goggle at an american title rather than the title of american. but it was only yesterday. june 17. 1972 to be specific. that todays few were part of a large american majority. why the turnaround. the truth. because frank wills discovered taped doors at the watergate. americas doors didnt close in all our faces. the next chapter is "constitutional democracy in the era of watergate." for this senator. watergate is  a whodunit. it is a documented. proven attack on laws. institutions. and principles. the response to that attack was and is a nation of laws at work. determining whether men shall prevail over the principles of a constitutional democracy. it has been and will be the testing of a great experiment in government begun some 200 years ago. laws. institutions. and principles were squarely before this committee. to be debated. probed and documented. in order to assert remedies and reassert timehoed concepts. guilt or inence was  an issue. this was a factfinding body. it was a legislative body. and those duties go to the heart of what watergate was all about. in keeping with the committees duties. this is a report of facts and evidence. leading to legislative recommendations. one of which. i might. add. i just read to this body here. being against federal financing of elections. to document the abuse of laws. institutions. and principles. the facts and evidence are presented. first. as they bear on the basis of our laws. the constitution. second. as they relate to the institutions of our government. and third. as they affect the principles of our political system.
the senate is doing violence in its way to the laws of this land. to the constitution of this land. so i hope. at the very least. we do  ridicule the proposition that has been laid before the senate by the distinguisled senator from washington. all he is doing is complying with the law. this is  anything inative on his part. he is  recommending any new course of action. rather. he advocates. compliance with the law. just as i would prefer. very frankly. to have compliance with the constitution. and we have neither. * . i hope that we will oppose the point of order. let me predict right : do you k when the next great debate will occur. when the next great tragedy takes place in the persian gulf. that is way to run the united states of america.
in just 30 seconds i shall conclude. the issue is whether you want to stand up for the three separate but equal branches of government that have been given to us a realization of ideals unequaled in the history of the world. because the ideals were reborn from within each american rather than from a government as a whole. i would hope that the amendment would  just be narrowly defeated but overwhelmingly so. and that we do away with this sense and reaffirm a constitution that works.
. i wish to call the attention of the congress and the american people. to this 176th anniversary of the may 3 constitution in poland. this constitution was adopted in 1791. it created one of the first constitutional governments on the continent of europe. the significance of this holiday should be understood by every american. the history of the polish people has  been one of continued individual freedom. they have been subjected to numerous invasions and tyrans foreign dictatorships. their struggle has often been silent. they are still fighting to regain the natural rights and liberties which have been denied them by the tyranny of communism. but their belief in the will of the people as the source of political power in civil society has survived even under communist domination. the ideals of local government and judicial autoy. of private ownership and free enterprise. of religious freedom. of access to public office and the responsibility of elected officials. are still valued highly by the people of poland. these are the concepts of government which the polish people first wrote into their constitution in 1791. and which they have continued to uphold since that time. loyal polish citizens have aided the peoples of other countries to achieve and express their freedom. thaddeus kosciusko. who fought valiantly in our own revolution. is one such citizen. statues in his ho stand in many states. the commonwealth of massachusetts among them. the literary works of henryk sienkiewicz have long represented the free voice of the polish people. poland is a nation which has fought for freedom. and which has played a leading role in culture and the arts. its independent and hoable place among free peoples should be restored. it is only fitting that on this day we ho the polish people. their courage. and their faith. which has sustained them in their struggle for freedom.
that is exactly the point i am trying to make. they can live wherever they like. and if they voluntarily choose to go 30 miles to work. that is perfectly all right. but the policy of the aec and of the federal government. under the 1964 civil rights act. as i interpret it. was that all employees should have the opportunity to live wherever they like. under the constitution and laws of this country.
ial electoral law reserves to the constituent assembly. acting as an interim national assembly. sweeping power to annul the entire election if there are irregularities which impugn "the honesty of the voting and affect the general results of the election." in this respect. as in others the assembly has displayed its overriding concern to arrange as accurate and as honest an electoral test as possible. while the assembly has been performing its most difficult task. other events have attested to south vietnams earnestness in building popular institutions. from april through june of this year local elections brought several million voters to the polls to select village councils and hamlet chiefs. despite substantial vietcong terrorism. assassinations. and kidnapings. over 24.000 candidates contended for some 14.000 council seats. there were even more candidates. proportionately. for the hamlet chiefs positions. elections have  been held in 44 percent of the countrys 2.500 villages. and in 33 percent of its many thousand hamlets. there will be many *opportunities in the future to subvert both the election and the constitution. the hazards can only be weathered by the vietnamese themselves. as their principal ally. our country can best assist them by encouraging strict adherence to the constitution and electoral laws which they themselves have adopted. we can and should  try to run the elections for the south vietnamese people. it is imperative that the united states make clear to the ruling junta that we place decisive importance on the assembly as the one popularly chosen institution presently in south vietnam. we should certainly be willing to ackledge the accomplishments which the military leaders have made in the last 2 years. but they should  be misled about the basic sympathies of the - american people. our support for the - interim government is purely instrumental. the saigon government should recognize that the united states looks principally to the assembly as the appropriate foundation for south viet* nams transition to an elected government. if the coming elections are to serve the interests of the south vietnamese people. the junta must exhibit greater restraint than it has shown to * date. and must defer increasingly to the assembly in its agreed role as the arbiter of the electoral process.
ial elections. for these reasons. i can support the resolution to reject the vote in question. the fact that such an obvious inequity can occur is. in my opinion. a most compelling argument for prompt and urgent efforts to amend the constitution and eliminate this serious defect in our electoral system. if i have time remaining
. on may 3. many polish citizens of this country observed the 180th anniversary of one of the great events in the history of the polish people. the adoption of the constitution of 1791. the creation of the free state of poland represented one of the first efforts to establish a popular. liberal form of government in the era characterized by the flowering of freedom in the western world. although it was to come to an end within a mere 4 years. the may third polish constitution still shines as a monument to the principles of national pride and selfdetermination that have marked the polish people. the great contribution which polishamericans have made to the development of the united states. beginning with the very significant military leadership of general kosciusko during our own revolution for independence. form an important part of the history of our nation. i hope that the millions of polish people will once again come to enjoy fully the basic rights and liberties of a free people.
precisely. i think the distinguished senator from michigan. who has been such a great leader in protecting the constitution of the united states states it well. i would like to believe that many of those who have voted on this. particularly in the house. have done so. as i stated earlier. without full kledge of the assault upon the constitution of the united states that is contained in this particular measure. they have reacted to the high emotionalism in the country. much of which has been created by the proponents of this particular type of legislationmany. i think out of fear. because of the potential political ramifications or results could come from an adverse vote on this measure. but as the senator pointed out. after the kerner commission report on the riots of 1967. and then the commission on violence report. all agree we did  have any disagreement. in any of the commissions that have ever met and made reports. the findings have been relatively the same. the causes have been relatively the same. many of the recommendations have been relatively the same. the fact is that we have  acted upon them. we have  implemented those recommendations. in the main. then. as the senator put it. in the waning days of this session of congress. to take up legislation which sets us back way beyond the brown case. with all of its inherent dangers. as i have tried to specifically point out section by section in my remarks. it just seems that this is something that congress should wait and have proper hearings on. the committee could hear witnesses. and many of the questions which have been raised could be answered. many of the doubts and maybe some of the statements i have made or that others have made which could be in error. or could be explained. but how can we do this unless we proceed in the usual legislative manner and put this bill where it belongs. in its proper committee. have a hearing and a reportthe labor and public welfare committee has a long history of never having buttonholed or bottled up legislationrather than come before us  and report it right cut on the floor. i just think it is most regrettable. i am sure that if our colleagues knew what was contained in the bill. it could never be considered in this session of congress. therefore. i hope and pray that calm minds will prevail. courageous leadership will prevail. and that those who are concerned about the election results will put this country above their own personal political fortunes.
by failing to seat a duly certified senatorelect in the absence of any substantive charges. or corruption or fraud. the senate has established a precedent by which the majority party could exclude from this body all incoming members of the miity party on future sessions of congress. this. i submit. is an omis step toward bad government. it is a dangerous precedent. a precedent that would allow the senate to substitute its own voice for the voice of the people. what has happened here is  an effort to protect the integrity of the senate. or to prevent illegal or fraudulent practices in the senate election process from affecting or tainting the outcome of an election. this is an effort to substitute the decisions by partisan politicians for decisions by the electorate. and this effort comes very close to a repudiation of the democratic process. the constitution gives to each house of congress the right to judge the elections. returns. and qualifications of its members. this clause. derived from an english parliamentary precedent. is designed to be a check on abuses of the electoral process. despite the interpretation given by some. this clause was never intended to give the senate license to limit the peoples right to choose their own representatives in congress. . i urge my colleagues to vote for the weicker amendment.
as i interpret the scotthumphrey language. of which i am a cosponsor. it only says that hing in this act practically would be in violation of the constitution of the united states of america. that is what it says.
by state law as well. you can raise an issue of the federal constitution in the state courts. as my colleague very well ks. but other than that. i am saying that the procedural law would be governed by the states.
madam president. perhaps this debate on the hatch amendment has been the longest on any amendment on the panama canal treaty. i shall seek to balance it by making one of the shortest statements. . the senator from utah has made a strong case for the proposition that any disposition of u.s. property stemming from the canal treaties should only occur after the house of representatives as well as the senate has consented to such an action. proponents of this treaty have also made a case for the opposite view although their case is weaker than that of the senator from utah. i. therefore. intend to support the pending amendment and urge its adoption. aside from the arguments offered in its favor which i find acceptable. i am even more compelled to vote in favor of it because of my strong belief that there should be "short cuts" in the decisionmaking process related to the panama canal treaties. the benefit of the doubt on this matter should clearly be given to a strict adherence to procedures. and this means that the house of representatives. as an equal partner with the senate in legislative matters. should assume the responsibility i believe the constitution places upon it regarding the disposition of u.s. property. i have heard the arguments of the opponents of this amendment. they argue time after time that the united states in other treaties acted differently. but here we have clear title to the property. there has been dispute about that whatsoever. so i distinguish this case in panama from other cases that have been alluded to by the opponents.
. today is the day on which all freedomloving peoples throughout the world join in commemorating the anniversary of polands constitution day. we are all familiar with struggles this valiant country has been faced with in the last two decades. polands history of communist oppression and tyranny is one of the infamous chapters written in this century. our responsibility for the plight of this gallant nation is one of the black spots in our history. we should remind ourselves constantly of the words from the polish national hymn. "poland is  yet dead. while our lives remain." when this day comes of polands liberation. may this nation have done all within its power to that end and in some measure eradicate our iginious part at yalta.
. this legislation gives to the house one of the few opportunities in its history to support on the record one of the solemn principles upon which this nation was founded. on july 4. 180 years ago. 55 courageous men  only defied tyranny but expressed a common conviction which has had a profound effect among free people in the world since then. among those men were john hancock. benjamin franklin. thomas jefferson. john and samuel adams. edward rutledge. and button gwinnett. four were from maryland. 7 from virginia. 3 from th carolina. 4 from south carolina. and 3 from georgia. they said: we hold these truths to be selfevident. that all men are created equal. that they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights. that among these are life. liberty. and the pursuit of happiness. a few yards from here that immortal document is enshrined. millions have visited this city to read it. other scores of millions. who have  seen the original.. have been inspired and given hope through its words. uncounted thousands have died to defend the freedoms and liberties it and our constitution guarantee. they believed it was more than mere words when these 55 said: that to secure these rights. governments are instituted among men. deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. we. their successors here. should remember that this was "a declaration by the representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled" and that it concluded. "and for the support of this declaration. with a firm reliance on the protection of divine providence. we mutually pledge to each other our lives. our fortunes. and our sacred ho." while that pledge was first being redeemed and when the flag was flown at the head of the continental army. george washington said: we take the stars from heaven. the red from our mother country. separating it by white stripes. thus showing that we have separated from her. and the white stripes shall go down to posterity representing liberty. . on ember 19. 1863. abraham lincoln. having freed all slaves. in dedicating the cemetery at gettysburg. restated this when he said: fourscore and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation. conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. through the years those who have challenged this principle of fundamental human rights have failed. hitler is dead. mussolini is dead. tojo is dead. and  we k stalin is dead. but totalitarianism still exists in the world and bulganin and khrushchev preach incessantly the false charge of war mongering by the united states and the equally false propaganda of soviet peace intentions. yet is there a doubt as to the sincerity of the united states. in spite of our record of 180 years of fightingin wars and during peacetimefor freedom. liberty. and the essential dignity of human beings and their inalienable rights. if there is. we face an acid test here this week. this bill provides a minimum of action this congress can take in establishing in our day the truth that in the united states all men are created equal and are endowed by their creator with those fundamental rights. tired and threadbare arguments can contradict that successfully. meaningless and empty resolutions or manifestos should deter us.  should any stupid or bombastic denunciations by opinionated and pompous columnists and commentators. such as occurred following the recent approval of the socalled powell amendment. affect our judgment or our votes. they may or may  have referred to american history recently. in any event. theirs is the easy and profitable assignment of pontificating glibly from their ivory towers. ours is the clear duty of faithfully. executing the offices we hold. representing the people of this country and. to the best of our abilities. of preserving. protecting and defending the constitution of the united states. i submit that we shall do so when we vote for this legislation by an overwhelming majority.
let me say to the senator from new mexico that it is entirely to the credit of the senator from new jersey that he. had other candidates under the circumstances. one of those candidates was selected by the president. and he made the selection on the recommendation of the attorney general. the point i wish to make is that under the constitution the senate is required to act independently of the president and of the attorney general. in exercising its judgment with regard to candidates for judgeships. and for the general purpose of passing on questions involving the general public welfare. as it is involved in this particular ination.
because of circumstances of that kind is it  our duty under the constitution to prevent that kind of suspicion from being raised against our courts. because if such suspicion arises. it destroys faith in the government.
that is correct. in interpreting the democratic platform. i believe that the members of the democratic party intend to abide by the constitution of the united states. and. therefore. even though they may have placed that plank in their platform.  fully appreciating at the time its effect upon local governments. i think it may be properly assumed that they expect to proceed in a constitutional manner. and. under the decisions of the supreme court. the amendment presented by the committee is unconstitutional. if they wished to proceed in the manner indicated in their platform. then they would proceed by way of proposing a constitutional amendment.
i may say that the reason why those declarations were emphasized was because of the consideration of the declaration of independence during the deliberations that went into the drafting of the constitution. during the drafting of the constitution the striking thing was that the members of the convention were faced with a el situation involving some agreements affecting the sovereignty of the states. and they did  hesitate to make a straightforward. constructive solution. i may add that in the light of their experience with the same principles behind us. we face this issue. and i have pointed out clearly that i do  believe it is the same set of circumstances. i do  believe we should be setting up a united states of the world. but i do believe we should be as ready to examine into the precise conditions of our times and as ready to apply el and practical considerations to meet them as our forefathers were to meet the conditions of their times.
i will answer that by saying i refer to both. of course. a senator must also be under trusteeship to report to his constituents. but the language of the constitution to which i refer does  place an obligation solely on the president. it does  say he shall ask for advice. it says. "he shall have power. by and with the advice and consent of the senate. to make treaties. provided twothirds of the senators present concur." there are examples in the past of the president having sought -the advice of the senate. there are many examples of advice having been rendered before decision has been reached. but in this extraordinary case it seems to me the example of the past indicates there is need in our trusteeship to speak rather than remain silent at the moment.
i thank the senator for his statement. i wish to read into the record at this point the phrase from the constitution bearing on the question: he shall have power. by and with the advice and consent of the senate. to make treaties. provided twothirds of the senators present concur. his power is. of course. limited expressly to being "by and with the advice and consent of the senate. to make treaties." he may negotiate. but the power to make treaties. is expressly limited by the phrase "with the advice and consent of the senate." before this colloquy began i was referring to the obligation resting upon members of the senate as public officers. as trustees. the obligation which is placed upon them is more in the nature of the obligation placed on a private citizen who. as a trustee. accepts a trusteeship or other obligation placing upon him the duty to advise and consent with others on important matters of policy. a trustee owes  merely a negative duty but a positive duty to discover and to perform the duties of his trust-- merely the duty to speak or to remain silent as to the details of the trust. the danger in this whole situation is that the senate remains so negative in its attitude that it renders little or service of value to the nation. the danger is that the senate shall leave all action to the president at a time when the senate itself also has a clear duty to act. to my mind it is the positive and inescapable duty of the senate to advise  both the public and the president of the course that should be followed to establish and maintain a just and lasting peace. the senatestands as a trustee especially for the men who gave their lives in 1918. and for those who are giving their lives . so that there may be peace in the world. and so that their children and their childrens children may enjoy life. liberty. and the opportunity for the pursuit of happiness. as -senators. we are trustees. and it is our sacred trust to see to it that these men shall  have died in vain. we can discharge that trust merely by waiting for the president to act. we can discharge that trust by doing little or hing. we can discharge that trust only by doing all that can be done to secure and maintain a great and lasting peace. a just and lasting peace. in particular. the senate owes it to these men to do better by them in 1943 than .was done by them in 1918. we must provide a better guaranty of peace continuing 25 years from . than was done by the senate 25 years ago. in the field of internal stability within the united states and of regional stability within the western hemisphere. the senate has its usual legislative responsibility and its obligation to investigate conditions with a view to making policies. it does . however. in this regard act separately from the house of representatives.  does it act under any constitutional rule requiring an extraordinary majority. accordingly. in those fields of internal and regional action while there is need for postwar planning. there is need for reference to such action in the senate resolution  pending before us. in the field of foreign policy. however. insofar as action may be taken by treaty on behalf of the united states. an exceptional situation arises which justifies and will be benefited by an expression of advice by the senate upon the most vital and fundamental of the considerations involved. to the extent that action shall be taken in our foreign affairs by executive agreement or by agreement passed upon through an act of congress. a special senatorial obligation does  equally arise. in the case. however. of a treaty. a treaty. according to the constitution. can become binding upon the united states unless made by the president and concurred in by twothirds of the senators present. to the extent that our postwar foreign policies are  to be acted upon by treaty. the special obligation for the senate to give advice therefore does  so clearly arise. it is  clear as to just what conditions make it necepsary~.to proceed by treaty. however. an international agreement through which the peace of substantially the entire world is to be declared. and through which international policies are to be established for the maintenance of that peace for many years to come. apparently would rise to the highest dignity of international agreements and. therefore. would be expected to be in the form of a treaty. it is highly appropriate. therefore. to expect that a treaty on this subject will be submitted to the senate and that its ratification will depend upon the concurrence of twothirds of the senators present. the requirement of a twothirds vote is an extraordinary legislative procedure for determining of any current governmental policy. we should have that in mind as we face this issue. and  be guided by the ordinary safeguards which we place around majority action. we face an unusual legislative responsibility. the difficulty. however. of obtaining a twothirds favorable vote on any important new and constructive measure is so great that it deserves exceptional and thoughtful consideration on the part of the body whichis permitted to act under such a requirement. this requirement was placed in the constitution when the senate was to consist originally of 26 members. and at a time when the biparty system did  exist and when it was hoped by most of our leaders. including george washington. that it would  come into existence. the extraordinary character of this rule generally is   fully appreciated by the public. it is contrary to the .general philosophy of a government which guides its policies by majority vote. it is fundamental in the philosophy of faith in the people and of faith in their elected representatives that the miity shall accept the guidance of the majority when formally stated. it contributes to the stability of a selfgoverning nation that such nation shall thus accept the leadership of the majo "ty of its people when those people act directly. and shall accept the leadership of the majority of the elected representatives of the people when the people act through their legislature. a twothirds rule. however. acts in reverse. it subjects both the majority of the legislative body and the majority of the public. to the rule of the miity of the legislative body. provided only that such miity shall equal onethird plus one *of the voting quorum. this rule presents the unusual situation that even though the majority of the public might be convinced that a treaty were definitely in the best interests of the nation and although a substantial majority of the senate. together with the president of the united states. were likewise convinced that such a treaty would be for the best interests of the united states. yet. if onethird plus one of the senators present. voted against it. then the miity would win and the majority of both the senate and the public would lose. a twothirds rule. therefore. is in effect  so much a rule by twothirds as it is a control by onethird plus one. whatever may be said for the rule. it puts a premium upon inaction or weak action. for it makes it necessary to obtain a 2to1 vote in order to secure any affirmative action. accepting this constitutional requirement at its full face value. as we do and should. the responsibility  rests upon the senate. and particularly upon the majority of the senate. to see to it that every proposal involving the twothirds rule is so fully presented to the senate and to the public that the vote upon it is a vote squarely upon the merits and rises far above all considerations of partisanship. personalities. or prejudices. there is room. certainly. under a twothirds rule. for the loss of any vote on the majority sideand i am  speaking of political majoritiesfor reasons separated from the issue itself. in any contest in which a twothirds rule is to apply it thus becomes the obligation of the senate to see to it that any constructive treaty presented is so thoroughly in the interests of the united states of america and of the public as a whole. and is so thoroughly debated and understood. that the public will become so interested in it as to insist upon its approval by the senate by the constitutional 2to1 vote. it becomes doubly important. in a matter of this kind. to make sure that the public understands the issue and understands it soon egh. so that. as the issue finally arises. they will be fully informed. in the present instance a treaty is  yet before the senate. in the present instance. therefore. the pending resolution car be validly adopted by a bare majority. the purpose of the pending resolution. however. is to lay the foundation for the subsequent approval of a peace treaty by a twothirds vote. the purpose of the pending resolution. therefore. will  be served unless it advances the probability of the approval of such a treaty as will contribute substantially to the establishment and maintenance of a just and lasting peace. if this resolution gives only slight guidance as to the treaty. its advice is of but slight value to the president and to the public. likewise. it will have served but little in testing the sentiment of the senate on the probability of securing a twothirds vote for a certain type of treaty. therefore. although there is good reason for the adoption of some resolution by the senate at this time on the question of the postwar foreign policy of this country. this reason disappears in the same proportion as the indefiniteness of the resolution increases. accordingly. i shall attempt to demonstrate that. although there is need for some resolution of the senate on this subject at this time. senate resolution 192. as introduced. is inadequate to meet that need. i shall also attempt to demonstrate that the amendment proposed by the senator from florida and 13 other senators adds sufficient definiteness and vitality to the resolution to justify the adoption of the resolution if so amended.
what i had in mind. . was the consumptive use which might arise. for example. in connection with a steel mill in which a great deal of water is evaporated. or in connection with the use of water in a chemical plant. in which a considerable amount of water is actually consumed. such plants might. according to the purport of this language. have priority over use for navigation purposes. as i understand the situation. use for navigation. according to the constitution. has certain prior rights. in that under the constitution we are  permitted to interfere with navigation. which is a federal function. i merely wish to make sure that the language under consideration would  result in anything which would be interpreted as authority to permit a large diversion of water for industrial purposes from rivers west of the ninetyeighth *meridian. so that it would raise a legal question as to whether it was actually a substantial interference with navigation. which i have understood has a federal status under the constitution and can be interfered with except to meet actual necessities based on the peculiar need for water in the arid or semiarid states.
. the second basis suggested by the administration for supporting this procedure is that the present proposal comes within the scope of certain types of special agreements recognized by the existing treaty of 1909. and that therefore new treaty ratification is needed to support the proposal. an examination of the terms of the new proposal. however. shows that it extends beyond the scope prescribed for those special agreements. the third basis suggested by the administration to support the new procedure is that the subject matter of this proposal is such that under the constitution it may be included either in a treaty. subject to ratification by the senate. twothirds of the senators present concurring. or in an agreement approved by a majority of both houses of congress in the usual statutory form. it was argued that in the present case the latter alternative  is deemed preferable by the present administration. although in 1933 a similar proposal was presented by the preceding administration in treaty form. and was considered in treaty form by the senate in the early days of this administration in 1934. on this subject of alternative procedure the senate is confronted with a serious and fundamental obligation of interpreting for itself the constitutional meaning of the treaty clause of the constitution. the action of -the majority of the senate in passing a statute approving such an agreement as this may as a practical matter-
the action of the majority of the senate in passing a measure approving such an agreement as this may. as a practical matter. be the final action on that issue. because. although there is a possibility of litigation which might carry the issue to the supreme court. there is also a substantial probability that this issue could  be raised in any manner in that court. in any event. serious consequences by way of expenditure of funds and establishment of rights and constitutional precedents would flow from such action by the senate. from the discussion presented to the subcommittee. therefore. i believe that the important contractual nature of the international obligations. including the emphasis on their permanency and size. makes the st. lawrence seaway proposal the kind of international contract which in good faith is intended by the constitution to be handled by way of treaty in the future as it has been handled consistently in the past. both as a matter of constitutional law and as a matter of sound public policy. seeking genuinely to recognize. rather than to evade the treatymaking procedure of the constitution. i believe that this subject should be acted upon as a treaty and ratified by the senate. twothirds of the senators present being necessary to such ratification. personally. i believe that the treatymaking procedure of the constitution might well be amended to provide for the making of treaties with the advice and consent of the majority of the two houses of congress. however. that is  the issue here. and i believe that as long as the constitution requires ratification by a vote of twothirds of the senators present. one of the most important constitutional -duties of the senate is to protect and exercise that special responsibility. therefore i believe that the senate should  today. by way of an amendment to therivers and harbors bill. abandon the treatymaking procedure on a subject of this kind without at least receiving a specific recommendation on the subject from a duly constituted committee of the senate. and certainly  while a subcommittee of the senate is at this very moment holding open its record of hearings so that the secretary of state may file a brief with it on this issue. and thus enable it to make a fully considered recommendation to the senate. for these reasons. . i believe that the amendment should be rejected.
. replying to the senator from arkansas. i will say that i did discuss that matter in my statement earlier in the day. and i said i concurred in what is apparently the proposal  pending in san francisco that there be provision made for amending the charter in somewhat the same way that we amend the constitution of the united states. either by convention - or by submission of individual amendments. and my thought is that following the precedent in the constitution of the united states. the time for calling a general conference for amending the charter should  be set  for a specific date. because it might be an unfortunate and inconvenient date. but should be left to the call of some proportion. let us say about twothirds of the assembly. or threefourths of the assembly. and then a meeting of the general conference could be held. and action taken by way of convention or by way of individual amendment.
the senator spoke in regard to a proision for amendment of the constitution. an( he suggested that the constitution could be amended by a twothirds majority of the members. i believe. however. he read just before that a provision which is an unusual and a p rotective provision. to the effect that if new obligations were involved in an amendment such amendment would  become effective upon a member except upon the acceptance of the individual member concerned.
i want to inquire with regard to the effectiveness of this constitution at the present time. it is provided that it shall become effective when 20 acceptances have been filed. something has been said about 23 acceptances having been filed. is the constitution therefore  in effect.
. i wish to ask a question for information. i made a similar request yesterday. but was  fully answered. i direct my question to the senior senator from vermont . in article xxi. paragraph 3. of the constitution of the food and agriculture organization of the united nations reads as foilows: upon the receipt by the interim commission of 20 iflic..tions of acceptance the interim commission shall arrange for this constitutior to be signed in a single copy by the diplomatic representatives. duly authorized thereto. of the nations who shall have ified their acceptance. and upon being so signed on behalf of  less than 20 of the nations specified in annex i this constitution shall come into force immediately. yesterday i was advised by the majority leader that 23 nations had accepted membership. but i was  advised as to whether the ceremony had been held within the permission of the constitution. and was  advised as to whether it is  in effect. can the senior senator from vermont answer the question.
it would appear. therefore. that if the senior senator from kentucky yesterday made a correct statement when he said that 23 had accepted. the constitution is in a position to be put. into effect immediately. if it has  already gone into effect.
i was very much struck by the remark of the senator from michigan. because it was almost a paraphrase of a statement made a few years ago by carl becker. an eminent historian of this country. i believe he is a teacher of history at cornell university. he pointed out that one of the least understood. but actually one of the greatest. benefits of our constitution is that it requires both major parties  to concentrate upon an area where they can get more than 51 percent of the votes. instead. they are forced to appeal to the country .as a whole. and  only to attempt to sell their merits. but also to meet the needs of the people throughout the country as a whole. thus keeping both parties national. as opposed to sectional.
i shall offer that amendment if the pending motion does  carry. it would greatly eliminate many of my objections to the proposal. but my original feeling is that so many different considerations have been introduced. so many suggested possibilities of difficulty and speculative results have been pointed out which would be introduced into our electoral system and our constitutional system and our system of government by the proposal. that it would be better to recommit the matter and take action at all. it is my hope that at this session of congress we shall make two changes in our electoral system which i think everyone agrees are needed. one is to eliminate the electoral college. so that the votes will be registered automatically. and secondly. to provide that if one candidate receives a majority of the electoral votes. the matter would be thrown into the congress. both houses sitting. with one vote for every member. senator and representative. instead of the present system. under which only the house of representatives votes. and the vote there is counted on the basis of states and  individuals. that amendment has already been proposed by the distinguished senator from massachusetts . who has made such a great contribution to this particular debate. i hope it will be possible for the congress at this session to propose such an amendment to the constitution to the states. it would relieve the difficulty that existed in certain cases. and eliminate some of the dangers which we faced in some of our elections in the past.
. it is  a question of what we think aher mans religion ought to be. but instead a question of what he sincerely and deeply believes is essential to his religious conviction. faith. and observance. that. i am certain. is what is intended by the provision of the constitution of the united states. therefore. i hope very deeply. as one who voted against the committee amendment and for the language of the humphrey amendment. which is the language of the house bill. that the amendment of the senator from new york will be agreed to. and that thereafter my amendment to section 6 of the bill will also be agreed to.
i thank the senator. under article i. section 5. of the united states constitution. a majority of each house constitutes a quorum to do business. while the constitution does  explicitly state the number of affirmative senatorial votes generally needed to pass a measure in either houseand neither do the standing senate rulesit has always been agreed that. save for the several exceptions specifically mentioned in the constitution. a majority of a quorum. which has come to be kn as a simple majority. could pass measures. one has ever disagreed with this proposition. in the case of the current senate. this means that. generally speaking. a majority of a quorum26 senatorscan by voting affirmatively. enact legislation.
i thank the senator from new york. . our course is clear. let us discharge the committee of further responsibility in the matter and thus make it possible for the senate as a whole to fulfill its responsibility. for we do indeed have a responsibility. the senate must  stand idly by while citizens are denied the elementary right to vote. while there is open defiance of law and the constitution by state and local authorities. failure to act only reflects on the senate itself. it would demonstrate once again the helplessness of the senate at the hands of a determined few. surely the senate will  consent to the attempted burial of civil rights legislation. through the discharge procedure we can at last deal with this issue which so vitally affects millions of americans. which indeed goes to the heart of our whole democratic way of life.
. today millions of americans of polish ancestry axe observing polands constitution day. the 169th anniversary of the adoption of polands constitution of 1791. it is highly appropriate that we here in the u.s. senate take e of this occasion. this country has an emous debt to the great polish leaders. such as kosciuszko and pulaski. who contributed so much to our own achievement of independence. but beyond that. it is part of our national heritage of freedom to share the concern of those who. like the brave people of poland. axe seeking to regain their freedom and independence. poland has contributed emously to the civilization and cultural heritage of the west. we need only remind ourselves that this year marks the 100th anniversary of the birth of the beloved ignace jan paderewski and the 150th anniversary of the birth of polands inspired composer. frederic chopin. indeed. americans of polish ancestry are  preparing to observe the 1.000th anniversary of polands acceptance of christianity in the year 966. by which that nation linked her destiny with western civilization. we in congress must continually remain alert to ways in which our country can let the polish people k that we have  forgotten them and to ways in which we can aid in their reattainment of full freedom and independence.
. today marks the 170th anniversary of polands constitution day. it was on may 3. 1791. that king stanislas poniatowski of poland accepted a constitution which gave hope of remedying the chief weaknesses which had paralyzed the polish state. the liberum veto. under which a single polish leman could veto a law. was finally abolished. the crown was made hereditary and the ility was made subject to taxation. differences of religious belief were permitted. and it was recognized that all power in civic society should be derived from the will of the people. poland had finally overcome some of the weaknesses that had impeded it in its struggle for survival amid the vicious power politics of 18th century europe. partly perhaps because of this change. catherine of russia invaded poland the following year. abolished the constitution and invited prussia and austria to share in the spoils of the second partition of poland. three years later. in 1795. these three powers completed their dishoable role in the extermination of poland. which was  to reappear as a national entity again until after world war i. people has experienced more heartbreak and suffering in their aspirations for national independence than the brave people of poland. here does the love of independence burn more fiercely than in the hearts of the polish people. neither prussia  imperial austria  czarist russia  nazi germany  communist russia has been able to extinguish that love of country. freemen everywhere yearn for the day when the aspirations of the polish people can be given full expression in the lasting achievement of true national independence.
. is this an extreme position. does this position sound as if it would destroy democracy in this country. does this position sound as if it would tear down the institution of the senate of the united states. which is indeed a great bulwark of democracy and of the liberties of the american people. i have thus joined in sponsoring an amendment to the present senate rule xxii. this would make several moderate but significant changes in the present rule. first of all. the procedure under section 2 of rule xxii for invoking cloture by a twothirds vote of the senators present and voting would be retained except that an equal division of time50 hours for each siderather than 1 hour for each senator would be provided after cloture had been voted. secondly. a new section 3 would be added providing for cloture by a majority vote of senators duly chosen and sworn 15 daysexcluding sundays. holidays. and session daysafter a motion for cloture had been filed. and for an equal division of time after cloture had been voted. it should be ed that our proposal would provide even greater protection to the right of the miity to express its views fully and at length. for it would  only continue to permit 100 hours of debate after adoption of cloture. it would assure the members of the miity an equal share of that time. regardless of their number. these changes would bring the rules into line with the original rules of the senate. rules designed to enable the senate to carry out its constitutional duty.  just to debate. but to legislate. historical studies have demonstrated conclusively that it was mere accident that the constitution declares: a majority of each house shall constitute a quorum to do business (art. i. sec. 5). the prevailing view among the delegates to the constitutional convention favored majority control. and they were careful to spell out precisely those instances in which a twothirds vote should be required.
i. too. appreciate the contribution made by the senator from th carolina to the discussion. i should like to ask him a question. i should also like to have the benefit of the helpful comments on this point from the senior senator from oregon. i believe it is conceivable that the state legislature has right to limit the gover in his appointive power. authorized under the 17th amendment to the constitution. more narrowly than it is limited under the qualifications provided by the constitution itself. however. is it  also correct to say that an attempt by the legislature to exercise a constricting role insofar as the gover is concerned might have two consequences.  merely one. the senior senator from oregon referred to the constitutional right of the state of oregon with regard to the requirement that the gover be limited in his appointive power to members of the same party as that of the former senator whose vacancy was to be temporarily filled. is it  possible that while a state legislature can limit the power of the gover in such a way. if he attempts to do so. possibly the consequence is that the gover either has a free hand to make the appointment or has power at all.
 i have asked the senator from new york to allow me this time so that i may ask some questions of him in regard to the effect of his amendment in the form in which we shall vote upon it. i am particularly concerned about that part of the amendment which comes after the numeral 2. which would express the sense of congress that in the event "of any proposed amendment to the constitution of the united states relating to the composition of the legislatures of the several states. or to the apportionment of the membership thereof. which shall have been duly submitted by the congress to the states for ratification." such fact be taken into account in framing a decree of relief in any action or proceeding for the reapportionment of a state legislature. i believe that. as a result of the modifications which have been made by the senator from new york and his cosponsors in the amendment as it was originally proposed by him. he has eliminated some concern which i had felt in regard to the interpretation of his amendment. but i wish to get his own views from his own lips on the floor of the senate in confirmation. am i right in understanding that there is intent by the resolution. in the form in which we shall vote upon it. to have congress express any sense that a court should be deterred from enforcing reapportionment. in any case in which under the constitution it is necessary. by the pendency of any constitutional amendment unless such constitutional amendment is to be submitted for approval by the people. and  by the malapportioned legislatures themselves.
with respect to the interesting colloquy between the senator from wisconsin and the senator from illis. on the wisdom of the system by which the states are represented in the u.s. senate. the constitution clearly and unequivocally determines how the apportionment of state legislatures shall be accomplished.
. today we join millions of americans of polish heritage in hoing the creation of the polish constitution exactly 174 years ago. it is symbolic of our shared heritage that the polish constitution was signed only 2 years after the adoption of our own constitution. the tragic fact that poland is  ruled by a communist puppet government should  deter us from marking this day. rather. let us use this occasion to renew our conviction that justice will win out. and the polish people will again enjoy the independence envisioned in their 3d of may constitution.
in line with the difference as between the senator from tennessee and the senator from indiana on the amendment which was adopted a few days ago. i am sure there is disagreement in this particular matter between the two senators on this point. and that is on the position of the senator from maryland when he urges that the language which has never been considered by committee. offered as a substitute. i am sure in the best of faith. should nevertheless be given the same scrutiny as the original resolution. because ody is good egh to make language. and combination of people is good egh to present language. which has  been scrutinized in the dommittee. and this applies most particularly to an amendment of the constitution of the united states.
the language of the resolution. of course. determines this question. the senator from nebraska and i never disagree about something we can read. the language of section 1 of the proposed new article reads: the people of a state may apportion one house of a bicameral legislature using population. geography. or political subdivisions as factors. giving each factor such weight as they deem appropriate. or giving similar weight to the same factors in apportioning a unicameral legislature. if in either case such plan of apportionment has been submitted to a vote of the people in accordance with law and with the provisions of this constitution and has been approved by a majority of those voting on that issue. this is the first putting into effect of such a system of representation.
this question in specific form was before the people of new jersey in 1946. in 1947 there was a constitutional revision. our first in 100 years. it was provided for by an act of the legislature. under the strong leadership of republican govers. gover edge and gover driscoll. and good people on both sides of the political fence strongly supported it. we needed reapportionment very much. we also needed an adjustment of the state judicial system. we needed a bringing up to date of the governmental structure of the state in many ways. we were able to persuade the legislature to provide for the calling of a convention for the ratification of the constitution. but only on condition that the call contain a provision prohibiting any recommendation by the convention in regard to the representation of counties in the legislature or the boundaries of the counties themselves. so the question on the ballot was: shall there be a constitutional convention which can do anything about the apportionment of the legislature or county lines. i believe that is a fair paraphrase. the convention was called by a referendum upon that question. stated in that form. with that qualification. the constitutional convention met and did a good job in many respects. then. pursuant to authorizing legislation. its product. the new constitution. was upon the ballot for the next election. and it was stated in this form: shall the constitution in the form proposed. excluding any change in the apportionment of the state legislature or the boundaries of the counties. be approved. if the people wanted any improvement in the constitution at all. they had to vote "yes." by voting "yes." the argument of those who  claim that the apportionment of the legislatures ought to stand. is that the people decided they liked that system. this point was raised recently in our supreme court. where the problem of apportionment has been actively considered for many months . as i believe the senator ks. in general. there is  in effect a temporary plan of apportionment pursuant to the decree of the court. while waiting for a constitutional convention which will presumably be held next year for the purpose of permanent reapportionment. this was one significant instance in which appropriate action or approval of apportionment was really a complete "phony." this is what i am concerned about. among other things.
i believe that could be changed by an amendment to the constitution in accordance with its own terms. however. that is an academic question because it will  arise. however. it was mentioned in colloquy that there are rights which are deemed to be so sacred that a mere majority of all the people can take them away from one person. it seems to me it is that. in great part. that we are recognizing when we provide that the constitution of the united states which establishes those rightsand i am thinking of the contents of the bill of rights and the contents of the constitution. but particularly of the bill of rightsimposes upon us a restriction requiring twothirds of both houses of congress and threefourths of the legislatures. or conventions of threefourths of the states to approve any change in the constitution and basic law of the united states. embodying among other things these inalienable rights. i believe we should face this issue. the senator certainly does  plan that he would approve an amendment to the constitution. let us take the bill of rights and discuss one or two of those rights. let us take. for example. the one about requiring a trial by jury. the senator would certainly  favor an amendment to the constitution of the united states providing that in any state by majority vote that right could be abrogated.
i will include a unitarian. of which group the distinguished senator is an outstanding member. and which is a small miity. why  give them a veto right. i k the senator would be the last one to want to take away a mans religious protections which the constitution provides by a majority vote or by any other kind of a vote. even a 99.99percent vote. this is as sacred a right. as is the right to equal representation.
i would like to have the record show that response. if those who oppose this change wanted a longer timeif they wanted a week. or if they wanted a monthevery senator ks and the country ks they could have it by suggesting that at the end of that time they would permit the senate to vote. let them  complain that they. or any senator. or the majority. or the miity of the senate is being deprived of any sacred right. . let us  confuse the issue. it has been suggested that the provision of the rules which provides that a suspension of the rules shall require a twothirds vote under a days ice. or something of that sort. might be impaired. it would  be impaired. the only thing that would be changed here is the right of the miity at the beginning of a congress to prevent a majority from acting to amend the rules. this is the only thing that would be changed. it would  be impressive or important in itself. because it is a right  dependent upon precedent. but a right of the constitution of the united states of america. today. the senate. by majority vote. should exercise that right. and exercise it .
s authority. to interfere with any proper role he assumes in matters of foreign policy. or domestic policy for that matter. but it is to assume the proper role of the congress and its responsibility. which. if we are  constantly on the alert. we will find constantly deteriorating until this body is longer able to perform the function which the constitution requires us to perform. i therefore thank the senator from kentucky for his warm and generous comments. i am happy indeed to be associated with him in this venture.
then the senator from alaska does  believe me when i say that i read the language and understood it at the beginning. and that i was  misled. this is  a case of being brainwashed. i was  misled in any sense by what the language stated. what i was saying about that was this: that it was clear to me that matter what the language said. this had to be dealt with on that basis. here the senator. with all due respect to him. took a different view and regarded those words literally. he was one of two members in the whole of the senate who did that on this important thing. and this is an important thing. it is  the literal words of such a resolution as this that are important. it is the use of a joint resolution. whatever the specific words may be. as evidence of the unity in the country between. among others. the president and the congress. and the president and the congress and the people. that is the purpose of the resolution. what i complain about. what i am so unhappy about. is  that in recognizing it. congress would have an understanding of what the words. stretched to their ultimate. would mean. we were  dupes. we knew what we were doing. we had the assurance by the senator from arkansas that it was  necessary. this was relied on by the senator from wisconsin . having accepted that in the spirit in which it was offered at that time. the administration turns and says. "the exact language had this intent. you are stuck with it." i protest against that. we did  pass a resolution which gave specific power or authority to the administration which it was empowered to do. the constitution sets out the powers and authority of the congress and the powers and authority of the president. this was an action evidencing unity rather than a grant of power in the passage of the resolution.  the president turns around and uses the words as though that authority was given by the congress. i think that such a distortion of the device or toola very useful one. that of a resolutionhas further weakened the relationship between the president and the congress and reduced the confidence of the country and the congress in the president. that is my whole point. so i again repeat. this is hing but a deliberate misunderstanding of the point i was making. this is  a grant of authority which can be repealed. this was an action evidencing unity between the congress and the president. and we can repeal that. with all respect to the senator from ohio and the senator from alaska . for congress to attempt to do that would be a terrific blow at the presidency. it would be a confidence vote in the president. which has part in the american system. and which would reduce the effectiveness of the presidency for the rest of the presidents term.
. i will take about a half minute of my time. it seems to me that the speakersthe senators from kentucky. new york. massachusetts. and marylandall have spoken directly to the point and have brought out very clearly that by this amendment we would extend the federal jurisdiction into practically every phase of local and community life. i believe this amendment would go much too far. and it is a striking example of what we should  do on the floor of the senate. this would be a most serious change in our entire political system. and we should  do it in the late hours of an aftern. when we have had discussion by senators more or less off the cuff. i hope the amendment will be rejected. several senators called for a vote.
. may 3 marks one of the great days in polish history. on that date in 1791. nearly 180 years ago. poland adopted a constitution. this was a remarkable document in many ways. it indicated polands independence. it was politically progressive and is recognized as such even today. and it exemplified the fight for liberty. this was a period of great outpouring of the libertarian spirit. the french revolution had recently taken place. our own american constitution had come into force only 2 years previously. and vermont joined the union in 1791. the first state. after the original 13. to do so. if we are  always aware of the details of polands history. we are all aware of her long struggle for freedom. and we all are aware of. and have profited from. polands political and cultural heritage. in new jersey we have a large group of americans of polish background. they have had and continue to have an important role in the life of our state. on their behalf. i draw the anniversary of this great day in polish history to the attention of the senate.
i thank the senator for what he has said. the senator from new jersey does  suggest that there is anything hidden from the senate. except possibly the existence of other negotiations or understandings of some sort in the area. which in itself would make the bahrain agreement this more significant than it would be standing alone. as to that. the senator from new jersey stands in igance. because he has  had an answer from the senator from alabama because the senator from alabama is unwilling to talk. but because he does  k the answer. it is the kind of question that ought to be explored in the mal way. in the constitutional processes. first by the foreign relations committee and then by the full senate. on the basis of a record made by witnesses from the department of state and outside witnesses. it is  a question that ought to be decided on the basis of statements made by senatorsestimable senatorson the floor of the senate or on the basis of speeches which have been prepared by the department of state for that purpose. . 9 days ago the senate upheld by a 41 to 36 vote my amendment to cut off funds for all assistance to portugal and bahrain called for under recent executive agreements with those two countries. until the two agreements are submitted to the senate as treaties. i had thought the issue was settled then as far as the senate was concerned. but today we are being asked to go over part of the same ground and eliminate the fund cutoff for bahrain. i k of new information before the senate which would justify a call for aher vote. but here we are again. only 9 days after we reasserted the senates role in the treatymaking process. voting on whether or  to backtrack. the principal argument being advanced by the state department is that the bahrainis will  enter into a treaty with the united states for an american military installation on that persian gulf island and that the bahrainis insist on an executive agreement or hing at all. we heard the same argument last week. in any event. i would answer the state department position with a question: can our country tolerate a situation in which a foreign power decides when the american constitution shall apply and when it shall . my answer is an emphatic  i do  believe that this was what our founding fathers had in mind when they wrote the constitutional requirement for senate advice and consent to treaties. they did  say anything about the senate only being required to approve those treaties which were  objected to by an absolute monarch on a persian gulf island. foreign governments should be made to understandif they do  understand it alreadythat the united states has a constitution and the government of the united states must make agreements with other countries in keeping with that constitution. for the bahraini government to tell the senate how to interpret our own constitution is a travesty of our system. bahrain does  even have its own constitution or its own legislature. thus. under the bahraini system. there is difference in the procedures for ratifying a treaty or an executive agreement: in both cases the sheik personally gives his approval and the pact is ratified. under the american system. however. there is a difference. a treaty requires twothirds approval of the senate and an executive agreement is entered into solely by the executive branch. i am perfectly willing to make an agreement with the sheik that he will  tell us how the american system should work and i will . give him any suggestions about his. the fact remains that the agreement with bahrain is a clearcut example of a pact which should be a treaty. it would establish an american military installation in the persian gulf where we never have had our own base before. admittedly. our forces have been using british facilities there for many years. but with the withdrawal of the british from the persian gulf. there is question that the american role has changed and that the establishment of an american base would contribute significantly to that change. the persian gulf area is an extremely volatile and unstable part of the world. the iranis. the iraqis. the saudi arabians. and others all have conflicting territorial claims. only last year. the iranis seized by force several islands at the mouth of the persian gulf. yet the iranis are our principal ally in the region. and their shah is on record as publicly opposing an american military base in bahrain. i raise these points  in opposition to the installation of an american base in bahrain but as examples of the importance and complexity of the issue. these are all factors which should be considered by the senate in debating whether advice and consent should be given. they belie the argument that the agreement with bahrain is a routine matter which can be handled by executive agreement. it is being argued that by concluding a treaty with bahrain. the united states would be implying a commitment to bahrain. i would say to this that an executive agreement has the same force in international law as a treaty. and the bahrain pact could easily be redrafted as a treaty which grants greater and less commitment than the present executive agreement. if this somehow were  considered to be egh. then a simple declarative sentence could be added which stated that hing in the treaty should be interpreted to imply any kind of a new commitment. the agreement with bahrain provides for the stationing of american troops in a foreign country. this is simply too important a matter to be left to an executive agreement. we have seen in recent years how the presence of american soldiers in aher land can lead to a commitment toward the host country and ultimately to war. i do  suggest that this will happen in bahrain. but i believe it to be the constitutional right and duty of the senate to pass on questions of this sort. my own position. on the basis of the information presently available. is that i would vote for the bahrain agreement in treaty form. moreover. i have assurances from my chairman. the senator from arkansas
one disagrees that. first. the president of the united states has only the authority in these matters that exists in law and the constitution gives the president. that is all. to project that he has any authority because of statements here beyond which the constitution and the statutes of the country and acts of congress gives him is to. i think. upset the balance.
i agree fully. yet i would argue with the senatorat least. i would suggest gently to himthat you do  have to use the word. "appropriation" in order to comply with the constitution. we can make an agreement to pay money and have that agreement approved by congress. and that will be fulfillment of the constitution. i should say. there is magic about the division that we make among ourselves and allocation of authority by calling one committee an appropriations committee and aher committee some other committee. one act an appropriations act. aher act something else. there is magic about that that responds to a necessity. to an imperative of the constitution of the united states. i say to the senator. these are agreements and arrangements made for our convenience. that is all. i do  disagree that the committee on appropriations ought to get into the act. i think it is fine that we should all get into the act and have a very strong support for these things. certainly. anything for the payment of money it is in order for the committee on appropriations to have a look at and say in. i would  object if the senator should say we need to appropriate the money before we can have a binding commitment. all i am saying is. do  tell me that this government of the united states can make a commitment for the future. that it is disabled because of some rigmarole or some interpretation of the constitution of the united states that says it can make such a commitment. it is in the nature of nations that they be able to make commitments. we are certainly  going to put ourselves in secondclass order in respect of the nations of the world.
what i am really saying to the senator is. do  let us get carried away by the magic of words. an appropriation is an appropriation even if we do  call it an appropriation. an appropriation is an authorizationthere i go with aher wordit is a direction that this government shall pay and a promise that it shall pay. approved by congress. that is just as much an appropriation as when we sit down and say. "this is hereby appropriated." it is  necessary to use those words. and congress acts even though the appropriations committee did  authorize it. if congress takes the action to agree to a promise to pay money. that is just as much an appropriation under the constitution as if it went through the appropriations committee and took the form of an appropriations bill. if i am wrong about this. i wish the senator would correct me.
as the senator does k. i am right. and i agree with him on this. i will stand up for that proposition from  until kingdom come. but i can accept the idea. with one caution that i will mention in just a second. that this government can commit itself to make a payment in the future. or can subscribe to stock callable in the future. or any number of things. because of some inherent defect in the constitution of the united states and in the american democracy which it found. there is this one thing. any international commitment. whether it should be so or . has to be understood to be performed only if in the interest of the country on whom the obligation rests. it is in the interest of the country under whom the obligation rests at the time performed. that is a principle. whether of sound morals or . but i am sure it is a principle which. in fact. governs the relationship between nations. country can be forced to do something which at the time it regards as deeply against its own interest. whether it be the payment of money. whether it be the going to war. whether it be any other obligation that it has taken upon itself. and all international obligations. therefore. are made on the understanding that that is so. the senator. i do  think. is direct. ing his concern. his expression of con. cern. to that consideration. it is. rather that the congress has  been properl3 involved in this agreement. as to that we can work it out. but i can consent to any suggestior that the united states. because of it. constitutional provisions. is disabled from making an agreement to pay money in the future.
. i believe this matter really has been amply debated. and debated very well indeed by the majority leader. by the senator from oregon. and others who have discussed it. but i do want. because i sense a desire to do the right thing on the part of my colleagues. to put the matter in this light and suggest that this is the way it ought to be regarded: we k what the constitution says. and we k what the senate has done in the past. we k that legislation of this sort has been added. has  been objected to in the senate. and  returned by the house. it has become law. one would suggest that if that were followed here the product would be unlawful. unconstitutional. or in any way ineffective. so what is proposed is  an unnatural action. it is proposed that we take a course which has been followed many times before. i do suggest that we should be quite willing to take that course and leave to the house the decision of whether its prerogatives are infringed upon or . there is  really any such thing as a thing unconstitutional in limbo. inherently unconstitutional. it is only unconstitutional in this sense. that the house may decide that in the circumstances it ought to resist the senates action. so what we really are deciding here is  a question of constitutionality in the abstract. it is a question of whether we want this provision in law. there is incompetence in the senate to take this course if it wishes to do so. it only makes it possible in the case of a bill  a house bill. for the house to return it to us. so i do  think we ought to regard ourselves as  passing upon a question of the sacred constitutionality of procedure of the congress or of the senate. it really is a question of do we want it. do we want to propose it to the house and let the house make the decision. it is  up to us to decide when the prerogatives of the house are infringed upon but. rather. for the house itself to decide. all we would do is to give them that opportunity.
i think this is a matter in which the constitution requires action by the senate--a twothirds majority.  a majority as for legislationand the senate alone. if the house decides in its wisdom that it will  enact legislation to implement the treaty. that would be for the house to decide later. this has always been so in regard to treaties. commencing with the treaty that ended the revolutionary war. where the house was  even. as the senator will recall. permitted by general washington to see the documents relating to the negotiations with france.
. this is  a question of the custom of a particular locality. there have been many arguments. i k. on that issue. but that is  the issue which is presented here. this is a question of what the congress shall do in the locality under its direct administrationwhether in the very center and heart of our nation which all the world sees. where our deeds should match our words. where our protestations should  .be empty. where our constitution should be unqualified and in full force .and effectwe shall or shall  obey. - alone that constitution. but the very dictates of the religious teachings of the great faiths. i think the issue is a very profound one. it is possibly too much to expect that the issue can be settled in connection with this appropriation. but i think it would be a disservice to the country if the issue of segregation of facilities that has been raised here today by my . colleague from ohio and by other members is  clearly brought out and laid upon the table so that there will soon come a time when we will fairly and courageously settle the issue as it affects this. the showcase of the nation. the district of columbia.
i do  think discrimination on account of race. creed. color. or national origin has anything to do with empl6yment for skill or fitness. and it is inconsistent with the liberties guaranteed by our constitution to make it a consideration. i would like to point out to the gentleman that we have an effective state commission against discrimination at work in new york state under a state fepc law and that this legislation has worked out fairly and has  hurt any employer. while emously helping employees. on the contrary. it has improved all employeeemployer relations in new york state. poll tax. as a qualification for voting. passed the house and was  acted on in the senate. antilynching legislation was reported out by a senate committee. action was taken on it. either in the house or in the senate. the provision for district home rule is on a discharge petition on the speakers desk. and hing has happened to that. either in the house or in the senate. in the address of the president to the congress on the state of the union on january 5. 1949. the president said: the driving force behind our progress is our faith in our democratic institutions. that faith is embodied in the promises of equal rights and equal opportunities which the founders of our republic proclaimed to their countrymen and to the whole world. the fulfillment of this promise is among the highest purposes of government. the civilrights proposals i have made to the eightieth congress i  repeat to the eightyfirst congress. they should be enacted in order that the federal government may assume the leadership and discharge the obligations clearly placed upon it by the constitution. and the president added: i stand squarely behind those proposals. i think.  together to see that in the next session it is  just words but that it is work that is done for unity that really will count. . i think i join with many members of the house in the fervent hope. in the expectation. and in the pledge that we do something in the second session about this great trilogy of civilrights bills.
. i appeal to those who believe. and i think sincerely. that they are devoted to the constitutional system and who invoke it often. to at this time lay some of their feelings aside and let the constitution operate by permitting the fepc bill to be brought up. we will argue the merits if and when it is up for consideration. members may then vote for or against. but the congress will have had a constitutional opportunity to consider and vote on fepc. that is all anyone has a right to argue about at this time.
. and the secretary of the interior. all emphasizing the fundamental intent that the people of puerto rico should have a full and fair opportunity to express themselves. having had such opportunity in three separate elections and having prepared a constitution within the general framework of our representative republican form of government founded upon democratic exercise of the electoral franchise by the people of puerto rico. i do  believe that we can  seek by indirect means to veto the social and ecoic ideas of the people of puerto rico as we are asked to do by the opponents of their constitution. it was  and could  have been congress intention that the people of puerto rico were to be inhibited in their constitution by what any of us would be for or against in our respective state constitutions or in our federal constitution. what we asked for was a fair exercise of the will of the people of puerto rico within the framework of our ideas of constitutional democracy. this. i believe. they have accomplished. it is significant that there is claim of fraud or other impropriety in the three separate elections on this constitution. in which the majorities were overwhelming. i therefore intend to support the rule making consideration of the resolution supporting the constitution in order and to support the constitution. in doing so i do  pass on the details of the constitution but only on the governmental structure which the constitution creates in puerto ricoand on the fact that it is. in form. in accordance with our free institutions and that it does expres the manifested will of the great majority of the voters of puerto rico. the letters referred to above are as follows:
. the gentleman from ohio [mr. bowl was kind egh to refer to an amendment which i offered when the authorization for the puerto rican people to establish a constitution was up for debate in june of 1950. my amendment at that time said as follows. with respect to such a constitution: "and expresses the will of the people of puerto rico." that was the only amendment i had to the enabling bill. our colleague. mr. peterson. who was then in charge of the bill on the floor. said that he pledged himself. and i subsequently got a similar expression from the administration. to see that the will of the people of puerto rico was expressed in such a constitution. what was expressed in that debate as the primary concern of the congress was that the will of the puerto rican people should be expressed in respect to this constitution. there was intimation that it would be subject to review when it got here so long as it carried out in its basic provisions the structure of government provided by our own constitution. as proof of that. if members will refer to the record of june 27. 1950. they will find that mr. marcantonio. who wanted to recommit the enabling bill. introduced literally pages of data into the congressional record which he said supported his allegation that they could  have a fair election or a fair vote on a constitution in puerto rico. there has been a fair vote. to the satisfaction  only of all the observers down there but of our own house committee which observed. and we have had an overwhelming approval both by those representing the puerto rican people in a constitutional convention and by the people themselves. it seems to me that should we  reverse that vote on the grounds which are here stated or seek to bring about basic changes in the constitution so adopted. we would be delivering a blow to our standing in the caribbean and to our foreign policy. we must make it clear that we give great weight to the people of the caribbean and latin america. these are right at our doorstep. these are the people we have to have by our side first and foremost beyond all others. if we should deny to them as elemental a right as selfdetermination. what respect could they have for all our protestations that we want people to make up their own minds as to how they will be governed. in terms of foreign policy it has been one of the great strengths of the united states that it did  seek to interfere in the internal management which a people had provided for themselves. here we would be proposing. if we should listen to the objections to the constitution. to interfere in such internal affairs in a most conspicuous way. because some happen to disagree with some of the social objectives set forth. such conservative newspapers as the n2w york times and th. new york herald tribune have come out editorially in favor of this constitution and said there is reason why the congress should  approve it. there is a reservation. a caveat in this constitution. which says about these social rights complained of: the rights set forth in this section are closely connected with the progressive development of the ecoy of the commonwealth and require. for their full effectiveness. sufficient resources and an agricultural and industrial development  yet attained by the puerto rican community. that certainly indicates that these are aspirations and  guaranties or commitments.
. the history of poland has been one of alternate enslavement and freedom. at present this unhappy country is under the communist yoke but its long tradition of freedom will  be forgotten. i append hereto a memorandum from the polish american congress commemorating polands constitution day. the -polish national holiday. i commend it to my colleagues:
there is question about the fact that we should face the responsibility here ourselves. and i hasten to point out to the gentlewoman that we face the responsibility as a nation by making the decision here in the congress or by hoing the power given to the president under the constitution and that both decisions are our decisions as a nation. we should pass upon an amendment like this. the only point i make is that we should turn it down decisively because that. too. is an exercise of our power and our direction as to how the whole effort to secure our country shall go. we should  telegraph to the other side what we will or will  do. we should keep them in the greatest doubt. at the same time in answer to the views of the gentleman from massachusetts. we should point out that we do  consider that we are going to lock up our strength in the united states. but that we consider it strength to be used for our defense and the defense of freedom when aggression threatens our vital national interest. let us  forget that the attacks at pearl harbor took place in hawaii almost 2.000 miles away and  in california.
the president has such unlimited power. under the constitution or otherwise. and the gentleman ks it. the restrictions are  written into the constitution. what the gentlemans amendment would do is to deprive the president of his powers as the commander in chief. which is set up by the constitution as a power equal with the congress powers. the defect of the gentlemans amendment is that it seeks on an appropriation bill to deprive the president of his constitutional power.
. i am today introducing a resolution extending on behalf of the house of representatives the most cordial greetings to the legislative bodies of the gold coast and nigeria on the occasion of the first meeting of their legislatures. and in addition authorizing the secretary of state to appoint a united states delegation at the appropriate time to represent the united states at ceremonies marking the achievement of complete selfgovernment for these territories. on april 29. 1954. a new constitution was approved for the gold coast which brings it to the threshold of sovereign independence. under it an allafrican government with almost complete responsibility for the countrys internal affairs has been established. after an election with universal adult suffrage. kwame nkrumah has been chosen prime minister. nkrumah. educated at lincoln university in pennsylvania. was the first african ever to hold such office in any british territory. his leadership is. indeed. a great source of hope for the 4 million people of the gold coast. similarly in nigeria. the largest of the united kingdom territories with a population of 31.5 million. a new federal constitution representing the will of the people as expressed through their leaders is expected to be approved next month. the new constitution will give the 3 regions of nigeria greater autoy and will carry 2 of the 3 regions a considerable way toward selfgovernment. supplementing these moves toward independence. the united kingdom has declared that in 1956 they will be prepared to grant full selfgovernment to any region that may wish it in respect to those subjects that are a regional responsibility. nnamdi azikwe. who recently visited the united states. will become prime minister of the eastern region. like his gold coast counterpart. he. too. is an alumnus of lincoln university and a respected leader of nationalist movements throughout western africa. our nations policy encourages legitimate efforts toward independence and selfgovernment among those peoples who demonstrate a desire and capacity to establish and protect free institutions. this must be the strength of our position in former colonial and underdeveloped areas. accordingly. congress should take official cognizance of the momentous events that are  happening in western africa. at a time when mans natural will to be free is thwarted in many parts of the world by the subversion practiced by communists under the leadership of the soviet union and the chinese communist regime. the significance of recent developments in the gold coast and nigeria looms very large for the free worlds success. we should be sure  to repeat the mistakes in africa which are costing the free world so dearly in southeast asia. since the british acquisition of the territories  comprising the gold coast and nigeria during the 19th century. vast changes have been wrought there. from primitive tribal cultures these territories have  advanced to a degree of social and political maturity that should soon allow them to assume their rightful places among the free nations of the world. we must make it unmistakably clear that it is our purpose to aid the practical efforts of these people to achieve independence and selfgovernment. i therefore urge that congress extend its most cordial greetings to the first meetings of the gold coast and nigerian legislatures which are expected to be held in july and september respectively and that the secretary of state appoint a delegation at the appropriate time to represent the united states at ceremonies marking the achievement of complete independence for these territories. such acts would be fitting recognition of the democratic ideals shared by the united states and these countries and would be a reaffirmation of the friendship of the united states for the peoples of africa.
. the resolution extends on behalf of the house of representatives its most cordial greetings to the legislative bodies of the gold coast and nigeria on the occasion of the first meeting of their legislatures under their revised constitution. and in addition authorizes the secretary of state to appoint a united states delegation at the appropriate time to represent the united states at ceremonies marking the achievement of complete selfgovernment for these territories. on april 29. 1954. a new constitution was approved for the gold coast which brings it to the threshold of sovereign independence. under it an allafrican government with almost complete responsibility for the countrys internal affairs has been established. elections c---760 based on universal adult suffrage were held june 1015. 1954. under the new constitution: the convention peoples party won 72 of the 104 seats of the new legislative assembly and. on june 17. 1954. dr. kwame nkrumah. chairman of the convention peoples party accepted the offer of the gold coast gover to become prime minister and to form a new government. the prime minister. educated at lincoln university in pennsylvania. was the first african ever to hold such office in any british territory. similarly in nigeria. the largest of the united kingdom territories with a population of 31.5 million. a revised federal constitution representing the will of the people as expressed through their leaders is expected to be approved next month. the new constitution will give the 3 regions of nigeria greater autoy and will carry 2 of the 3 regions a considerable way toward selfgovernment. supplementing these moves toward independence. the united kingdom has declared that in 1956 they will be prepared to grant full selfgovernment to any region. that may wish it in respect to those subjects that are a regional responsibility. nhamdi azikwe. who recently visited the united states. will become prime minister of the eastern region. like his gold coast counterpart. he. too. is an alumnus of lincoln university and a respected leader of nationalist movements throughout western africa. our nations policy encourages legitimate efforts toward independence and selfgovernment among those peoples in former colonial and underdeveloped areas who demonstrate a desire and a capacity to establish and protect free institutions. accordingly. official cognizance should be taken of the momentous events that are  happening in western africa. at a time when mans natural will to be free is thwarted in many parts of the world by the subversion practiced by communists under the leadership of the soviet union and the chinese communist regime. the significance of recent developments in the gold coast and nigeria looms very large for the free worlds success. since the british acquisition of the territories  comprising the gold coast and nigeria during the 19th century. vast changes have been wrought there. from primitive tribal cultures these territories have  advanced to a degree of social and political maturity that shored soon allow them to assume their rightful places among the free nations of the world. it is entirely fitting that the house of representatives should extend its most cordial greetings to the representative bodies of the gold coast and nigeria upon the occasion of the first meeting of their legislatures under their revised constitutions. and that the secretary of state be requested to appoint a delegation to represent the united states at the ceremonies which will mark the achievement of complete independence for these territories. such acts are fitting recognition of the democratic ideals shared by the united states and these areas and are a reaffirmation of the friendship of the united states for the peoples of africa.
the argument as to constitutionality tends to defeat itself. if a constitutional power is involved. resolution passed by congress can relinquish it. because the constitution can be amended only as provided in the constitution itself. by amendment ratified by the states. on the other hand. if the resolution is saying that we are going to back the president in our foreign policywhich is all we are doingand which is all we are sayingthen we are only dealing with a policy. we are  giving up any constitutional power. if it is a constitutional power to declare war that we are allegedly trying to giveup. we could  do it if we tried. that is the end of the matter. i think the senator has put his finger on the two main points. if one is in favor of the resolution at all. he ought to be in favor of both parts. the ice to the kremlin and the ecoic aid. second. if one has any doubts of the constitutional power or authority. they can be resolved by the fact that even if we tried to do so. we could  give up constitutional power. therefore it is  being given up in this resolution.
i shall reread what i said. and i should like to explain where i got it. because it is very much a part of my presentation of the factual situation which i think has unfortunately been so much confused. i got my selection from a specific itemization which is contained in the testimony upon the bill. and again i invite the members of the senate to turn to page 245. and the headline "specific civil rights protected by the constitution and laws of the united states." that information was submitted by the attorney general in response to the specific question of counsel for the senate subcommittee which dealt with this matter. mr. slayman. in which he said. "just exactly what does part iii cover." so the attorney general submitted information indicating exactly what it covered. i will in the course of my speech today read this in detail. because i shall wish to read the anated cases. but that shows where i got my selection. my selection. in response to the senators question. is as follows: the right to be a litigant. to serve on a jury. to have a fair trial when charged with a crime. to be free from brutality at the hands of lawenforcement officials. to be represented by counsel. to be free to testify in a federal court. to be free from mob violence while in federal custody. to be free to inform a federal officer of violation of a federal law. and generally the right to equal protection under the law. that is the selection i made.
section 503 states: persons protected: as long as they are physically present in the state. all persons regardless of station or condition. are entitled to the equal protection of the laws of that state. alienage or residence neither disentitles a person to protection  renders him immune from proper classification. provided they are physically within the territorial jurisdiction of the state in question. all persons. regardless of station or condition or of the nature of the right to be protected. including women and aliens. and including citizens of other states. and residents. are. under the constitutional guaranty. entitled to the equal protection of the laws of that state. the protection accorded a resident alien by the 14th amendment of the federal constitution extends to his right to earn a living by following the ordinary occupations of the community. and a statute forbidding his employment in work of a private nature and  affected with a public interest is void. also. a statute punishing certain acts as crimes when committed against citizens or residents of the state is void as denying the equal protection of the laws to aliens and residents. however. a higher degree of protection for aliens than for american citizens of similar classes is  required. and a classification which is otherwise justified is  forbidden because aliens are within the limitations of a class. there is an added paragraph which i will  take the time of the senate to read. i ask unanimous consent. . that it may be printed at this point in the record.
i have interrupted my good friend. the senator from illis. only because i have a luncheon to attend at 1 oclock. at which i am a cohost. i do wish to state. in deference to the monumental task which has been performed so magnificently by the senator from illis in drafting the bill. my appreciation for being included as a cosponsor of the bill. i believe that i bespeak the appreciation of my other colleagues on the reciv122 publican side of the aisle who have similarly been included. it has been characteristic of the civil rights struggle that people in both great parties have realized that the way in which to get results is by working together. i believe we have given a rather model performance in terms of how a bipartisan group cap work together effectively. keeping in closest touch. even though differifng. without shattering the forces that have joined together. i am very happy that we are continuing to work together. the senator from illis has joined me on a bill of mine. and i am very glad to join him on his bill. i should like merely to make one observation. which to me is a very important one. we are constantly being told that this kind of legislation should  be pressed. that we should  press legislation in the civil rights field. we are constantly being told that we will prosper best if the subject is let alone. that the natural forces of education will cause the moral position of the country under the constitution with respect to equal opportunity to be asserted. there are two answers to that assertion. . what we propose ought to be done. in the second place. the most temperate and considerate course is contemplated. with the greatest amount of aid and the greatest amount of understanding by the american people of the social patterns in certain southern states. i say that from the standpoint of those of us. including myself in new york. who seek to do something about these problems wherever they may be found. again. we are hobound to proceed as diligently in selfcriticism and selfevaluation as we proceed in respect to sections where this is  a popular idea. i appreciate the opportunity to join with the senator from illis. who is a real champion and a thoughtful champion in this field. i have uttered these words because we respect other people of good will. who we believe to be just as sincere as we areas americans who have very different points of view. however. by pressing forward in this field. as the senator from illis proposes we do. we act  in derogation of that respect. but in a greater upbuilding of it.. i thank the senator from illis.
. on behalf of the senator from pennsylvania . the senator from missouri . the senator from th dakota . the senator from oregon . the senator from wisconsin . and myself. i send to the desk a joint resolution proposing an amendment to the constitution of the united states relating to the jurisdiction of the supreme court. i ask that the joint resolution be appropriately referred.
. on may 3. poles everywhere who yearn for the freedom of their country and the world marked the 167th anniversary of the polish constitution promulgated in 1791. since that time. poland has been truncated by its neighbors five timesin 1792. 1793. 1795. 1939. and. most recently. in 1945. when poland was obliged to cede 69.980 miles of its eastern territories to the soviet union. and received. ostensibly in return. 40.000 square miles of former german territory east of the oderneisse line. the se around polands neck was drawn tighter in 1952. when the present peoples republic constitution was adopted. but to the poles. to stifle the breath of freedom is  to stifle the spirit of freedom. the poznan riots of june 1956 and more recent manifestations of uneasiness by students and workers are evidence that the meaning of may 3 remains inscribed in the hearts of poles. as in the case of seekers after liberty everywhere. we join in the wish thatpolish constitution day will soon be commemorated freely in poland. as it is in other nations where the centuriesold struggles of the polish people for freedom will never be forgotten.
. if action were taken at the beginning of the session to change the rules. would  the senate be proceeding according to its right under the constitution and. therefore.  be inhibited by paragraphs 2 and 3 of rule xxii. i make that as a parliamentary inquiry.
 barkley called a few years ago. when ruling on exactly the same kind of situation. the inherent right of a constitutional body to organize. if we have any doubts. we have jeffersons manual. which gives us guides in terms of the fundamental rules of parliamentary procedure. which we can follow in the absence of a codified set of rules. the codification of rules is our act. the codification of rules should be the act of other body. and the codification of rules is permitted by the constitution itself. therefore. when we proceed to codify our rules under the constitution. we are guided by a body of parliamentary precedent which is full and effective. in terms of all our needs. if we need any further proof of that. the point has been made time and again that the house of representatives complies exactly with the constitution. at the beginning of every congress there are rules of any kind except general parliamentary law. but the house does its business very efficiently and promptly. there is gag rule. and capability for closing debate except under general parliamentary rules. the rules of the house end with the end of every congress. and at the beginning of the next congress they are established all over again. that is the position which we take.
. which we at least have a chance to sustain. which holds that a majority may close debate at any time on a proposal to change the rules when the proposal is made at the beginning of a new congress. so it is  only a meaningless proposal. it is also a proposal which takes us backward instead of forward. this is a nice. quiet chamber. there are  many senators present. but in my opinion. the record must plague. and the record will plague. every senator who votes the other way. in 1949. in just such a nice. quiet way. the senate strangled itself worse than it had been strangled before. senator after senator ks that to be a fact. based upon the experience of the last decade. we may do it again today. and from what i can learn. we are very likely to do it. certainly the power of the heaviest battalions. in terms of votes. is on the other side. all our colleagues are over the age of 21. and they k what they are doing. but certainly there sh6luld be dearth of senators to tell them. at least. what the facts are. what the situation is. and what the prospect is. so far as those of us who are on my side are concerned. the -whole essence of filibuster is extraconstitutional. and the senator from south dakota . who i am sorry is  in the chamber at the moment. made that point very clear just a little while ago. he suggested that when we go back to the twothirds vote. we go back to the provisions of the constitution of the united states. which makes five separate actions by the senate. including expulsion of a senator. the overriding of a veto. the ratification of treaties. and so forth. subject to a twothirds vote. but the senator from south dakota asked. where in the constitution is there a provision for a filibuster. is  that. after all. the most decisive argument that the filibuster is a concoction of this particular chamber. which gives a power to the miity which is absolutely extraconstitutional. if we want that power. then let us obtain it by a constitutional amendment. let us  do it by fettering ourselves of our own volition with rules. which give the senate extraconstitutional power. that is certainly clearly spelled out by what the senator from south dakota said about a miity. speaking about a miity. i shall read one sentence from what i consider to be a very excellent editorial published in the new york times of january 7. 1959. which states the truth in terms of the free peoples of the world. this statement is so reminiscent of everything which is going on in this chamber. that it ought to be written in large letters on the walls around us: it is easy to find arguments against what has been called the tyranny of the majority. but the tyranny of the miity is and always has been infinitely worse. as we all k. in legislation there is always a choice between alternatives. the tyranny of the miity. which is what we are seeking to end in this debate. is infinitely worse than any tyranny of the majority. even if such tyranny were intended. that there is in filibusters a tyranny of the miity is something for which we have the words of the filibusterers themselves. the report of the committee on rules and administration. to which reference has been made. has. on page 18. a number of quotations from senator underwood. of alabama. he was filibustering the dyer antilynching bill. a civil rights bill. let me read two of the comments he made. very frankly disclosing the hand of the filibusterers to the senate. i do  say that captiously. i think all men here k that under the rules of the senate. when 15 or 20 or 25 men say that you can pass a certain bill. it can be passed. then senator underwood continued: there is but one way for the senate  to get down to work and transact the business of the senate before the 4th of marchthat was when a new congress would take officeand that is to get a final disposition of this force bill before anything else is done. pass it if you can. abandon it if we force you to do so. is that the way to legislate in the 20th century. let alone in 1959. i respectfully submit that it is . i shall make one other point. then i shall be finished. when this chamber becomes realistic about filibusters and what we are discussing today. it takes very. very stern measures to protect itself. it ks when it wants to protect itself. it ks when it does . there are five separate statutes on the books which have the strictest kind of cloture written right into them as a part of the law. they are the reorganization act of 1939. the reorganization act of 1945. the rubber producing facilities disposal act of 1953. the department of defense reorganization act of 1958. and the trade agreements extension act of 1958. each of those laws makes it possible to close debate by a simple majority. once there has been debate for 10 hours. divided equally between the proponents and the opponents. does  that clearly show the hand in this whole situation. when this bodyor the other bodyreally ks that it wants to act. and wants to act uninhibited and unfettered by an extra constitutional power given to a miity by rule xxii. it ks exactly how to do it. we hear protestations then about freedom of debate.
i thoroughly agree with the senator. and that is why i think the language should be excised. because i do  believe a body so distinguished as this one should perform an act which is  only vain. but which is contrary to the constitution of the united states. i have examined the precedents. a point of order will  lie against this provision.  because it is constitutionali firmly believe that it is -. but only because the precedents of the senate say that the presiding officer is  to entertain a point of order against a provision of a measure merely because it is said to be unconstitutional. therefore. the only way in which this question can be decided is by the selfdiscipline of members of the senate who will vote upon the question today. i believe that if we were to reverse the vice president. it would establish a precedent which. it would be argued in the next congress. was very important. i believe that at the very least the question should be left in its present condition. leaving it to a future congress to deal with. then. if some member wishes to close debate by a majority vote. he can obtain a final ruling and a final determination by the senate. i hope my distinguished colleague. who is an outstanding and distinguished lawyer. will agree with me in the feeling that a body of the distinction of this body should  deprive itself of this opportunity to discipline itself. in a sense. in terms of the constitution and the traditions of our country and. indeed. of the senate itself.
i thoroughly agree with my colleague except that i point out that the words should be "threatening to usurp" because under the constitution of the united states i do  believe we can bind any future senate. however these words in the johnson resolution are presented to us in the hope and expectation that the future congresses will consider themselves bound by the words of the proposed rule. indeed i believe it is a. damaging proposal because it will be considered a precedent for the next congress. the vice president has told us what he thinks. we have had the proposal made. the issue has been presented. it is an effort to do something which is unconstitutional. it is an effort to do it in such al way as  only to bind us but to bind all future congresses. that is the reason for my amendment. and why i feel so strongly about it.
i can only answer my colleague in terms of my purpose in making the amendment. it was my purpose to put into law the ruling of the vice president. that is. the advisory opinion of the vice president. as i understand that opinion. it is that when a new senate convenes it convenes under the old rules. but it has a new and a different right under the constitution to change the rules at that point. that is a right new and different from what it would have intervening between the opening of congress and the end of a particular congress. so the answer. i think. to my colleague would be that on the convening of the senate in a new congress the same rules would still be the rules of the senate. except that the way to change them would be under the constitution rather than under the rules themselves. i believe very deeply that this amendment should be adopted in order  to commit us to a proposition which is contrary to at least the immoral proposition i have described.
i thoroughly agree with the senator from kentucky. i am delighted that he made the point. the anderson motion was complicated with pandoras box questions of the possibility of other amendments to other rules. the whole concept of the idea of a continuing body. and the sharp separation of the senate of one congress from the senate of the next congress. the question which i present to the senate is exactly as the senator from kentucky has stated it. completely uncomplicated by all the other considerations. it concerns simply the narrow question whether we should attempti emphasize the word "attempt"-to bind future senates on the question of rules. as a matter of fact. it seems to me that any constitutional lawyer should k that we can bind future congresses in any way. we can bind future vice presidents either. we k that under the constitution. we k. in all honesty. that under the constitution we can and. indeed. have right to do that. although we may try to prejudice them. that is exactly my point. i do  think we ought to try to do that. i think we ought to have egh selfdiscipline. i say that even to the majority. we have heard much to the effect that we are trying to liberalize the rules. and if we liberalize them it will work to our disadvantage some day. i say the same thing to the majority. which has had its will so far in respect to this matter: do  jeopardize your situation. in your zeal and enthusiasm. because it may come back to haunt you one day. because you have done it yourself.
i do  k what i could add to the constitutional arguments which have already been made in this body. i very much hope that our action will be carefully ed throughout the country by students of constitutional law. i firmly believe that the senator from new jersey and i would be less than true to ourselves if we did  emphasize. by what we have attempted to do by these two amendments. the separation between the arguments as to what kind of cloture can be effected by the senate. and by how many senators. and the fundamental constitutional issues involved. i think we are about to set a precedent which the constitution does  entitle us to set. and which will be very inimical to the group which is the present majority in this chamber on this issue. let me say to my colleague that this is the final opportunity to say a word with respect to the debate on this issue. although we have  been successful in this instance. and although we may have lost this battle. i think we shall be successful in winning the war. more and more the country will begin to realize that the things for which we fought did  involve the question whether 50 or 60 senators should have the power to close debate. but rather the entire climate of legislation. which will condition the action of the senate for the next 2 years.
. sunday. may 3. marked polands constitution day. the 168th anniversary commemoration of an event close to the hearts of freedomloving poles and those of polish descent living everywhere. in 1791 poland enacted one of the first democratic constitutions in europe. since that time much polish blood has been shed in defense of its national freedom established 168 years ago. poland has lost and regained. and lost and regained again. its independence in the intervening years. polish territory has been taken by the monarchical empires of prussia. austria. and russia. and the dictatorial empires of nazi germany and the communist soviet union. polands lands have often been laid waste by invaders. its people slaughtered or taken into enslavement. its resources looted. and its citizens governed by a ruler  of their asking. this is a day to remember that the flame of the polish spirit for freedom burns stubbornly and brightly.
i should like to identify myself with the position that neither legally  as a matter of policy should senators vote  to sustain the decision of the chair. . in that event we shall have given the appropriations committee a power it does  have today. for example. let us remember that when a claims bill is passed. the bill does  go to the appropriations committee. but the money is paid out of the treasury. the minute that bill becomes law. are we to overturn  only this particular precedent. but the whole method of congressional procedure in such cases. if the ruling of the chair is  sustained. the senate rule will. in practical effect. be amended. and the word "appropriations." as used in the part of the constitution to which we have referred. will be identified with the word "appropriation" and with the phrase "all general appropriation bills." as used in the senate rules. if the senate makes that fatal error. then the senate will be overreaching itselfthe minute it does  sustain the ruling of the chair. and thus gives the appropriations committee authority which it does  have today.
amendment. as modified. reads as follows: in lieu of the language proposed to be inserted by mr. mundt insert the following: "that section 1001 of the national defense education act of 1958 is amended by striking out subsection (f) and inserting in lieu thereof the following: "(f) part of any funds appropriated or otherwise made available for expenditure under authority of this act shall be used to make payments or loans to any individual unless such individual has taken and subscribed to an oath or affirmation in the following form: "i do solemnly swear (or affirm) that i will bear true faith and allegiance to the united states of america and will support and defend the constitution and laws of the united states against all its enemies. foreign and domestic". "the provisions of section 1001 of title 18. united states code. shall apply to such oath or affirmation."
 it would be unconstitutional because it would involve the taking of property without compensation. and. in some aspects. also a taking of property which is  compensable in money. but even aside from that question. it is the taking of property causing a financial loss to the state of new york. without compensation. this is against the constitution of the united states.
i thoroughly agree with my colleague that the quantitative question is  the sole question. the qualitative question is equally vital. my colleague shows his great experience in this field. which is far greater than mine. by calling attention to this situation. it only emphasizes my own approach to the question. which is very heavily based upon the legal questions involved. i believe that the question of the right we have under the constitution to do this at all is very serious. what the senator has said is most pertinent. as again demonstrating the tangible and material loss suffered above and beyond what is argued to be  a particularly material diversion.
. i was shocked this morning to read on the front page of the newspapers that the american legion. of which i have the ho to be a member. and which is the largest veterans organization in the united states in terms of membership. had. by rejecting a resolution by a majority vote. indicated that a policy of racial segregation practiced by units of an affiliated group. the 40 and 8. which has a membership of about 90.000. is  contrary to the american legion constitution. instead. the legion. by a voice vote. adopted a resolutionand i am taking the newspaper accountasking sympathetic support for a reexamination of the membership restriction of the 40 and 8. in effect. the racial disqualification in the 40 and 8 is to be tolerated. according to this american legion vote. we in the american legion are a patriotic body. we have dedicated ourselves. our fortunes. and our sacred ho to protect the constitution of the united states. if there is one thing i believe in it is that we should practice what we preach. hence i regard with great dismay what has occurred at this particular convention in this respect. this question has been agitated for about 10 years. this is the first time it has come to a decision on the floor of the american legion convention. as a member of the american legion. and as a u.s. senator. i wish to register my strong protest against this vote. it is deplorable. and. indeed. ironic. that at a time when people like myself and my colleague and other members of this body are searching out and bringing into play every legitimate means at our command to bring about floor action on a civil rights bill. the american legion should. at its annual convention. in effect make this retreat before what i consider to be forces of intolerance. which are incompatible with the guarantees and assurances of the constitution of the united states. it is very likely that there will be elected as the national commander of the american legion a candidate who is i am told uposed for that post. martin b. mckneally. of newburgh. a resident of my own state. mr. mckneallyand i hope it will be national commander mckneallyis  only a fellow legionnaire. he is a fellow new yorker. i k mr. mckneally. he struck me. during my meeting with him. as a man of broad mind. high patriotism. and great interest in his fellow men and in the constitution of the united states. i intend to send a telegram to the new national commander upon his election. conveying my vigorous protest over yesterdays action by the convention. it would be very easy for me to say that i intend to resign from the american legion. i shall do such thing. the american legion is made up of millions of fine americans. many of whom. i believe. do  agree with this policy at all. i shall remain in the legion. and i hope to lend my voice and influence to fighting for a resolution such as that which the american legion has rejected. i close on this e: the hallmark of our society is the right to have differences of opinion and the right to fight within our society for those things for which we believe. and to support them freely. without following any party line or being eubject to the tyrannic dictates of any boss or commissar. what has been done at the american legion convention is a challenge. i am for accepting the challenge. at the same time that i protest against the event.
. last week on the senate floor i protested the unfortunate action taken by a majority of the delegates to the american legion annual convention when they voted down a proposal which would have abolished the discriminatory membership rules of a legion affiliate. the 40 and 8. which permits only white males to join. such restrictions obviously bar negro veterans and those of oriental descent. i said at that time that any such action directly contradicts the very basis of our constitution and the very basis of the development of the american legion itself. which. under its constitution. welcomes all u.s. citizens who have served hoably in time of war. as a member of the legion. i stated at that time that i would  resign. but would join in the fight against this attitude in the legion. i urged my view on the newly elected national commander. who. to my great pleasure. and that of my colleague from new york . happens tobe a new yorker. martin b. mckneally. from newburgh. n.y.. whom i happen to k personally. he has already released a public statement. and indeed my colleague from new york introduced that statement into the record. but mr. mckneally has sent me a telegram today which i think would also be of interest to members of this body. especially commenting upon my feeling that the thing to do is  to resign from the american legion. but to fight within the american legion. to stay in the american legion and help to preserve. maintain. and improve the legion as an influence for the preservation of american ideals. i say wholeheartedly i feel fortified in my decision  to resign from the american legion. but to work for action within the legion with my comrades to reverse the action of the convention delegates. about which we feel so badly. and which i feel is most unwise  only in the eyes of americans. but in the eyes of people of the free world. i pledge myself as a member of the legion to follow this action very closely. and the action which the new national commander proposes to take. namely. to appoint a committee to look into this question. i promise him my full cooperation. i feel much hoed that my fellow new yorker. martin b. mckneally. has shown by this action the true qualities of a national commander of the american legion. i am very happy to serve under him. i ask unanimous consent that the telegram to which i have referred may be made a part of the record at this point.
. i regret very much that there should be such vehemence about the matter of desegregation in the public schools. which we are discussing. but it does  faze me a bit. if it did. i think it would be a triumph for the very negation of the constitution of the united states against which i protest. so long as the state of new york pays 20 percent of the taxes of the united states. which include millions upon millions of dollars which go to every one of the southern states which in terms of the supreme courts decision in the brown case are flouting the constitution every day. and so long as new yorks millions have shed their blood in the defense of this whole country-
i think we will agree that the 14th amendment is a part of the constitution. that amendment gives every citizen equal protection under the lawin education and in every other phase of human activity that comes within that fundamental charter that amendment is just as much a part of the constitution as that part which was adopted by the founding fathers in the latter part of the 18th century.
i am  god. and neither is the senator from south carolina. the way this country was ordered. this great experiment in government for all of us. we thought collectively. a long. long time agoand i believe it has been demonstrated conclusively by our experience sincethat the best way to raise a society of justice. intelligence. and productiveness is  to make a distinction between citizens on the ground of color. it is that concept which i believe is sacred to our constitution and our institutions. some of us. i think the majority of the country. are trying to carry that out. again. i repeat. with reason and discretion. and with deliberate speed. . as we are often charged. overnight.
the senator from new york hopes that the pattern of life which little children will follow later will be a pattern in which opportunity in education. in housing. in voting. and similar civil rights will be enjoyed in compliance with the u.s. constitution by everybody as citizens of the same class.
the senator from new york does  have anything to say about that whatever. i have already made clear that whom a person marries or whom he invites to dinner is his business. it is in way related to civil rights under the constitution of the united states. i believe there is a reasonable right to expect that if we get started along the lines of giving citizens equal opportunity in respect to what are their civil rights. we will get to the point within a reasonable period of time when people will. together. enjoy those rights without distinction as to color. if i were prepared to freeze into permanence the practices which are  pursued. what would this argument be all about. i am . because the constitution expresses exactly the contrary.
. in this connection i wish to say that we have been toldthose of us who are fighting so hard for civil rights legislation--"just give education a chance. and it will do the job. dont try to pass laws." i point out to those who advocate that position that it is a fine position if something happens. but that it is a very bad position if hing happens. here is a perfect example of that. one seeks to pass laws about this matter because it is obviously an action being taken which is consonant with the safeguards of the constitution. this encourages us to feel that measures of selfregulation and selfdiscipline in terms of the constitution will be observed. but when there is a flouting of the law. as there has been in many areas. such as that relating to desegregation in the public schools. and when citizens are denied the right to voteand there has been a finding by a federal commission composed half of southerners and half of therners that citizens are being denied the right to votewhat are we to do but to pass legislation. i think this is an object lesson to those who would have us take some other course. because it enables us to show a irecord of performance in compliance with the constitution. i think we should all realize that there is very much more to these arguments than appears to be the case.
yes. i get the senators point. though. i would say to the senator that we have almost answered the question in identifying the committee. the fact is that the committee on rules and administration in the senate has a rather different jurisdiction than the committee on house administration has in the house. it is my understanding that in the other body the tendency is to refer.  a proposed change in an organic statute. but questions relating to election of membersunder the provision of the constitution which relates to each house being the judge of the qualifications of its own membersto the committee on house administration. and that when it comes to proposed legislation. the jurisdiction might go either way. there is certainty or any assurance whatever. based upon the practice in the house. that it will go to the committee on the judiciary or to the committee on house administration.
the senator from new york will state that he has desire to cast either stones or aspersions. but only to look at the record. the record is very clear. and. for whatever it means. i have invited individual senators from the states which are affected. and the facts about which are set forth in the federal civil rights commissions report. to tell us what they think ought to be done about the conditions. and i point out to my colleague from georgia that the 15th amendment. which was adopted by the united states as a very hallowed part of our constitution. specifies voting. speaks of it in so many words. and it does seem to me that we. as a congress. are here to see that the promises of our constitution are redeemed. and i certainly made a promise to the people of the united states of the most solemn kind in respect to voting rights.
the federal registra- tion proposal is confined to federal t elections. the voting referee proposal. n which would come under the cognizance n of a court. which then would make an e adjudication under the amendments to a the federal constitution. applies to e state elections. as well. of course the e senator will recall that the 14th and - 15th amendments to the constitution assure equal protection under state law. so. . on the basis of a proper jurisdictional finding. there is authority for qualifying a voter. through a federal official. to vote in a state election. as well as in a federal election. i shall  argue the mechanics of the matter. because i am sure the senator from tennessee and all other senators will have their own views on that point. but certainly the congress could pass a constitutional law giving that right. congress may  choose to do so. congress may choose to confine the provisions of such law to federal elections onlyin which case congress might have to deal separately with jim crow tactics in connection with ballots in state elections. but certainly equality under state law is guaranteed by those amendments to the constitution.
i should like to state. as to the merits of the legislation. that i think there is an area of law which is absolutely essential. and that is shown by the element of public desire which creeps into these matters. very unfortunately. but i can understand the senator. and i could  agree that what is before us. in amendment form. the administrative package. is anything but very moderate. and designed to give the forces of moderation full opportunity. as i have said. i doubt that we could agree on that statement. i do  believe it sharpens some of the matters that are being sharpened in this colloquy as to what is happening in the senate in the procedural sense in the eyes of the country. i gatherand the senator will contradict me if i am wrongthat implicit in our business is the fact that the senator feels that the time when the senate must accommodate itself to the demands of a miity still continues. and perhaps. in the eyes of the senator from florida. will always continue. i think in a free society like our own. if we expect it to work. we can impose force on a legislative body any more than we can impose force as to race relations. there comes a time when the senate has to declare that it is willed by a majority. otherwise the constitution has been informally. by the rules of the senate. amended. so that it is longer controlled by a majority vote. the time comes that our action should be dependent on the merit of legislation. and should  be dependent on individual senators judgment as to when there has been free and full debatewhich anybody could show has been engaged in. in my view. if the senate goes beyond that point. and i think we are in the shadow of that situation . then it demonstrates to the country that it has allowed its own rules to change the constitutional organization. this i think is very serious. and i hope the senate will  fall into the abyss which yawns before it.
just to make one point. it is a fact. i will say to my colleague from tennessee. that where he has enumerated twothirds. it is in the constitution as to treaties. vetoes. et cetera. when he has referred to the situation we face here today. it is provided for in the senate rules. and  in the constitution of the united states. that is correct.
if my colleague insists on reiterating the same point time and time againwhich is very interesting though it does  prove anythingi do  expect that i can persuade him. i have desire to persuade him. i merely wish to make the record clear. so that there will be contention that there has been any change in the constitution of the united states. change was made here in the case of united states against thomas. it is very interesting to e that both the senator from louisiana and i have cited exactly the same sentence from the findings of law of the court below and have drawn exactly opposite conclusions. the only point i can make again and again and again is that court the lower court.  the u.s. supreme courtcan change the constitution of the united states. the most that they can say is what complies with the constitution of the united states. therefore i reiterate what i said when i began. any state. including the state of louisiana. can set its qualifications with respect to voters and have its statute in that respect fully observed. provided it does  discriminate among different voters. if it does discriminate. then it is itself saying that the qualifications it applies to those against whom it discriminates are different than those it applies to those against whom it does  discriminate.
i thank my colleague. i join him in the statement with respect to the attorneys generals feeling. that this proposal would  in any way compromise the fundamental purpose of the amendment. there has been much argument about unconstitutionality. what amazes me is that in arguing unconstitutionality reference is made to the constitution. the congress of the united states. when joined by the presidentor. if it can muster the votes to overridecan actually establish. without regard to what any state does. the times. places. and manner of holding elections for senators and representatives. this authority is contained in section 4 of article i of the constitution. which reads as follows: the times. places. and manner of holding elections for senators and representatives. shall be prescribed in each state by the legislature thereof. but the congress may at any time by law make or alter such regulations. except as to the places of choosing senators. also. attention is seemingly paid in this debate about unconstitutionality to the 15th amendment to the constitution. i point out that on last wednesday. march 30. we celebrated the 90th anniversary of this amendment. which in many places has been hoed more in the breach than in the observance. the 15th amendment deals with the right to vote. thousands of americans lost their lives in the struggle to assert this right. and here we are arguing about whether we shall implement it. section 1 of the 15th amendment pro*ides: the right of citizens of the united states to vote shall  be denied or abridged by the united states or by any state on account of race. color. or previous condition of servitude. section 2 reads as follows: the congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation. the basis. therefore. for the voting sections of this bill is absolutely rooted in the constitution of the united states. in just so many words. we are  invading what the immutable law has given to the states. we are exercising the authority and the power vested in us by the constitution. and. indeedat least by clear implicationwe have the duty to see that the constitution is implemented in these respects. it seems to me. therefore. that those who argue for constitutionality. rather than those who argue against constitutionality. are the ones who start with the constitution firmly on their side.
. i have had beside my desk compilations made by the library of congress in respect to each of the southern states. headed "provisions of the constitution and statutes of"naming the state-"which deal with color. race. religion. or national origin. and which may have some relation to the problem of equal protection of the laws." in other words. a whole body of laws has been created to maintain a segregated pattern or a discriminatory pattern absolutely opposed to the constitution of the united states. the batch weighs 10 pounds and 12 ounces. it seems to me that with half the weight we were trying to assert the constitution. while with twice the weight every effort was made to hit the constitution over the head. so i think our record is  bad at all.
ice having been given to the senate under the rule. does that. within what the chair has just said. mean that the senate is prevented thereby from proceeding under the constitution tomorrow. according to the chairs ruling. orand this is my parliamentary inquiryis it  a fact that the senate may proceed tomorrow. withstanding the invocation of rule xl. under the constitution of the united states. to deal with the resolution. on which ice has just been given both by the senator from new mexico and by the senator from minnesota and the senator from california . rather than under the rules of the senate.
exactly. and may i say to my colleague. who has been such a stalwart in this fightthat i have been very frank to state the historic character of this struggle. i pay the senator tribute. and also pay tribute to the senator from illis and other senators on his side of the aisle. who. i am sure. desire to be more than cooperative with the new administration of their own party which is  to come into office. . the question of timing bears very importantly on the point which has been made here time and time again by distinguished colleagues of ours. that this is  a sensational and revolutionary advisory opinion by the presiding officer. because there have  been 4 years in which to discuss its effect if this was such an affront to the constitution and if it did shake the pillars of the constitution. we hear hing about it except when we proceed to adopt rules and try to change them and law school professors. judges. and others who are interested in the question have  considered it so revolutionary. that argument is used mostly as an apparition to scare us when we come to consider whether we can or can have control over our own procedures and strike the manacles from our own handsand i say this advisedlymanacles. which prevent us from legislating as the constitution and the founding fathers intended we should.
i do  believe so at all. i say that because the minute the senator from south dakota uses the phrase "decision that he wanted." the senator answers his own question. the whole constitution is designed to enable a majority of one to decide. therefore. it is  a question of seeking to pack the senate or change the rules of the senate in order to get a decision that i or anyone else might seek to get. rather. it is liberating the senate. to which the constitution gives the power to do so. to actually exercise its power. without being inhibited by a rule of debate which in my opinion puts a restraint upon the senate equivalent to the restraint incorporated in the constitution. therefore. i do  believe that it meets the objection which has been specified by my colleague. i believe that we are merely liberating a majority in the senate to act in those areas in which a majority. under the constitution. has a duty to act. i make the point to the senator from south dakota that the argument is frequently made about certain acts under the constitution which require more than a simple majority. had the founding fathers. or the states subsequent to the adoption of the constitution. decided to put further restraint upon the action of a majority. that would have been done in the constitution or by amendment. certainly we can violate the very basic constitutional principle that one congress can bind aher. by enabling it to be circumvented through rules which one congress or one senate can put upon aher congress or senate.
i say we do  live in that kind of world. and if any majority ever tried that course. it would be the most potent way to stop the very accomplishment of what they sought. certainly that would be the actual effect of any such practice. the rule we have proposed in good faith proposes 15 days of debate in the mal course of the senate proceedings. that is our intention. and if that intention were  observed. i think a majority on the floor would suffer very seriously at the hands of the country. and would find that it could  do anything like what was thus contemplated. because of the sheer mass of opposition which an effort to engage in such repression would invite. in addition. every member of the miity would have more than an opportunity to state his full views before the country. as all of us k. i believe these are  arguments which are based upon living in the realistic world in which we live and operating in the realistic way in which we operate. i say to the senator from georgia that if that is all that is worrying him. and if otherwise he is quite ready to agree to this amendment as being fair and reasonable. i and. i am sure. my colleagues. will be more than happy to obtain from him any suggestion which he believes would contribute to making it perfectly clear that we have in mind that there should be 15 days of full debate for as long as any member of the senate wishes to remain on this floor and either engage in the debate or listen to it. so i must say. in all respects. i do  think that is a sound argument against the proposal before the senate. ial candidate called the new frontier. or whether it shall be subject to the rules relating to debate which are  archaic and which prohibit action which we and many others deeply believe is essential in the national interest. there are two main arguments which are made with respect to the proposal  under consideration. i should like to refer to them very briefly. one is the argument that it gives the power which senators need in order to convince the country. but this is a power that is unsanctioned by the constitution. and. indeed. directly in conflict with the proposition that a majority of each house shall constitute a quorum to do business. in addition. and thi.. is the second part of the question. it is  a gag rule by which senators will be prevented from making their views kn to the country. for the time. when it comes in that operation. is the very time when debate ceases to be debate and becomes sheer obstruction. it is the historic effort to inhibit the senate in respect of acting by a constitutional majority. according to what the constitution prescribes. many of the senators who have engaged in those acticns have been very frank about it. for example. in my views in the 1958 rules and administration committee report. i quoted from senator underwood. of alabama. who said. in respect of a filibuster against the dyer antilynching bill in 1922: i do  say that captiously. i think all men here k that under the rules of the senate when 15 or 20 or 25 men say that you can pass a certain bill. it can be passed. he then went on to say that: there is but one way  for the senate to get down to work and transact the business of the government before the 4th of march. and that is to get a final disposition of this force bill before anything else is done. pass it if you can. abandon it if you are forced to do so.
. the 170th anniversary of polands constitution day is being celebrated today. may 3. by the friends of a free poland throughout the world. the triumph of democracy in the united states and in france were the great influences behind the polish constitution of 1791. it was one of the first to embody the ideals of the declaration of independence and the proclamation of the rights of man. and it has served ever since as the inspiration for polands traditional love of liberty and willingness to fight for independence against crushing odds. that indomitable spirit was demonstrated in the 1956 revolt against the communist regime which restored a measure of polands national integrity. although communist control has been reasserted. the polish people have given evidence that the fierce spirit of resistance still lives. american ties with the people of poland are much stronger than bonds of sympathy and understanding. millions of our citizens trace their ancestry to this ancient land and for them these are ties of blood. for other americans there are strong bonds of history and tradition in which the names of such great revolutionary war heroes as pulaski and kosciusko loom large. on this occasion i am happy to join in extending assurances that the american people support the fight of the courageous people of poland for their liberty and independence. and i am confident that on liberation they will reinforce the principles of the constitution of 1791 as a guide for a free poland.
this is the second time today that i have heard the senator from south carolina speak about the situation in alabama. which the new york times this morning called a national tragedy. it is a national tragedy and a national disgrace. it can be colored in any other way. i do  wish to interfere with the debate tonight. but i could  sit here and listen to comments on the alabama situation again. tomorrow during the morning hour i shall use my own time to say what i think about the problem. and how i think every decent american should regard it. i have yet to hear any excuse for the anarchy and the refusal or failure to take authoritative state action in terms of protecting the lives of citizens and enforcing the laws and constitution of the united states. i have yet to hear any real excuse for it. but. as i say. i do  want to intrude on the senators debate. i will speak tomorrow on my own time.
. it seems to me. under those conditions. that congress would be seriously derelict in its duty if we took this mechanismwhich is so ideally situated to precisely. at the very least. this contribution to public orderand dismantle it. for many other reasons relating to the vindication of the constitution and laws dealing with the chronic. difficult problem of race relations. which hurts so much in the world. and which we have discussed time and again. and in the interest of public order. i hope the senate will vote to open the appropriation bill. which seems to be the chosen instrument of the leadership. we must accept it as such to get the job done which must be donethe very minimum extension of the civil rights commission. must be extendedalthough senators like myself hope it will be extended permanently. senators like myself hope we will provide for more than a 2year extension. once we get into the question. but this is the very elementary action which the senate should take.
the constitution of the state of new york contains the socalled forever wild clause. protecting these stateowned areas. it has been one of the most dearly defended provisions of the constitution of the state of new york against attack for decades.
my colleague from new york raised this issue again. i am glad he has done so. it should be raised again and again. we approved certain resolutions in the senate. the wellkn keatingdouglas resolution. with respect to freedom of international waterways. and the morsejavits resolution. with respect to discrimination. etheless. our government does  seem to have the diplomatic initiative. energy. or means to ho the clear intent of congress and the clear mandate of the constitution and the clear policy of our country. going back to its very beginning. i am delighted that he has pursued this subject. i am glad that he has raised it today. all of us must put all the force and power we possess behind the department of state. i agree with my colleague that it is inconceivable that american business interests should be submitted to what is equivalent to what the barbary pirates did to us many years ago. yet we can seem to find it possible diplomatically to move in some way against this situation.
the senator is more than happy to accept any factual corrections. whether it is six or seven. the senator is prepared to concede that material progress has been made. but it seems to me that in this day and age. to have an encumbrance of this character on the right to vote is so aalous. such a strange development in our national life. that we ought to take the first and the earliest opportunity to be rid of it. madam president. may i also point out that  only have we. who feel strongly about this matter.  chosen the billas is very obviousbut we have also  chosen the time. we did  press this thing. this has been brought up by the majority leader. i assume. at long last. as some ackledgment of the fact that the only way to act in a substantial manner on the question of civil rights and voting is by coming to congress. i point out that this marks the administrations redemption. after the election of 1960. of only the second item in a kit of 27. recommended by the u.s. civil rights commission. i agree with the senator from georgia that this is by means the most earthshaking of these recommendations. they are very much in a pattern which is pretty well accepted here. i hazard the guessand i say this unilaterallythat the most ardent segregationist. if he could settle for these two matters. literacy tests and poll taxes. and k that that is all there would be. would probably support these measures himself. i ask one to agree with me. i speak unilaterally. that is my opinion. . where does that leave us. it seems to me that it leaves us with a duty. and my colleague from new york it leaves with  a light duty. we did  choose this bill. we did  choose the time. however. it seems to me that our duty is clear. at least. my duty is clear. i feel very deeply. both as a lawyer and as a senator. that this is an aaly. an encumbrance upon the rights of the citizens.  of any state. but of the united states. neither the senator from florida  i are talking about any kind of voting except voting for representatives and senators and president and vice president. we have the right and we have the duty. when that question arises. to take the path which in good conscience will most directly and immediately lead to the desired result. that very clearly is the path of a statute. i will be prepared to argue that that path is entirely constitutional and entirely appropriate under the amendments to the constitution as well as under the constitution itself. and also under the decided cases of the united states supreme court. madam president. if we really want to do something to redeem our pledge in the republican national platform. and if we want to redeem the pledge contained in the national democratic platform. both platforms having been adopted in 1960if we really want to do something. even in this very limited area that we are talking aboutthe way to do it is by statutory enactment. if we do it that way. it will have the very happy eventuality of preserving at one and the same time the memorial to alexander hamilton. which is richly deserved and a highly patriotic deed.
i should like merely to add one sentence . i must. of course. demonstrateas i shall  undertake to dothat to take the statutory course is permitted by the constitution. because whether it can be tested or . we are too responsible to move in that way unless we are convinced the constitution allows it. so i shall  attempt to demonstrate that to the senate
i am  trying to apply the constitutional amendment proposal to the state laws. i am only trying to apply the acid test to the proposal: whether we are likely to have the amendment approved by threefourths of the states. i point out that a number of states have an interest because of those laws to let the constitution remain as it is.
the fact is that when a voter votes for electors in a state. that being the method which the legislature has chosen for the designation as electors. a voter shall  be subject to the requirement of a poll tax. i do  see where there is any inconsistency in the scheme of control when we deal solely with what shall enable the voter to vote or what shall prevent him from voting. i do  see that that would in any way cross over or negate any of the provisions of the constitution with respect to electors which the senator has read.
i do  quote the authority of the attorney general as being supreme and conclusive and superior in legal judgment to that of mr. katzenbach. i was only giving the facts about the hierarchy of authority. i rather rely upon my own opinion that what i seek to do by statute is unaffected by this provision of the constitution as it relates to the voter if. as. and when he is a voter in respect of elections for officials under the federal constitution. all that the senator has read demonstrates that this elector is an official contemplated by the federal constitution. when. as. and if a voter" is to vote for the elector. i do  wish that voterand that is all i have tried to do by this statutory approachto be subject to any taxes.
. the people of poland are a proud people who renew their loyalty to the principles of freedom and liberty each year on may 3. in commemoration of polands great constitution of 1791. that historic document drew its inspiration from the same sources that inspired the american revolution. there are many links between our nation and poland that go back to the time when general kosciusko offered his services to general washington in the fight for american independence. ties of culture and a common ideal of liberty as well as ties of blood have strengthened that bond between the nations over the decades. and the polish people have responded to the many instances of american concern and assistance with expressions of strong affection and high esteem. thus. in spite of soviet imperialism. the polish people have kept alive the democratic principles and traditions of the constitution and their hopes for eventual independence. we can help keep that hope alive in the context of the present effort by the free world to arrive at a peaceful accommodation with the soviet union by rejecting any compromise affecting polands ultimate hope for freedom. indeed. it is in berlin that we can best demonstrate our own determination.  only to help defend the freedom of western europe but also to continue to hold out the hope of ultimate freedom to the captive nations of eastern europe. it is important for them to k that we would rather do without an agreement than compromise these principles. our respect for the selfdetermination of peoples. their right freely to determine their political. ecoic. social. and cultural status. continues to nderline our entire foreign policy. and we shall continue to fight communist aggression and the trampling of these rights with all the resources of diplomacy. morality. and defensive strength at our command. in connection with the celebration of polands constitution day. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record with my remarks the proclamation by gov. nelson a. rockefeller naming may 3 as polish constitution day.
i have said many times. and i never will cease to repeat. that one of the great gratifications of having the ho to represent the state of new york in the senate of the united states is the ho of serving as a colleagueinarms with my distinguished and beloved friend from illis. he and i have joined in this struggle many times before. with others of our colleagues. and whatever may have been the resultwe have often been frustrated and defeatedit has always been with ho. i attribute that fact very heavily to the lofty character and high inspiration of the senator from illis. he has spoken today. as is characteristic of him. in deep accents of understanding of the social currents of our time. whether the papers print what we say here today or . and whether the country reads what has been said here today or does . somehow or other. by that strange process of osmosis which public men k so well. there is at least a good chance that these ideas will go forth in the country and that civil rights debates like this one will  be lost in the haze or excitement of this vote. or that vote. or action on cloture. or argument of constitutionalityalthough i think this bill is. without question. constitutionalor lack of constitutionality. and that the eternal verity will be ed that we are struggling for the soul of our country. and that we are struggling for the constitution for which thousands and thousands. indeed. millions. have died. and that it is meaningful  only to us. but to all mankind. the senator from illis certainly speaks the views of all of us on his side when he says he looks down the veil of time with deep concern and trepidation over what may happen to mankind if we can get over the incubus which we carry in discrimination and segregation on racial. religious. and other grounds. which are invidious to civilized minds. i am grateful for having the opportunity to serve with the senator from illis and for joining in this struggle. i am delighted to have with us on our side such a magnanimous and great senator as the senator from illis.
i have been associated with the senator from illis in the kind of action represented by our present effort ever since i first came to this body. i k of other activity in which i have engaged in which i have felt the sense of unity with a colleague that i have with the senator from illis. i have heard the senator analyze the insufficiency of votes on my side of the aisle on the cloture motion. he has heard me state my rather strong criticism of the administration for its insufficiencies. i would appreciate the senators comment on the statement that those are the inner dynamics of the position which we espouse. i appreciate the humor which is often involved on questions. as we saw it evolve a little while ago. but i think it would be a grave mistake if we should leave any other impression either with our colleagues or the country than one of a deep feeling that we are  dealing with the basic verities of the constitution and the moral stance of our land. while we do  for a moment question the sincerity of those who are just as vigorously opposed to those positions as we are in favor of them. we would be less than true to ourselves in what we are doing if we did  affirm our deep conviction that the issue is one that weighs heavily upon the conscience of our nation. prejudicing us materially in the forum of all mankind. and hurting us in winning the cold war. we must  for one moment indicate. except for the mal relaxations which occur when men debate events over a long period of time. anything other than the most intense conviction that the failure of the senate to allow itself. by untying its hands. to pass urgently needed civil rights billswhoever may be at fault. whether the senators on my side of the aisle or the president of the united states and his administrationlends itself to acts which are deeply inimical to the future. the destiny. and the success of our country in the struggle for freedom. and in realizing the basic aspirations which caused our form of government to be founded.
there is question about that. i am grateful to my colleague for pointing up that fact. the courts have held time and time again that the amendments of the constitution are as valid and enforceable upon the states and the citizens of the united states as any section of the constitution adopted before the amendments. in all of the arguments on the subject the opponents of the measure  only prefer to overlook the facts on widespread denial of voting opportunity. ugly as they are. but also prefer to overlook the fact that after the civil war we adopted the 15th amendment. i do  blame them for overlooking it. if that is the way they feel about the argument. but i certainly do feel that those senators who do  wear that color of glasses can overlook it. that is what we are talking about in the present de-
i should like to join with the senator from ohio in the statement he has made. i add that an effort is being made in the subcommitteeand i attended the hearingto identify the activities of the national association for the advancement of colored people with its counsel. who was thurgood marshall. thurgood marshall is  on the bench. i attended the ceremony when he was sworn in. if the subcommittee intends to try the naacp. there will be many diverse opinions having hing to do with thurgood marshalls ability or capacity as a lawyer or judge. for which my colleague . i. and many other senators. including the distinguished senator from ohio. vouch fully. we k him fully for his situation and his record. that is the issue. fortunately. there is power in the committee and in the senate to deal with an issue of that character. i think it would be shameful abuse of our process of confirmation if the time should run out at the end of the present session and the confirmation of the ination of thurgood marshall should  have been acted on in the senate. i shall certainly pledge myselfand i k other senators will do likewiseto see that that does  happen. he deserves our confirmation. he ought to have it. we are  trying the naacp. but we are trying the justice. the equity. and the wisdom of the confirmation process in the senate. it is our duty as senators. whether or  we are on the judiciary committee. to see that that process remains what the constitution intended it to bea trial of the quality. the character. and the ability of the person who has been named. and other ancillary trials supplementary or corollary to it.
ial elections. as chairman of the senate district committee he was responsible for legislation establishing district elections of party officers and delegates to the national conventions. on may 25 of this year he said on the floor: i have been friendly to voting rights for the people of the district of columbia. and i do believe there should be representation for them. when he left the district committee last january he said then: i have given a good deal of time to district matters because i am interested in the problems of the capital. the washington star said of him: perhaps more than any one other man. he was responsible for construction of both the woodrow wilson and the constitution avenue bridges. the senate and the nation will miss francis cases quiet competence. and his utrusive dedication. we shall revere his memory.
within the limits of available time m r. kefauver. does  the senator k that many of us thoroughly disagree with that legislative. history and intent. does net the senator realize that we. are absolutely right in advocating the purpose of the amendment. article il. section. 2 of the constitution gives. the president power to make treaties. with the advice and consent of the senate. but it does  extend to agreements of less stature. does . the - senator realize that section. 402 is- in complete. derogation of the. power of the president. and that. coming after the previos. section stating the. power of the president under the rules with. respect to the interpretation- of any statate. the specific derogation and diminution of the power of the president. must. be considered as an amending and qualifying effort of the power previously. given.  would give. effect to both. parts of the statute in the. way described. the senator from new york is. satisfied as a lawyer that. that. would be the construction.
 and the attorney general in what i k is a very difficult situation. and in which they are entitled to the support of every one of us in high places and of every american who respects the constitution and the integrity. the prestige. the dignity. and the authority of the united states.
in applying the rules of the senate to the resolution. insofar as the chair chooses to apply the rules. i ask the chair whether the chair is making any decision upon the question of whether the constitution of the united states applies or does  apply to this issue. i ask that question because yesterday the vice president ruled that he would submit any such constitutional question to the senate. i wish to make certain that in answering this parliamentary inquiry that question is  being foreclosed.
 i am one of those who voted against that particular rule change. because i felt very strongly at the time about the provision put into rule xxxii. and expressed myself most specifically on that subject. so perhaps i am in a good position to move to reconsider. or at least in a position better than many. i say to the senator that what the senator is emphasizing is very important because it is a fact that this debate. on either sideeither on the side of the distinguished legions led by our colleague from florida and our colleague from georgia and other senators. or on our sidehas really recognized the very deep questions involved in this debate. they are very profound. questions. every once in a while. a legislaitive body comes up against the question as to whether there is to be anarchy or whether there should be decided basic and very fundamental policy under the constitution. i think the senator from new mexico is serving us all very well. i wish to say. in all frankness. that. it has always been my deep feeling that the sooner we get to a resolving of this very basic question of the constitution and what it really means in terms of article i. section 5. the sooner we will get to that point that even the senator from georgia talks aboutthe resolution of this question. really. this question can be resolved by the type of tugging and hauling which we have had. the senator shows that most ably by putting the vote in the record. that was a situation in which. as the senator from pennsylvania said. senators had to decide whether the little modicum of amelioration was worth support. the senator from pennsylvania felt it was. i felt precisely the other way. we are both. i think. the same type of lawyers. at least. we believe we k our business. we came to different conclusions because we were  dealing with the really basic question. which was the constitutional issue we will ever get a permanent resolution of this question is to proceed in the manner which the senator from new mexico. with the full support of all those who are on that side. i feel. is proposing. i hope very much that we may. as a senate. resolve that very basic constitutional question which. if  resolved. couldperhaps even will. as we go along in the ensuing daysput the senate in the posture of anarchy unless it is resolved. i thank my colleagues.
i thank the chair. secondly. the question submitted by the chair. which is recorded at page 1214 follows: does a majority of the senate have the right under the constitution to terminate debate at the beginning of a session and -proceed to an immediate vote on a rule -change withstanding the provisions of the existing senate rules. my question is as follows: does a vote "yea" on the motion to table mean to the chair that the chair will then submit to the senate the question of whether the senate should proceed to consider the anderson resolution for a 60percent cloture rule.
i shall be very brief. i have been taken to task time and again by the senator from georgia. this is  the first time and probably it will  be the last. he has said that my intention is to gag the senate. to the contrary. i was trying to map out a course for the chair. consistent with the rules. which would ungag the senate. the senate is  being gagged. because if the motion succeeds. the constitutional question will longer be before us. if it fails. we still will  have settled the question. either way. we will  have voted on it. as the senators from california and new york have said. we will have gotten exactly here. there comes a time when the chair must recognize that. as the vice president of the united states. constitutionally elected. certain powers have been given him by the constitution by us. but by the people. whether those powers are exercised or and the chair indicates that he will  do sothey must be exercised some day. the whole process of government can be frustrated completely by what is going on at the will of onethird of the senate. at mostperhaps even less.  would be armed with the necessary authority from the senate. the question is. shall the senate get its teeth into that question. i was only trying to outline a way in which the chair could enable the senate to get its teeth into that question. withstanding the fact that it is being filibustered to death.
. i address myself to a matter of most critical importance. namely. the concept of the senate as a continuing body. a concept which is completely irrelevant to this argument. but nevertheless is trotted out regularly because it is so pleasing to our sensibilities. is it  nice to be a solon of our country in a body which continues. and is  subject to the vicissitudes and changes of the house of representatives. a member of the senate can say to himself. "we are truly the upper body because we are a continuing body." the only difficulty with that point is that it is  relevant to the issue  before us. much as the continuingbody argument may please our egos. furthermore. such provision is to be found in the constitution. instead. the continuingbody argument defies the constitution. because the constitution provides that senators are to have a 6year term. and that there are to be two senators from each state. those are constitutional guarantees to the statesbut  the provisions of rule xxii. so those of us who subscribe to rule xxii are  good constitutionalists. instead. those who subscribe to it are bad constitutionalists. by reason of clinging to rule xxii. which is outside the constitution.
. that we are  exercising an authority to confirm officers of the united states. an authority specifically derived from article ii of the constitution. we are exercising an authority derived from a law. passed by the congress under its interstate and foreign commerce power. reserving this particular confirmation power to the senate. the question is  whether that particular power is violative of article ii of the constitution. but whether the congress had the right under its general legislative authority under the constitution to reserve that particular authority to one of its bodies. to wit. the senate of the united states. in my judgment. it had that power. and i believe that we have followed such a practice and many other permutations of it right along. secondly. it seems to me that there are highly relevant precedents. i think the union pacific charter precedent is somewhat relevant. i think the precedent of the second united states bank is extremely relevant. though it is a very old precedent. it is etheless very relevant. to me the most relevant of any of the precedents are the reservations of power which we have kept to ourselves without necessitating the concurrence of the executive. time and again. in statutes which all of us have advocated. for me. i would consider it very dangerous to challenge. give away. or question such authority on our part. i think it is an extremely valuable way in which we can deal with certain subjects without violating the constitution and at the same time conform the constitutional authority to the needs of our time. so i have come to the conclusion that this is  an issue of questioning the authority of the senate. under the constitution. to advise and consent to the appointment of officers of the united states. it is. rather. the exercise by one of the bodies of the congress. by way of authority given to this body by the whole congress in a statute which is justified by the interstate and foreign commerce clause and by the "necessary and proper" clause. i have cited the precedents and rationale which i believe -justify the position which the senate should take.
. i am very pleased that the senator from oregon took the time to explain his position. i can understand why the senator from oregon would wish us to join issue with him upon that article and section of the constitution on which he is absolutely right and on which there is contention that he is wrong. but we can and should  do it. because those of us who are going to vote for the inations rely upon a part of the constitution which sustains our point of view. so i refuse to accept the issue which the senator from oregon has set out here as the challenge. it is  the issue. if this action can be justified under aher section of the constitution. then it deserves such action. we press that point and say we are fully justified under aher section of the constitution. and the senate is only doing its duty if it advises and consents to the inations
. i consider the consensus very important. i consider it a meangful step forward in terms of the sentiment on this side of the aisle for civil rights legislation at this session of the congress. those who assume that it represents an idle gesture are completely wrong and will be found to be completely wrong. for we are purposeful and serious men. the fact that we met and deliberated about civil rights indicates that it is an issue of the highest national importance. second. it is unique. and so unique as to be worthy of particular ice. that a conference on either side of the aisle does  deal generally with a matter as controversial as this one and come forth with a consensus unless it represents a deep expression of the sentiment of a substantial majority. and unless the issue is of such magnitude that a great political party as represented by its representatives in the congress is willing to take a position. so the fact that there was a conference. and the fact that we came from that conference with a consensus. which was put before the world as the consensus of view of that conference. are of themselves facts of the greatest significance. third. the conference crystallized sentiment in my party that legislation on civil rights was needed this year. again. that is a very significant step forward. fourth. i feel that those who purposefully. with serious intent. and after great discussion resolved that meaningful civil rights legislation was needed at this session will also follow through when the real showdown vote comes. which will be a cloture vote on meaningful civil rights legislation. so i feel that a measurable step forward has been taken in marshaling a very important body of votesand i use that word instead of "sentiment"for what is needed in terms of the most urgent problem facing the country domestically today. a problem having inherent in it the morality of the country and obedience to the constitution and its validity. as well as deep questions of public order.
i promise in what i have to say i will  be excessively arrogant. i shall vote " on the pending proposal. i realize that an arrangement has been made. and that undoubtedly it will carry. i do  intend to dwell on the question of how many angels can dance on the point of a needle. but. rather. on the fundamental. substantive question involved in the proposal before the senate. i have a clear idea on it. in good conscience i believe the senate should understand why i believe it is making a mistake. there is a pattern of organization in anything we do. the pattern here. apparently in the whole senate was committed in a series of votes on the question of whether it will take the treaty as it is or leave it. even the distinguished senator from arkansas. who is in charge of the treaty. said. "i hope this resolution will  be loaded down with understandings. or anything else." the essence of my argument is that it is agreed by all that the president of the united states can use nuclear weapons in defense of the united states. that he will agree to continue underground testing. that he will maintain our ability to test in the atmosphere. and that he will maintain that ability in a state of readiness. that right is  prohibited by the treaty. furthermore. we have the constitutional right and duty to approve any. amendment. if any president does  send such a reservation to us. he is a tyrant. and should be impeached. in fairness to the 33 senators who voted to include an understanding about the use of nuclear weapons for the defense of the united states. which i believe to be as important as the proposed restatement of constitutional power. i can say to them. in good conscience. "i voted on your understanding. but i will vote yes on this understanding." at the very least. this is  more important. the important point is that we all realize that the constitution is the supreme law of the land. it is superior to the law that is a treaty. we understand that. therefore whether we accept what we do about constitutional processes in respect to the treaty. or do . it is the constitution which is superior to the treaty. although the treaty is domestic law in the united states as well as being a binding commitment in our relations with other nations. that is the total scheme before us. the senate has agreed. in vote after vote. that this is one case in which we should  try to write understandings into it. the president has said to us. "consider this treaty and vote yes on it. as it is." we should  give anyone any ground for saying. "the senate is acting as it did with the league of nations. it is attaching something to it." let us take it flatly as it is. let us  change it in any way. we have gone along with it up to this point. why change it  in a preamble.* which. everyone agrees. does  mean anything anyway. it would be a great mistake to adopt the proposal. and it would certainly be a disservice to the sincere senators who voted as they did in proposing other understandings. which the senate rejected. i see difference between this proposal and the others. some of the others went to the fundamental question of the preservation and survival of the nation. to adopt the pending proposal would mean that we were writing something into it which defied the scheme under which we agreed with the president. the president has said to us. "this is one treaty on which i want you to say yes. i will give you all the solemn assurances that can be given by the presidency." we took them all. except this one. apparently. i can see the difference. if the president is right. we should turn this proposal down. if he is wrong. then we should have adopted almost every one of the other proposals in the form of understandings which were proposed today. the senator from georgia [mr. russell]. with his customary candor and breadth of mind. has said he does  care what happened to the others. this is the one he wants to tie down.
 sent to the congress his civil rights message. he specifically asked that that provision of the morrill act be repealed. so we are dealing at one end. in the places where there is a segregated society. with segregated landgrant colleges. at the other end we are dealing with segregated 4h clubs. withstanding the fact that the membership of the 4h clubs. in round figures. is something like 2 million to 2.300.000. of whom about a million and a quarter are in the southern states. the 4h clubs in the south are completely segregated. indeed. at the national convention the south sends white clubs only. and the southern negro clubs must hold their own convention. we are providing approximately $70 million in the bill for the extension service. it seems to me. therefore. that this question must urgently be raised. i point out. too. that the agriculture department is one of the two agencies of the governmentthe other being the department of health. education. and welfarefrom which it has been impossible to get a response as to the policy which is being pursued in stateaided programs. i speak in unmeasured terms of condemnation and criticism of a government department which will  even show its hand in respect of what is being done in these programs. leaving us to find out about them through any of the indirect means available to us. the very least such a government department should do would be to tell us authoritatively what it is actually doing. and account for it to the public. and stand up for the way it construes the law. most government departments have taken the position affirmatively that they have the power under the constitution to deny funds to segregated state programs. apparently two departmentshew and agriculturedo  wish to so state. that leaves us with alternative except to try to do something when we have an opportunity to do it in the congress. these exercises are  fruitless by any means. it will be recalled that earlier this year i made a similar motion with respect to a bill relating to the farmers home administration. the motion was tabled by a vote of 47 to 38 on may 1. 1963. i am very glad to say that there has been some easing in that situation. that is the reason i have  moved on it today. some negroes have been introduced at the state and county levelvery fewbut something is happening. i point out also. that in respect of the elementary matter of segregation at airports. we were successful. because we fought the battle in amendment after amendment. withstanding tabling and withstanding defeats. the conscience of the country is truly affronted at evidences of appropriation of federal money for stateaided programs. in which stateaided programs there is a clear pattern of segregation. they are revealed to the nation and laid bare in all the inequity and injustice which they represent. one further point. it seems to me that for years the congress has been averting its eyes from something which those like myself have been pointing out time and time again. namely. the grave dangers of civil unrest which are present in the racial situation. we are contributing directly to that unrest by perpetuating this injustice. if we will  give people who feel deeply aggrieved relief by legislationlegislation as obvious as the kind of legislation proposed. in which we are dealing with federal money which is being used for purposes of perpetuating segregationwhat do we expect people who have been aroused. as the american negro has been aroused. to do. of course. the negro will go out in the streets. as he is doing . our timetableand i repeat an argument i have made time and agai the entire civil rights field of legislation is calculated to bring about civil disorder. rather than to avoid it.
i am grateful to my colleagues for their views. but it seems to me that all three senators. for whom i have high regard. come to the same conclusion: they will be cut off. they will hurt children. they will hurt women. they will hurt those who need help. they will hurt field hands. why will it hurt them. because the state administrations. elected by their people. insist upon maintaining practices completely contrary to the constitution of the united states and dangerous to public order and tranquillity in the united states. that is why it will cut them off. what does my amendment provide. it would do what the senator from vermont has said. it provides that the program shall  be carried out in such a way as to segregate or discriminate against anyone because of race. creed. or color. it provides that the program shall be colorblind. what is being said to me . it is being said that the amendment is color conscious. contrary to the constitution of the united states. because it will hurt people. because certain authorities will insist on maintaining color consciousness. contrary to the laws of the united states.
. the declaration was adopted by a vote of 89 to 0. with 17 abstentions. one of the countries which abstained was the united states. the reason for the u.s. abstention was a provision in the declaration which may possibly present problems under the constitution because it called upon the member states to pass legislation that would "outlaw" organizations which may be advocating racial discrimination or segregation. this presents a question for us under the constitution of the united states and the right of free speech under the first amendment. i have little doubt that we can deal with this issue when an opportunity comes to do so again in the general assembly. i hope very much that. by making the necessary reservations as to the constitutional protections of the united states. or by other appropriate .means which can be presented by our representative at the u.n.. gov. adlai stevenson. the united states will find it possible to join in this declaration. it is important that we do so. first. the u.n. declaration affirms the basic human values of the charter. secondand very importantlyit lines up the whole world in a declaration against discrimination and segregation which is international in scope and demonstrates to the whole world that  only does the united states suffer from manifestations of this character. which affect particularly american negroes. but that other nations have similar problems. and that the world is cognizant of them. and is  about to take a role in helping individual nations meet the problems. i am particularly impressed with two of the declarations in this master declaration.
in the first place. my view is that the rules of the senate are. for the senate. a statute having the same force and effect in the senate as a public law has for the entire nation. in the second place. the language in the legislative reorganization act itself is adequate. because it in so many words states what is the prevailing law of statutory interpretationthat is. that it will preserve what is in the rules and what is in the reorganization act unless they are inconsistent. that is the wording of the law. so whether or  we equate the rules and the legislative reorganization act as of the same power. the same impressive effect. is in this case  material. therefore. we do  have to divide or agree on it. the standard contained in the law itself is the same as the standard would be if hing were said and there were two public laws which were inconsistent. in this case. also. and very importantlyas the senator from kentucky has reminded methe constitution gives the senate power to adopt its own rules. and therefore the supreme law of the land is involved in the status of the rules. as i have said. it is unnecessary to debate that question. because the statute itself. the legislative reorganization act. uses the word "inconsistent." so i questioned the senator from georgia. and he agreed. as to whether the fundamental issue is. "are these two rules inconsistent." they are  inconsistent. and for this reason: the legislative reorganization act provides that bills on certain subjects "shall be referred" to certain committees. rule xiv provides that they shall be referred unless two things happen. one thing is that it involves a bill which comes from the house of representatives. the other is that objection is made by a senator immediately after the second reading. so the language of the statute and of the rule. taking both together. provides that a bill shall be referred to the appropriate committee unless it is a bill which comes from the house of representatives and upon second reading is objected to by any senator. in which case it goes on the calendar. it seems to me this is a completely consistent legislative scheme. there is negation. we can logically and intellectually read both provisions together. therefore. the word "inconsistent." which is the qualification of the reorganization act of 1946. is fully answered. by the fact that both these provisions are consistent. effort has ever been made to push rule xiv beyond that point. so much for the legal argument. it is my judgment that the chair is absolutely correct. as i have just statedthat it is entirely consistent. rather than inconsistent. to have a mandatory requirement for reference to a committee unless objection is heard and a provision that certain kinds of bills shall go to certain committees. all kinds of things happen without measures going to committee. according to the rules. conference committee reports are considered without going to committee. as a matter of fact. they have priority. if there is objection. resolutions may be considered on presentation. or if there is objection. may lie over a day. and then go to the calendar. so there is universal. unequivocal rule that everything goes to committee. of course. it does . so this exception from the general rule that bills and resolutions shall go to committee is entirely consistent with the general rule. . it is said that we are bypassing the rules of the senate. i took those words down as the distinguished senator from georgia uttered them. it seems to me that we are complying with the rules of the senate. it is those who would argue that the words of rule xiv have effect who are seeking to bypass the rules of the senate by invoking some other act. after all. rule xiv provides exactly and precisely what has been done here this aftern. namely. that the bill that comes over from the house of representatives. when objected to. shall go on the calendar. it is those who are seeking to construe the meaning of the legislative reorganization act as it affects rule xiv. who are bypassing it.  we. we are obeying the letter of the rule. it is high time that we did. i hope very much that we shall continue to do so in the course of the debate. for too long our friends who are deeply entrenched opponents of civil rights have used the rules to the fullin order to do what. to frustrate the senate from voting. is that high morality or constitutionality. i should say . in some respects they are entirely within their rights. if we could  muster a twothirds vote under rule xxii to close debate. they would have every right to debate until the cows came home or until the bill was watered down to their satisfaction. i state affirmatively. and upon my conviction. that the civil rights acts of 1957 and 1960 were  bills which a majority of the country would have enacted into law. they were much less than that. they were much less than that because they were cut down by an effective filibuster against them. or the threat of one. when we talk about using the rule. we will use the rule. and we will use the rule exactly as it is written. our opponents have done so consistently through the whole history of civil rights legislation. so why  weat long last. we are told that we are sayingand again i quote from the distinguished senator from georgia [s program. 1963hearing of the committee on the judiciary."
i wish to say to the senator from th carolina that i am  satisfied to have the officials of new york or any other state operate our schools in any way as  to consider the constitutional guarantee of equal protection of the laws which  includes equal opportunity for education. i shall do my utmost to see that the standard is uniform in the united states. in applying that standard. i have the utmost confidence that the state of new york will be foundas it has been for yearsin the forefront of states doing their utmost to comply with constitutional guarantees. i can only trust that we shall find the same degree of patriotism toward the constitution in every part of the nation. especially the south. 
. one fact which the senator from minnesota revealed. and which i believe is very important. is that the advertisement to which he referredand i join him in condemning it and in protesting against itwas financed by the state of mississippi. on saturday my colleague from new york referred to a similar matter: the anticivilrights mail campaign being carried on by this statefinanced committee. it may or may  be possible legally for any citizen of mississippi to prevent or restrain such an expenditure in the courts. and probably citizen of any other state would have standing to bring such a suit. but certainly all the states are subject to the constitution of the united states. since mississippi is one of the states which receives far more in federal payments. which are collected from all the taxpayers of the country. than it pays into the federal treasury itself. and since the funds thus received by mississippi are used for many of the programs which mississippi conducts and for which mississippi does  have to spend its own money because mississippi has the lowest per capita income among all the states. therefore i believe we have a right to protest against the use of u.s. funds to fill in the gap in connection with programs which. in the opinion of many of us. contain violations of the constitution of the united states. i believe that is a most important point to impress upon the people of mississippi and the people of the other states.
. new york was fortunate yesterday. it avoided great difficulty. whatever may have been the entire reason. i believe it was in large part attributable to the fact that people in high authority took a strong position against the need for any such stallin activity as had been advocated. that result illustrates the striking difference between the situations in new york state and the situations in certain areas of the south. which i have repeatedly emphasized. the key to what happened in new york is the statement in the lead article on page 1 of the new york times. which reads: a threatened stallin of 2.000 automobiles failed to materialize yesterday because leaders of the controversial tactic to hamper worlds pair traffic had vastly overestimited their ability to get support. in short. we in new york are trying to do something about this problem. and have been trying to do so consistently. in keeping with our institutions and the constitution of the united states. we are making a great deal of progress. even though we are  doing nearly as much as we would like to do. however. we are reaching the point where we are trying to do something even about racial imbalance. if only our friends in the south would try the same approach and cease trying to negate the constitution. the constitution could be enforced in their states. as well as in other states. i do  exclude new york. i have never said. "stay out of our affairs." we are a part of the united states. too. and we are subject to every one of its laws. we are willing to have the constitution enforced in our state as well as in other states. in new york we are trying to act in accordance with the constitution. i iced with a great deal of interest the anncement of the senator from georgia . who is in the chamber. and who is properly regarded as one of the deans of the senate. asking that the u.s. civil rights commission be sent to new york to investigate the situation there. we welcome that proposal. we think it is an excellent suggestion. we only hope that the senator from georgia and others who feel that way will supply the commission with the necessary equipment and money so that it can do a good job.  only in respect to new york. but also in respect to mississippi. alabama. georgia. and other states.
i think the point is that we conceive of the country. in certain of its essentials. as a country. and withstanding the human prejudices which exist. we are trying to extend the ambit of the purpose and intention of the constitution to all our citizens. we feel that. as a nation. we are sufficiently enlightened to do that . and that the other social order. which insists on perpetuating these prejudices. must. somehow or other. be helped to see this. i would rather expect. if i may say so to the senator. in all sincerity. that the enlightenment he shows in connection with so many matters would result in his being on our side. rather than on the side of those who say hing can be done about the problem. and that we must let it run its course.
but britain has never had such a builtin problem. similar to that in the south. which is based on social segregation. that has been stated time and time again. the british didand i say it without apologizing for that attempt. although i think it was sad. and regrettable in that they had to pass. some centuries ago. the toleration laws with respect to jews. and. in that respect. britain acted by law. i believe that one of the great marks of genius of our constitution is that citizens of the united states are citizens by right. regardless of their color or their faith. this is the principle we are seeking to assert here. in its manifold applications.
it seems to me that. in its thrust and ideology. the constitution requires us. when the moment has come. to act in this particular field. i believe the real concept is that. for certain purposes that suit people who believe in states rights. they are eager to have the united states remain a unity. and to have the advantage of all that is done by the nation as a whole. but when they feel that a proposed action would disturb what they like to accept as the social order for them. and say. "let us alone." i say that unfortunately a people can have it in both ways.
i have heard parts of the magnificent address just delivered by the distinguished senator from maine. i wish to state to him that he echoes the thoughts and feelings of millions of american citizens in the way he has elucidated this vast subject with such deep. constitutional as well as moral concern. the senator has emphasized constitutional guarantees and has underlined the fact that enactment of the pending civil rights bill would . by any means. automatically assure maximum guarantees under the constitution or the morality of the american people. but would represent only the minimum which the vast crisis which faces the country today calls for. other senators will make counterparts of this speech shortly. we shall all be enlightened by and vastly assisted by the thoroughly informed. welldocumented. and eloquent views which have just been expressed by the senator from maine.
i believe that is a definitive answer. i accept it as such. i believe other senators will do likewise. again i appeal to the senator from arkansas with respect to the role of the foreign relations committee on the question. which. in my judgment. begins rather than ends when we pass the joint resolution. i hope that. before the debate is over. the senator will give us some definitive statement of his own feeling. so that. within the proper area of legislative oversight. those of us who wish to vote yea on the resolution may look to the foreign relations committee to keep its hands on the controls. as far as the constitution and the practice of the congress allows. in respect to the troublesome questions which we have raised in the debate. such as the present one with respect to general khanh and his regime and the concurrence of our allies. continuous consultation. and the other questions.
. i send to the desk a joint resolution to amend the constitution of the united states to permit any state to apportion one house of its legislature on factors other than population. with the approval of a majority of the voters. i ask unanimous consent that this resolution may be printed in the record and may lie on the desk for additional sponsors until 1 week from today.
as i understand. the legal basis upon which we would be proceedingand i hope very much to join with the senator from new mexico in the effortrequires that other business be transacted by the senate before the question is considered. heretofore that understanding has been had with the majority leader. we have done that previously. as the senator who is the leader of the movement ks. that has been done in other congresses. i hope very muchand i make my expression to the senator as a legal matterthat that understanding is clear of record. that is. withstanding the fact that the senator is  submitting the resolution at this moment. which he would have an absolute right to do under the constitution and the procedures of the senate. business will intervene. before the proposed action is taken. that will prejudice the legal basis for which we have always contended for this move.
. during the consideration of s. 1564. thevoting rights act of 1965. a provision of the louisiana constitution was brought to my attention with a request that the bill be amended so as to invalidate the state law. article viii. section 1(c) of the state constitution provides that electors in louisiana be of "good character." and so defines that term as to exclude any person who has borne or fathered an illegitimate child within the preceding 5 years and any person who has lived in a commonlaw marriage within the preceding 5 years. it was my interpretation of section 4(c) (3) of s. 1564 that such state statutes would be suspended for purposes of determining voter eligibility in affected states. of which louisiana would be one. and that an amendment to the bill would  be necessary. this view was confirmed by the attorney general. nicholas katzenbach. in a letter to me dated june 11. for purposes of clarifying the legislative history of the bill. therefore. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the attorney generals letter on this matter be printed at this point in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a concurrent resolution of the legislature of the state of new york memorializing congress and the state legislatures to oppose efforts being made to amend the constitution with respect to the apportionment of legislatures.
i do  read it that way. the way i read it is that all of the provisions of the constitution would apply. including the 14th amendment. except insofar as this particular amendment which i am proposing gives further latitude. namely. gives latitude to adopt a different apportionment. one based on geography or political subdivision as well as population. in response to the reasonable needs of the state as determined by the courts. as i read the amendmentand as its author i have made that the authoritative legislative historyit has only the intention which i have specified.
 the senator from arkansas refused to have hearings on that motion. perhaps there are others who felt that way. i can understand why. he is concerned about denigrating the position of the president. the man who is charged under the constitution with our foreign policy. unless the president requests one. we would be reluctant to offer one. except in extremis. i am  prepared at the moment to say that there is that much of a break between the executive and legislative branches of the government. i would rather have something put forward that is constructive. and have the president come forward with some idea of his own. on the other hand. i think there is dissatisfaction in the country over this resolution. because it is out of date. and we think there should be aher expression. so that we could at least join the president in what is the policy of the country.
. i conclude as follows: we can allow one state or several states to stand above the conscience and the ho of the nation and of the constitution. there have been too many martyrs in the civil rights struggle already. it is our duty to see that there are more. to make sure that it is possible everywhere in this country to exercise an americans right under the constitution without suffering or standing in fear of physical violence. i hope very much that we will show our concern by acting with celerity as a congress upon the measure which is  before the committee and which is being considered in the other body as well.
may i ask the majority leader this question. we have had a vote on a constitutional issue. and we have had a vote on cloture. which a majority has voted for . i ask the majority leader whether it is  more fair to the senate. because of the fact that we have said here time and again that if a majority really wants something it can get it done. to persevere in this matter. the senate is  that busy. the only other piece of legislation on the calendar is that of the senator from oklahoma . rather than to pass immediately from this matter. considering that a majority wants it considered. to some other. because we are frustrated by the fact that twothirds have  voted for itserving to confirm what so many of us feel. that the constitution has  been amended to provide for twothirds rulemay i ask the senator whether he would  permit us to try the cloture route once more. say next thursday. and then dispose of this whole question this week. so that we may really see what the vote might be on reconsideration by senators who have seen that a majority wants to consider this matter. and may therefore feel that perhaps the senate can be more vindicated on that basis. by its perseverance in deciding the constitutional question. if we do allow debate to go forward at least on the merits.
. today marks the 176th anniversary of the polish constitution of may 3. one of the guiding lights of european democracy. that constitution encompasses many of the principles of a free society that we in the west hold true today: the sovereign power and will of the people. the rule of law. and the protection of the individual from the smothering influence of an allpowerful state. how tragically ironic that this nation should  be the subject of those evils from which it has so eloquently striven to defend itself. yet despite the history of oppression and inhumanity that has troubled this country. poland has been able to make a profound contribution to the cultural development of europe and the world. we shall ever be indebted to the poland of copernicus. marie curie. chopin. paderewski. henryk sienkiewicz. and countless others. and its courage with kosciusko and the heroes of the warsaw ghetto. to what can we express our appreciation for this great contribution in human talent. it is to the spirit and determination of the people of poland. to those who have acquitted themselves with the ho and courage that is so characteristic of a freedomloving people that we give our thanks. america owes a great deal to the heritage poland has sent to its shores. as a measure of appreciation let me join in saluting polands often glorious past. and in looking forward to a hopeful future of greater understanding and cooperation between our two nations. and in building toward that day when poland can once again live under the principles of the original polish constitution.
i believe that is a definitive answer. i accept it as such. i believe other senators will do likewise. again i appeal to the senator from arkansas with respect to the role of the foreign relations committee on the question. which. in my judgment. begins rather than ends when we pass the joint resolution. i hope that. before the debate is over. the senator will give us some definitive statement of his own feeling. so that. within the proper area of legislative oversight. those of us who wish to vote yea on the resolution may look to the foreign relations committee to keep its hands on the controls. as far as the constitution and the practice of the congress allows. in respect to the troublesome questions which we have raised in the debate. such as the present one with respect to general khanh and his regime and the concurrence of our allies. continuous consultation. and the other questions.
if the senator will permit me to interrupt there. just to add to what the senator has said. this was  only dealt with by the legislature and the gover. but it also went to the voters. they approved an amendment to the state constitution establishing this lottery by a 3to2 vote. a plurality of 860.000. then a bill was passed implementing the amendment by a vote of 54 to 4 in the state senate. and 125 to 20 in the state assembly. i can think of any legislation that could have as much to back it up as this. in terms of what the people wanted.
in any case. the law of new york is very clear. fiftyfive percent goes to education. 30 percent to prizes. and 15 percent to administration. . we are dealing with a sovereign state. with 10 percent of the population of this country. every state. without regard to size. consequence. or financial importance. has an equal standing before the united states and its constitution and its laws. this is  an inconsidered judgment.
. i would like to propound a parliamentary inquiry so that we understand the situation. rule xli think it is rule xiunder which the chair required the ice to be filed is  brought into question by the effort to change rule xxii. and my parliamentary inquiry is this: does the ruling of the chair that a ice must be filed in order to bring up this resolution leave unaffected. either under the constitution or the rules. the effort made by the substantive resolution itself.
 pro tempore. held in response to a parliamentary inquiry of mine the other day as to whether we would be waiving any rights in a given situation. that obviously the constitution being paramount. it would control if it were applicable in a given situation. and we contend it is. we believe if the presiding officer will obey the constitution the question can and will be put before the senate.
the senator asked me whether we accept. we do  accept at all. we espouse the legal proposition that the rules of the senate carry on by acquiescence at the beginning of a congress. except those which are challenged and sought to be amended. and the challenge and the effort to amend includes also any rule which would stand athwart of the capability to amend. obviously. section 2. rule xxxii. would stand athwart the capability to amend. therefore. we do  accept it. but our failure to accept it. or the fact that we do  accept it. does  mean that we are capricious or that we are making our own rules. we say that by acquiescence everything is applicable except what prevents us from exercising what we consider to be authority given by the constitution to bring about amendment to the rules. which amendment we specifically propose. having proposed a specific amendment to rule xxii. we feel that under the constitution. the proceedings looking toward the amendment of rule xxii are  capable of being inhibited by the rules outside of rule xxii. but where the rules outside of rule xxii will  inhibit the right to try to amend rule xxii. then by acquiescence. they continue to be the rules of the senate.
i shall in a moment. so that we are dealing with a relatively el concept which is unique to the senate of the united states. which is considered to be the greatest legislative body on earth. but which also has some of the most unique rules on earth. and this is one of them. for it is this. in our judgmentand i think it has been borne out by historywhich has created an extraconstitutional restraint--a negative. upon the power of the congressthat extraconstitutional restraint being that hing can be done in this country except if both houses of congress concur. the constitutional rule is that we go by a majority. except in given. specified constitutional cases. some nine in number. when a twothirds vote is required. mind you. . we could have a revolution on that basis. this is laughing or simple matter. unhappily. to some this whole debate appears irrelevant because it goes on every 2 years and. somehow or other. we have found that we can get around it when we really. really are in trouble. but it gives power to a band of determined men which the congress would never vote and the people would never include in the constitution and which would have been rejected in the constitution when it was submitted to the states in the 18th century. but. because. somehow or other. we can strike the shackles from our hands and we get tied up in our own redtape until we stumble on our own feet. this has persisted and persisted and persisted. until one dark day it is going to be a danger and a threat to the continuance of the republic. which it is capable of being. but which. thank god. it has never beenbut which it is capable of being. therefore. i consider that when we act as we have in congress after congress. trying to undo this extraconstltutional restraint. we are serving a very high patriotic purpose for our country
let me finish. please. because the senator vas gracious to me. as to the right of the people. there is a right of the people under the constitution. a right to have their representatives vote on vital questions. in that way we challenge rule xxii as one that enables a miity of the senate to veto a majority. there is such provision in the constitution which compels us. if a miity wills it. to follow the rules of 1789. so that we could never change them. somehow or other the right of the people to be heard is entitled to consideration in this chamber.
. i should like to make two points. i probably have been as active as anyone on the floor of the senate to change this rule. and i should like to underwrite what the majority leader and the senator from rhode island have said. i believe that what we are trying to do is to capture power for the people. hing in the constitution provides that onethird of the senate shall be able to block action on any measure. other than those sections which provide a twothirds majority according to the constitution. yet. that is the effect of this. you are depriving the people of their rights. why do you  go to the people with a constitutional amendment. if that is the power you want. and name the kind of legislation for which you want it. we are fighting for the rights of the people. we are willing to make a reasonable compromise. we understand the realities. but if you deny us the threefifths. we will continue to fight--we mustand the objective must therefore be something which the constitution does say. which is a majority. but if you wish to end the fight. then i believe you will have a reasonable compromise for the senate for a very considerable period of time. i thoroughly agree with the majority leader. i make one other point: every argument that the senator from illis made assumes that if you elucidate a subject to the country. some day you vote. but that is  true. the fact is that you do  vote. under this filibuster rule. you do  vote unless the twothirds allow you to do so. so that you can elucidate until you are green in the face. but you are still denied the constitutional power to legislate. it is amazing to me that men who pride themselves upon their belief in the constitution should allow the senate to continue and continue under this extraconstitutional system. i may  be here. but i predict that the senate will run into a situation that will shake the foundations of our government. you talk about imperiling our freedom. you are imperiling our freedom by giving a miity the power to prevent action. we will have men here who will succeed us. who will  act. and then you will rue this day.
. may 3 marked the 176th anniversary of the polish constitution. one of the guiding lights of european democracy. that constitution encompasses many of the principles of a free society that we in the west hold true today: the sovereign power and will of the people. the rule of law. and the protection of the individual from the smothering influence of an allpowerful state. how tragic it is that this nation should  be the subject of those evils against which it asserted itself at such an early date. yet despite the history of oppression and inhumanity that has troubled the country. poland has been able to make a real contribution to the cultural development of europe. we are indebted to poland for copernicus. marie curie. chopin. paderewski. henryk sienkiewicz. and many others. such as the courageous kotciuszko. the heroic masaryk. and the jewish heroes of the warsaw ghetto. the people of poland have acquitted themselves on many historic occasions with the ho and courage that is so characteristic of a freedomloving people in the many historical misfortunes they have had to bear. america owes a great deal to poland for the sturdy citizens it has sent to our shores. as a measure of appreciation i join in saluting the glories of polands past. and in looking forward to a hopeful future of greater understanding and cooperation between our two nations.
. there is one basic point. it seems to me. that we have to decide. that is why we have this provision  after 50 years. if the comptroller general has all the power which the opponents of this motion say he has. and he has . he has been asserting this power for half a century. apparently with egh success to warrant the continuance of the power and with egh success so that we do  have to legislate about it specially until we get into a situation in which all of a sudden everyone decides he has to have this power buttressed. it can be so big and it can be so absolute if congress decides the minute he gets in a contest with the attorney general that it has to rally to his side. he does  have all of this power. however. that is the way it has worked for the past 50 years. it is a good thing that he is  absolutely sure of his ground any more than is the attorney general. as so often happens in our free society. it works out better. . we want to nail it into law. if we sustain the claim which is sought in this particular appropriations bill. the result will be to settle a constitutional issue by giving absolute power to this congressional officer because in this particular case he happens to decide with a lot of the members of congress. who. in the other body. have already been demonstrated  to be in the majority. who want to certify in him this absolute power. the attorney general claims  to have such absolute power. as the attorney general. he is amenable and susceptible to the courts at all times. he does  claim this absolute power. that whatever he holds about federal law or the constitution is controlling on the part of the people of the united states and the congress and the executive. yet. that is what is in a supplemental appropriation bill at the tail end of the session in an attempt to endeavor to latch it into our constitutional system. the debate is infinitely greater than the cause which has brought this provision about. what are the proponents of the provision trying to do in connection with this very practical philadelphia plan. the contractors are running into a situation in which they might have to sue for their money. a government department is in doubt and may be unable to certify their vouchers. however. they are  satisfied with that. they want them to buy a law suit. who wants to buy a law suit. yet this is exactly what this provision says. he has already held that any contract made under this plan is unconstitutional. so if we ram it down their throats and say that anything he holds to be in contravention of that federal statute is absolute and vital. they are just buying a lawsuit. if that little area of doubt is eliminated. and the plan is finished. we have been trying to find lots of ways to do a lot of things to remedy conditions in the building construction industry.  only with respect to this question of discrimination in employment. for years and years. and indeed for decades. which have plagued the construction industry. but also in respect of more modern methods and different ideas and a breath of fresh air in respect to this industry. and that is what many senators have always tried to contend for in regard to the trade associations until this issue comes up. and then it becomes an issue between the power of the comptroller general of the united states and the attorney general of the united states. and the fundamental point with respect to what is being attempted here will be aborted or killed and overlooked. that happens to be what many of the same senators have been after for years. but they do  want it under this guise.
i thoroughly agree with the senator. but i can momentarily. for reasons of the constitution and law. attack de facto as hard as i would like. that should  stop us from dealing with de jure segregation where it exists. that is all i am saying. i do  disagree with the senator. but i am just warning againstand the senator is illustrating it in his own prospective votegetting off the idea of dealing with this issue wherever we can find it. and wherever we can get at it. because we can deal with it all at this given moment in the way we would like. this may be a fundamental difference in philosophy between us. but i do  think any senator from the south will complainif he does i do  think it is justifiedagainst me on the ground that i have misstated the law. or tried to disguise the facts. or to whitewash my own area of the world. i consciously have never endeavored to do that. but i have committed myself. as a human being and as a senator. to try to deal with this subject wherever we could get hold of it. that is all i say. i do  differ with the senator. i only say that i do  think we should stay our hands in trying to deal with this issue wherever we can deal with it. because we can deal with it all in a moment of time.
. for me. i intend to go on doing my utmost as ranking member of this committee. as a man and as a senator of responsibility. in respect of a major bill. to preserve everything that can be preserved both of federal aid to elementary and secondary education according to the scheme of the bill. which is of emous benefit to the country. and in respect of the mandate of the constitution in respect of desegregating the public schools of america. i always say that they publish newspapers every day and it looks black today. but it may be brighter tomorrow. i believe that. somehow or other. our collective wisdom will enable us to fight our way through to a solution. i should like to address one word to my southern colleagues. the constitution has been their bulwark and their defense on a thousand battlefields. indeed. their principle has always been that if abraham lincoln had lived. the course of transition after the civil war would have been very much smoother and far less painful. and that the hurts and wounds would have been bound up much more quickly. the constitution of the united states is a holy testament to them. as it is to me. it is infinitely more important and overshadows the grave controversy in which we are  engaged. i am reminded of a line in the old testament with respect to my own faith: behold. i have given you a good doctrine. forsake it . i hope very much that we will all realize how much we have at stake in the integrity of the constitution. and the authority of the supreme court. even though we do  disagree with it. and in the structure of this country. for we can govern millions of people by force. that goes for blacks and it goes for whites. we will  so tip the balance. just because the tide happens to be going that way. as i indicated yesterday. in such a manner as to destroy our own purposes and our own fundamental rights.
. there is hing angelic about any of this. the fact is. we all seem to be agreed that we want to follow the constituticnal mandate. that we do  want. by amendments loaded onto the bill. to abate the constitutional mandate. yet. this amendment will go directly to the heart of the ability to cope with enforcement of the constitution of the united states.
. this goes directly to the new york statute. the new york statute deals with busing children to correct racial imbalance. and the legislature prohibits such busing on educational grounds. there are other state laws involved. for educational reasons. only elected boards of education may order busing. i think that law is wrong. and i am doing and will do everything i can to fight it. but let us understand its limitations. it deals  with segregation grounded in law. but with segregation grounded in fact. something the constitution can control. also. it affects only four cities. and very shortly will  affect new york city. which is in the process of electing a board of education.
i have been so advised. at the same time. i do  think that that affects the issue at all. because there was never any accusationand i do  k of anythat the reason why they fell under the 50 percent in terms of voting was attributable to any discriminatory act  or at any time in even the remote past. in terms of voting. however. i deeply feel. without being invidious about thiswe all understand that it was based upon a social order which is very different from what the constitution ordersthat in those areas which are reached by the 1964 trigger. there was very clear evidence. thoroughly documented time and time again. fully spread upon the record of senate debates. that it was a calculated. political. and social policy to bar or discourage the negro from voting. so i think that we had a right to do what we did. the courts have sustained it. i do  think that the fact that this amendment would draw in three counties in new york is relevant.
i believe that is a definitive answer. i accept it as such. i believe other senators will do likewise. again i appeal to the senator from arkansas with respect to the role of the foreign relations committee on the question. which. in my judgment. begins rather than ends when we pass the joint resolution. i hope that. before the debate is over. the senator will give us some definitive statement of his own feeling. so that. within the proper area of legislative oversight. those of us who wish to vote yea on the resolution may look to the foreign relations committee to keep its hands on the controls. as far as the constitution and the practice of the congress allows. in respect to the troublesome questions which we have raised in the debate. such as the present one with respect to general khanh and his regime and the concurrence of our allies. continuous consultation. and the other questions.
i can explain that. i hope quickly. in the first place. my amendment closely parallels the the mansfieldbyrd language. more pertinently. it closely paraphrases the constitution. that is what the constitution says. the senator from west virginias amendment says that the president. as commander in chief. can react when the troops are endangered. wherever deployed. i agree. but there is a point at which that power ceases or. at least. the power of congress comes into dominant play. i am  trying to define that point . i am preserving our right to do it under the constitution. that is all.
the senator is correct. but congress might proceed under other powers which the constitution gives it with respect to governing the armed forces. for instance. in a given case. we have directed the draftees should  be sent abroad. we did that in the 1940s. the power was used in the national security act setting up of the department of defense. which sets up the current structure for the governance of our armed forces. second would be a revised mcgovernhatfield looking to the governance of forces. saying that on and after a certain date our forces should  serve in a certain theater. but to cut off the money is drastic. that is my reason for being reluctant to go on to the mcgovern measure as a cosponsor. this would be an exercise of our power. but one which would be relatively unilateral and i do  welcome that one. we may have to do it. but i do  welcome it.
whatever the constitutional powers. my judgment is that when a senator votes "yea" he is  accepting my personal judgment as to what power that leaves the president. that is a very important point. when a senator votes "yea" all he is saying is that we  resort to the constitution because we are going to take the gulf of tonkin resolution off the books. so i am  asking any senator necessarily to join me in my interpretation of the powers of the president. there may be arguments on that point. i want to make that clear. i am  saying that any senator who votes "yea" adopts my argument. but only clears the decks for going back to the constitutional powers of the president. whatever they may be.
. if i may make the situation clear to the senate. will it be understood that if this resolution is considered and acted on. whatever the law provides with respect to the power to continue this authority will continue to be the law. unchanged by this resolution. and will it also be understood that this resolution represents wpiver of precedent or otherwise adversely affects the right of senators who will be sworn in or who will continue as senators in the new congress to challenge the continuance of the rules of the senate under the constitution which provides that each body shall deal with its own rules in every new congress.
 that "he shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed." lest there be any doubt about the authority of the congress to define the function of the commander in chief. the concluding paragraph of section 8 of article i gives congress the power "to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers and all other powers vested by this constitution in the government of the united states. or in any department or officer thereof." it is my intention. at an early date. to place in the record a full legal brief on the constitutional and legal aspects of the bill i have introduced today.
how very kind of the senator. i am very grateful. i might tell my colleague that i would  be for this measure if i did  think it would materially advance the cause of bringing about higher educational excellence. which i think is the first consideration. the desegregation of the schools. and the accomplishment of our goal of compensating. where we can do anything else. the education of those who have been dispossessed. . these laws which we are passing are universally applicable. there have been suits everywhere and there will be more. but i do  believe it is in the interest of our nation to obscure. to cover over. or to induce us to try to forget that in a great section of this country there was a builtin social order and law which violated the constitution of the united states for decades.
. last year. when the senate considered but did  pass the equal rights amendment. a group of us offered a version of that proposal when it became apparent that amendments to the original version had rendered it unacceptable. the significant difference between the original equal rights amendment and the version which we offered last year is that the latter replaces the term "equality of rights" with "equal protection of the laws." this term carries with it settled legal doctrine which can most effectively serve the just delineation of womens equal rights. as a constitutional lawyer. i believe that the equal protection clause of the 14th amendment to the constitution should be read to apply the same standard of prohibition to discrimination on account of sex as to discrimination on account of race. the courts have presumed the invalidity of racial classification and have cast upon public authority the heavy burden of proving justification for racial classification. the substitute equal rights amendment makes this same presumption with regard to sexual classification. placing the burden of justification on the state. since the house will consider the equal rights amendment next week. and senate consideration is likely this year. i  send to the desk a proposed constituitional amendment identical to the substitute offered last year. i offer this proposal so that it will be available for consideration should the proponents of the equal rights amendment decide that its consideration is desirable. i ask that the text of the proposal be printed in the record.
if they would approve something more permanent than the constitution of the united states. which is what the senator is arguing for. if. once they approve the plan. that is the end of it forever and ever. i just can see that.
yes. strenuous objection. the classic way to deal with extended debate. by which the miity wishes to force the majority to its will rather than the other way around. has been to keep the senate in long sessions to concentrate on the business at hand. which hurts people who want other business to . be transacted. i k that this has been doneas i have been here a long timeby other leaders. it does  seem to be the style of the majority leader of this particular senate. for that. naturally. he is answerable to his own constituency. and his own conscience and character. i have comment upon it except to accept the ultimate fact. but i would like to make this point. and i am grateful to the senator from montana for his customary decency in allowing me to make it. it imposes a strong responsibility on the rest of us. if we really want this bill. it will  happen by late night sessions or all night sessions--i have slept here. as have many other members who have been here for a long timeor by hurting other business. in order to make people feel the heat. it will be done only because twothirds of the senate. under our peculiar rulesand they are peculiarare convinced that they want this particular measure. . i merely rise.  that i have any illusions that my own protest. strenuous protest that it is. will deter the leader. but only to make it clear to the membership that this matter will have to be decided by the memberships  playing games with themselves or their own consciences. every member who wishes to vote for cloture and really feels that he wants this bill. in sincerity and in ho. and in representation with the cause of those so intimately affected. had better. on the next goaround. vote it.  with the idea in mind that there will be afiother chance. or that people will get worn out. or that there will be a great appeal to "loving kindness." because there "aint gonna be." the miity can easily frustrate the majority. withstanding the fact that the constitution expects us to rule by majority. this is the first step in the process. again i emphasize that i find fault whatever here. this is the style of the distinguished majority leader. he is running true to his own style and conscience. but for those of us who feel strongly about this bill. let me remind them that the bell is tolling very quickly. we must understand that
the point the senator from new york was going to make was substantive. we will argue about these things. this is the opening salvo in what will be an extended argument. but the senator from new york thinks. in all fairness. a few facts should be clear. one is that there is a constitution of the united states. which virginia was so instrumental in drawing up.
the supreme court has put a restraint on busing. it has said children can be bused for miles and miles if it would destroy their health and take them away from their firesides. the court. in swann. has heldand the case in virginiamust meet this testthat the busing of childrencan interfere with the health. education. wellbeing. comfort. or welfare of the children. of course . one is for that. but it is proposed to rule out busing completely as a tool for getting americans where they have a reasonable opportunity for a good education. which the constitution gives. until a group here or together with the other body change the constitution. which makes it aher matter. lastlyand i am throughvirginia is one of the states that taught most clearly that. if you really wanted freedom. you had to curb the oppressive power of a government or of a majority. and that there are some inalienable right& of individuals that belong to miities. whether they be black or of a religion different from the majority. we are all miities. and the constitution protects miities. whatever the senator from virginia may be willing to lay down his life for. i am willing to lay mine down for the protection of the individual against an omnipresent government or against an omnipresent majority which would suppress the individual. that is the real issue here. we will have a lot of time to debate it. but that is the real issue. i do  have to assure the senator of the deep respect i have for him and the people of his state. but i did  want the senators eloquent words to stand on the record without anything else being said. we will debate this matter. and. as typical--and i hope this will be true all my lifewe will work this out. but i thought at least the whole case. as long as it was being brought upas the senator has a perfect right to doshould be set out on the record.
. that does  mean that great changes. great reforms. great ackledgements of what is troubling our people. can be legislated. and i hope to deal with that upon aher occasion. but it does deal with the proposition that e fundamental change in the basic and organic constitution of the country would be most ill advised and would be exactly what calmer heads must avoid at a moment when a constitutional amendment seems so easy a solution. the public. because of its legitimate concerns about a situation of adjustment to the desegregation of schools everywhere in the country for many many reasons. should  be led into a basic change in the government of our country. in the institution of government of our country. which would be so adverse to our people and so socially divisive. i believe that that is going to be the issue what law we shall pass on busing. i am confident that we will be able to work out something on that. but. shall we change the organic law of the united states. senator mondale says  and i say decidedly  i am sure that in the days ahead we will be debating that issue. but i deeply believe that the moment has come for senators to express themselves on that fundamental issue of principle and policy. which i herewith do. as i have said. that is going to be the dividing line in this whole fight between those who want to change the united states basically and organically and repeal in some fashion the 14th amendment and those who do . and i aline myself with the latter.
i have enumerated them. as a matter of fact. powers asserted by the president are cut off. the powers. i said. are quantitatively limitedif that is a cutoff. which it may very well prove to be. but one contends. i hope. that the president has unlimited power. the words "commander in chief" mean something. they do  say he is the absolute ruler and dispenser of everycxviii---697part 9 thing for the american peopletheir life. their liberty. their property. that is why we have a written constitution. because the president. as we. has only such power as the constitution gives him.
. the need for this legislation is in human terms as well as urgent need to protect the immediate environs from the threatening seas. i hope that early consideration of this measure in the public works committee will enable a construction start on this beach erosion project promptly. by mr. helms: s.j. res. 130. joint resolution proposing an amendment to the constitution of the united states guaranteeing the right of life to the unborn. the ill. the aged. or the incapacitated. referred to the committee on the judiciary.
 wants to do so in a given situation. he can say that it was a national emergency created by an attack on the united states. he could still go ahead. so. we have  added anything to that. under both bills he would be acting outside of the law and outside of the constitution. again i repeat that i would have preferred the statutory bounds on his hands. this is a declaration of the meaning constitution on this point. it is by means empty or without import.
the answer to that is "" and i will tell the senator why i say the answer to that is "" whatever may be the presidents constitutional authority. he has it. whatever it may be. we give him new grant of constitutional authority. hence. in terms of the constitutional authority to put our forces into war. i adhere to the construction of the constitution which says he may only do that where our territory or our forces are in danger. as a matter of fact. the writers of the constitution said in the event of "sudden attack." that is quite a separate question. in my judgment. and it has hing to do with this bill. which neither makes  unmakes that situation. that is the important point about reading the bill. in my judgment. before the president put forces into those areas. he should come to congress for its authority. by resolution.
. should the house vote a bill of impeachment it will then be sent to the senate for trial. i stand ready and willing to hear the facts and the evidence without personal or political bias and to do my duty to judge fairly in the best interests of the nation as the constitution and my conscience demand.
we can  amend rule xxii. right here and . so that the managers of the bill can control the floor. that is what people like myself have been contending for since 1957. when i came to the senate. but that is  the law. so long as the law is that we can debate it. we will.  already has power. why is it necessary to provide that it becomes law. in addition. it deprives us of the initiative. because if one house does  want to go along. it becomes law. it turns the constitution on its ear. i hope the senator will explain that.
i am  saying that. i merely point out that in order to really bring this issue to a point where it represents the vital determination before the country. we have  yet had that confluence of circumstance where the senate itself. by a majority vote. did  shrink from saying that the constitution gives us the power and that we intend to use it. as i say. at that point there may be a crisis decision for whoever is the vice president. i pointed that out. but it would  be of his making. it would be of the making by the senate. and that has  yet happened because the senate did  vote affirmatively on the question when it had the chance. so i hope. because this is the moment when the winds of change are blowing through this capitol in an unparalleled way. both here and in the other body. that the senate can truly measure up to its responsibility and what we all k will be the convictions of a majority by facing this issue and saying yes instead of  if this happens. it will say. "we find that the constitution gives us this power. and we propose to exercise it."
but the constitution does very closely say that each house shall determine the rules of its proceedings. and therefore that may come about at any time. at the beginning of each congress. at the end. or in the middle. and it can be inhibited by a rule of that house. and that is what i am arguing. in other words. my fundamental point is  the time of doing it. because that has just been a traditional practice. following that of the house of representatives. my fundamental point is that the constitution is paramount to any rule that we adopt in the senate. and it is that paramountcy which is sought to be carried out by senator pzarsons motion.
 annced that a vote by the senate to table the point of order would be interpreted by him as an expression of the will of the senate that senator pearsons motion be adopted. the point of order was then tabled 51 to 42. on february 26. after a series of intervening dilatory motions had been tabled. our earlier action was clarified in a series of motions wherein senator mondale moved that in accordance with the precedent of february 20. we proceed to vote on the motion to take up senate resolution 4. senator mansfield raised a point of order to the effect that the mondale motion was out of order in that it would preclude intervening motions. in tabling that point of order by a vote of 46 to 43. the senate affirmed its earlier intention to preclude such motions as well as further debate on the mondalepearson motion. on march 3 and march 5. in preparation for adopting a compromise rule xxii. the senate voted. respectively. t0 reconsider the tabling motion of february 26 and to affirm the point of order raised that day by senator mansfield. the point which i believe is important for us to emphasize is that while the senate did reconsider its earlier votesand in so doing. gave up valuable precedents which could have been used in future efforts to amend rule xxiiwe in way diminished our rights under the constitution. the same can be said of our adoption of a new rule xxii which provides. in part. that all future rules changes be accomplished by a twothirds vote. even though we  adopt this rule. we are in way precluded. in future congresses. from arguing that the constitution itself precludes such a restriction. as the distinguished senior senator from california said immodiately following the vote on upholding the mansfield point of order only adds one tree to the jungle of precedents we reside in. but above and beyond that jungle stands the constitution. and precedent can reverse the fact that the constitution supercedes the rules of the senateand that the constitutional right to make its rules can be challenged. if there remains any doubt as to our right to raise the constitutional issue even though the new rule is specific on the point we can look to the history of the operation of rule xxii as amended in 1959. at that time. the senate changed the rule so as to require a twothirds vote of those present and voting to cut off debaterather than a constitutional twothirdsand we also added a new section to rule xxii. providing that "the rules of the senate shall continue from one congress to the next congress unless they are changed as provided in these rules." although i opposed the latter provision. and indeed sought to amend it i never believed even at that time that it would have any practical effect on our right to raise the constitutional argument in future congresses. the history of our continuing efforts to change rule xxii proves that that interpretation was correct. to quote from the 1959 debate on this point: mr. javrrs. i also believe that. in all fairness. a new congress could raise the question (of amending the rules by majority vote) anew. and seek to decide it anew. and one could stop it. we can amend the constitution. one ks that better than we. i think this is a constitutional question.
on the evening of monday. october 20. the president signed into law the japanunited states friendship act. i originally introduced the japanunited states friendship act in august 1972. and was later joined in its sponsorship by congressman wayne hays of ohio. it is a most gratifying culmination of 3 years of work to see .the enactment of this very significant legislation. i believe the new law will enhance and strengthen very materially the bonds of friendship and channels of meaningful communication between japan and the united states and between our respective peoples. while it is unfortunate that this legislation could  be signed during the visit of their majesties the emperor and empress of japan in this country. i believe that it is a fitting tribute to the japanese people to have enacted with president fords signature. the japanunited states friendship act so close upon the return of. their majesties to japan. preparatory to the presidents signature of the bill. the question arose in the executive branch regarding the intention of the legislation as to whether or  members of congress serving on the japanunited states friendship commission. established by the bill. would have a vote on the commission. this question. which involves article i. section 6 and article ii. section 2 of the constitution. was discussed during the housesenate conference on the bill. and as it was clear that the mandate of the constitution would be binding. the staff was directed to act accordingly in filing the conference report. to clarify the point. acting assistant secretary of state for congressional relations. kempton b. jenkins. wrote to the two chairmen of the conference. senator sparkman and representative morgan. and the sponsors of the senate and house bills. myself and representative wayne hays. in my response of october 17. i stated that the requirements of the constitution having been determined. it was clear that members of congress serving on the japanunited states friendship commission would serve in a voting. advisory capacity. senator sparkman and representatives morgan and hays responded similarly. to add to the official record of this legislation. i ask unanimous consent that the exchange of letters between acting assistant secretary jenkins. senator sparkman. representative morgan. representative hays and myself be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
let me go back to the statute and demonstrate what i mean or why this is a perfectly sound doctrine. in 203(b). which is sought to be partially stricken by this amendment. i said: "we for high social and political policy reasons simply restated the obvious." and i argue and it is the basis of my opposition to this amendment that to strike out that statement raises the big issue of social policy which we had decided by accepting the scottmansfield compromise. that is. that the miities in the country need have fear that congress was trying by statute to change the constitution. but. on the contrary. we maintain our adherence to the constitution as we expected everyone else. and that being the essence of the mandate we laid down. it would be a great mistake in policy to change it. in addition especially it would be a great mistake as it meant hing. the fact is that the supreme court would go right ahead and do whatever it thinks it ought to do in the absence of a change in the constitution. and that is right. that is according to american law. if my colleagues feel deeply aggrieved by it they can take it to the people by a constitutional amendment if they can get the necessary concurrence. and there is way of cutting and trimming on that proposition. unless you want to junk the constitution. . to sponsor. in order to make it as authoritative and weighty as we could. and it is working in terms of the tranquility of our country. the expressions of violence which we have seen. and they are real. must be compared to the universe in which there is violence and in which the constitution is at long last being enforced. to dismantle this delicately balanced structure by striking out a key portion of the scottmansfield compromise when it will mean hing except troubleit does  change a thing. even according to the case they citewould be. in my judgment. the height of unwise public policy. and i hope very much that when the appropriate moment comes we will reject this amendment.
