. we have heard a lot about obligations we have undertaken to western europe. i think it is time we heard a little about the obligations western europe has undertaken to us. let us remember that the th atlantic treaty is a twoway street. europe has said it will lay down its life in defense of the united states. equally with that the united states has said its soldiers and its material will be put into the struggle against communist aggression. let us understand. too. that western europeans have taken quite a beating. they k what war means at first hand. they have been fought over and occupied. so it is a much harder decision for them to make to resist than it is for us. if all western europeans wanted to do was to just save their own skins. they could save their bare lives. or at least most of them. except for those who went to slave labor camps. or those who were shot for being "deviationists"they could save their bare lives by surrendering to the russians tomorrow. obviously western europeans have such thing in mind. the best assurance of the fact that western europe has the will to fight is the fact that in face of soviet threats and fulminations about war mongers and a ring of military and air bases. western europe has undertaken this obligation under the th atlantic treaty to fight on the front line for the defense of the whole world. that was a daring thing for them to do when. in terms of military armament they had such meager defenses. we are seeing to the fact that they are  without means for defense. that is one of the essential purposes of this bill. the other essential purpose of this bill is to show that american leadership in the free world ks where it is going. i would like to state clearly the effect of this bill. it means that those who want to go it aloneand there are some in the united states who want to go it alonethey will vote against this bill. what is the use of spending money to help allies if you want to go it zlone. but the people who want allies. the people who fundamentally take the philosophy of general eisenhower. are going essentially to vote for this bill. though they may differ on it in details. in my view. this is going to be the payoff vote in this congress. as to whether members want allies or whether they want to go it alone. i would like to confine my own particular part of this discussion to one major phase of the bill. and that is what are we doing to look ahead to tomorrow. where do we go from here. is this just a matter of taking money from the revenues of the united states and turning it over for ecoic and military aid all over the world and does it just go on and on. let us understand that this bill is broadening the whole program to include other areas of the world. the far east and the near east and africa as well as the other american republics. are we looking forward to some solution even if the soviet bloc continues to be truculent and aggressive. even if they refuse to agree upon armaments control and do their best to immobilize the united nations. even if. as many expect. tensions and localized aggressions and subversions go on for 10 or 20 years without a major war. i say we are looking forward. we are  as allpowerful. we are  as rich. we may  evenbe as productive. due to limitations imposed by raw materials. as we think. the real hope for the free world is that we look forward to some solution. but in order to look forward we have to undertake this program. a. very magnificent job was done in outlining what we have to look forward to by the international development advisory board. which was headed by nelson rockefeller. unless our committee had rescued that reportpartners in progress. march 1951from the discard. it would have gone almost completely uniced in this whole discussion. that report brought out the ultimate truth that the united states is dependent for 73 percent in value of all of its strategic materials on underdeveloped areas around the world. which this bill is designed to aidrubber. tin. manganese. copper. bauxite. lead. and zinc. that the only way in which we will be able to effectively defend against communismand everybody. including general eisenhower. has doubts about the eventuality of an allout warthe only way we can finance this defense is if we raise the wealth production.  alone in the united states but throughout the world. the areas that have the greatest potentialities and capabilities in this respect are the underdeveloped areas. in other words. if we raise the production of food and raise the production of critical raw materials. particularly in the underdeveloped areas. then we will be able to sustain this program. let us understand the stakes for which we are fighting. the soviets want to capture the undeveloped areas of the world. with the 1.075.000.000 people in them. they constitute 46 percent of the worlds people in 50 percent of the worlds area as against 31 percent and 24 percent for the communist bloc. just to get an idea of where these people stand. they have an average annual income of $80 a year. the comparable average annual income in the united states is about $1.400 and in europe it is about $470. this $1.000.000.000plus people has an annual gross product less than onethird that of 150.000.000 americans and 20 percent less than onefifth as many western europeans. so they are way down in the ecoic scale. they are the people for whose alliance and freedom we are fighting with the communists. they are the people whose wretched conditions of living offer the communist propaganda liars their best opportunities. they are also the very people whose resources can make the free world viable and impregnable. the committee took full cognizance of that. and the committee understood that in order to get the wealth base that we have to have in defending against communism we have to improve the ecoic condition of the underdeveloped areas and to create new means for financing such wealth creation.  just relying on the american taxpayer. members will ice in sectiof 605 of the bill that the committee is calling for action with respect to the organization of international finance agencies under the international bank for reconstruction and development. which has a substantial amount of capital and which has shown great ability in securing money through public bond issues. the committee has also called in its report. for consideration of the merger of the international bank and the international monetary fund. which could add over $2.000.000.000 to the resources of the international bank in order to enable it to do international financing commensurate with the size of the job necessary to have us see some daylight. in addition i call attention to section 605 (b) on page 31 of the bill. the committee has required that the administrator recommend to the congress action to utilize these resources which we put at his command in order to obtain very materially increased participation by private enterprise in the international development program that we are authorizing. finally. we request the proper agencies of the government to undertake negotiations with foreign governments to remove the barriers to such participationsomething which can be done through the negotiation of commercial treaties. as my colleague the gentleman from massachusetts has been pointing out for a very long time. negotiating reciprocal taxarrangements and making similar approaches to the problem of getting private enterprise to use its full potential in this effort. our committee has gone into this program in its various angles to see that demands on the united states are cut down very materially by international financing and that it be carried on in greater part by private enterprise. we understand that what we need to make the mutualsecurity program viable. what we need to make it work is increased wealth production throughout the free world. the leverage is emous. we are proposing to expend this year $71.000.000.000 in the united states for our national budget and something in the neighborhood of $60.000.000.000 of that to represent arms and armament. that represents roughly 20 percent of our gross national product. which is running at the rate of $330.000.000.000 a year. if through increased productivity and increased wealth production which can be stimulated throughout the world we can step up our national income to $400.000.000.000and also step up the rest of the free worlds income. which is comparable in total with our own. aher $100.000.000.000then we have got a base on which the defense budget represents but 15 or possibly 10 percent of the gross national product of the united states. that is the direction. as i see it. in which we must move. and that is the direction upon which this committee has  set itself. this is the object in view in setting up one unified administration under one administrator. the committee wants an administration which can command the faith of the congress and which can be depended upon to do that particular job which i have described of cutting down the demands upon us. the committee feels that it has proposed such an administration in the bill. one final point which i think is very important. everybody wants to k how this is going to come out: is there going to be war or is there  going to be war. are we going to be able to live peaceably with the russians or are we  going to be able to live peaceably with the russians. ody seems to be able to answer it. yet one very logical answer is that as the russians feel that the only ground in which they can cultivate communism is the ground of ecoic and social distress then by [dedicating ourselves as world leaderswhich we irrefutably are todaygoes a long way to eliminate the causes of ecoic and social distress in the free world and we will be depriving the russians of any opportunity or any prize to fight for either by internal subversion sor external aggression.
i shall be very brief. however. i wish to participate in this colloquy. because i have had a great deal to do with the proposed legislation which has been referred to. i should like to tell my friend from california that with $23 billion in procurement. and the amount increasing. according to the presidents new defense requests. and with only about $3 billion of the $23 billion actually in competitive bids. it is almost inconceivable to me that any american. whether of california or of new york. or any group of americans in either state. all of them taxpayersand i call attention to the fact that california. after new york. pays the largest amount of federal taxes into the federal treasurywould object to the idea of having more competition. i have been among those who said that california anticipated the missile emphasis. prepared for it. and did a vast amount of research to get the benefit of it. i want my state to do precisely what california has done. i do  want the door closed to this opportunity to benefit. that is all that is implied by the proposed legislation which has been introduced by the whole new york delegation. we want an opendoor policy.  a closeddoor policy. with respect to federal procurement. including negotiated contracts. so what we say to our own peopleand we say this to both labor and managementis. "sharpen your pencils. widen your research. and do what the people in california did. so that you will be in a better position to compete." as my colleague from new york has said. we are  heaping abuse on cali- fornia. we do  charge favoritism. - we are asking our state to emulate what we consider to be a proper example of s enterprise. i hope very muchand i k that the senator from california feels this way. too. and i k he is ina defatigable in his efforts on behalf of his statethat in uttering these words to the people of his state there is reason on their part to fear when we ask - the people of our own state to get on the ball. so to speak. that is all we intend to do with our proposed legislation.
. i wish briefly to join with the distinguished senator from connecticut in wishing a happy birthday to the senior senator from illis . i have  had an opportunity to do so before. but yesterday as we debated the poll tax amendment the senate had an opportunity to see in practice everything that the senator from connecticut has so properly and so eloquently said about our colleague. the senior senator from illis is my close friend. i am very proud of that fact. he has been a stanch worker in the struggle for equal opportunity in this chamber. and an emous defender of the bipartisan tradition in respect of it. he is a great servant of the people of illis. he is also an extraordinary model of what makes our country so inspirational to us and i think to all the world. when we remember that senator paul douglas at the age of 50 took boot training in a marine camp in order to qualify as a private soldier. suffered grievous wounds in war at that age. and then lived to be with us as an hoed. respected andi do  believe anyone will quarrel with the factone of our leading members and one of the great exponents of freedom in our country and the world. it is indeed a most exciting and gratifying experience in life. i join with all senators in wishing for paul many. many years of continued health. happiness and youthful service in the douglas tradition on his 70th birthday.
fifth. by removing undue trade restrictions. we remove the basic cause of isolation of the soviet people. we also can better demonstrate to the developing nations the close correlation between the voluntary ecoic cooperation and the high labor productivity level in the free world. on the one hand. and the coercive cooperation and resultant ecoic waste and inefficiency in the communist camp. i can testify on the basis of personal experience to the fact that the russian people certainly like our products. attractive goods such as shoes. stockings. clothes. automobiles. and about anything we can think of which is a matter of routine to us. we could give them a better understanding of the power and availability of great embellishments to living in the west. sixth. closer commercial ties between the west and the soviet bloc would help to strengthen existing trends toward the renunciation of war as a means of settling international disputes. people who are receiving advantages from trade are a great deal more reluctant to go to war. it would tend further to isolate the soviet union from the bellicose posture of china and more closely solidify her as a complex with which the west might conceivably come to some agreements. as was done on the nuclear test ban treaty. seventh. finally. more active ecoic conditions may serve as a positive supplement to our military strength in persuading the soviet leaders that they have more to gain from trade than they have from subversion. infiltration. and coercion against the free world.
