. i have the very sad duty of anncing to the senate the death of former senator herbert h. lehman. of which i have just learned. senator lehman served in this body from ember 1949 to january 1951. and in 1950 he was reelected for the term ending january 3. 1957. at that time he retired. and i had the ho of taking the seat he vacated. following his determination  to seek reelection. i think it fair to say that mr. lehman. as gover. senator. and a leading citizen of the state of new york. was one of the most distinguished new yorkers.  only in his own time. but in the history of our state. his good works on behalf of the state are fully recorded in the press and the history of his time. during his service in the senate. he was one of the most beloved members and one of the most stalwart. outspoken. and highminded liberals ever to serve in this body. even though he was a man of wealth and position. he always espoused the cause of those most disadvantaged ecoically and socially. he was an ardent fighter for the welfare of labor. he was an ardent protector of the natural resources of the people of the state of new york and of the people of the united states. even when he returned to private life. following his very great labors as gover and senator. he becamewithstanding his then advanced yearsone of the most distinguished leaders in philanthropies that our city has ever kn. he undertook with considerable spirit a political reform movement in the very twilight of his life. in order to measure up to the high standards of public service which he had set for himself. on aher occasion. i shall hope to state for the record more of the details of the life of this very famous. very fine. highly patriotic. and most distinguished american. my fellow new yorker. but today i wish to record my deep sympathy for mrs. lehman and the family. all of whom i k very well. and my sympathy for the very great number of causes which. for the moment. following the passing of gover and senator lehman. have been left without a leader. i k that others will step into his shoes. that is typical of these movements in.our state. but for the moment. their grief must be very great. as is mine. and i mourn. along with all others who knew him or knew of him by reputation. the passing. after such a rich. fruitful. and outstanding life. of gov. herbert lehman.
