. i ask unanimous consent to have a summary of the bill and a copy of the bill as introduced printed in the record. s. 1749 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that paragraph (1) of section 162(c) of the internal revenue code of 1954 (relating to illegal payments to government officials or employees) is amended(1) by striking out "the laws of the united states if such laws were applicable to such payment and to such official or employee" and inserting it: lieu thereof "the foreign corrupt lracticet act of 1977". and (2) by striking4 ovt "(or would be unlawful uider the aws of the united states)" and inserting in lieu thereof "(or would be unlawful under the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977)". sec. 2. the a.mndments made by this act shall apply to payments made after the date of the enactment of this act.
 received a report from a special committee on civilservice improvement. headed by mr. justice stanley reed. that committee recommended that lawyers be brought under the civilservice system. there has been a controversy over the manner of examination. in connection with the first appropriation made to carry out the plan advocated by a majority of the special committee. provision was made for a board of legal 6xaminers. but the appropriations committee of the house pointed out that they would decline to appropriate further until the legislative comruittees of the houses of congress had acted upon the matter. and a bill had been passed which would authorize the creation of a board of legal examiners. since that time the house has passed and authorized the creation of a board of legal examiners. when the bill reached the senate. the senate committee turned it down. therefore at the present time the lawyers are being examined by the regular agencies of the civil service commission. with the members of the board of legal examiners acting in an advisory capacity. thereby giving the commission the benefit of their advice. but  controlling their final action. if. however. the appropriations bill contains this provision abolishing even that form of examination. then the appropriations bill itself will abolish all examinations for lawyers. this would be contrary to the recommendations of the reed committee. and would result in the return of lawyers to a patronage basis. making impossible the application to them of the veterans preference provisions already in the statutes. for years there have been some lawyers who have been chosen through civilservice examinations. they would longer be chosen under civilservice proceduie. the amendment would also eliminate the services of lawyers more recently placed under the civil service. therefore i believe this provision should  be approved in the pending bill. because it has  yet had the approval of the legislative committee of the senate. and i believe that on the merits it is  sound to abolish all civilservice examinations for lawyers in the federal service.
i wish to emphasize that i am in favor of the proposed action. of taking an agricultural census in 1945. but i did recall that in the committee meetings the senator from georgia. when this question arose. was asked if there had been an investigation as to whether the manpower necessary to carry on the census would be availablp. and i believe he assured the committee that an investigation had been made. and that there would be men available for it. without interference with the conduct of the war. that matter how many there were. it would  interfere with the military situation.
. i do  hold myself out as a great legal historian. but i do k it is a fact that at one time judges were as corrupt as many people think the senate is . i remember that francis bacon. i think when he was lord chief justice of england. did  hesitate to take fees from both the wine merchants of france and the importers of england in a case in which they were opposing each other. on the general theory that if he took it from both sides. he could  possibly be prejudiced in favor of either. this is history.
. the atomic energy commission. being one of the most important and delicate organs of our government. i think all americans should be deeply gratified by the highminded spirit of public service being shown under great stress by the chairman of that commission. who on two successive days  has done two things every american should admire and applaud in a government servant: first. taken the burden of the mistake of one of his subordinates on his own shoulders in saying that it was his responsibility. and. second. inviting. because of the critical importance of the task of aec. the most widespread inquiry into all his own actions as chairman. and the operations of the commission. i think it augurs very well for the result to the nation that this investigation is to be undertaken by the joint congressional committee on atomic energy. particularly charged with the responsibility for this commission. this committee shouldand i am sure willproceed with justice. and. in view of the demonstrated talent for public service and fine public spirit shown by this great public servant. the chairman of the aec. and by his distinguished colleagues on the commission. with care. .949 there is appended hereto the text of the plea for an investigation referred to above:
. i am today introducing two resolutions dealing with hate literature against religious and miity groups  being transmitted in large quantities through the mails. while our attention is being held by the effort to expose communists and subversives and root them out of key positions. the lunatic fringe on the rightwing is having a field day. the deep current concern of the country with congressional investigations of communism and subversion and the protest against the excesses in such investigation appear to be giving hatemongers and bigots the opportunity they have sought to parade their antiprotestant. anticatholic. antisemitic. and antinegro material through the mails under the guise of participation in the anticommunist struggle. the vicious material going through the mails originates abroad and in the united states. one of the resolutions is a resolution of inquiry asking the postmaster general to give the answers to the following questions: first. are the mails being used for the purpose of disseminating false and defamatory statements as to depravity. criminality. lack of virtue. or lack of patriotism attributed to citizens as a class of any race. color. creed. religion. or national origin. second. are the mails being used for the purpose of disseminating such material seeking to overthrow by force or subversion the constitutional government of the united states. third. is such material going through the mails from outside the united states to destinations within the united states. fourth. are the laws of the united states relating to the transmission of such material adequate to prevent its being transmitted and distributed through the mails within the united states. fifth. what measures does the postmaster general recommend be taken by the congress in order to make the laws adequate to bar such material from the mails. the second resolution calls for an investigation to be made by the house committee on post office and civil service of the use of the mails for the parpose of disseminating false and defamatory statements as to the depravity. criminality. lack of virtue. or lack of patriotism attributed to citizens as a class of any race. color. creed. religion. or national origin. for example. one of the most virulent of these publications. antisemitic in nature. recently transmitted. i understand. in a number of about 500.000 through the united states mails. originated and is marked as originating in rviken. sweden. it is an oldfashioned hate document carried through the mails and widely distributed within the united states. there are regular publications published in various states and going through the mails which carry this vicious propaganda as a regular thing. this and other examples of similar material may be inspected at my office. the supreme court has held in the case of beauharnais against illis. decided on april 28. 1952. that the distribution of material exposing the citizens of any race. color. or religion. to contempt. derision. or obloquy can be made a criminal offense. we are and properly so very partial to free speech and free expression but this does  mean that we should  define criminal libel for what it is or that we should  prohibit the use of the mails to incitement to such hatred and division as to threaten the very foundations of our country. my resolutions propose that the postmaster general give us the facts and that the house committee on post office and civil service investigate. i am confident that with the facts in hand the committee on post office and civil service will give the matter its early and deserved attention.
. in respect to the introduction of this proposed legislation. i describe it as the following seven proposals: a bill to make interstate transportation of explosives a crime when the intent is to damage or destroy any building for the purpose of interfering with its use or to intimidate any person. that is the bill introduced by the junior senator from new york with 13 additional sponsors. the next six bills are introduced by me. and in each case the junior senator from new york is a cosponsor. with seven additional senators as cosponsors. for a total of nine senators in sponsorship. the bills relate to the following: an amendment to the fugitive felon statute. 18 u.s.c. 1073. which forbids travel across state lines to avoid prosecution or imprisonment. to include among the crimes of violence listed the "willful destruction of any building or structure." a bill to extend to federal officials protection against threats and violence. a bill to ban from the mails material tending to incite specific acts of violence such as murder. arson. assault. rape and willful destruction of any building or structure. etc.. listed in the fugitive felon statute. as amended. an amendment to the postal laws. 39 u.s.c. 259. to give the postmaster general the authority to enforce provisions banning such mail. an amendment to the interstate threats statute. 18 u.s.c. 875. to ban such threats where their purpose is to interfere with federal or state laws or decrees. a similar amendment to the mail threats statute. 18 u.s.c. 876. to bar such threats. hate mail has become an increasingly serious problem. the post office department reports that complaints about it quadrupled in 1958. officers who arrested the atlanta temple bombing suspects reported finding large supplies of antisemitic and antinegro literature in their homes. mass mailings of this kind of material which tries to exploit bigotry. lawlessness and discrimination have reportedly closely preceded some of the recent bombings. it is becoming increasingly difficult to separate the propaganda of hate from the actual terror. the bombings and the threats to determine which comes first. there is doubt in our minds that the average citizen in the south is as deeply shocked and outraged by the nearly 70 bombings and attempted bombings reported since 1954. including 27 incidents last year. as is the nation as a whole. we found considerable support among southern officials for a law such as we  propose to give the fbi concurrent jurisdiction in hate bombing cases so that it can act immediately. just as it does  in kidnapings as authorized by the lindbergh act. although law enforcement officials in these southern communities told us they were doing their utmost to catch the hate bombers. many of them emphasized that lack of jurisdiction and resources severely limit their ability to track down and bring to justice what their evidence indicates is probably a wellorganized gang (or gangs) of hate terrorists operating in several states. florida officials in particular forecast that a federal antibombings statute would  be the signal for the slackening off in local police efforts but would instead initiate the kind of coordinated action by federal. state and city authorities most apt to result in the most effective police work. in the one instance where the fbi did move in at once. after the bombing of a temple in atlanta last october. a group of suspects were speedily rounded up and indicted for the crime. seldom have wespeaking for senator keating and myselfexamined an e--..nrgency situation which so urgently requires federal legislation to help remedy it. local law enforcement agencies have for the most part been unable to apprehend or convict the hate bombers or check the flood of hate mail inciting to violence which together have created a climate of severe tension in certain southern communities. the dimensions of the damage wrought by the dynamiting of private homes. schools. houses of worship. community centers and places of business in several states take us beyond an obvious attempt at mass intimidation of miity groups. the terrorists responsible are assaulting a doctrine essential to the preservation of our democratic society. the maintenance of law and order to which the overwhelming majority of americans. regardless of individual differences on civil rights. are genuinely devoted. i close with the statement that we believe that the comprehensive legislation we are introducing in cosponsorship with so many senate colleagues will help to more effectively curb the activities of fanatics and racists trying to establish a reign of terror. particularly in communities where official resistance to court orders on desegregation of the public schools tend to invite other acts of lawlessness. in our opinion. our group of seven bills will achieve that objective without infringing upon our traditional freedoms of speech and press or the essential responsibilities and jurisdiction of local law enforcement officials.
i only point out that i believe the congress has power in this field to act within whatever area of legislation it desires to act. and. in my view. it desires to act in respect to a specific field. the poll tax. with which my proposal deals. it is that particular thing thati am seeking to reach by my amendment. as it affects every socalled federal election. on the question of electors. i should like to conclude by reading a statement from the opinion of the court in burroughs and can v. united states. 290 u.s. 534. at page 544. that case dealt with the corrupt practices act. the court denied that the congress was limited. in making the application of the corrupt practices act. or confined only to representatives and senators. and prevented from including presidential electors. the statement reads as follows: the congressional act under review seeks to preserve the purity of presidential and vice presidential elections. neither in purpose  in effect does it interfere with the power of a state to appoint electors or the manner in which their appointment shall be made. it deals with political committees cvi97 organized for the purpose of influencing elections in two or more states. and with branches or subsidiaries of national comiiittees. and excludes from its operation state or local committees. its operation. therefore. is confined to situations which. if  beyond the power of the state to deal with at all. are beyond its power to deal with adequately. it in sense invades any exclusive state power. while presidential electors are  officers or agents of the federal government (in re green. 134 u.s. 377. 379). they exercise federal functions under. and discharge duties in virtue of authority conferred by. the constitution of the united states. the president is vested with the executive power of the nation. the importance of his election and the vital character of its relationship to and effect upon the welfare and safety of the whole people can be too strongly stated. to say that congress is without power to pass appropriate legislation to safeguard such an election from the improper use of money to influence the result is to deny to the nation in a vital particular the power of selfprotection. congress. undoubtedly possesses that power. as it possesses every other power essential to preserve the departments and institutions of the general government from impairment or destruction. whether threatened by force or by corruption. the decision also cites with approval in re yarborough. 110 u.s. 651. generally sustaining the same point of view. so. 
madam president. so that all references to amendments may be concentrated in one place. i wish to state. for the information of the senate. that when i obtained the floor this morning in my own right. as i was on the list on the presidents desk. i presented a number of amendments to the dirksen substitute bill under the following items: first. intervention by the attorney general in suits which have been started to assert civil rights. keyed specifically to the bill. so that. in my view. it is germane. second. the right of the attorney general to start independent suits. also keyed to the provisions of the bill. third. an antipolltax provision. fourth. a provision to allow the appointment of federal registrars as suggested by the civil rights commission. and also federal referees. fifth. provision for the enforcement of the discrimination clause in government contracts. as to the government contract section. sixth. a provision relating to bombings of religious structures. schools. homes. and places of business. finally. a savings and separability clause. all of these. madam president. we have carefully designed to observe the rule of germaneness. which i think it is very important to bear in mind in considering the purpose for which we are all putting in these amendments. finally which holds specifically that the congress can with full constitutionality give to the attorney general the right to bring suits to assert the civil rights of individuals. madam president. this is a momentous decision by the supreme court. a very critical element in this debate. i agree with those who have said that we are  struggling  simply for voting rights. we are struggling for all voting rights. and there will be a real effort here to give the attorney general this authority. and the language used by the supreme court in the decision handed down yesterdayand i shall conclude upon this eis the following. quoting from the decision: it is urged that it is beyond the power of congress to authorize the united states to bring this action in support of private constitutional rights. but there is the highest public interest in the due observance of all the constitutional guarantees. including those that bear the most directly on private rights. and we think it perfectly competent for congress to authorize the united states to be the guardian of that public interest in a suit for injunctive relief. madam president. i think that this forms the necessary and most authoritative basis for the effort which we intend to make to get this authority for the attorney general
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to amend title 10 of the united states code with respect to the uniform code of military justice at the request of the association of the bar of the city of new york. and its special committee on military justice. similar proposed legislation is being introduced today in the house by representative john lindsay. this bill is the result of extensive study by the special committee. and is based on alternatives proposed by the department of defense and the american legion. among others. the special committee. which is composed of eminent members of the bar. has. i believe. performed an important public service in making this lawyers analysis and proposal in a most difficult area. i take this opportunity to congratulate  of the committee. and the entire committee and association for making this proposal available to the congress. while there are a number of items in this proposal with which i am  in full agreementparticularly its extension of punishment by company officersi also e that in each such case the amendment has been joined with procedural safeguards for the enlisted mansuch as his right to trial as an alternative to such company punishment. and the possibility of securing trial. upon the defendants request. before a law officer. rather than the present lawyer special courtmartial. i hope that this proposal will receive the careful study of the appropriate committees. and ask unanimous consent that there may be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks the special committees report.
. this is something about which we must be extremely vigilant. it is something which goes much deeper than a statute. desirable. critical. and important as the statute may be. i mention it because it comes within the same context to which the judiciary committee is directing its attention. i hope very much the committee will carefully evaluate the power over individual members which would be vested in the executive department if a criminal sanction to be administered by the department of justice were operative in respect to a conflict of interest statute. rather than the power of each house to expel a member. if it were felt the action should be that extreme. or the power of the voters. once the matter was made public. to deal with the question as the voters can and should. many of these conflict of interest areas are so gray that i think this deserves the most profound consideration. to be sure we would  thereby be jeopardizing the independence and the integrity of the legislative branch as the third branch of the government. i hope very much the committee will give that its most serious attention as it evaluates the house bill. because i respectfully feel egh concern is  reflected in the provisions of the house bill. what i have provided in senate concurrent resolution 10 and what my colleague has referred to in terms of regulation intracongress is very much sounder and very much better for the constitutional system.
. or to the manager of a modern industrial plant provided that he did a good job. the majority leader is absolutely right. we should  be apologizing. we should be determined to stand up in a refreshing way. which the american people will like. and respect. we should say "yes." we are going to pass this pay bill as it was reported by the post office and civil service committee because on the scale of salaries paid modem business executives. we are worth it. i am 60 years old. i have been a successful lawyer. i have earned three times what i shall receive as a senator at $30.000 a year. i need apologize to one. there is need for any other member of this body to do likewise. what we should resolve is that we will do a good job. and that we will do the job which is fully worthy of the pay we shall receive. i am sure that the american people will be refreshed by the fact that we will face our responsibilities in that way. a senator is entitled to a decent and a dignified living. it is impossible to earn a decent and a dignified living unless we do something about a pay adjustment in light of modern conditions. one other point: we have a major role in the operation of the $100 billion business of the running of the federal government. let one forget that. we and the other body are the "board of directors" of that business. it is the greatest business mankind has ever conjured up. it seems to me that we should be able to make ourselves worthy of this salary increase to the american people. we must  compare ourselves with those earning $4.000 to $5.000 a year. as the senator from wisconsin and the senator from vermont propose. and that we reduce our pay to that level. of course . we demean ourselves in the eyes of the country. we need only compare ourselves with those of commensurate responsibility. i believe that $30.000 a year is a very fair salaryvery fair. i am fully prepared to justify it to any fairminded jury of americans in my stateor in any other state of the union.
. some of the factors i have just discussed also apply to the refusal of the committee to provide for immediate transfer of "pattern or practice" suits from the justice department to eeoc. the committee was of the belief. and i share that view. that a transition period will be necessary to permit the commission to hire the staff and gain experience in handling its new enforcement responsibilities. it would be a waste of time and resources if. during this transition. we should forgo use of the expertise gained by the justice department in prosecuting pattern or practice suits and the services of the trained lawyers in the civil rights division. hence. i support the provisions of the bill which permit transfer of pattern or practice suits after 3 years if the attorney general and a majority of the commissioners agree that the eeoc is ready to handle such suits. the other controversial transfer provision in the bill is section 715. which gives the eeoc. rather than the civil service commission final responsibility for assuring equal opportunity for federal employees. this provision does  mean that the eeoc will take over the function  being performed by the civil service commission in this area. but merely that it will have the final rulemaking and review power. the committee expects the eeoc to delegate much of its responsibility back to the civil service commission. as the committee report states: internal problems posed by regulating certain aspects of federal employment practices through an agency  having the primary responsibility for personnel matters is avoided through the use of a rulemaking scheme. rather than flat application of the statute. this will permit the equal employment opportunity commission to delegate responsibility for certain aspects of the program to the civil service commission. while retaining ultimate review authority and the power to issue appropriate guidelines and standards. it is expected that the commission will. in exercising its rulemaking powers in this area. work closely with the civil service commission in developing orderly and efficient procedures for eliminating unlawful discrimination in federal employment. the committee report also summarizes very well the shortcomings of the existing program for federal employees and i ask unanimous consent that a portion of the reportpages 8 to 9dealing with this matter be printed in the record.
