madam president. i point out that the basic and most important item contained in this letter appears at the end. question d is as follows: adequacy of existing authority under the constitution or laws of the united states to assure discrimination in all the post office programs. answer: our present view is that sufficient authority does exist. it seems to me that that is crystal clear as to a great government department and what it thinks about the situation. there are detailed a considerable number of activities in which the department is  engaged. but i point out. in respect to airlines. that they say: in the absence of a contract the department appears to have jurisdiction over the employment policies of the airlines. i ask the question: what about a contract. why  a provision in the contracts to prevent discrimination by the airlines. apparently only one of the airlines. american airlines. is a participant in the plans for progress program. under which they have agreed with the presidents committee on equal opportunity to abide by the provisions of the executive order on discrimination. what about the airlines. the report goes on to detail other matters. such as promotion in the department. on which the department apparently is at work. and the report details the steps which the department has already taken. which are very impressive. they are impressive because they indicate how serious the situation still remains. since one of the items in which they take pride is thatsegregated (dual) locals of employee organizations have been eliminated. with the cooperation of the national employee organizations. recognition is withheld from any employee organization which discriminates in its terms or conditions of membership because of race. color. creed. or national origin. i think we have a right to ask. "how long. 0 lord. how long has this been going on. before they are able to report in a current way that it has been eliminated." i come next to the housing and home finance agency. and i ask unanimous consent that the letter of request and the letter of reply may be printed in the record.
1967. this reprint of what i am referring to appears in the 1967. he said: a constitutional question would be presented. if the time should come during the course of the debate when action on chang. ing the rules should seem unlikely because of extended debate. at that point any member of the senate. in the opinion of the chair. would have the right to move to cut off debate. such a motion would be questioned by raising a point of order. at that point the chair would submit the question to the senate on the ground that a constitutional question had been raised because of the chairs opinion that the senate. at the commencement of a new congress. has the power to make its rules. that power. in the chairs opinion. can be restricted even by action of the senate itself. which would be the case where the membership of the senate in one congress has attempted to curtail the constitutional right of the membership of the senate in aher congress to adopt its rules. it seems to me that that presents this opportunity. which i should like to spread on the record. it seems to me that if in the course of the debate which we are  having. a senator should move to close debate. and the vice president were satisfied by then that an adequate elucidation of the subject had been hadcertainly we have gone over this ground many times. and it should  take very long. considering the fact that it is cumulativehe would have the right to say that he was going to put that motion. when made. unless a point of order were made against it. and oni3 if a point of order were made against it in the form of the question. "shall the senate then pass on the question. rather than to allow the question itself "shall the debate be closed." to be debated. it seems to me that that would be a fair way to resolve the issue. this is pretty much what vice president humphrey did at the beginning of the 90th congress. in 1967. at the beginning of the 90th congress. a point of order was made. and a motion was made to table the point of order. the vice president then said that if a majority decided against tabling. he would have to sustain the constitutional authority which was involved. and he would put the question whether to close debate to the senate for immediate decision. at that time the vote was exactly the other waythat is. a majority of the senate refused to table the point of orderand the vice president construed that. very properly. as the adoption of a point of view other than the one for which we are  contending. but that does  necessarily mean that that would be the case . i hope very much that the resolution of the question may come in this way or in some way analogous to it. this is a technique by which the question. at long last. may be resolved. i am  told that the date of vice president nixons ruling was in 1959. at the opening of the congress in that year. i should like to make one other point. and that is that even . without envisioning a dangerous parliamentary situation. such as i have described. if the united states were under grave threat or in grave danger from appeasement. which could be as great a danger as invasion. the state of the world being what it is. there are other things which could happen. for example. five cloture votes were taken in the senate in 1968. four were taken early in the session in connection with the openhousing bill. three of them were unsuccessful. but the result of the unsuccessful cloture votes was that more and more compromises with the opponents were worked out in connection with the open housing legislation because we needed a majority to pass the pending bill but because we needed twothirds. so the legislation which finally resulted when we cast our vote was considerably compromised. the fourth openhousing cloture vote was  a vote on legislation which a majority of the senate wanted. which was its constitutional right. but it was the acceptance by twothirds of the senators present and voting of that particular provision after it had been watered down to suit the opponents. that is why i call it extraconstitutional restraint. it really gets close to what calhoun always contended for. in his time. various sections of the country had to concur before anything could be passed. in this case. various elements of ideological opinion had to be reconciled before we could get anything passed that the constitution said so. but because the rules of the senate did. withstanding every effort to amend them. then. of course. there is the situation in which the filibuster again proved its power in a manner most embarrassing to the united states. that was in connection with the fortas ination. on october 1. a majority of the senate voted to close debate. but twothirds  having voted that way. the fortas ination had to be dropped. withstanding the fact that a majority of the senate was all that it would have taken to confirm the ination. that merely fortifies the evidence of the extraconstitutional effect which is attained by the inability to deal frontally with the question of a change of rules in the senate. it seems to me that the senator from michigan and i and other senators of our viewand we had quite a number of cosponsors of a proposed resolution which would have provided for majority cloturehave really tried to do our utmost to uncomplicate the capability of the senate to face and resolve this issue. we felt that one of our problems in 1967 was the competing plansthe threefifths plan and the constitutional majority plan. so we have stripped the situation of any such elements. because to us the principle involved. of enabling the senate to unshackle itself from the archaic situation in which it finds itself. is the most important of any. we have all rallied behind one moderate rules change.  himself. an officer elected by all the people. i hope very much that this elucidation of where we stand. what we are trying to do. how we are trying to do it. and the legal basis upon which we proceed may be of assistance in the entire issue.
