. i have heard this debate. and would like to compliment all my colleagues on the way in which the issue has been brought out. i would like to add one other dimension. which is that we are dealing with a very wellorganized third and fourth world of developing countries. the third world being those which have natumal resources and the fourth being those which have . one of the big positions that we have taken came in september of 1975. when we took a totally new direction in the united nations respecting the developing world. in an address and a set of programs which were laid out by secretary kissinger. with the cooperation of 20 members of the house of representatives and the senate. one of the implied promises there was that the opec nations were called upon to contribute more. as they should be. as i think has been properly pointed out.and as the third world tried to organize itself with the greatest sense of what was. even in its own best interests. justice to those dealt with in the multination corporations. there was an indication that we would  run for cover under these particular appropriations. but that we would maintain them. giving the world an opportunity to do a better job. in totality. ecoically. i think it would have a very unhappy effectthese countries are meeting in nairobi in early may. and it would have a very unhappy effect if we took a measure of this kind at this time. it would be misread as cracking down on the third world. because of the revolutionary confusion  enveloping it. if we have a chance to see our way out of this problem. and i believe we do. it would be because of the intelligent nursing of the situation which defeating this amendment. with all due respect to senator byrd. and he ks my high regard for him. would effectuate in their outlook and their relations with the developed world. to do otherwise would cost us infinitely more in terms of military preparation. world disorder. difficulties with markets. et cetera. than what is involved at this particular time
