. i rise today to ho the girl scouts in rhode island who have received the silver and gold awards for 2002. i praise all of the hard work the girls have done throughout the year to receive their respective awards. mr. girl scout gold award is the highest and most prestigious award a girl can earn in girl scouting. a girl who has earned the girl scout gold award can look forward to greater access to college scholarships. paid internships. and community awards. i ask that the list of the girls receiving the awards be printed in the record. the list follows.
. i am proud today to ho the rhode island council on residential programs for children and youth. ricorp. for 25 years of service to 1.250 of rhode islands most needy children. ricorp developed training programs for childcare workers in rhode island throughout the 1980s and by 20. the council had established training certification programs for childcare workers. supervisors and clinicians. in 2001. ricorp collaborated with the community college of rhode island to develop a college curriculum in "childrens residential programming" and in september of 2002 the program became a reality. ricorp has also advanced legislation in the rhode island general assembly in 2000 to give contracted providers rate increases in fiscal year 2001 and 2002. additionally they lobbied for initiatives to improve the lives of children in care. such as the higher education assistance grant enacted in 1999. this grant gave youth in outofhome placement free tuition if they attended one of the state colleges. these are just a few examples of ricorps contributions toward improving the lives of needy children in the state of rhode island. i join all rhode islanders in congratulating ricorp on its 25th anniversary.e
 may bestow. and hos a person who has achieved distinction in a particular field. including education. scholarship. public service. the arts or philanthropy. it has been awarded seven times since its origination in 1994. fred lippitt has spent more than four decades working on behalf of brown. including 25 years as a lifetime fellow. offering his expertise on countless committees spanning every aspect of university life. fred has given a lifetime of public service. including service as an elected member of the rhode island house of representatives from 1961 to 1983. and as its miity leader for 10 years. he served as director of the state department of administration. as a providence housing court judge. and as the chairman of the ri board of regents for elementary and secondary education. mary ann lippitt. as the founder of lippitt aviation and a leader in a wide array of profit and charitable organizations. has been a pioneer in demonstrating the role that women can play in business and community affairs. and she has inspired a generation of influential rhode island women. she has been a consistent supporter of womens athletics. including her own years as an early bird swimmer. this is a testament to her commitment to ensuring a rewarding college experience for browns student athletes. this award is well deserved. fred and mary ann have been consistent advocates for the education and wellbeing of all citizens. working for equality. opportunity. and assistance for those striving to advance through education. they are widely admired  only at brown but throughout rhode island for contributing to the betterment of our state. i k my colleagues join me in saluting frederick and mary ann lippitt on this achievement.*
. i would like to share with my colleagues a story of a man who has dedicated more than 27 years of his life to giving rhode islands baseball fans a team that they are proud to call their own. if a poll were taken asking americans to name the best that rhode island has to offer. it is fair to say that most would think of the newport mansions. or the beaches of south county. or perhaps the providence renaissance. while all of these sites are important components of our tourism business. i would say that for native rhode islanders. there is an attraction in the working class community of pawtucket that has an even more prominent place in their shared experience. amid the tenement houses and old textile and wire mills of the blackstone valley stands mccoy stadium. home to the pawtucket red sox since 1973. it is difficult for visitors to imagine . but this mi league franchise got off to a very shaky start. in the mid1970s. the team was struggling both on and off the field. attendance was poor. the stadium was in terrible disrepair. and bankruptcy was looming. players who were assigned there saw it as a necessary penance before making it to the big leagues and hoped to get out as soon as possible. it looked as if the pawsox would  last too long in aaa ball. at that time. ben mondor. a man who had quit working in his late 40s after a successful career in business. was happy with retired life. occasionally. he would catch a pawsox game. but as he has said. he didnt k a thing about baseball. when encouraged by his friend and former boston pitcher. the late chet nichols. to rescue the pawsox. ben refused. "why would i want to buy a baseball team." he asked. but ben had plenty of experience stepping in to save struggling enterprises. and repeatedly had turned aher persons failure into a successful venture. finally. after much prompting from the brass of the parent club. he took over the team in 1977. and so ben went to work. he sought to instill pride in the team. and build an organization that would command both local and national respect. more than that. he wanted to give people of modest means a place where they could take their families for a night out. it didnt have to be fancy. but he would insist on a safe. family atmosphere. where young children could come and eat a hot dog or maybe a s cone. shout "we want a hit." when their favorite ballplayer came to bat. and learn to love the game of baseball. certainly. ben faced an uphill climb. but he and his loyal staff embarked on a long campaign to reate mccoy stadium and reinvigorate the franchise. as years passed. more and more of the creaky wooden seats were replaced. the field was improved. and the concession stands and restrooms were expanded. it took time. but the attendance steadily climbed. whole school buses filled with eager young fans poured in.  just from rhode island. but cape cod. and connecticut. and greater boston--even a few from new hampshire. and ben mondor kept his word to the working class family: amazingly. 20 years went by without an increase in the price of a general admission ticket. only in 1999. after a $14 million reation and expansion of mccoy stadium did he finally relent and agree to charge an extra dollar for tickets to a game. even today. a family of four can still take in a pawsox game for just $20. ben mondors team gives back to the community in many other ways. there are the free youth clinics. in which pawsox players and coaches offer children instructions and tips on the game. there is also a candy hunt on easter and roses for every mom on mothers day. the mccoy stadium fireworks. which most recently lit up the sky for three nights on the fourth of july weekend. are legendary. after.27 years. ben mondors dream has come true. a team that struggled to draw more than 1.000 fans to -a game in the early days  fills a 10.000seat park to nearly 90 percent of capacity. the best mark in the international league. one pitcher for the boston red sox. recently called up from pawtucket. praised mccoy stadium as "the best mi league place that ive ever played." it has hosted high school baseball championship games. the u.s. olympic team and the national govers association. tomorrow night. mccoy stadium will host the aaa allstar game. the crowning achievement of bens long. successful career in baseball. and yet. my guess is that ben takes the greatest satisfaction from king that on any warm summer night. he can find thousands of blue collar workers and their young children enjoying a game played by past and future big leaguers. cheering with each crack of the bat. in the movie field of dreams. there is a scene in which james earl joness character. terence mann observes. "the one constant through all the years has been baseball." in spite of all the challenges that have come along over the course of three decades. the changes in the park. and the changes in our society. baseball has indeed been the one constant at mccoy stadium. and in large measure. we have ben mondor and his love of the game and his love of people to thank for it. ben mondor is a hero in rhode island. and when he steps down from running the pawsox this summer. he will leave behind a remarkable legacy. i k my colleagues join me in saluting ben on his welldeserved retirement.9
. i want to pay tribute to a great rhode islander who passed away on election day: walter l "salty" brine. salty brine was a local broadcasting legend one might even say he was the voice of rhode island. for half a century. he hosted the morning program on wproam. it was saltys voice that thrilled three generations of schoolchildren on sy mornings with the anncement. "school. fosterglocester." saltys show was the soundtrack of a rhode island morning. the sound of his voice conjures up the following scene: it is dark outside. a bowl of steaming oatmeal is on the kitchen table. there is a mad scramble to locate a missing mitten before the school bus arrives. salty would preside over the recounting of the news and the weather. his wife mickie would call in and give a report on what birds were at the birdfeeder. we would be on the edges of our seats waiting for him to say our school was closed. i suppose it is fair to say that rhode islanders associate salty brine with that singular elation aroused by a s day. salty was the ultimate bearer of good news. of course. saltys career encompassed much more than reading the rollcall of school closures. from 1958 to 1968. he hosted a childrens television program called "salty brines shack." which costarred his collie jack and ended reliably with the admonition. "brush your teeth and say your prayers." having lost a leg in a train accident when he was a boy. salty was a firm support and wonderful example for youngsters who were coping with a similar disability. salty would demonstrate how the loss of a limb really would  set them back one bit. many charitable endeavors benefited from saltys talent. energy. and good name. he was especially involved in the big brothers of rhode island. the muscular dystrophy association. and was a board member. appropriately egh. of save the bay. cardis furniture for whom he had recorded a trademark commercialhoed salty for his service to our community just last year. born in 1918. saltys life was framed by red sox world series victories. this is entirely appropriate. as salty was an ardent and devoted fan and even had aspired to be a ball player. just last august. on rhode island day at fenway park. salty brine was given the welldeserved ho of throwing out the first pitch. like the big blue bug and mr. potato head. salty brine. with his skippers hat. was a rhode island icon. a oneofakind and endearing institution that bound all rhode islanders together in a single fond experience. he was so much a part of our landscape that the legislature renamed a narragansett state beach after him. the salty brine beach endures as a permanent affirmation of our affection for our salty. salty brine was married to his first wife. marion. kn to all as mickie. for 56 years. she died in 2000. he is survived by his wife. roseanna. and his son wally. who cohosts the "loren & wally morning show" on wrorfm in boston. rhode island will miss him.
. from april 30 to may 2. 2005. more than 1.200 students from across the united states will visit washington. d.c. to take part in the national finals of "we the people: the citizen and the constitution." an educational program developed specifically to educate young people about the u.s. constitution and bill of rights. administered by the center for civic education. the "we the people" program is funded by the u.s. department of education by an act of congress. i am proud to annce that. because of their kledge of the u.s. constitution. the following students from west warwick high school from the city of west warwick will represent the state of rhode island in this national event: mikaela condon. ahmahd elshanawany. michela fleury. katelyn grandchamp. jaclyn henry. katelyn kelly. shaina lamchick. adam larocque. lyndsey miller. johnathon myers. cheryl nary. amanda simas. william stranahan. larissa swenson. and david yates. led by their teacher mr. marc leblanc. these outstanding students won their statewide competition and earned the chance to come to washington and compete at the national level. the threeday "we the people" national finals competition is modeled after hearings in. the u.s. congress. the students are given an opportunity to .demonstrate their kledge before a panel of judges while they evaluate. take. and defend positons on relevant historical and contemporary issuds. i wish the students of west warwick high school the best of luck at the "we the people" national finals and applaud their achievement. i am sure this valuable experience will encourage these young rhode islanders to remain engaged with government and public policy issues in the future.*
. i rise today to pay special tribute to mary barden. as she is recognized for her scholastic achievements on national history day. mary. a student at coventry high school in coventry. ri. was one of 17 students chosen out of a half million across america. to display and present her history project at the smithsonians national museum of american history. marys project is titled "cesar chavez: understanding the chicafarmworkers need for justice." the national history day program allows students to create exhibits. documentaries. and performances. by using their critical thinking and research skills in the subject of history. i strongly support the national history day program. a basic kledge of history is essential for our nations children to become informed participants in our democracy. and this national observance promotes history education in rhode island and throughout the nation. this year. national history day celebrates its 25th anniversary as a national organization. i congratulate mary as she is hoed for her presentation. and commend her for her dedication and commitment. i join with the citizens of rhode island -n wishing mary well in all her future endeavors..
. terry learys compassionate leadership at the harmony hill school is an inspiration for all who work in the field of education. and i ask unanimous consent that his achievement be recognized at an appropriate place in the record..
. i rise today to ho the girl scouts in rhode island who have received the silver and gold awards for 2002. i praise all of the hard work the girls have done throughout the year to receive their respective awards. mr. girl scout gold award is the highest and most prestigious award a girl can earn in girl scouting. a girl who has earned the girl scout gold award can look forward to greater access to college scholarships. paid internships. and community awards. i ask that the list of the girls receiving the awards be printed in the record. the list follows.
. i am proud today to ho the rhode island council on residential programs for children and youth. ricorp. for 25 years of service to 1.250 of rhode islands most needy children. ricorp developed training programs for childcare workers in rhode island throughout the 1980s and by 20. the council had established training certification programs for childcare workers. supervisors and clinicians. in 2001. ricorp collaborated with the community college of rhode island to develop a college curriculum in "childrens residential programming" and in september of 2002 the program became a reality. ricorp has also advanced legislation in the rhode island general assembly in 2000 to give contracted providers rate increases in fiscal year 2001 and 2002. additionally they lobbied for initiatives to improve the lives of children in care. such as the higher education assistance grant enacted in 1999. this grant gave youth in outofhome placement free tuition if they attended one of the state colleges. these are just a few examples of ricorps contributions toward improving the lives of needy children in the state of rhode island. i join all rhode islanders in congratulating ricorp on its 25th anniversary.e
 may bestow. and hos a person who has achieved distinction in a particular field. including education. scholarship. public service. the arts or philanthropy. it has been awarded seven times since its origination in 1994. fred lippitt has spent more than four decades working on behalf of brown. including 25 years as a lifetime fellow. offering his expertise on countless committees spanning every aspect of university life. fred has given a lifetime of public service. including service as an elected member of the rhode island house of representatives from 1961 to 1983. and as its miity leader for 10 years. he served as director of the state department of administration. as a providence housing court judge. and as the chairman of the ri board of regents for elementary and secondary education. mary ann lippitt. as the founder of lippitt aviation and a leader in a wide array of profit and charitable organizations. has been a pioneer in demonstrating the role that women can play in business and community affairs. and she has inspired a generation of influential rhode island women. she has been a consistent supporter of womens athletics. including her own years as an early bird swimmer. this is a testament to her commitment to ensuring a rewarding college experience for browns student athletes. this award is well deserved. fred and mary ann have been consistent advocates for the education and wellbeing of all citizens. working for equality. opportunity. and assistance for those striving to advance through education. they are widely admired  only at brown but throughout rhode island for contributing to the betterment of our state. i k my colleagues join me in saluting frederick and mary ann lippitt on this achievement.*
. i would like to share with my colleagues a story of a man who has dedicated more than 27 years of his life to giving rhode islands baseball fans a team that they are proud to call their own. if a poll were taken asking americans to name the best that rhode island has to offer. it is fair to say that most would think of the newport mansions. or the beaches of south county. or perhaps the providence renaissance. while all of these sites are important components of our tourism business. i would say that for native rhode islanders. there is an attraction in the working class community of pawtucket that has an even more prominent place in their shared experience. amid the tenement houses and old textile and wire mills of the blackstone valley stands mccoy stadium. home to the pawtucket red sox since 1973. it is difficult for visitors to imagine . but this mi league franchise got off to a very shaky start. in the mid1970s. the team was struggling both on and off the field. attendance was poor. the stadium was in terrible disrepair. and bankruptcy was looming. players who were assigned there saw it as a necessary penance before making it to the big leagues and hoped to get out as soon as possible. it looked as if the pawsox would  last too long in aaa ball. at that time. ben mondor. a man who had quit working in his late 40s after a successful career in business. was happy with retired life. occasionally. he would catch a pawsox game. but as he has said. he didnt k a thing about baseball. when encouraged by his friend and former boston pitcher. the late chet nichols. to rescue the pawsox. ben refused. "why would i want to buy a baseball team." he asked. but ben had plenty of experience stepping in to save struggling enterprises. and repeatedly had turned aher persons failure into a successful venture. finally. after much prompting from the brass of the parent club. he took over the team in 1977. and so ben went to work. he sought to instill pride in the team. and build an organization that would command both local and national respect. more than that. he wanted to give people of modest means a place where they could take their families for a night out. it didnt have to be fancy. but he would insist on a safe. family atmosphere. where young children could come and eat a hot dog or maybe a s cone. shout "we want a hit." when their favorite ballplayer came to bat. and learn to love the game of baseball. certainly. ben faced an uphill climb. but he and his loyal staff embarked on a long campaign to reate mccoy stadium and reinvigorate the franchise. as years passed. more and more of the creaky wooden seats were replaced. the field was improved. and the concession stands and restrooms were expanded. it took time. but the attendance steadily climbed. whole school buses filled with eager young fans poured in.  just from rhode island. but cape cod. and connecticut. and greater boston--even a few from new hampshire. and ben mondor kept his word to the working class family: amazingly. 20 years went by without an increase in the price of a general admission ticket. only in 1999. after a $14 million reation and expansion of mccoy stadium did he finally relent and agree to charge an extra dollar for tickets to a game. even today. a family of four can still take in a pawsox game for just $20. ben mondors team gives back to the community in many other ways. there are the free youth clinics. in which pawsox players and coaches offer children instructions and tips on the game. there is also a candy hunt on easter and roses for every mom on mothers day. the mccoy stadium fireworks. which most recently lit up the sky for three nights on the fourth of july weekend. are legendary. after.27 years. ben mondors dream has come true. a team that struggled to draw more than 1.000 fans to -a game in the early days  fills a 10.000seat park to nearly 90 percent of capacity. the best mark in the international league. one pitcher for the boston red sox. recently called up from pawtucket. praised mccoy stadium as "the best mi league place that ive ever played." it has hosted high school baseball championship games. the u.s. olympic team and the national govers association. tomorrow night. mccoy stadium will host the aaa allstar game. the crowning achievement of bens long. successful career in baseball. and yet. my guess is that ben takes the greatest satisfaction from king that on any warm summer night. he can find thousands of blue collar workers and their young children enjoying a game played by past and future big leaguers. cheering with each crack of the bat. in the movie field of dreams. there is a scene in which james earl joness character. terence mann observes. "the one constant through all the years has been baseball." in spite of all the challenges that have come along over the course of three decades. the changes in the park. and the changes in our society. baseball has indeed been the one constant at mccoy stadium. and in large measure. we have ben mondor and his love of the game and his love of people to thank for it. ben mondor is a hero in rhode island. and when he steps down from running the pawsox this summer. he will leave behind a remarkable legacy. i k my colleagues join me in saluting ben on his welldeserved retirement.9
. i want to pay tribute to a great rhode islander who passed away on election day: walter l "salty" brine. salty brine was a local broadcasting legend one might even say he was the voice of rhode island. for half a century. he hosted the morning program on wproam. it was saltys voice that thrilled three generations of schoolchildren on sy mornings with the anncement. "school. fosterglocester." saltys show was the soundtrack of a rhode island morning. the sound of his voice conjures up the following scene: it is dark outside. a bowl of steaming oatmeal is on the kitchen table. there is a mad scramble to locate a missing mitten before the school bus arrives. salty would preside over the recounting of the news and the weather. his wife mickie would call in and give a report on what birds were at the birdfeeder. we would be on the edges of our seats waiting for him to say our school was closed. i suppose it is fair to say that rhode islanders associate salty brine with that singular elation aroused by a s day. salty was the ultimate bearer of good news. of course. saltys career encompassed much more than reading the rollcall of school closures. from 1958 to 1968. he hosted a childrens television program called "salty brines shack." which costarred his collie jack and ended reliably with the admonition. "brush your teeth and say your prayers." having lost a leg in a train accident when he was a boy. salty was a firm support and wonderful example for youngsters who were coping with a similar disability. salty would demonstrate how the loss of a limb really would  set them back one bit. many charitable endeavors benefited from saltys talent. energy. and good name. he was especially involved in the big brothers of rhode island. the muscular dystrophy association. and was a board member. appropriately egh. of save the bay. cardis furniture for whom he had recorded a trademark commercialhoed salty for his service to our community just last year. born in 1918. saltys life was framed by red sox world series victories. this is entirely appropriate. as salty was an ardent and devoted fan and even had aspired to be a ball player. just last august. on rhode island day at fenway park. salty brine was given the welldeserved ho of throwing out the first pitch. like the big blue bug and mr. potato head. salty brine. with his skippers hat. was a rhode island icon. a oneofakind and endearing institution that bound all rhode islanders together in a single fond experience. he was so much a part of our landscape that the legislature renamed a narragansett state beach after him. the salty brine beach endures as a permanent affirmation of our affection for our salty. salty brine was married to his first wife. marion. kn to all as mickie. for 56 years. she died in 2000. he is survived by his wife. roseanna. and his son wally. who cohosts the "loren & wally morning show" on wrorfm in boston. rhode island will miss him.
. from april 30 to may 2. 2005. more than 1.200 students from across the united states will visit washington. d.c. to take part in the national finals of "we the people: the citizen and the constitution." an educational program developed specifically to educate young people about the u.s. constitution and bill of rights. administered by the center for civic education. the "we the people" program is funded by the u.s. department of education by an act of congress. i am proud to annce that. because of their kledge of the u.s. constitution. the following students from west warwick high school from the city of west warwick will represent the state of rhode island in this national event: mikaela condon. ahmahd elshanawany. michela fleury. katelyn grandchamp. jaclyn henry. katelyn kelly. shaina lamchick. adam larocque. lyndsey miller. johnathon myers. cheryl nary. amanda simas. william stranahan. larissa swenson. and david yates. led by their teacher mr. marc leblanc. these outstanding students won their statewide competition and earned the chance to come to washington and compete at the national level. the threeday "we the people" national finals competition is modeled after hearings in. the u.s. congress. the students are given an opportunity to .demonstrate their kledge before a panel of judges while they evaluate. take. and defend positons on relevant historical and contemporary issuds. i wish the students of west warwick high school the best of luck at the "we the people" national finals and applaud their achievement. i am sure this valuable experience will encourage these young rhode islanders to remain engaged with government and public policy issues in the future.*
. i rise today to pay special tribute to mary barden. as she is recognized for her scholastic achievements on national history day. mary. a student at coventry high school in coventry. ri. was one of 17 students chosen out of a half million across america. to display and present her history project at the smithsonians national museum of american history. marys project is titled "cesar chavez: understanding the chicafarmworkers need for justice." the national history day program allows students to create exhibits. documentaries. and performances. by using their critical thinking and research skills in the subject of history. i strongly support the national history day program. a basic kledge of history is essential for our nations children to become informed participants in our democracy. and this national observance promotes history education in rhode island and throughout the nation. this year. national history day celebrates its 25th anniversary as a national organization. i congratulate mary as she is hoed for her presentation. and commend her for her dedication and commitment. i join with the citizens of rhode island -n wishing mary well in all her future endeavors..
. terry learys compassionate leadership at the harmony hill school is an inspiration for all who work in the field of education. and i ask unanimous consent that his achievement be recognized at an appropriate place in the record..
. i rise in vigorous support of the amendment to bring to 100 percent the entitlements for payments to our schools in federally impacted areas. these schools have  come to us. hat in hand. asking for doles from the public treasury. they are asking us. as hoable men. to live up to our obligations under public laws 815 and 874. these laws. in essence. call for inlieuof -taxes payments in areas where school costs have skyrocketed because of federal installations. because of the increased burden thus placed on local taxpayers. the congress long ago determined that the federal government must assume its rightful share of the school tax burden. it is a matter of the federal government owing a debt to communities. our schools are entitled to collect that debt. the amendment which the gentleman has introduced is the same as my own bill. h.r. 10935. which would bring entitlement up to the full amount due for the current fiscal year. my fifth district is composed of a number of rapidly growing communities faced with sharp increases in capital outlays for new schools as a result of federal installations. mr. john glenn. superintendent of the bedford public schools in my district. tells me that the bedford community is spending money for new schools at the rate of one new school every 2 years. and will continue at this rate over the next 4year period at least. this is typical of those areas where federal installations are accelerating the problems involved in the extremely rapid expansion of school population. we have heard a great deal from the administration about the need for allout federal aid to education and school construction. that is  todays debate. but it makes me doubly astounded at the administrations cold shoulder to the current request that congress appropriate the full amount to which impacted school areas are already entitled under law. i urge my colleagues to vote to bring up to 100 percent the entitlement the federal government owes our schools in impacted areas. and without which many of these schools will  be able to continue to operate to the benefit of our schoolchildren.
. since coming to congress i have fought for and supported full appropriations to meet our federal obligation under public laws 815 and 874. the acts which provide for an inlieuoftaxes type arrangement with public schools in federally impacted areas. until a year ago there was virtually controversy over the absolute justice of this program. wherein the federal government quite rightly assumes the role of local taxpayer and bears its fair share of the school costs to which it has added a burden. last year the fate of these funds was in jeopardy. the congress eventually righted the situation. this year our school officials have again been concerned lest they be limited to only 92 percent of their rightful federal contribution. i am pleased today to urge the house to vote for the full federal share of the costs of running schools which have had a substantial increase in enrollment because of new or expanded federal activities.
. i regret that illness prevented my being on the floor last thursday when several republican members of the house introduced h.r. 3139. the civil rights act of 1963. i am happy to join them  in introducing this bill. it is a comprehensive and reasonable approach to an extremely complex problem. it recognizes the national scope of civil rights denials and attempts to break the vicious circle of discrimination at several points. it attacks the subtle forms of discrimination in employment at the same time as it combats glaring abuses of the right to vote and the persistence of segregated public school systems. specifically. the bill makes the commission on civil rights a permanent agency. and extends its authority to investigate voting abuses. further it creates the presumption that a citizen with a sixth grade education in an accredited school has sufficient literacy. comprehension. and intelligence to vote in federal elections. par from usurping state power to fix voter qualifications. this provision merely shifts the burden of proving that a citizen is  so qualified to the state. section 103 of the bill. providing for the compilation by the bureau of the census of registration and voting statistics by race and color. would  only better enable the congress to make wellinformed judgments about the extent of the problem before us. but.would also be of inestimable value to researchers and scholars in this field. this bill will also give the attorney general the authority to initiate civil suits on behalf of parents and pupils attempting to enroll in segregated public schools. this provision lifts at least some of the burden from the shoulders of persons seeking to assert their constitutional right to a desegregated public school education. at present these citizens must bear the financial and social consequences of initiating this litigation and may receive assistance from the department of justice only after the initial suit is filed. an additional approach to the problem of segregated education is contained in the provision for assistance to those communities which request it. to aid them in formulating and carrying out desegregation plans. this assistance. together wvth the additional information which will be made available by the department of health. education. and welfare. can do much to ease the difficult period of transition from a segregated to a desegregated public school system. the proposed commission on equality of opportunity in employment puts federal activities in this field on a statutory basis and increases the available investigatory and remedial powers. the federal government. its contractors. and employment agencies supported by federal funds should never be parties to discrimination of any kind. this commission will go far toward insuring this situation. i need  point out that this bill. comprehensive as it is. does  deal with many of the civil rights problems which were so graphically pointed out to us by the commission on civil rights in its 1961 report. while firmly supporting the proposals contained in this fine bill. i will be sympathetic to additional measures aimed at increasing our kledge and understanding of the civil rights problem today. and to achieving. at long last. equality before the law. and equal opportunity for all americans. i am happy to lend my strong support to h.r. 3139 and i will cooperate with my colleagues in every way to insure its passage.
. i rise in support of this conference report. although the bill is  as strong as the one for which i voted in august. i feel that it will make an important contribution to the strength of our higher educational system. i would like to call the attention of the house particularly to the provisions regarding community colleges and public technical institutes. these institutions can play a vital role in providing posthigh school opportunities for our nations young people. junior college enrollments were up 13.7 percent in 1962 over 1961. compared with an 8.1 percent increase for all higher education institutions. statistics show us that a student has a 50 percent greater chance of receiving higher education if he lives within 20 to 25 miles of a college. the reduction in living costs for college students is obvious. this bill recognizes the importance of this trend. it reserves 22 percent of the funds provided for construction in title i to public community colleges and public technical institutes. in addition the state commissions which are to administer the plans must include representatives of junior colleges and technical institutes. the crisis in american higher education today is broadly based. it is a crisis of costs. of personnel. and of quality. we must attack the problem of expanding techogy. expanding population. and shrinking resources on many fronts. i think that we have neglected the importance of our community colleges and institutes for too long and i am happy to see that this legislation marks a significant departure from this practice.
 of burdett college of boston. mass.. recently wrote a fine article describing the advantages of junior business colleges. the article appeared in a number of massachusetts newspapers and i would like my colleagues to have the benefit of its contents:
congressman udalls letter makes clear that if a school should be constructed at some time in the future on the 15 acres that might be transferred to pima county. the school would be used almost exclusively for indians from the yaqui and papago reservations. that being the case. the 15acre conveyance. when effected. would also represent the carrying out of our trust obligation to the indians. for the foregoing reasons. house bill 6233 does  violate the morse formula. and i urge that the measure be scheduled for early senate action.
congressman udalls letter makes clear that if a school should be constructed at some time in the future on the 15 acres that might be transferred to pima county. the school would be used almost exclusively for indians from the yaqui and papqgi reseratonr. that being the case. the 15acre conveyance. when effected. would also represent the carrying out of our trust obligation to the indians. for the foregoing reasons. house bill 6233 does  violate the morse formula. and i urge that the measure be scheduled for early senate action.
. one littleiced deficiency in our national educational system is the lack of attention given to instruction in the use of ]ibraries. a recent study of prospective teachers showed that 60 percent could  use the cards in a card catalog properly and that 35 percent could  interpret a cross reference in the readers guide to periodical literature. these are shocking figures and the lowell. mass.. sun has dramatized them in a recent editorial calling for a required freshman college course in library fundamentals. i want to call this editorial of february 15 to the attention of my colleagues by inserting it in the congressional record following my remarks. the editorial follows:
. i will support h.r. 8283. it is too soon to make a meaningful assessment of the impact and administration of the poverty program. to be sure we have been alarmed by excessive political involvement in some cities. by the haste with which some programs have been undertaken. by unfortunate experiences where applicants have  been adequately screened. nevertheless. it can be said that important strides have been made. in the fifth massachusetts district. which i am hoed to represent. two institutions of higher education are  participating in the college workstudy program: the lowell neighborhood youth corps is performing vital community tasks never undertaken before. the large head start program in lawrence shows hopeful signs of bringing underprivileged youngsters to a level where they can compete effectively with other children when they begin school in the fall. seven other fifth district communities are also conducting head start programs. there is doubt that there is ferment in many communities around the country. perhaps this was the predictable result of an effort to change the traditional patterns of social and ecoic organization which have. in some instances. prevented americans from progressing as far as their character and ability will take them. this fact makes it imperative that the office of ecoic opportunity permit local communities to do the job themselves. it should never interject itself into the decisionmaking process at the local level. as i said. i think that it is too early for a meaningful assessment of the program. but i think that the congress will be remiss in its. duty if it does  conduct a thorough study of the program early in 1966. by that time. we will have egh data on which to base an inquiry. the office of ecoic opportunity. like all agencies. should be held to a strict accounting of its use of funds and the standards of achievement should be set high. the results of. such a study should :be given great weight in determining the necessity or wisdom of additional legislation .at that time. if we fail to provide diligent oversight over this program we will  be living up to our responsibility to see that federal money is spent wisely.  will we be serving the cause of the unfortunate americans for whom this pro-: gram is conducted.
of -massachusetts. . there is anall too common tendency to accept the continued success of a particular program or effort as the natural course of events. in doing so we overlook the mdst mportant fact and that is the maintenance of this success is wholly dependent upon continued effort. i thinkthis is true in the case of the school safety patrols. a program first instituted 51 years ago in one particular area and adopted nationally 45 years ago. a mark of the great success of this program can be found in the statistics which reveal the traffic death rate of schoolchildren has been cut almost in half over the years while the death rate of other age groups had doubled. therefore. i feel it appropriate that we pay tribute. annual tribute. to the school safety patrols. we can do this by designating the second week of may each year as "national school safety patrol week." it will serve the purpose of  only recognizing the continued and successful efforts of the more than 900.000 safety patrol members by renewing the resolve each motorist has to exercise extraordinary care in traveling through school areas. i might add that as part of the tribute paid the boys and girls each year. the american automobile association coordinates a parade down constitution avenue. this year over 20.000 participants will go down the avenue on may i am happy that the commonwealth of massachusetts will be among those 22 states represented and that there will be a group of 200 patrol members from concord. the concord group. with sgt. james hanley in charge. is sponsored by the massachusetts safety officers league. i hope my colleagues will join with me in introducing similar resolutions. so that this continually successful program will continue to be successful and that the boys and girls who give so unselfishly of their time may receive .their proper due. the text of my resolution follows:
. in february the school of international affairs at columbia university and the american assembly sponsored the first graduate student assembly which was held at arden house in harriman. n.y. topic for the assembly was the question of nuclear proliferation and * the students. who represented columbia. princeton. johns hopkins. and tufts universities. prepared a report entitled "a world of nuclear powers." in my judgment. such an assembly is an excellent exercise for the students in analysis. negotiation. and draftsmanship that will serve them in the future as international relations specialists. i understand that aher assembly is to be held next year and i hope that this will become an annual event. i include in the body of the record the report of the assembly and the list of participants:
. on june 6 my administrative assistant. miss linda k. lee. was invited to deliver the commencement address at the graduation exercises of the chaffee school in windsor. conn. she was a student at the school and this year marked the 10th anniversary of her graduation. because her message. urging the students to involve themselves in the political life of their community is a timely one for all graduates. i include the text in the record:
. i am pleased to join with my colleagues today in wishing godspeed to one of our colleagues who will complete 22 years of service in this body this year. porter hardy has been a hardworking legislator ever since he came to the house in the 80th congress. as a member of the house armed services and government operations committees he has kept a watchful eye on our national security and on the efficiency and effectiveness of our government programs. coming to the house with a fine educational background. including. i am pleased to e. 2 years at the harvard business school in my own state of massachusetts. and a able business record of achievement. porter has lent his talents to the public interest for more than two decades. i am sure i share the best wishes of us all for a productive and happy retirement.
. i rise to answer a column written by two dropouts from the school of honest journalism. their names are rowland evans and robert ak. their column was published friday. january 17. in the washington post. i ask unanimous consent that this column assassinating the truth in typical mccarthyite fashion be printed at this point in the record .
. i rise to offer my strong support for h.r. 13310. the children with specific learning disabilities act of 1969. we have a responsibility to every child in this nation to provide him the opportunity to develop to his highest potential. this means  only those children blessed with exceptional talent. but also those who are  so fortunate. it -has been ed as a conservative estimate that some 3 percent of our school population suffers from specific learning disabilities involving the understanding and use of language. these youngsters are less handicapped in their education than those children with physical. mental. or environmental disorders. yet they are  included under existing federal laws for the education of the handicapped. the need to close this gap in our efforts is urgent. it is long overdue. by expanding the definition of handicapped children to include the "learning disabled." h.r. 13310 corrects this falling in our obligation to provide proper education for every child in this nation. i am pleased to e. in addition. that it safeguards existing programs for other handicapped children by authorizing additional funds for these new programs. and i urge full support for the progress this legislation portends.
. for those of us who knew bill bates as a dear friend and as an outstanding and devoted member of this chamber. the words of msgr. john e. mullarkey. spoken at the opening of the bates center for public affairs at the state college at salem. mass.. will bring back fond memories. for those who did  have the ho and the immense enjoyment of king and working with bill. these remarks. delivered by the former pastor of saint pius v rectory of lynn. mass.. for whom bill used to serve mass when he was a young boy. will impart some measure of the profound respect and the love which was felt for this good man by everyone who knew him. and some measure of his dedication. his energy. his wisdom. and his ability. certainly it is a fitting memorial to bill and to the goals and principles for which he worked so hard and so long. that the center for public affairs at salem will bear his name. he contributed greatly to its inception. and i k his name will serve as an inspiration to all those dedicated to the continued development of the center as a forum for discussion and learning. it is with a deep sense of regret that bill bates is longer with us. but with the greatest pride in having kn his friendship and wise counsel for so many wonderful years. that i share with my colleagues today. this moving tribute:
inasmuch as the state of new york has been brought into the discussion. i should like to explain very briefly the position which the junior senator from new york has taken with regard to the matter of minimum aid. i regret that i can agree with the statements which have been made regarding the capacity of the states. all the states. to finance their educational systems. to be sure. . that it is very unsound governmental policy to have asystem of aid established whereby certain states would contribute to it and receive hing out of it. and other states would contribute little. or almost hing. and receive everythingthat is contributed to the fund. that is  good governmental policy. years ago the state of new york. in establishing its own stateaid structure. which i dare say. though  perfect. is perhaps as good as any in the union. adopted the principle that every single school district in the state of new york is entitled to a minimum amount of state aid. matter what the wealth of that district may be. and it is on that basis. and along those lines. and following that policy. that the state of new york has proceeded over the years. then to leave this question perhaps of finance for the moment. i should like to point out aher thing in this connection. which has already been referred to by the distinguished .senator from ohio. and that is the question of federal control. we do  want federal control of education. it is the worst thing that could ever happen to our educational. structure. but let me say here and  that if we institute a system of federal aid in which only a certain few of the states will receive that aidperhaps as many as half of the statesthen the influence of the federal government in the field of education itself within the states will be thereby increased. if we are going to prevent federal control of education. it is absolutely indispensable that every state in the union be included in this plan.  alone from the standpoint of contribution. but from the standpoint of benefits. then every state in the union will have a definite and complete interest in it.
. i should like to say that i think the senator from maryland overlooks a very fundamental point in respect to the principle of aid to education. although i think that point is recognized and covered in all state educational systems. i refer to the fact that the taxpayers of every school district pay local and state taxes for their educational system. and every school district benefits to a certain extent from state aid. where such systems of aid are in existence. that is fundamental in education. i tried to explain the reason for that. it is the only way by which the whole educational structure in one state. in many states. or in the entire country. can be made to work harmoniously and unitedly toward a given aid. which is the safeguarding and continual improvement of education itself. in the case of the pending bill. the improvement would be severalfold. for instance. there would be an improvement in the overall educational structure and in the quality of education within the states. and at the same time federal intrusion and federal control would be prevented. . i can see very definitely a crying need for some minimum benefit for all in respect to this matter. of course. a $1 minimum might be better. instead of increasing the amount. i might be willing to decrease it. in such event. the net cost to the people of my state would be less. i would  favor a provision for a $10 or $15 minimum or anything of that sort. in this kind of proposal with the formula it provides.
. in new york state there are a number of situations of an ecoic nature and a number of situations even of a social nature which the senator from new york would like to check into and find out about. and learn at first hand the facts. the senator from new york can find out those things. he can keep track of conditions in the state of new york. if he remains in washington all the time.
. i should like to point out that i really signed this report with great reluctance. and. even though i signed it. i made exceptions of amendments 18 through 22. and 30. all of which eliminate any aid whatever for school construction. and in making these exceptions. i was joined by the distinguished senior senator from illis .
. i am very proud that one of this years winners in the voice of democracy contest is from my own state. his name. as has been indicated by the senator from colorado. is thaddeus s. zolkiewicz. and he is a canisius high school senior. buffalo. n. y. i am very glad to join in welcoming mr. zolkiewicz and his cowinners in the contest. and i extend to each one of them my heartiest congratulations upon their eworthy achievement. at the same time. i extend to them best wishes for their future success. i hope this outstanding accomplishment will be only a forerunner of much greater things to come. 
. i am very proud that again one of the winners in the voice of democracy contest is from my own state. her name is adelaide nacamu. and she is a peekskill high school sophomore from peekskill. n. y. miss nacamu is the youngest girl ever to receive this ho. to miss nacamu and her cowinners in the contestfrank lammedee. of san mari calif.. thomas j. walsh. of the district of columbia. and robert davis. of hawaiii extend heartiest congratulations upon their eworthy achievenent. and express best wishes for their future success. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record. following these remarks. the texts of the four prizewinning scripts.
is it  a fact. in furtherance of the point the gentleman has just made. that in apprentice training where the need is greatest in the employment area. only something like 2 percent that undergo apprenticeship training nationally are negroes.
i would say to my distinguished colleague from new jersey that in my judgment. subject to state law and to the approval of the state under title i and to the programs submitted by the local educational agency or agencies. it is clear that funds for some of the illustrative purposes the gentleman mentioned are to be applied for all educationally deprived children within the lowincome district as prescribed and defined by the bill. it -is my understanding there is  to be an difference between those in a public school and those in public school. in a broad sense. i believe the answer to the question is that there is  to be any distinction.
 i rise in support of the conference report on the higher education amendments of 1966. i think it is a good report. i believe further as the gentlewoman has already stated that after the series of trips around the country by the special subcommittee on education that it will be sensible for the next congress to take a hard look at the priorities of higher education to see those areas that most need support. to see whether in fact we are doing egh for teachers. and furtherthe relationship between graduate and undergraduate courses of education and between 2- and 4year colleges--such as to enrollment needs in the years ahead and the quality instruction. i would ask the gentlewoman if she would comment just briefly as to the points her subcommittee are to look into in her judgment.
. the student food for india drive has received enthusiastic endorsements from several national officials. in my judgment. mr. bers and his fellow students should be complimented for their initiative and constructive efforts in doing what they can to relieve the hunger of millions of indians. their contribution is an encouraging example of how young men and women are helping to build a better world in the future.
further quoting mayor lindsay. . new york citys plight is illustrative on a large scale of the diffiquie bill. h.r. 8983 $13. 251.163 23.078. 948 4.497.830 10. 234. 581 69. 913.128 23.338.295 168.888.746 100. 597. 755 13.313.872 159.172. 943 40. 506. 119 29.070.150 157.460.903 11. 189.677 56. 728. 871 14.094. 710 74. 600.602 197. 898.252 21.882.339 7. 246. 556 77.006.058 42. 943. 629 36.207.373 67. 481.212 5. 887. 929 7. 763. 679 89. 821. 576 public law 89102 $10. 310. 215 21.176.917 3.963.884 6. 307. 742 64.802.067 20.431.373 261.261.126 137. 085. 127 13. 477.090 101. 495.101 43.889.137 21.452. 354 129. 410. 048 10.260.193 81.842.887 15. 178. 334 94. 788. 294 203. 295.006 10.14. 409 6. 171.922 81.950.802 29.896.644 44.208. 558 47. 754. 755 5.035.150 11.978.504 75. 791. 8i net gain or loss (col. 2 minus col. 1) +$2. 940. 948 +1. 902.031 +533. 946 +3. 926. 839 +5.111.061 +2. 906. 922 -92. 372. 380 -36. 487. 372 -163.218 +57. 677.842 -3.383. 018 +7.617.796 +28. 050.855 +929. 484 -25.114.016 -1.083.624 -20. 187.692 -5.396. 754 +11. 727. 930 +1. 074. 634 -4.944.744 +13. 046. 985 -8.001.185 +19. 726. 457 +852. 779 -4.214.825 +14.029. 757 culties and uncertainties the substitute amendment could impose on local school districts across the country. cities such as buffalo and rochester. n.y.. could be seriously affected. in making local allotments a matter for state determination. the substitute affords specific guarantee that funds will go to all local districts that serve disadvantaged children. the substitute fails to recognize both the high concentration of disadvantaged youth in our large cities and the high cost of education in certain states. local districts  k  only if they will receive funds. but they also k their precise entitlement as soon as the appropriation act is passed. the proposed amendment would remove these assurances and might well substitute confusion and delay in educational planning. further. there is a serious question about the ability and initiative of many state school officials to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the elementary and secondary education act and to insure that the intent of the congress. that all disadvantaged childrenregardless of race. color. or national originreceive equal assistance. will be carried into the local school districts. in addition. more than half of our states have constitutional or statutory provisions prohibiting the expenditure of public funds for private schools. during the formulation and enactment of the elementary and secondary education act. a sensitive and delicate balance was struck which has permitted disadvantaged youths attending private schools to share in the benefits of this program. the greater discretion afforded state education departments under the substitute might make these provisions applicable and result in court decisions holding such aid unconstitutional or unlawful. moreover. the very uncertainty of this legal situation threatens to create discord and vitiate cooperative efforts which are  being undertaken. finally. i am deeply distressed that the education of our disadvantaged youth appears to have become a matter of in. tense partisan political activity on both sides. the elementary and secondary education act was enacted substantially as a bipartisan effort. its drafting was the work of dedicated members on both sides of the aisle. it is in this spirit that we should move ahead to assure the sound continuation of what we have already accomplished. in my judgment. the republican party has an unparalleled opportunity in this session of congress to establish a record in which we can all take pride. republican initiatives can provide meaningful alternatives to administration proposals. greater flexibility in the allocation of education funds and some progress toward block grants should be considered. but these concepts must be thought through and approached cautiously on an experimental basis in the first instance. our party should fight for full and early appropriations under the elementary and secondary education act. the reduction of 50 percent offered by the administration is clearly against the public interest and represents a step backwards. our- party should unite in support of the teacher corps and work toward its receiving its necessary appropriations. particularly in light of the halfhearted support the administration has given it. in my view. however. this is neither the time  the place to abandon the essential character of the elementary and secondary education act in favor of a program which has  met the test of full hearings and committee consideration and which could undermine the concept of assuring full aid to all the disadvantaged. this. in my judgment. does  represent the best our party has to offer.
. i rise in opposition to the amendment. i believe. with all due respect to the very distinguished gentlewoman from oregon. that her amendment as regards its requirement that specific statutory authority be cited for each individual provision of the guidelines. rules. and regulations is both unnecessary and potentially counterproductive. our system of judicial review provides full opportunity for testing the validity of rules and regulations or other orders issued by federal agencies. in the case of school desegration it is my belief that title vi of the civil rights act of 1964 states the clear intent of the congress to prohibit racial discrimination sanctioned by state or local law. the regulations under this title have implemented this policy. the proposed amendment might well provide the basis for dilatory tactics on the part of those who wish to impede full implementation of our commitment to those who have suffered under the disadvantages of segregated schooling. i would urge members to oppose equally the amendment to the extent that it states that rules and regulations and guidelines issued by hew are to be uniformly applied and enforced throughout the 50 states. i would state the following: title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. and the regulations issued under it. are clearly and unmistakably uniform in their application to our entire nation. they are fully consistent with the decisions of the u.s. supreme court. they prohibit discrimination in education which is racially motivated and sanctioned by state or local law wherever it may be found. in the th as well as in the south. in effecting compliance with this national policy the office of education has permitted more gradual desegregation in the south than in the th. in light of circumstances which the commissioner deemed relevant. in my judgment. we will  serve the public interest if we adopt today any amendment which will weaken our commitment to pursue fully and vigorously the aims and goals of the civil rights act of 1964.
. i have already spoken in debate with reference to some of the specifics wherein i have found myself. regrettably. in opposition to my distinguished and able colleague. the gentleman from minnesota . i will  repeat those here today. i will say. however. that i believe very deeply that the republican tradition in early and strong support of education is clear. the landgrant college act was passed in lincolns administration. and the ndea under the eisenhower administration. and the esea enjoyed bipartisan drafting and support in committee and on the floor. thirtyfive members on this side of the aisle voted for this act in 1965. and 47 in 1966. i believe if we wish to avoid discord. and maximize aid to all -the disadvantaged in the ghettoes of the cities and in the rural areas. in the th and the south. we will vote down the quie amendment and support the work of a generation. the elementary and secondary education act.
i commend the gentlemen from california for his statement. and i wish to point out very simply that the teachers corps has  been sufficiently and strongly supported by this congress. it is a basic program providing teachers of commitment to some of our most needy ghetto and rural areas. it is creative. any delay  would be unfortunate. the teachers corps should be signing contracts with universities for the training of corps members this summer and next fall. school district budgets and plans for next year are being put in final forms. above all. the congress should give a clear indication of support for the corps. because it represents. we believe. the kind of ination which is imperative to urban public education if it is to respond to the immense challenges facing our schools today. in new yorkas mayor lindsay pointed out in a letter to secretary gardner: at new york university. hofstra. hunter. and queens college. working in neighborhood store front voter registration drives. cleanup campaigns. after school music classes. and extra language training. the interns have refused to accept the bounds of a textbook definition of teaching. they have helped their students by helping their community. and they have brought new hope to children who too often give up in school because they believe the schools have given up on them. . i have witnessed the commitment and the sense of total involvement that the teacher corps in new york city is bringing to students. parents. faculties. schools. and to the overall community. i strongly believe the amendment should be opposed and a vote of confidence given to the teacher corps.
. the congress should give this every trust. but certainly we should be prepared to return. to or make provision for national recruitment in those instances in which local recruitment fails to prove effective and in which it is clear that institutions of higher learning and localities--and states in the case of training and placement of teachers corps membersare unable or unwilling to carry out the explicit intent of the congress to assist all disadvantaged children. further. this bill would establish four teacher recruitment and training programs under title v of the higher education act and make certain modifications in existing programs under that title. it is estimated that some 900.000 new secondary school teachers and 925.000 new kindergarten and -elementary teachers may be needed by 1975. the programs established under this legislation hold promise for keeping up with this demand. as well as for meeting the acute teacher shortage that is already affecting many communitiesas was clear when school -opened last fall. these four programs arefirst. -qranti and contracts for the purpose of attracting qualified persons. to the field of education: state and local educational agencies. colleges and universities. and public and profit organizations would be eligible for grants from the commissioner to "identify capable youth in secondary schools who may be interested in a career in education and to encourage them to pursue educational programs which will prepare. them for careers in education." recruiting programs would also be established to encourage former teachers to return to the active practice of their profession. second. grants to local educational agencies experiencing critical shortages of teachers to carry out programs to attract and qualify teachers and teachers aides: states may receive grants to attract persons to return to teaching with the assistance of shortterm training institutes. onethird of the funds may be used to establish programs for the training of teachers aides. this series of grants may do much to alleviate the pressing need in many areas for fulltime teachers as well as for aides whose experience with children can make them valued assistants in many aspects of individual instruction and group supervision. third. grants and contracts to provide advanced trainingand retrainingpreservice and inservicefor personnel serving in programs of elementary and secondary education: shortterm programs may be established by institutions of higher education and state educational agencies to provide advanced training and retraining in elementary and secondary education. including preschool and vocational training. this section would replace sections of titles v and xi of ndea which  provide advanced training institutes in certain specified subjects: the new program would remove the categorical limitationsalthough the committee intends that certain broad subjects be stressedand expand the training offered to include preservice and inservice as well as advanced. particular emphasis will be given to training programs for teachers of vocational education. fourth. fellowships. traineeships. institutes. and preservice and inservice training for personnel serving as teachers. administrators. or educational specialists: grants and contracts will be made to institutions of higher education for programs to prepare persons in these fields. if we are to accommodatewith a high standard of qualitythe large influx of college studentswhich is expected to double the present enrollment by 1970 and triple by 1985welltrained professional and administrative personnel are essential. in particular. junior collegeswhose enrollment is expected to double by 1974require staff who can creatively make use of this new and unique form of education in the best interests of their students. moreover. their diverse academic curricula can provide the framework for many of the programs contemplated by this section of the act. a total of $144 million. earmarked for the specific programs. is authorized for fiscal year 1969. the first year of operation for these new projects. some $196 million is authorized for fiscal year 1970. hopefully. the year leadtime thus provided will result in wellplanned and meaningful programs that are sufficiently funded.
 i believe there are one or two points in particular that we should focus on here. first. the need: as members are aware. in this report on page 2 it is made very clear that by 1975 there will be a need for an additional 1.850.000 schoolteachers on the prekindergarten. kindergarten. elementary. and secondary levels. obviously. this is a very major requirement of educational excellence in the years ahead. i do  believe there is any question that in many parts of the country. particularly in the ghettos and disadvantaged rural areas. there are  egh teachers and there are  egh teachers of ability and spirit and conviction dealing with the problems of educationally deprived children. the bill before us proposes only a relatively modest and. i hope. purposeful advance. it will provide merely 6.000 teachers for the teachers corps in 1968. 7.500 in 1969. and 9.600 in 1970. hopefully. these would be teachers and teacher interns of talent and dedication. this quantity and this quality are badly needed. in the disadvantaged schools. such as those our committee visited. for example. in bedfordstuyvesant in new york city. the rate of students dropping out is alarmingly high. many students are 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 years behind in reading and lack motivation and interest in their studies. what we need are teacherinterns who will give these youngsters a sense of hope. a sense of involvement. a sense of commitment. i believe that the teachers corps can bring the community and the faculty and the student together and give the student the reason to stay in school that he  lacks. i deeply believe that in the disadvantaged areas of the united states there is a clear and pressing need for this program. i strongly urge the house that this amendment be defeated and that a firm and resounding vote of confidence be given to the teachers corps.
. i wish to commend the gentlewoman from oregon for her initiative. and the gentleman from minnesota [mr. quie] with regard to this bill. the workstudy program is one of the best that we have. and i believe that it is wholly in order to try to average the time the student works over the course of a broader period of time. rather than to make it an absolute requirement that a student can work more than 15 hours in any week. i think this is a sound provision. and also that the financial change that is suggested in the bill to move gradually in altering the matching recxiii- 1403part 17 quirements. will prevent an undue and sharp hardship falling on institutions. accordingly. i rise in support of the measure and urge members to support this legislation.
. i am introducing today a bill to improve the operation of the congress of the united states. the procedures under which the congress operates. while inative and efficient at the time of their establishment. can longer keep pace with the needs of america. the business of the congress is the most important business of our nation and the congress must have the tools and the powers to expedite the nations business. yet we are presently operating under conditions which few corporations in america would consider sound financial management or efficient practice. the legislation which ultimately emerges from our cumbersome processes affects increasingly larger numbers of americans and it is  in the national interest that our citizens should suffer becauise their representatives are hampered in their efforts to make thoughtful decisions. many reforms ought to be instituted and one bill can deal with all of them.  are all of them susceptible of correction by statute. what we can write into law. we can only hope that time and a recognition of our present weaknesses will change. the measure i am introducing today is similar in many respects to the bill which already passed the senate and which is  pending before the house rules committee. certain other elements are similar to those in the bill introduced by the gentleman from missouri . and yet others touch on areas which have yet been covered in existing legislation. specifically. my bill incorporates provisions for a joint committee on ethics and conduct. the establishment of such a permanent housesenate group. with a mandate to formulate a comprehensive code of ethics including rigorous conflictofinterest provisions. coupled with adequate and effective enforcement powers. is long overdue. as i have said many times before on this floor. the congress can longer continue to operate under a double standard. enacting strong conflictofinterest provisions for the executive and meaningful ones for the legislative branch. the faith of the american people in the integrity of their representatives must be restored. and. in my judgment. this can be accomplished only in the framework of full disclosure of income. gifts. real estate holdings. creditors. and business associations. i have included the provisions of my earlier disclosure bill in this congressional reorganization measure. and. in my judgment. this is truly the first area of legislative reform that demands our attention. there are two additional features of my bill that i should like to highlight. first. the legislation passed by the senate effects a number of needed changes in the appropriations process so that the congress will be in fuller possession of all the facts on which to base sound fiscal judgments. the one aspect of the appropriations process that is of increasing concern to me is the matter of late funding for educational assistance programs. those responsible for planning local school district budgets. as well as those students dependent on federal assistance to finance their college educations. must  be kept waiting until it is too late to plan meaningfully because we in the congress are unable to make thoughtful and timely decisions about appropriations. accordingly. the bill i am introducing today would establish a joint committee to study this problem and make appropriate recommendations later than 30 days after its enactment. finally. the participation of the congress in the decisionmaking process in foreign affairs has increasingly taken the turn of reacting to crises when importantand at times irreversiblesteps have already been taken by the executive and when farreaching decisions have already been set in train. in my judgment. it is vital that meaningful debate on foreign policy take place in the congress. it is vital that we close this constitutional gap. i have included in my bill a modification of a proposal i advanced in the 89th congress to permit the secretary of state. and the other secretaries of the executive departments. to be recognized on the floor of the house to answer private ice questions submitted previously by members and supplementary questions. private ice questions would have to be answered at least twice a month and could be televised at the option of a majority of the members voting. while perhaps  as great departures from existing practice. other features of the congressional reorganization bill are nevertheless significant. principally. the provisions for a mandatory august recess except in time of war and assurances of adequate miity staffing are important. similarly. management studies to improve the maintenance functions associated with the house of representatives could result in significant saving of taxpayers funds and increased efficiency. i need  catalog here today each of the specific provisions of the bill. occasions in the recent past of bad scheduling and hurried debate on the floor merely reinforce what all of us in this chamber already k: the time has come for major reform of our congressional processes. as the gentleman from new hampshire pointed out on the floor earlier this week. the congressional reform act passed by the senate has languished in the rules committee for 5 months. with only 1 day of hearings. any further delay will be a disservice to the american people. and a clearcut example of the need for reform of our own procedures.
. i rise merely to say that there is a very real question. if we turn over the job corps program to state vocational education departments. as to whether these departments will reach the negro youth in the slums and train them for lastins jobs. the record in the past is  reassuring on this point. otherwise there would have been need for the job corps in the first place. the job corps is producing results. the office of ecoic opportunity re..ports that 65 percent- of the corpsmen are working or in school immediately after the job corps. this total remains .32238 constant 6 months later and. of those working. 85 percent had a fulltime job. six months after leaving the job corps nine out of 10 corps members had held a job. fortytwo percent had held one job and 27 percent had worked at two jobs. again. these figures are constant a year after termination. the average wage in these jobs ranges from $1.62 to $2.16 per hour. further. i think it is fair to say that the job corps has cut its costs by onethird. and. while further ecoies could be instituted. the record shows some improvement and some real progress in overall effectiveness. in job placement. and in lowering perenrollee costs. the job corps record is encouraging and represents the efforts and experiences of business. labor. and government working together. to transfer it  would be a mistake.
. last week. we were again reminded of the importance of education for all americans. american education week has been set aside for all of us to recall the great strides that have been made in our educational system. but it also serves to illuminate the critical needs that yet remain. in school systems throughout the country. such as my own in westchester. we have witnessed steady progress toward meeting the total educational needs of our children. we have seen curriculums broadened and enriched. facilities greatly expanded. and the quality of teachers improved. these strides have been made in an atmosphere supported by fair and equitable opportunity for academic achievement. yet. we should recognize that this progress must  overshadow the reality that many children have  benefited from these improvements. some 366.850 children go to school on double shifts. only 84.6 percent of our youth between the ages of 5 and 17 are in school. 90.500 teachers are in our classrooms with substandard teacher certificates. 15 of our largest cities have pupilteacher ratios averaging between 28 and 29.7 to 1. 84 percent of all elementary schools have school librarians. and 70 percent of our elementary schools have school libraries at all. the children who have recently entered primary school must be afforded the opportunity to develop their talents and skills and. if qualified. to go on to a higher education. regardless of their financial means. only if congress and the american people catch the spirit of this week and concentrate the great store of energies and ideas at their disposalincluding passage of the elementary and secondary education amendments of 1967 and the higher education amendmentswill all our sons and daughters meet the challenges of our changing society.
. i rise in support of h.r. 15398. the amendments to the national school lunch act. this bill would extend the coverage of the act to include institutions which provide day care and other child care for children from areas in which poor ecoic conditions exist and from areas in which there are high concentrations of working mothers. and which provide daycare services for handicapped children. it would also extend the authorization for the pilot school breakfast program. there is excuse for a hungry child in america. we long since committed ourselves as a nation with the passage of the national school lunch act of 1946 to a policy of piovidlng adequate lunches for children in school and that policy was reasserted in the child nutrition act of 1966. yet. our actions under these laws would indicate that we believe good nutrition begins at the school door and ends when school closes for the summer. passage of the bill before us today will indicate our belief that good nutrition is a fulltime need for all children. whatever the age. and whatever the circumstances. using the existing food service facilities set up by each states education department. this bill would make nutritious lunches available to children in daycare and summer recreational program settings. this bill requires new vast administrative structure. as it would draw on the locally recruited and locally paid child food service experts. to start feeding children wholesome meals only when they begin kindergarten may mean that the childs growth and development has already been impaired. hunger at any age and lack of necessary vitamins can prevent a child from learning to the best of his ability. every child in america has the right to three decent meals a day even before he starts school and this bill would provide the means to fill this basic need.
 jerome holland. one of our nations ablest educators. and dr. arthur howe. jr.. chairman of the board. hampton is expanding its educational service to the nation. especially in urban areas. it is hoped. in addition. that hampton will become a center for the study of negro life in america. and african affairs. further. some 49 students from 19 countries also are part of the hampton student body. i am happy to call the attention of members to a news story in the daily press. newport news. va.. paper on friday. april 26. describing a centennial dinner held last thursday night:
. some 10 to 11 million young people underemployed in america and clearly we need to improve the administration of our apprenticeship training programs and we should pass an equal employment opportunity commission bill with teeth in it. these steps would aid in correlating these programs. the problems of unemployment of our youth. and discrimination in employment. thus. i think the bill is a step forward. but it is only a modest step financially in relation to the needs. the emphasis and concepts embodied in this legislation. however. are hopeful signs that our vocational programs. if fully funded. have the potential to assist students in assuming useful and productive roles in the community.
. i rise in support of h.r. 18203. a bill to increase the size of gallaudet colleges board of directors by eight public members. initially i want to take this opportunity to congratulate the chairman of the select subcommittee on education. the distinguished gentleman from new jersey for his continued interest and leadership with regard to legislation affecting the handicapped. this bill increases the size of the board of directors of gallaudet college from 13 to 21 members. gallaudet is the only college in the world established specifically for the deaf. they have had students from every state in the nation as well as 31 different countries. in recent years. both the school and student body have grown rapidly with an enrollment expected this year of close to 1.000 students. an increase from the 1960 level of 300 percent. because of housing. classroom. and academic needs. it is felt that increased national representation is both necessary and advantageous for the college. the witnesses who appeared before the select subcommittee on education all indicated unanimous support for the legislation. as did the department of health. education. and welfare. the administration. and the gallaudet alumni. it was the hope of the witnesses that through the expansion of the board it would be able to draw new members from broader geographical areas and from a variety of disciplines. by drawing from various backgrounds. the proposed eight positions would come from the broad spectrum of techogy. special education. communications. medicine. computer areas. and distinguished citizens interested in special education. through these diverse backgrounds gallaudet will have more flexibility. more professional representation and greater range of competency than it  has. i endorse this legislation without qualification.
 of yale university. it is the report of the association of american universities entitled "the federal financing of higher education." very briefly. this report points out that the past few decades have seen rapid growth in higher education. specifically. total enrollments have grown by approximately 3.5 million students since 1930. the total annual expenditures have increased from $508 million to $14.9 billion. research expenditures have increased from $18 million to $2.2 billion. the report. which commands the support of a broad spectrum of universities. both tax- and tuitionsupported. also suggests certain needs. certain lines of thought and certain areas to which the congress and the federal government in general ought to give attention. it points to the needs of the maintenance of the private institution as well as the state university or college. 2year colleges and institutes. 4year colleges and institutes. and institutions with graduate and professional programs. the association also points out that in the years ahead we are going to need to train 100.000 doctors betwen 1965 and 1975. 80.000 engineers. and 30.000 scientists will have to receive bachelors degrees each year during the next decade to preserve just the existing ratios with the other educated professions. for these and other reasons enrollments in higher education are expected to climb from some 5.6 million in 1965 to approximately 8 million in 1975. and to between 13 million and 16 million at the end of the century. the associations report continues: similarly. unless recent trends alter radically. graduate enrollments will grow from 314.000 in 1960 to 1 million in 1975 and 2 million or 2.5 million by the year 2000. to accommodate this demand. total current expenditures on higher education must increase from $11.9 billion in 1965 to between $15 billion and $21 billion in 1975. further construction needs for this decade. 1965 to 1975. are estimated at $15-$22 billioni.e.. an annual average of at least $1.5 billion and perhaps of $2.2 billion. moreover. the history of past projections suggests that all of these figures may represent underestimates of the true increases. the colleges and universities will be asked. increasingly. to attack societys most difficult problems with research and action programs. they will be expected to help make urban life productive and satisfying. while assisting americas disadvantaged to participate more fully in the benefits and responsibilities of the society at large. i therefore strongly support these amendments to the higher education act and to the national defense education act. and beyond this. we must be prepared to do much more in support of students. facilities. research. computing services. international education. the arts and humanities. and consideration must be given to direct institutional grants.
. i think it would be a mistake to write legislation with respect to student unrest on the floor tonight. i think further that anything which represents punitive legislation could imperil the freedom of higher education. indeed we need further legislation. if i understand the substitute amendment offered by the gentleman from illis. he opposes the amendment offered by -the gentleman from. wisconsin and he moves to strike. on page 24. lines (by unanimous consent. mr. steiger 6 through 15
as the gen- has been thoroughly considered in the tleman perhaps ks. it is my posi- subcommittee and by other committees. tion that the national commission on it was adopted last year. the causes and prevention of violence. i was somewhat surprised to hear the under milton eisenhower. has correctly gentleman from new hampshire (. the language in the necessary. any federal control over bill is clear and it is language we can live higher education or involvement in the with. this gives authority to the college internal affairs of universities would be administrator to make a decision as to a serious and tragic mistake. either we whether funds shall be withdrawn from have freedom of higher education or we a student. the government does  run do . there can be compromise on this. each state does  run it. the this principle any more than there can colleges and . universities themselves be with freedom of the press. make the decisions. if there is violation
. the institution must initiate such proceedings as it deems appropriate to determine whether a student is involved in this conduct. however. such proceedings must  be dilatory. what is  a matter of institutional determination is that which is or is  dilatory. hence a federal standard determined by federal officials will be required.
i thank my colleague. the gentleman from new york . i would say very simply that i oppose the smithsikes amendment which is very clearly an outrageous provision to cut off funds to certain students. it will be clearly counterproductive. at a time when colleges are improving communications. providing for appropriate student governance and acting through the courts where necessary to deal with disorder. this type of federal legislation is  only wrong but it would also tend to play into the hands of the real extremists. to talk of the threat of force or the use of force is to use pernicious language and that is deplorable. i strongly urge defeat of the amendments.
 and. in fact. contain features which are much less equitable than the present electoral college system despite all of its defects. i would therefore urge. . the gentleman from new york. on this resolution: house report 91253 is one of the clearest and most objective explanations of pending legislation that i have encountered in recent years. and i think that this lucid exposition of the facts and arguments contributes greatly to this debate.
. i am pleased to have this opportunity to support the passage of h.r. 13310. the children with learning disabilities act of 1969. of which i am a sponsor. over the years a growing body of information has been developed concerning the characteristics of the learning disabled child. however. the efforts to provide comprehensive services have been clouded by conflicts within the professions as to adequate definition. these children have been denied adequate educational opportunities while we have attempted to define their problem. and as a result of this uncertainty different states have used different termiogy regarding learning disabilities. the child to whom we are addressing ourselves today may be brain injured in pennsylvania. educationally handicapped in colorado. perceptually handicapped in illis. and language handicapped in texas. in seeking guidance as to how we can best come to grips with this definition problem. we have relied heavily on the recommendations of the agency we in the congress created to serve as our advisers. the national advisory committee on handicapped children. it is their broad. but at the same time specific. definition which we have incorporated into the language of the legislation. the committee. on hearing expert testimony. added the term "specific" to learning disabilities to make it clear that we are addressing ourselves to a unique group of children. to permit the exclusion of these children from federal programs for the education of the handicapped to continue for even 1 additional day would  only be unfair. it would be inhuman. we can right this wrong by broadening the definition of the handicapped to include children with specific learning disabilities. however. we must extend our efforts further if our error of the past is to be properly remedied. the solution lies in the passage of h.r. 13310. which proposes additional programs to overcome this lag in services. the establishment of model centers will provide stimulation to state and local school systems to develop diagtic and educational services. the provision of federal moneys to support needed research will enable educators to examine more carefully the unique learning nature of children with specific learning disabilities and federal support for the development of programs of study to train personnel in the techniques necessary to educate these children will help close the gap between services needed and manpower available. special educators have reached the point where they feel that to proceed any further without federal support for their efforts in learning disabilities would be a shameful waste of their kledge and skills. we must ackledge the plight of learning disabled children in our society and offer to them the help they so desperately need. we can do this by supporting h.r. 13310. the children with learning disabilities act of 1969.
 requests. the cutbacks on esea. the cutbacks on higher education. the cutbacks on libraries. the cutbacks on vocational education. and in other areas came from the white house in the past administration. i am one of those who criticized that. i am one of those who would like to see them increased. i hope the gentleman in the well is willing to stand up and support the kerner commission. i hope the gentleman in the well is willing to stand up and support the carnegie commission. and higher priorities for elementary and secondary education. for preschool. for headstart. for a whole area that is basic to the future of our country. i submit to the gentleman that the past administration. because of the war. bears a considerable responsibility for the sharp cutback in priorities in oeo. education. and .other areas.
i can tell the gentleman that commissioner allen. to whom i talked yesterday. feels this institute can serve an important purpose and that we do need additional research on the teaching and learning process. and further that this is a recommendation. as the gentleman perhaps ks. of the carnegie commission. i would  say. however. that this institute is the exclusive remedy or that there are  other areas where research is important. and. of course. in way is it a substitute for adequate priorities. all i would say is i very much hope that the gentleman in the well will give bipartisan support to higher priorities for education across the board. to the kerner commission recommendations and to the carnegie commission recommendations. what we need is a joint effort devoid from partisan political concern but dedicated to making it possible for any young man or young woman to go to college irrespective of their financial resources. finally. we need new resources for elementary schools. wider ranging preschool programs. and daycare centers. all these are essential. i believe that the present administration wants to accord a higher priority to education and to early childhood education. it is my opinion that if members on both sides will work together and  try to point specifically at who did what at each point we will be better able to cope with the problem. the johnson administration did some creative things and there were some great strides made with reference to educational legislation. however. it was a tragedy. to use the gentlemans own words. that the johnson administration cut in budgetary requests some twothirds below basic congressional in major social and educational programs. year after year. leaving but a shell of the great society. these actions were a tragic legacy of the war and an inability to end it. and indeed were a poor reflection held out by these creative programs initially.  it remains for us on both sides of the aisle to reorder our priorities. to abolish racism and poverty. and to fully support major educational efforts at all levels. from preschool to graduate school. i am sure that the gentleman will want to join in these endeavors.
. i would merely wish to indicate my strong support for the funds provided in this bill for the congressional student intern program. dropping the prohibition against the use of such funds is a positive step that will indicate to young men and women that the congress does respect and count on their assistance and point of view. many student interns perform valuable services for members and their staffs and. as important. provide a fresh outlook. a link with a large segment of the american population which is often ahead of its government. while some colleges and universities are able to provide financial support for students working for the congress during the summer. many students have been missing out on this experience because they had to have summer income either to meet expenses or to help with next years tuition. i am indeed pleased that financial barriers will longer stand in the way of promising students who wish to learn more about their government at first hand.
s failure to request any funds for college construction grants. in todays money market. it is just  facing facts to assume that reliance on loans will satisfy a colleges or a students financial requirements. thus. i am pleased to support this substitute which. among other things. seeks to add $71 million for construction grants and add $9.3 million to the $6 million requested and recommended in the bill for title vi ndea foreign language and area training in order to bring it to the $15.3 million fiscal year 1970 appropriation level. and to add $8 million for teaching equipment (hea title vi). i can emphasize egh the importance of more funds for foreign area studies. while some of the centers offering training in specialized foreign studies are  of consistently excellent academic quality. many of them are turning out the few firstrate scholars we have in such difficult subjects as vietnamese and cambodian studies. the retrenchment in these programs is part of an overall shift in emphasis away from internationalism by both the government and foundations. to go too far in this direction is. i feel. seriously wrong for the country and its future. beyond that. reduction in funds for this program is just one of several body blows being dealt universities. and their graduate programs in particular. by the federal government this year. the financial situation is so critical that the graduate school at yale university is being forced to reduce its september 1971 admissions by about 30 percent. higher education of sustained quality is one of the hallmarks of any civilization. and private universities of undisputed excellence have always been a source of strength for america as a nation. unless we provide them with more money.  less. we will place the continuation of that tradition in serious jeopardy. this amendment seeks funds beyond what was appropriated in the current fiscal year. it is merely treading waterbut that is preferable to drowning. i urge support of the substitute.
. who happened to be their elected representative to the u.s. congresshardly a radical institution. although perhaps a controversial one. i suggest that it is indeed a shame when those in a position of authoritythe administration of a school. and the local school boardrefuse to abide by an overwhelming majority of popular vote. such arbitrariness offers little hope to those already questioning the responsiveness of the american system. al lowenstein can offer them a good deal of hope. and i only wish that the school authorities could have the opportunity of hearing him. if we are serious about encouraging young men and women to act constructively within the democratic process. we must make this possible. the alternative is alienation and divisiveness at a time when unity in this country is vitally needed.
. i spoke this morning with secretary elliot richardson of the department of health.education. and welfare. h6 informed me of the administrations general support for vocational rehabilitation and also of the administrations recognition of the urgent need to extend this legislation. i urge support of this bill.
. i rise insupport of s. 4083. a bill to modify and enlarge the authority of gallaudet college to maintain and operate the kendall school as a demonstrationelementary school for the deaf: since 1857. the kendall school. originally kn as the columbia institute for the deaf. dumb. and blind. has operated in conjunction with gallauoet college under congressional incorporation and aegis. it serves some 210 deaf pupils from preschool to the age of 15 in the national capital area. the purpose of the bill before us is to enlarge the authority of gallaudet college to make.the kendall school into a dbistration elementary schoolfor the deaf. the need for such a facility on a national level has become increasingly apparent in recent years as~the.intportance of early language training for deaf children has been recognized. there have been schools for the deafformore than a century in this country but e has been able. to draw. together the numbers -of children. the highly trained staff. uptodate resources. educational materials. and practices that are nqcessary to maintain a real model of an exemplary. elementary. school program fpr the deaf.. s.the kendall school. because ofits proximity to the expert faculty and modern resources of gallaudet college. isable to :fillm.that gap. the establishment of a mddel elementary school program for the deaf will be 2a great service ..only :tc the children from the national capital area whb" will ittendkehdall "school classes. but also t"man. of the 41/2 million preschool and schoolage deaf children who are   receiving appropriate educational services. the model programs and techniques developed at the kendall school will assist these deaf children throughout the country. the cost of operating the kendall school as a demonstration elementary school will be $11.7 million through fiscal year 1975 above the regular cost of the kendall schools operations during that period. that figure is estimated at $7.5 million. of the additional sum. $7 million would be a onetime construction cost. in testimony on this measure in the senate. administration spokesman frank withrow of the bureau of education for the handicapped said: a pilot demonstration program at kendall school such as is contemplated in this legislation could influence the progress in early education of deaf children throughout the country. ing that a model elementary school for the deaf would complement the existing model secondary school facility at gallaudet college. mr. withrow further observed: an exemplary program at the kendall school would establish in one central location a continuous sequence of high quality educational programs for deaf youngsters from preschool to secondary school and on into postsecondary education.
i thank -the distinguished gentleman " - . i could  help but rise to my feet in light of. the recent colloquy that i heard on the floor relative to rthe reportentitled. "the .emergency school assistance:program:. an evaluation.". there are several points that should be made.. . -" . first. some of those -concerned with -this report.feel that the billhas dealt with some of the. diffculties- in% the administration of the $75 million approprated to date. but. to be. accurate. there are others who feel that there are still grave loopholes in this bill and..- very frankly. for the benefit of members. .the report lists serious defects. specifically. the report indicates that grants have been approved to districts which had earlier. been found ineligible for any federal assistance because of refusal to comply with discrimination requirements of the civil rights act of 1964. it emphasized that esap funds have been used to support projects which are racist in their conception or which will result in resegregation of black students. it was pointed out in the report that in only 29 of the 295 esapassisted school districts monitored by civil rights organizationsless than 10 percentwas evidence found of practices -which would raise questions about eligibility to participate in the program. . in the back of this report there is a listing of particular school -districts receiving funds that are violating either hew or courtordered segregation plans in alabama. florida. th carolina. south carolina-. tennessee. a list of dis:tricts with classroom segregation. a list of districts with segregation in other facilities. and a list of districts with segregated transportation. and a list of districts where there is discrimination against black teachers and staff. all these districts are receiving. esap money. i am conscious that the committee and the administration have read this report and sought to draft a .bill which would meet some of the clear violations- of civil rights statutesand court actions of. the past. i would submit. however. that the bill can benefit from some very definite and specific amendments. and without those amendments. there will be lasting defects in the legislation.
. the evaluation of the emergency school assistance program to date by six leading civil rights groups raises grave doubts as to the objective. unbiased and purposeful administration of funds appropriated pursuant to this act. i believe that every affected citizen should. therefore. have the right to bring a complaint to the secretary and to have funds suspended and ahearing. held if probable cause is found. following a hearing. if a complaint is justified the secretary .shall terminate the eligibility of the local educational agency for assistance under this act. i regret the necessity for including this provision but i feel that we can afford to enact this statute without taking every precaution to insure that only those who are in fact desegregating their schools in the fullest meaning of the word will receive these funds.
as the gentleman will recall. in the report. "the emergency school assistance program: an evaluation." it was found that there were a number of school districts wherein grants were made to districts which had earlier been found ineligible for any federal assistance because of refusal to comply with the discrimination requirements of the civil rights act. this amendment would permit an individual parent in any one of those districts to state that the funds in the first instance were being applied improperly and unconstitutionally. and. second. to seek redress with the secretary to insure that the funds were being appropriated fairly and for discriminatory purposes. under the precise procedure the secretary has to check into this matter within 15 days of receiving a complaint. and upon determination that there is probable cause that the complaint is valid the secretary is required to suspend all assistance under this act to such recipient for expenses incurred subsequent to the date of determination. in other words. it is a basic safeguard to insure that the purposes of the act are in fact implemented consistent with the constitution.
 has said that in addition to  granting new student deferments. he will discontinue all such deferments which were granted after april 23. 1970. in other words. the iis deferments of those who are presently freshmen in college would be revoked. whether one favors or opposes the concept of undergraduate student deferments. i think that we must agree that those who have them  should be permitted to reserve them under the old systemuntil they complete college or fail to progress adequately "toward a college degree. i think it is grossly unfair to expect the men who entered college last fall. with bookbag and student deferment in hand and tuition paid.to divine the future actions of two separate bodies of the congress. and to have to plan their lives around the uncertainties therein. this whole student deferment issue is a little like a game. i do  think that the umpire can change the rules in the middle of the game and expect the players to accept them. this is  fair play. finally. in balance. while there were many worthwhile improvements in the bill. ably the salary increase. a 2year extension of the draft is basically inconsistent with the war. hence. i am constrained to vote against final passage of the bill.
s budget request. bringing the total for education appropriations to $4.77 billion excluding amounts for programs  yet authorized. etheless. this amount still falls 65 percent or $8.8 billion below what the congress has authorized for education programs. specifically. with regard to the programs i have mentioned and related areas. the following figures are relevant: for titles i and ill of the library services and construction act. public library services. the administration requested only $18 million. the committee fortunately raised that figure to $40.709 million and the hathaway amendment would add aher $14 million. for title ii of the library services and construction act. public library construction. the administration requested absolutely hing. the committee provided $8 million and the hathaway amendment would add $2 million more.  fb title iia of the higher education act. college library resources. the administration requested $5 million. the committee recommends $10 million. and the hathaway amendment would add aher $10.3 million. for title iib of the higher education act. librarian training. the" administration requested and the committee recommended $2 million and the hathaway amendment would double that figure. for title ii of esea. school library programs. the administration requested $80 million. the committee recommended $85 million. and the hathaway amendment would raise this amount to $90 million. for college construction grants under the higher education facilities act. neither the administration  the committee recommended any funding but the hathaway amendment proposes $99 million. for direct loans under title ii of ndea. the administration requested $5 million to phase out the program. but the committee recommended $293 million. i would like particularly to indicate the importance of the additional funds in the hathaway amendment for library programs. they are a vital element. the essential ingredient. if you will. of all the education programs supported by this legislation. for the library services we will endorse this day range from the storytelling that awakens a desire to read in the preschool child all the way to the bibliographic apparatus provided to the postdoctoral scholar. as well as the everyday services we have come to expect from our public libraries. my district and my state. i am proud to say. enjoy relatively good library services. in our schools. our colleges. and universities and research institutions. and in our communities. new york is among the states that provide in matching funds far more than it obtains under the programs encompassed in this legislation. yet this bill and the additional funds that would be available under the amendment are of great significance to new york state.  only because we want to do our part in the nationwide effort to improve school and college and public library services. but also because we have tremendous needs. especially in our urban areas. and can make good use of the additional library funds in new york state. an estimated 16 percent of the elementary schools in new york state are without libraries. the amendment would add $5 million to the appropriation under title ii of the elementary and secondary education act. one of the few federal programs that is available to the private schools that enroll about 11 percent of the young people in the elementary and secondary schools. the amount proposed by the amendment. $90 million. would provide about one book for every three of the 52 million enrolled in elementary and secondary education. the new york state education departments righttoread task force. which is working to achieve the administrations goal of wiping out illiteracy. has emphasized the need of every school for "a school library media center staffed by a trained librarian and equipped with an appropriate collection of materials to satisfy a wide range of interests." yet we k that about 43.000 schools throughout the country lack media centers and that 425 million volumes would be needed to create them and bring all the centers up to desirable standards.  to mention the films. tapes. recordings. and other instructional materials that are used in the presentday methods of teaching and learning. teaching tools are also provided under title iii of the national defense education act. the appropriation for which would be increased under the amendment. this program was enacted in the eisenhower administration with strong bipartisan support. it is one federal program for which virtually every school is eligible. and the appropriations are fully utilized even though one state or local dollar must be provided for every federal dollar. the amendment would merely bring the appropriation for title iii up to the level of the previous year. this is little egh. the schools of new york state and the nation are willing to match a federal appropriation twice as large. they need scientific laboratory equipment. they need films and programed learning materials. they need foreign language laboratories. let us reorder our priorities and provide them with at least half the classroom teaching equipment they are seeking. the amendment would augment the committee bill with respect to the appropriations under title ii of the higher education act. which provides support for college library resources under part a of the title. unless the amendment is adopted. only 48 out of 175 institutions of higher education in new york state are likely to be given grants under part a of title ii. the number of books available per college student has been going down in recent years. yet the committee bill would reduce this appropriation by onethird. below the amount appropriated last year. while the amendment would raise it by $9.3 million. almost up to the fiscal year 1970 level. last year. 2.200 colleges qualified for basic support grants. which must be fully matched. this year. only 750 institutions qualify for basic grants with the reduced funds available. and the number would  increase in fiscal year cxvii--634part 8 1972 unless the committee bill is improved by the proposed amendment. how can we justify less support for college library operations in the face of stillrising enrollments. the rising tide of published materials. the broadened and improved curriculum of the colleges. and the trend toward independent study which requires reading far afield from the assigned textbooks. the colleges are well aware of these trends. they stand ready to match three times the sum that would be provided under the committee bill for basic and supplemental grants. let us meet them half way by adoption of the amendment. i am informed that three times as many applications have been received for training programs under part b of title ii of the higher education act as could be funded. this program provides trained librarians. and they are badly needed. the shortage is estimated at 10.000 for public libraries alone. while the library schools of the nation graduate only 6.000 per year for the school. college and public libraries that have budgeted but unfilled positions for them. at the same time. retirements continue to deplete the working force of professional librarians. the amendment would double the amount proposed by the committee bill for part b of title ii for library training. yet this increase would bring the appropriation only up to the level of last year. all we seek here is to keep the program on an even keel. and even restoring the appropriation to the previous level would suffice only to fund about onethird of the applications for masters degree fellowships in library science for deserving students. for the library services and construction act. the amendment would provide additions that are modest indeed.  only in relation to the amounts proposed by the committee but also in proportion to the need as determined by objective fact. the amount proposed by the committee for title i and for title iii would be increased by little more than onethird by the amendment. title i provides grants for extension of public library services to places without them or with inadequate library services. there are many such places. an estimated 15 million americans have public library service whatsoever. last year we merged into title i the program previously authorized under title iv of the act. for provision of library services to the physically handicapped and persons in statesupported institutions such as hospitals. prisons. homes for the aged and for dependent children. only about 2 percent of the physically handicapped are receiving the special public library services they need and were promised when we enacted the legislation. less than half of the statesupported residential institutions are getting the aid we promised because of the insufficient appropriations. the demands are therefore very great upon title i of the library services and construction act. with the adoption of the amendment. the appropriation would still be less than half the amount authorized. an amount that the committee on labor and education considered very carefully before adopting. title i. which supports interlibrary cooperation. is a vital part of the program. it enables the libraries to knit together the services provided in various parts of each state and among libraries of all types. new york state has used its title iii funds to improve interlibrary loan services with nysilithe new york state interlibrary loan network. it operates through selected public library systems. which are designated as area referral centers. and selected public. college. and special libraries. which are designated as subject referral centers. the hub and monitor of this network is the new york state library. in this way. the library patron- in every part of the state has access to large general library collections as well as extensive special collections in many fields. this service is needed in every state. for it capitalizes on the investment in library services by expanding access. and the federal investment that is required is very small indeed in proportion to the improvement that is wrought. finally.  -. mr.:reidof new york
 has clearly recognized the importance of the age span between 1 and 5. indeed. there is evidence before the committee that tends to suggest that the child learns as much between the ages of 1 and 4 as the child subsequently might learn between the ages of 5 and 14. if we are truly concerned about the child who. halfway through grammar school. is almost 6 years behind in reading skills. and is potentially an elementary school or a high school dropout. the evidence is clear that this particular program of comprehensive early childhood development could be the most exciting. meaningful. downtoearth. and effective program to help our children that i k of. particularly when it is combined with nutrition and health services.
in further reference to what the gentleman is saying. president nixon in his message to the congress on the national institute of education said: until we k why education works when it is successful. we can k little about what makes it fall when it is unsuccessful. this is kledge that must precede any rational attempt to provide our every student with the best possible education. the presidents position is correct. and it is vital for this program.. i hope the amendment will be supported.
. i am absolutely certain that the secretary would have done hing other than what is absolutely correct. he is entitled to the floor of the house. as a former member. quite frankly. i think this body could learn a little from the british houses of parliament. where it is possible to have members of the executive branch answer questions posed by members of the parliament. i see hing improper in that. i think our government would benefit. i believe the gentleman from california owes the secretary an apology.
. i rise to join my distinguished colleague. the gentleman from indiana in urging the members of this body to support h.r. 8395. the vocational rehabilitation amendments of 1972. as the ranking miity member of the select subcommitee on education. i want to emphasize that this bill has the unanimous. bipartisan support of all members of the full committee on education and labor. i would particularly like to thank the distinguished ranking miity member. the gentleman from minnesota . and the chairman of the full committee. the gentleman from kentucky for their unstinting efforts as this legislation was shaped. as well as the members on our side of the subcommittee. the gentleman from california . the gentleman from oregon . the gentleman from idaho . the gentleman from pennsylvania . and the gentleman new york . all of us are proud of the tradition which has marked the growth and development of the vocational rehabilitation program since its inception more than 50 years ago. the legislation. we believe. has been improved to make the program more effective in serving the needs of our disabled citizensto assist all. matter how severe their handicap. to achieve maximum independence in their daily lives and to restore as many as possible to the work force of the nation in jobs commensurate with their individual aptitudes and abilities. in my judgment. this bill before us today holds great promise for making possible a full and productive life for the handicapped. it recognizes that the federalstate vocational rehabilitation program for the disabled has demonstrated its practical value and has come of age. it authorizes additional fundsseveral billion dollars over the next 3 fiscal yearsfor grants to the states for vocational rehabilitation services. with additional matching funds from the states. we expect state vocational rehabilitation agencies to assist thousands of handicapped individuals never before served. h.r. 8395 is an inative bill and one to which the committee gave a great deal of thoughtful consideration. after hearing from witnesses and reviewing all of the statistics. we became very much aware that many handicapped individuals were  being served by this program. this has come partly as the result of pressures to serve more and more individuals. the committee recognized that it is  always possible with the limited number of personnel available to expand services and still provide the extensive services which many handicapped individuals often require. it was in this regard the committee directed the rehabilitation services administration to take a look at the programs and services it is  providing and vigorously explore indepth which clients it is  serving and develop strategies which would give more emphasis to serving those individuals who are the most handicapped. i recognize that everyone is handicapped in one sense or aher. but. given the limited dollars. the program focus should be on those individuals who have the severest problems. as the committee refocused its priority. it did  intend that rsa discontinue services to any disability group which it is  serving. but as moneys are being made available through other legislative authorities. the committee envisions that rehabilitation money will be free to serve the original. physical. and mental handicapped population. i am delighted to e that the administration has substantially expanded its commitment in the areas of treating alcoholics and drug addicts by increasing funding from approximately $21 million in 1969 to $129 million in 1973 for the treatment of alcoholics. and by increasing funding from approximately $38 million in 1969 to $162 million in 1973 for the treatment of drug addicts. most of this money comes from other programs in hew outside rsa. but i envision that where other federal programs provide services for the same clientele rsa might serve and where the objectives. such as rehabilitation and training exist. resources form outside rsa will be used to purchase those services which rsa can best provide. since other agencies have similar goals. it was the committees feeling that it would be consistent and in the best interests of clients for other agencies to purchase services in this manner and then provide supplemental services after rehabilitation procedures have been completed. in this way it is possible for the department to integrate services and at the same time be in the best interests of and ultimately benefit the recipients. it was the committees feeling that rsa money should  be spent in these areas unless the individuals problems are truly severe or that other funds are  available from any other sources. the committee heard from many outstanding leaders in the field of rehabilitation and was particularly impressed with the soundness and wisdom of their arguments as well as their concerns. the committee has made a special effort to correct program inadequacies where they exist and place special emphasis where serious needs have been found. leading professionals such as dr. howard rusk. director of the new york insitute for rehabilitation medicine. expressed great concern about the sharp curtailment of funds in the area of training of rehabilitation personnel in physical therapy. occupational therapy. rehabilitation nursing. prosthetics and orthotics. rehabilitation counseling. speech therapy. and other related fields. he. along with others. contended that the cutbacks have adversely affected schools throughout the country and threatened the entire rehabilitation effort and that. consequently. programs will  expand. he further pointed out his concerns about the size and scope of all research and demonstration programs. both domestic and international. i would like at this point to insert in the record a letter written to congressman brademas from dr. rusk which outlines his recommendations to the committee. particularly in the field of research:
. i rise out of deep respect for frank l. boyden. headmaster of deerfield academy. who died yesterday. i want to say a brief word today in furtherance of some of the thoughts that silvio conte expressed yesterday in bringing this sad news to the house. dr. frank boyden was the great headmaster of america. he was our "mr. chips." indeed he was much more. he understood and loved boys to a very remarkable degree. and he inspired generations of young men. his life was devoted to the teaching of his boys at deerfield academy. where he was headmaster for 66 years before his retirement in 1968 at the ripe young age of 88. he was a teacher in the truest sense.  only as a scholar but as a remarkable developer human character. he taught  only by instruction. but by example. and surely thousands of young men became better citizens for having followed the example he set. dr. boyden believed in hard work. students at deerfield were encouraged to work on nearby farms and participate in community endeavors. excuses were  accepted lightly. for dr. boyden knew that if a boy started making excuses this could become a trait carrying over throughout his life. he had a deep and abiding belief in the role of the secondary school in developing the qualities of leadership. selfdiscipline. sportsmanship. a love of scholarship. and above all a beginning commitment to good citizenship.
. to see the inclusion of the institute in the present higher education amendments. this center modeled on the national institutes for health will provide for the first time coordinated educational research to stimulate reform and ination at every level of education. specifically included in the institute is the concept of the proposed national foundation for postsecondary education to promote ination in postsecondary education. any one of these programs would represent progress. together. as i said before. this legislation represents one of the most important pieces of education legislation ever before congress. recognizing this fact. colleges. universities. and education organizations from every state in the nation have voiced their support of this bill. if we defeat this report today. because we disagree with various provisions in the bill. higher education may  have aher chance for many years. we will be saying   to several million students who need the federal governments assistance to move into the mainstream of american life by advancing their education. we will be saying   to over 2.500 institutions of higher education which have contributed so much and which desperately need our help. congress. by its response today. may. in fact. be determining the fate of american higher education for many years to come.
is the gentleman suggesting. sir. that the secretary of agriculture is so insensitive to the needs of children and students that he would cut. among other things. the school lunch program and the milk program.
is the gentleman from mississippi suggesting also that the secretary of agriculture is so insensitive to the needs of children and to the needs of students that he would cut. among many other things. funds that could be used for the school lunch program and the milk program.
. the lexington school for the deaf. headed by mr. clarence d. ocon. superintendent. which is located in my district at 904 lexington avenue. will observe its 100th anniversary in june 1967. together with the clarke school for the deaf in thampton. mass. both schools when they were founded in 1867. introduced to the united states the oral system which provides an opportunity for all children born deaf to learn to speak and to read lips. the 100th anniversary of this event will also be observed during the centennial celebration. in connection with this dual observance. i have. at the request of the lexington school. asked u.s. postmaster general lawrence f. orien to issue a commemorative stamp on this occasion in recognition of a century of pioneering work by these two schools in the oral education of deaf children. such a gesture would  only ho these schools. but would also provide encouragement for others who are also laboring in this most important and meaningful field of education of our deaf children. the 100th anniversary of these schools will be celebrated by a weeklong international conference to be sponsored by the alexander graham bell association for the deaf. it will be held in thampton. mass.. on june 19. 20. and 21. and in new york city on june 22. 23. and 24. the commemorative stamp. if approved by the postmaster general. could be issued simultaneously from both those cities.
the point here is tenured professors. and i believe at hastings they do  have tenure. in other words. their performance can be reviewed objectively every year. that is just the point of what we are talking about here today. i am very familiar with hastings because many professors from harvard law school upon their retirement go to hastings and teach and have very fruitful. successful careers there. but they are  tenured and hastings can let them go whenever they choose to do so.
yes. but it is very difficult to prove. the distinguished senator from california stated he knew of some who had been let go. i can only discuss university faculty. i am  familiar with elementary or secondary school teachers. letting the one with tenure protection go is very. very difficult. i shall  say impossible. but i would say it is very difficult.
i only wish to say that this is an extremely important measure. as the senator from new jersey has pointed out. to our universities and colleges. this is  something that i think we should blithely pass over. and i am  suggesting we are. but it is of great consequence to the ability of our universities and colleges to bring in young b people that they have to have. b i hope that everyone understands b what we are voting on and particularly b the aides around here who flash the word c to senators as they pour in. what we are voting on is a motion to table a provision that provides two exemptions to the extension of the age to 70. it would exempt from that provision tenured university professors. college professors and executives whose retirement pay. exclusive of social security. is $20.000 or more. elementary and secondary teachers would be covered by the bill up to age 70 under the mechanics that we have gotten here.
. i have always been a firm believer that its the quality of a state that counts.  its size. this holds true in any endeavor. whether its politics. education. athletics. or the arts. rhode island. one of the smallest states in the union. has reason to be especially proud of the athletic achievements of two of its schools. both the university of rhode island and providence college achieved the benchmark of success in college basketballa 20victory seasonand both teams have been invited to a postceason tournament. providence college finished the regular season with a record of 236. and the --university ofrhode island was just one victory behind with a record of 226. the two teams took different roads to the same destination. for dave gavitt. coach of the providence friars. it is his eirhth consecutive 20victory season. also. it marks the 17th time in the last 20 years that providence college has won 20 games or morea record unequalled by any other major college team. for jack kraft. coach of the uri rams this season was a giant step in his effort to regain the national reloutation uri basketball had two decades ago. for the students of uri. the season meant more than winning every game on their home court at keaney gyma feat never before accomplished. it also meant getting mentioned. if  in the same breath. at least in the same sentence. as "p.c." a lot of talk is generated in washington about the competition between the sunbelt and the frostbelt over federal dollars. as cochairman of the theastmidwest coalition. i am proud that in their skirmishes with some of the best kn basketball teams in the sunbeltthose in the atlantic coast conferencerhode island teams held their own. providence college defeated the nationally ranked th carolina tar heelsand in doing so became one of the few teams ever to beat them at their own game. i am talking about basketballs version of the filibusterthe fourcorners offense. only 2 days later. the university of rhode island took on aher fine representative of the accwake forestand sent them home with a defeat. i have doubt that the providence civic center  occupies a place alongside that of gettysburg and fort sumter in the hearts of many th carolinians. in recognition of their achievements. both teams will be participating in the ecac playoffs starting tonight in providence. rhode island. pc and uri have met twice already this season. and each team boasts a victory. the stage is set for the possibility of a rubber game between these two intrastate rivals. what is at stake is more than a berth in the ncaa playoffs and a possible national championship. what is on the line is the bragging rights within one of the best kept basketball secrets in this countrythe state of rhode island.0
i would make it 12 if i could be sure that the senator from maine would remain on the floor. . by the proponents. of course. we remember the old days when we used to say there is hing better than competitioncompetition in the newspaper field. for example. city had more competition in the newspaper field than the city of boston and few cities had as bad newspapers as the city of boston. so it does  always hold true. . in fact. can we look at certain sections of the country where there is a high percentage of public school youngsters and say to ourselves: "this has resulted in a better public school sys.tem." i do  k about that. i wonder if the senator from new york would be prepared to stand before us and say that from his state where the percentage of youngsters in public schools is higher than the national average of 10 percent. the result has been a better public school system. i do  think so. certainly. it is my impression that the finest public schools in the united states are in the midwest or in the far west or in the southwest. in those areas where this high competition in fact does exist i have  seen it result in better public schools.
i would appreciate iti do  want to infringe on any time the senator from maine wanted. i would appreciate it if i could get a reply to the two questions: one. what is this talk about the public schools being vanquished. the facts just do  show it. second. what about this suggestion that you get a better public school system when you have competition. who ks that is the best public school system. i suspect that the senator from new york has given this a good deal of thought. and he has seen the results of the public schools in different sections of the country. i shall take a gamble here. though lawyers should  gamble. and ask a question to which he may have the answer. i say this to the senator from new york. and i shall rely on his experience. as he has seen these youngsters come from public schools throughout the nation. it has been my experience that the youngsters who come from the public schools are receiving a better education in the public schools of the west and the midwest than they are from the public schools in the east. that is  saying that plenty of youngsters do  come out of the public schools in the east with a good education. of course. they do. but overall. it is my impression that they receive a better education in the public schoolsi think the public schools are better in the midwest and the west. that may be heresy for one from the east to say that. but i suspect that. those are the very areas where the percentage of youngsters in public schools is lower than it is in our section of the country.
. the direct election of u.s. senators has  destroyed the sovereignty of the states. it has  meant increased fraud. and the other "innumerable possibilities of danger" of which senator depew spoke. have never surfaced. similarly. we should regard these arguments today with the benefit of our experience and perspective. our decision ought to turn on the demonstrable inequities of the electoral system rather than on unwarranted and speculative forebodings about direct popular election. let us lay aside arguments of advantage. if the less populous states are mathematically more advantaged (and i do  believe they are). why preserve that. if urban voters presently are more influential. why should they be. the fundamental principle on which any democracy is founded is that people governed shall have a controlling voice in their government. it is also inherent in any democracy that all citizens shall have an equal voice in choosing their public servants. history has shown us that the country is strongest when the will of the people is heard. we have removed restrictions on suffrage six times by constitutional amendments 14. 15. 17. 19. 24. and 26. these amendments recognized the contradictions in our democratic system and removed them. the question before us is thus less complicated. less omis than either senator hoar or todays opponents would have us believe. the electorial college system is defective in guaranteeing the democratic equality of all voters. and that fault must be eliminated.
. as of yesterday. just to get the figures right. the corps of engineers told us. and there is reason to doubt their word. that $825 million had been obligated and $836 million appropriated. that is where the $11 million comes from. this is a project that we got into unfortunately way over our heads. the returns are  there. and it seems to me that in a year in which we are cutting everything in sight. including school lunches. and school childrens health programs. that it is unwise to give this group. the corps of engineers. who failed to live within their budget. $58 million extra to proceed on a project that we will later consider on its merits but. clearly. in my judgment is  worth while pursuing. i hope this amendment will receive support. i would like to add senator percy as a cosponsor
. today. i am introducing a modest piece of legislation which i believe would be helpful to american education. i propose to the congress that a white house conference on education be established next year to develop recommendations for the improvement of our nations school system. such national conferences have been sponsored before by several past administrations on such issues as small business. libraries. the aged. the family. and the handicapped. they have often led to significant changes and legislative reforms in these areas. we need a lively discussion of our educational goals. covering a variety of important questions. how do we identify successful school programsand how can these programs be used by other schools. what do we want our schools to teach. how can we improve existing federal programs.  by expanding them necessarily but by making them more responsive to local needs. what are the prospects for the future. what kinds of skills and kledge will our children need in the year 1990 or 2000. the emerging demography of our school population raises questions about how to update teacher skills. infuse new ideas into the classroom. keep teachers from "burning out" as a result of the mounting pressures with which they must deal daily. in addition. our institutions designed for teacher training face important questions and challenges caused by demographic changes. in what form will teachers colleges survive in the future. and how can they be most useful to veteran teachers. by conducting a national conference on education. we can attempt to build a coalition among teachers. parents. school administrators. and government officials. kledge of which techniques work and which ones do  should be shared between public schools and private schools. between postsecondary institutions. and elementary and high schools. by bringing together experts and laypersons. educators and taxpayers. we can assist in the improvement of the american school system. if we fail to emphasize quality in the schools. our nation will become less and less productive just ecoically and industrially but intellectually and aesthetically as well. we have a good foundation on which to build. in many ways. our school system is still ahead of other nations. but we have taken on an ambitious task: to give all of our young people equally for 12 years an access to an excellent education. given the fact that in 1930. only 30 percent of american 17yearolds were graduated from high school. this is an outstanding social vision. we desperately need an emphasis on excellence and purpose. it is  egh to get into the system. all children must be well served when they are there. a white house conference on education will help achieve this goal.e
. today i am introducing a modest piece of legislation which i believe would be helpful to american education. i propose to the congress that a white house conference on education be established this year to develop recommendations for the improvement of our nations school system. such national conferences have been sponsored before by several past administrations on such issues as small business. libraries. the aged. the family. and the handicapped. they have often led to significant changes and legislative reforms in these areas. we need a lively discussion of our educational goals. covering a variety of important questions. how do we identify successful school programsand how can these programs be used by other schools. what do we want our schools to teach. how can we improve existing federal programs.  by expanding them necessarily but by making them more responsive to local needs. what are the prospects for the future. what kinds of skills and kledge will our children need in the year 1990 or 2000. the emerging demography of our school population raises questions about how to update teacher skills. infuse new ideas into the classroom. keep teachers from "burning out" as a result of the mounting pressures with which they must deal daily. in addition. our institutions designed for teacher training face important questions and challenges caused by demographic changes. in what form will teachers colleges survive in the future. and how can they be most useful to veteran teachers. by conducting a national conference on education. we can attempt to build a coalition among teachers. parents. school administrators. and government officials. kledge of which techniques work and which ones do  should be shared between public schools and private schools. laween postsecondary institutions. and elementary and high schools. by bringing together experts and lay persons. educators and taxpayers. we can assist in the improvement of the american school system. if we fail to emphasize quality in the schools. our nation will become less and less productive just ecoically and industrially. but intellectually and aesthetically as well. we have a good foundation on which to build. in many ways. our school system is still ahead of other nations. but we have taken on an ambitious task: to give all of our young people equally for 12 years an access to an excellent education. given the fact that in 1930. only 30 percent of american 17yearolds were graduated from high school. this is an outstanding social vision. we desperately need an emphasis on i excellence and purpose. it is  egh i to get into the system. all children must be well served when they are there. t a white house conference on education will help achieve this goal.*
. i have had a chance to ob.serve the pentagon activities at a pretty close range for 4 years and i think that the characteristics that mr. carlucci brings to this job are the type of characteristics that are needed there. as the distinguished senator from texas just mentioned. he ks his way around the government service. rb ks the inner workings of the bureaucracy. he has wisdom and judgment so that he will call forward the many talents that are avrnilable to him. he will soon learn the different weapons systems and the technical parts of the job. but most of all he will bring this wisdom and this decisiveness. what you need over there is somebody who pan make up their mind and make it up" quickly. and certainly mr. carlucci can do that. i think it is a splendid appointment and i support it wholeheartedly
. today. i am introducing the department of defense educational loan forgiveness act of 1981. the purpose of this legislation is to provide young men and women with at least 2 years of college education a positive incentive to serve in the u.s. armed forces. in the case of this legislation. the motivating factor for enlistment is the forgiveness of educational loans incurred while at college. in my judgment. this program has several positive features designed to improve the quality of americas military manpower: most importantly. it provides a positive incentive for collegelevel students to join our military services. unlike many 01. bill formulations. it does  draw collegebound soldiers out of the military in order to collect their benefits. it provides the military with the educational skills of collegelevel personnel which are so important in todays sophisticated military environment. there is penalty for college students who accept educational loans but do  wish to serve in the military forces. the program is available to both officers and enlisted personnel. and it is established on a trial basis so that it will cost the u.s. government virtually hing if it does  work as intended. i urge my colleagues to help upgrade the educational level of young men and women entering the u.s. armed forces today by supporting the educational loan forgiveness act of 1981.
 to establish a white house conference on education to develop. recommendations for the improvement of the schools of our nation~. including all levels of education: elementary. secondary. postsecondary. vocational. and adult. past administrations have sponsored such conferences on the problems faced by the aged. the family. the handicanped. and smallbusiness. these conferences often led to significant changes and legislative reforms in those areas. by bringing together teachers. parents. school administrators. taxpayers. and mayj 11. 1981 government officials. we can cover many important questions regarding our vision of americas educational system: what school programs are successful. can they be adopted to the different situations facing our schools. what are the best methods for infusing new ideas into the classroom. what should our schools teach. will the skills acquired  fit into our society 10 or 20 years hence. how can we get "more bang for the buck" spent on education. what should be the federal role in education. how can we assure that teachers have a mninimumi level of competence. what role will teacher colleges play as the number of new teachers entering tile work force stabilizes at a much lower level. what will1 prevent teachers from "burning out" as they face mounting pressures every day. how can violence against teachers be curbed. this list of questions certainly is niot exhaustive. nevertheless. we need a lively interchange. i believe that a national conference on education can rebuild a consensus between experts and lay persons on the goals of our school system and the best methods to achieve themi. one disputes the fact that americas best schools are .producing better educated graduates than ever before. but. there are too few top qtuality schools. far too many students receive mediocre educations. indeed. we - see a. new type of student. the functional illiterate. the consequence of falling to address the declining quality of our schools is profound. if we fail to emphasize quality in the schools. our nationwill become less andi less productive just ecoically and industrially. but intellectually and esthetically as well. our educational system has  yet * crumbled. and we will have a solid foundation on which to reaffirm our commitment to education. indeed. our high schools  .graduate 75 percent of the nations children. compared to 30 percent in 1930. however. it is  egh that all children get into the system and that an overwhelming majority graduate. all children must be well served when they are there. a white house confe~rence 6n education can only help to meet this outstanding social vision. mr. preident. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of the -joint resolution be printed in the record.
let me ask the senator this: if this amendment should be adopted. would that  open the appropriations process to a whole series of actions. for example. some people do  like the banning of school prayer.
i continue to read: on monday. however. congress regressedin time and principle. the senate. following earlier action by the house. approved an appropriation bill containing a provision that harks back at least 20 yars to the period before busing for school desegregation purposes became a burning issue. if the bill becomes law. it will prohibit the u.s. department of justice from using federal funds in furtherance of legal action that could result in courtordered busing. such a law would prevent the nations top law enforcement agenly from seeking a transportation remedy for unconstitutional school segregation. put aher way. it might well start a chain reaction that could undo a great deal of the goood that has been accomplished in the sensitive area of race relations. as ser. lowell welcker. rconn. said last week. the antibusing amendment is "all abandonment of the constitution of the u.s. and a retreat from assuring equal opportunities in education to all the children in this country. the issue is  busing. i should like to repeat that the issue is  busing. the issue is whether or  the justice department will be able to enforce the constitution." school busing in the last few years has  been a highly controversial issue. more than two years ago detroit became the largest school district in the nation to comply with courtordered busing. the desegregation process got under way without a hitch. boston. after its tumultuous beginning. has largely come around. indeed. even at the start serious disorders occurred at only four boston schools. as the united states commission on civil rights ed in a 1975 report. "desegregation proceeded in a peaceful and orderly manner in and around 70 schools." that is a reference to boston which is always pointed out as the area where busing has wrecked havoc. in louisville. ky. and charlotte. n.c. busing is an accepted fact of life. even jackson. miss.. which fought desegregation for a decade in the courts. has largely accepted the inevitable. in march 1978 these newspapers ed that "five of the seven allwhite plivate academies (formed to provide a segregated alternative for whites) have closed and white enrollment in tile public schools is climbing back toward mal." busing is  the optimum solution to segregation. and to that i say amen. it ought to be used only as a last resort. but congress in reopening the old wounds is calling into question all the monumental gains that have been made over the last 27 years. it is raising false hopes that the former sancity of the neighborhood school will be restored. it is saying to more than 20 million black americans that the racially charged words "forced busing" are about to have their currency restored. i might e parenthetically it is always "forced busing." that has a ring of evil to it. this is  the way america in the 1980s is described to go. withstanding the ultaconservative rise of the strom thurmonds and jesse helms. rhode islands sen. john h. chafee ed on monday that many senators who believed the antibusing measure was unwise or unconstitutional voted for it because they were afraid that political opponents could use the vote to portray them as supporters of "forced school busing." the constitutionality of this legislation is seriously in question. if it passesboth a senatehouse conference committee and presidential approval are pendingit is certain to be challenged in the federal courts. prosecuting federal legal remedies for segregated schools because the busing of school children is unpopular would be hard to reconcile with the social injustices committed against blacks for 300 years. u.s. atty. gen. benjamin civiletti has said he will recommend that president carter veto the bill and that he understands the state department will do the same. under the circumstances there seems alternative.  my question to the senator is does that seem to be a fair summary  of the legislation a year ago or last ember but of this legislation to which the senators amendment is appended. am i correct in my appraisal of that.
i think that is very important. . because we do  want to sail under any false colors around here. concerning the list of these 100 professorsand by the mere fact that they are professors we will call them distinguished professors. giving them the benefit of the doubtthere is hing that can be used successfully by the senator from delaware to further his case because these professors are against the entire section. and they urge that it be deleted. there is hing about amending. they are opposed to the whole concept. as they say. of disclosures based upon unclassified information. furthermore. the senator from delaware submitted a letter from a professor at the harvard law schoolat least he has a harvard law school heading on his letterlaurence h. tribe. dated september 8. 1980. directed to senator kennedy. mr. tribe goes through a long discussion and he ends up by saying: i believe that section 501(c) would violate the first amendment if enacted. accordingly. i recommend that at least this provision of section 501 be deleted from 8. 2216. again. this is a question of deletion. there is question of amendment. as we all k here. the senator from delaware voted for this legislation when it came out of committee. and it came out unanimously from the judiciary committee. am i  correct.
the description that somebody never breaks their ties. i suppose. can be applied to anybody. i suppose distinguished graduates from princeton never break their ties with nassau hall. they are there. but hardly would the person be referred to as a student of princeton or an employee of that great university. they have ties of sentiment and ties of talgia. but  necessarily ties of employment. the statute is clear. covert agent means an employee. and an employee is a legal term. which i do  think we have to go into all the facets of here. but it can be determined by statute and by regulation.
 i have two specific questions. first. the conference report apparently assumes cuts in the guaranteed student loan program. i believe by the amount of $31 million. yet it is my understanding that there is reconciliation instruction in the conference report that would require that these cuts be made. is it possible for the chairman to clarify that situation.
i thank the senator. second. it is my understanding that funds for other education programs. title i of the elementary and secondary education program act. the pell grant program. education of all handicapped children act. the state block grant. and the vocational and adult education programs. have been increased in the conference report by nearly $300 million. is that correct.
the designation of the week of april 48. 1983. as national drafting week marks the beginning of the second decade of the american institute for design & draftings program to commemorate the efforts of the more than 360.000 individuals in this country who work as designers and draftsmen. todays conventional wisdom tells us that we need to better coordinate our educational and business organizations if we are to achieve maximum efficiency and results. this goal has already been accomplished by the institutes which teach drafting and design. i feel fortunate that one such organizationthe hall instituteis located in rhode island. hundreds of students from throughout new england have come to hall institute. they come for its personalized system of instruction and for its reputation for imparting to its students the skills and attributes necessary to succeed in industry. it is indeed fitting that pawtucket. r.i.-the birthplace of the industrial revolution in this countryshould also be the home of the hall institute. which is dedicated to teaching the skills necessary to keep this revolution going. with its designation of a national drafting week. the american institute for designers & draftsmen has helped to increase public awareness of the important contribution that designers and draftsmen make to our ecoy. they have my best wishes for continued success in this endeavone
. our nation has made exciting scientific advances in the past 20 years which would have been impossible to envision a hundred years ago. we have explored outer space. we have made magnificent strides in medicine. helping to save lives. reduce suffering. and extend the lifespan of our people. we have seen rapid and remarkable techogical developments which have changed the way we work. live. travel. and communicate. however. too often we tend to take such progress for granted. i believe it is extremely important to recognize that our country would  have achieved a leadership position in science and techogy were it  for a federal commitment to programs of advanced education and research. the scientists. doctors. engineers. and other skilled professionals whose kledge and talents are crucial to the united states must receive consistent strong support in order to continue their vital work. the primary sources for our ecoic. scientific. and techogical development have long been our nations research universities. in these distinguished institutions. many of our brightest scholars have received the necessary training and tools to make tremendous contributions in a variety of fields. the future growth and prosperity of the united states resides in our universities and colleges. we can longer afford a secondrate commitment to support the basic research that is carried out in these institutions. we must renew that commitment today. i am very pleased to join with senator danforth in introducing the university research capacity restoration act of 1983. this is a timely and comprehensive approach .to a challenging problem. it will bolster the federal commitment to basic science and engineering research. provide for improvements in the laboratories and instruments of research institutions. and strengthen career development programs for graduate students and faculty in the sciences and related fields. the federal government has derived immeasurable benefits from its partnership with our nations colleges and universities the university research capacity restoration act of 1983 recognizes that more must be done to improve the ability of our schools to educate and train those whose kledge and abilities are crucial to the future scientific. biomedical. engineering. and techogical progress of our country. the bill will accomplish this objective by encouraging increased federal support for institutions of higher learning which are involved in the programs of six federal agencies and departmentsthe national institutes of health. the national aeronautics and space administration. the national sciqnce foundation. and the departments of energy. agriculture.-and defense. ninetyfive percent of all federal funding of academic research and development is directed at these agencies. the administration has taken an important first step this year in seeking increases for targeted programs in science and engineering projects. research instrumentation. and fellowships. this reflects a commendable recognition of the need for a national recommitment to excellence in science. engineering. and advanced education. however. additional priorities must be addressed. these include undergraduate science education. graduate student support. research instrumentation. career incentives in research and education. and life sciences research and training programs. each of the amendments in this package is carefully targeted to strengthen our production of new kledge in science. engineering. and techogy within the present missions of the agendes i have mentioned. we must  limit the discoveries of tomorrow by flagging in our commitment to research programs today. we must  hinder the ability of our students by neglecting the facilities and research equipment of higher education institutions. we must  dissuade talented scholars from pursuing research careers by limiting fellowship support for graduate students and faculty. although these amendments will be discussed separately throughout the authorization and appropriations process within several committees. i believe the university research capacity restoration act of 1983 provides an essential focal point for congrcss to recognize the importance of a renewed commitment to science research as a national investment. this is an investment from which all of mankind will benefit for many years to come.e by mr. mathias (for himself and mr. dole):
i would ask the senator from oklahoma. as i read the proponents of this legislation they say that the american people are entitled to choice. a choice of where to send their children to school. what does the senator from oklahoma say about that. does this legislation indeed give the parents the choice. furthermore. they say that they are doubly taxed. as it were. when they send their children to the private schools they have to pay their local taxes and then have to pay their tuition to the school and that is unfair. has the senator addressed that.
i want to say to the distinguished senator from th carolina that i appreciate his coming to the chamber. he responded to the invitation that i made. and i appreciate it because i do  want anybody saying tomorrow that the opponents of this legislation cut off debate. anybody is weltome to come and debate it they can talk for 5 hours. if the senator would like to come next time and do that. we would be glad to do it. . as far as what hie said. i think they are interesting comments. i should like to say. if i might. that the senators concern for the strength of the private schools is  necessary because these statistics show that. indeed. during these last 10 years of inflation and reduced population. reduced pool of school age youngsters. private schools have grown. in 197.0. 10.1 percent of the school population in the united states attended private schools. in 1980. 10 years later. 10h.9 percent of the eligible children were attending private schools. when you go from 10.1 to 10.9 percent of the children. that is nearly a 10percent increase for the nrivate schools. that is a 10percent increase for the private school enrollment in this period.
that is right. but let me just return to what the senator was saying about what is levied on the public schools. . first all all. i k the scnator was facetious when he was saying you can sell drugs. the public schools are making a valiant effort to control all kinds of disciplinary problems. problems that reflect society as a whole. they are  indiges to the public school system.
let me point out. to the senator that there are levied on the public schools a whole series of requirements from the federal government and from thle state government. example: thle public schools must accept a child regardless of past disciplinary problems. and the public schools are encouraged and practically mandated to retain that youngster. that is the law. the child has to go to school. where does he go to school. he goes to a public school if a private school will  take him. second. the federal government and other governments have levied on the public schools the requirement that children with learning disabilities must be accepted in the public schools. a child with handicaps. mental. physical. whatever. must  only be admitted. but be provided special services. i believe it is right to confer these responsibilities on our public schools. but it would  be right to provide this federal assi1stance to private schools on which the same requirements have  been made. the same holds true in the case of children for whom english is  an original language. many states require schools to set up bilingual education programs. under the proposal that the senator is supporting. we would have two school systems in this nation. one dominated for the motivated. handicapped. englishspeaking. welldisciplined. and in many cases aboveaverage income youngsters. the other would be largely responsible for serving the poor and the miites and the handicapped and those with whom english is  anl original language. and those with disciplinary and learning problems.-. is that the kind of system you want in the united states. i do  think so. that is the kind of system the senator is encouraging by supporting this. if he does. and i hope that when he finishes the discussion. he will change his mind. because i k he is capable of doing that.
are you willing to levy a requirement that every private school that benefits from this tuition tax credit must provide services for the handicapped. that is an amendment we proposed in the finance committee. and it was roundly defeated by thle proponents of this legislation.
. the public schools of america have been the great melting pot. we have come together as a people unified through the public school system. there. people from all backgrounds have a chance to get ahead. and that is what we wish in our nation. this great public school system of ours is one of our nations greatest strengths and we must  undermine it by subsidizing a second school system. i am  ready to give up on the public schools. and i urge my colleagues to join me in rejecting this proposal and renew our commitment to the american system of universal public education. i thank the chair.
. in adopting title ix of the education amendments of 1072. congress sought to reverse longstanding inequities in the treatment of women by education institutions in the united states. in order to renew our commitment to equal educational opportunities for all citizens. i am pleased to join senator packwood in sponsoring 8. 2363. the sex discrimination in education reform act of 1984. the purpose of title ix is to insure that schools and universities receiving federal assistance provide equal opportunities for both men and women. in enacting title ix. the congress clearly intended to guarantee equal access by both sexes to the programs and activities of federally supported institutions. this includes such areas as admission. athletics. counseling. housing facilities. financial aid. course selection. employment. vocational education. and other activities. title ix has served our nation well. since the law took effect. female students have made tremendous progress in educational pursuits which had traditionally been dominated by men. the m st able gains have been in athletice. the number of females involved in high school and intercollegiate athletic programs has soared since the passage of title ix. and the proportion of scholarships offered to talented women athletes by colleges and universities has risen from 1 out of 100 in 1974 to 22 of every 100 offered today. in the decade since title ix became law. the enrolment of women in vocational educational courses has risen significantly. along with the admission of women to schools of business. law. and medicine. title ix has also provided important protections for the employees of educational institutions from unequal treatment based upon their gender. the positive effects of title ix extend far beyond its applicability to women in educational institutions. title ix has helped to guarantee that area of professional development in our society is limited on the basis of sex. the range of title ix should extend beyond its apphcability to individual programs or activities. congress intended the protections of title ix to apply on an institutionwide basis. and this legislation will clarify that intent. although the wording of title ix bars discrimination in any educational program or activity receiving federal financial assistance. congress has consistently emphasized that the law should be interpreted to bar discrimination throughout an institution which receives any form of federal support. it was never the intention of congress to prohibit sex discrimination in an institutions financial aid program. yet allow the institution to engage in discriminatory athletic practices. an educational institution which receives even a single dollar of federal assistance should  be permitted to limit access to any of its activities on the basis of sex. the u.s. supreme courts recent narrow interpretation of title ix in the grove city college against bell decision compels action by congress to clarify the scope of coverage intended by the law. s. 2363 makes it clear that institutionwide coverage by title ix is triggered by the receipt of federal financial assistance in any form. whether through student aid. direct federal support to the institution. or federal support for a particular program. passage of this legislation will reaffirm the commitment of congress to eliminate sex discrimination in education and to promote equality of opportunity at all levels of our society. title ix has enabled us to make great strides in this vital endeavor.  is  the time to turn back. i commend my colleague. senator packwood. for introducing this important measure and look forward to working in support of its speedy passage.*
. i was pleased to join with senator tarm.e recently in cosponsoring senate joint resolution 210. a resolution designating 1984 as the "year of excellence in education." this: measure is a fitting expression of the senates strong commitment to encouraging continued public awareness of the importance of education to our nations future prosperity. last year. this public understanding of the vital role played by education . was heightened by a series of reports which assessed the shortcomings of our school systems. the report of the national commission on excellence in education helped to catapult education to the forefront of our national consciousness by analyzing our problems and providing a positive blueprint for change. other distinguished studies have followed. urging steps to bolster instruction and reverse the decline in achievement. the thorough reexamination given to education in the united states last year has had a tremendous impact. school boards across the country have taken steps to improve the use of time in school classrooms. to- tighten academic standards. and to improve ties between schools and the community. we have also seen a series of encouraging initiatives at the state level. in rhode island. the state board of regents for elementary and secondary education has increased the graduation requirements for collegebound students and upgraded teacher certification standards. the state is also moving to develop a statewide student competency examination and to upgrade curriculum standards. important progress is being made in the quest for quality in education. but more can be done. and it will require continued leadership from the federal government. from state and local leaders. from school boards. school ad-
. in the drive to improve the level of achievement in american schools. the leadership skills of elementary and secondary school administrators are being tested as never before. today. i join with senators hatfield. chiles. and hollings in introducing legislation to provide career development opportunities for principals and other school administrators. "leadership" is a term we have heard repeatedly during the school improvement debate. in setting a new course for american education. leadership here in washington and from state and local governments is vitally important. but leadership must begin in the schools themselves. we need leadersthose who unify and motivate both faculty and studentsin every school building in the country. although studies on american education do  identify any single ingredient for success in improving schools. they do indicated that our most effective schools are those characterized by strong leadership by the school principal. the principal sets a schools instructional objectives. strengthens the commitment of teachers. evaluates school achievements. and takes corrective action when they fall short. management abilities are closely linked with personal leadership qualities in the school principal. the ways in which a principal allocates time and resources. evaluates staff. adpministers the budget. and handles paperwork contribute significantly to his or her success at improving the schoolwide learning environment. the administration. congress. state and local leaders. and citizens across the nation have called for a renewed commitment to improving educational quality. many factors will help strengthen this commitment. the leadership in educational administration development act of 1984 establishes a program to help equip administrators for the challenge by enhancing their managerial. evaluation. communication. budgetary. and human relations skills.
. i rise in support of the amendment offered today by senator heinz to establish a program of awards to local education agencies to carry out plans for improvement of elementary and secondary schools. i was pleased to join senator heinz in introducing the excellence in education act last year because i believe it is important for the federal government to encourage local efforts to attain the highest possible level of achievement in our schools. this legislation would establish a modest program of grants to local schools where plans for reform are underway. it does  purport to be a sweeping solution to the problems we face in education. but it can help to reinforce the federal governments role in the partnership for improving schools. by  we are all familiar with the report of the national commission on excellence in education. issued last april. in assessing the shortcomings of education in the united states and recommending steps for improvement. the report has helped to catapult education to the forefront of our national consciousness more prominently than at any other time in the past two decades. the report provides a sobering analysis of our problems in education as well as a positive blueprint for change. although thbre will be disagreement about some of the reports conclusions. there can be little question that it has effectively enabled us to focus on where we are and where we should be headed in education today. the commission report does  profess to be the final word but rather a starting point for efforts to improve schools in america. the report has contributed to a greater public awareness about the critical connection between educational quality and our nations ecoic competitiveness and prosperity. other studies and reports have followed. urging steps to bolster instruction and reverse the decline. states and school districts across the country have responded in recent months by implementing a variety of plans for improvement. education remains the primary responsibility of state and local governments. they are closer to the particular problems facing each school district. they can best determine which approach to follow in the drive toward improvement. but i believe it remains extremely important for the federal government to point the wayto exert consistent leadership in the quest for quality. we have begun by calling public attention to the need for inproving education. we can continue by encouraging local efforts to implement the improvements. this legislation provides an incentive for local schools to look ahead. to determine where they want to go and. what must be done to get there. school administrators must be willing to set concrete goals for local schools. they must bring together those whose cooperation is crucialstudents. teachers. parents. principals. the communityand give them something to shoot for. a plan of action with a specific aim. this legislation encourages such local efforts by authorizing the secretary of education to award grants of up to $40.000 to 1.000 schools across the united states over the next 2 years. the schools w uld be selected on a competitive basis by local school districts. state education officials and the secretary of education. awards would be made to schools which demonstrate a commitment to pursue goals of improvement. by setting forth plans to implement recommendations of the recent reports for bolstering educational standards and instruction. among the eligible activities are: modernization and improvement of curricula. increasing of graduation requirements in basic subjects. implementation of attendance policies with clear sanctions to reduce absenteeism and tardiness. experimentation with a longer school day or longer school year. proving incentives to teachers for outstanding performance. including financial awards and administrative relief. such as the removal. of paperwoi k and extracurricular duties. and demonstration of new and promising models of schoolcommunity relationships and businesseducation partnerships. including the use of school personnel and community volunteers to alleviate shortages in areas of instruction such as math and science education. to encourage such public/private partnerships in public education. the legislation sets aside 20 percent of the award money for schools that match federal funds with private sector contributions. this legislation is designed to permit local educators to assess their needs. develop plans. and pursue activities to improve the total school environment. it is thus a unique approach which does  prescribe a single solution but encourages local educators to concentrate on those strategies be:it suited to their schools. it will help to demonstrate that i lie federal government is interested riot merely in talking about quality education. but working as an active partner with local school districts to bring about positive change. last fall. representatives of 144 schools were hoed here in washington for outstanding achievements in the secretary of educations seeondary school recognition program. we are all proud of the magnificent accomplishments of these schools. their recognition helps to bolster public awareness about the many wonderful contributions being made in our public schools today. this legislation will encourage continued strides toward excellence by rewarding schools which are determined to attain the highest possible level of achievement. the passage of this amendment will signify that congress remains deeply committed to improving american education. i hope my colleagues will join me in voting for its adoption.
. as a cosponsor of 5. 1256. the emergency school aid extension act. i would like to express my support for the amendment offered by senators hatch and moynihan to include support for magnet schools as an amendment to s. i have supported s. 1256 because i believe the elimination of racial isolation in our nations public schools remains one of the primary responsibilities of the federal government in education. we must continue to assure that all students are given an equal opportunity to receive a quality education. regardless of background. federal leadership in reducing school segregation has played a crucial role in this endeavor. magnet schoolsschools which attract students from all backgrounds based upon their interest in certain discplineshave been an emously successful tool in promoting voluntary segregation programs. in providence. r.i.. an extremely successful magnet program in the citys public high schools has received widespread community support and helped to improve the learning environment. providence was one of many cities which received support for its magnet program in the emergency school aid act prior to its consolidation in the chapter 2 block grant program. after consolidation. the level of funding available for desegregation programs was significantly reduced. important activities to reduce racial isolation and assist miity and disadvantaged students have been curtailed. the chapter 2 funding formula has hindered many urban school districts in their efforts to implement desegregation activities. i have supported the revival of categorical assistance for these activities in order to enhance the capability of our nations urban schools to address the unique challenges they face today. although the compromise amendment being considered today does  entirely meet the goals set forth in s. 1256. it will provide important support by enabling school systems to compete for assistance outside the block grant. this support will be of emous help to americas urban schools. and i commend senators hatch and moynihan. as well as the other cosponsors of the measure. for their diligent efforts in this matter.e
. in the past year a great deal of concern has been expressed about the need to improve the level of instruction and achievement in american schools. congress and the administration have played an important leadership role in encouraging steps to improve education. but we have recognized that most reforms must originate at the local level to address local problems and priorities. local education leaders are assessing the strengths and weaknesses of their schools and are implementing a variety of changes. few in congress would advocate a federally imposed school calendar. or a uniform school curriculum. or a national student discipline standard. or a federal teacher certification requirement. and so forth. these decisions are best left to the discretion of local school administrators and school board members who are directly accountable to parents and other taxpayers. decisions about the types of student activities to be encouraged in american schools have also been left to local discretion. according to local values and customs. the equal access amendment is intended to protect the rights of voluntary student organizations to hold meetings in the public schools without regard to their religious. political. philosophical. or other content. but in so doing. it would weaken the authority of local school administrators to exercise discretion over school policies in these matters. and it could result in divisiveness in our schools and communities. the sanctioning of religious clubs raises obvious constitutional questions regarding the separation of church and state. the supreme court has  ruled on the question of religious meetings in elementary and secondary schools. but is expected to examine this question within the next year. we as yet have definitive judicial ruling on the equal access question partly because the matter has been tested only rarely. i believe this attests to the abilities of local education leaders to resolve questions about student religious and other clubs according to local preferences and concerns. this legislation would remove such flexibility. local school administrators make decisions every day about what is taught and discussed in our schools and what types of activities contribute to the overall enrichment of students. they work closely with local school board members. faculty. and.parents in developing programs to suit conimunity needs. and in resolving problems when they arise. this legislation could weaken the discretion of these local school leaders. and distract their attention from providing instructional leadership. there is scant evidence that the passage of this amendment will improve the learning environment in american schools. and it is quality education which should be the primary concern of the congress at this time. school administrators face emous challenges today in improving the quality of education in american schools. congress. the administration. state governments. and local leaders are continually urging them to do more to upgrade the level of instruction and achievement.  is  the time to divert their attention from these efforts. legislation to encourage religious and political activity in the schools will do little to resolve our problems in education but could lead to discord between those whose cooperation in the drive for excellence in education is more important than ever. a compelling need for this legislation has  been demonstrated. i believe it could create more problems than it solves for american schools. and i urge my colleagues to vote for its rejection.
. it had been my intention to offer an amendment to s. 2341 to establish a program to expand career development opportunities for elementary and secondary school administrators. since it was extremely important for the senate to approve the vocational education act amendments in a timely fashion. i did  seek to have the amendment considered yesterday. however. it is my hope that the senate will have an opportunity to examine this proposal in the near future. recently. i joined with senators
. i am delighted to join with senator heinz today in offering an amendment to provide startup funds for the excellence in education program. authorized earlier this year as title vi of the education for ecoic security act. this legislation establishes a firstofitskind program to encourage efforts to improve schools across our nation. it establishes a competitive program of grants to local schools which submit plans for improving the learning environment. the excellence in education prgram authorizes the secretary of education to award grants to schools across the united states over the next 2 years. the schools would be selected on a competitive basis by local school districts. state education officials and the secretary of education. awards would be made to schools which demonstrate a commitment to improvement. through such activities asmodernization and improvement of curricula. increasing graduation requirements in basic subjects. strengthening attendance policies to reduce absenteeism and tardiness. experimentation with a longer school day br year. providing incentives to teachers for outstanding performance. and development of new models of schoolcommunity relationships and businesseducation partnerships. while it is more important than ever to maintain a strong national commitment to quality education. americans recognize that solution to many of our problems must originate at the local level. in response to local problems and priorities. the excellence in education program does  prescribe a single solution for the challenges facing american education. but encourages local educators to concentrate on those strategies best suited to their schools. although the amount of funding sought in the amendment is modest. it will permit the department of education to establish this competitive grant program during fiscal year 1985. this program can play a key role in promoting school improvement activities throughout the united states. i urge my colleagues to join me today in supporting the adoption of this amendment.
. other endeavor has constimed so much of our nations energies during the past 100 years as the drive for civil rights. it is a debate which has accentuated both the strengths and weaknesses of our national character. each civil rights victory has been hard fought. and the quest for equality has enriched our society. strenuous efforts must be made to protect the gains which we have made. in this legislation congress has an opportunity to reaffirm our nations commitment to equality of opportunity. the grove city amendment will clarify the broad scope of coverage of title ix by prohibiting discrimination by any education recipient of federal financial assistance. this makes it clear that institutionwide coverage of title ix is entailed when an educational institution receives federal assistance in any form. whether through student aid. direct federal support to the institution. or federal support for .a particular program. the supreme courts grove city decision raised disturbing questions about the scope of coverage of three other laws intended to prohibit discrimination based upon race. national origin. disability. and age. these could also be jeopardized by the courts narrow reading of the title ix statute. thus. it is imperative for congress to restate its intention to provide institutionwide protection against discrimination in these areas. i believe that an institution which receives even a single dollar of federal financial assistance should  be permitted to practice any form of discrimination. in order to make continued progress in assuring equal rights for all our citizens. congriss must act  to clarify the broad scope of coverage it. intended for these statutes. complete equality of opportunity is  yet a reality for all our citizens. but these four statutes have helped our country make significant strides in eliminating discrimination in a variety of important areas. they have opened doors to groups in our society whose aspirations and opportunities had previously been limited.  is  the time to turn back. i hope you will join in voting for the enactment of this vital legislation.
. i am most pleased that my bill. the leadership in educational administration act. has been included in the pending measure. s. 2565. as title ix. it is my opinion. and that this title will expand career opportunities for elementary and secondary school administrators.
. in june of 1984 congress approved the equal access act. establishing for the first time a federal standard for the use of public school facilities in the united states. this law was unnecessary then. it is unnecessary . and it will create more problems than it solves for american schools. today i join with senators mathias. weicker. and metzenbaum. in introducing legislation to repeal this measure. in voting against the equal access bill last year. my primary concern was that.congress should  further compound the problems faced by educators by diverting their attention from efforts to improve public schools. congress and the administration have expressed a great deal of concern about the need to improve american education. we have also recognized that most educational reforms should originate at the local level. the equal access act was  a school improvement initiative. in the wake of the senates rejection of a constitutional amendment permitting organized school prayer. the equal access act provided an opportunity for congress to express support for limited religious activity in public schools. however. it raises many of the same constitutional questions posed by the school prayer amendment and imposes new federal standards over local policies governing the use of school facilities. the act holds that whenever a public school permits curriculumrelated student groups to meet on school premises during instructional time. it must provide access to school facilities regardless of the "religious. political. philosophical or other contentof the speech at such meetings." thus. if groups such as the chess club. the drama society or the ski club. are allowed to meet in the school building. equal accommodation must be made for religious. political and other gatherings. as if there were  already egh requirements imposed on local schools by the federal government.  we are defining the extracurricular rights of students. this is a significant new federal intrusion into the local decisionmaking process. supporters of the measure argued that it would protect the rights of all students to free speech and remove government hostility toward religion in the schools. but the act weakens the authority of local school officials to exercise discretion in these matters and can lead to a quagmire of .confusion and discord where e previously existed. although the equal access law does  expressly sanction organized religious activity during instructional hours. it clearly is designed to insure that religious activity has a place in the public schools. in many communities this is deeply troubling to parents. students. teachers and others who believe religion should be observed in the home and the place of worship.  in public schools. as a result. disputes can erupt dividing students. school administrators. parents. school board members and others in the community whose cooperation is essential. the equal access law raises difficult questions concerning the constitutional separation between church and state. court rulings on this question have been inconclusive thus far. and the u.s. supreme court is expected to provide guidance in the matter later this year. but whether or  the law is found strictly constitutional is. i believe. beside the point. this law is bad public policy. it threatens to divide our schools and communities over mattes that have hing to do with educational improvement. and it can only impede the improvement efforts of local schools leaders. one of the reasons we lack a definitive judicial ruling on the equal access question is that it has been tested only rarely. the principal argument made in favor of this proposal last year was that voluntary student religious organizations were being widely and unfairly precluded from using school facilities. yet the lack of a uniform national requirement has apparently  prevented local school leaders from resolving questions about the use of school facilities. out of 24.000 secondary schools in the united states serving about 20 million students. very fewperhaps fewer than 50equal access cases have been brought to litigation. school administrators. students. parents. and school boards have resolved these questions according to local preferences and concerns. a nationwide survey conducted by the american association of school administrators last year indicates that the equal access law "fixes" an area of public policy that wasnt broken. of 479 school districts responding to the survey. only 8 instances were cited in which student religious groups appealed to local school boards over the denial of their requests to use school facilities. and only 1 district reported that litigation resulted. local school administrators make decisions every day about what is taught and discussed in our schools and what types of activities contribute to the overall enrichment of students. they work closely with local school board members. faculty and parents in developing programs to suit community needs. and in resolving problems when they arise. there is scant evi- s3871 dence of problems requiring this federal law which weakens the discretion of local educators and distracts their attention from providing instructional leadership. there is increasing evidence. however. that the equal access law will have the unintended effect of creating new problems for american schools. in school districts throughout the country. the equal access law is creating confusion and conflict over which organizations should be permitted to meet in school- facilities. should all groups calling themselves religious or political be accommodated. should teachers be required to supervise the meetings. how should "instructional" be defined. is it possible to grant access to some groups but  others. do parents really feel it is the responsibility of the public schools to expose their children to the full range of religious. political and philosophical thought. these are  the questions which should demand the attention of school administrators. these are  the issues which should dominate the agenda of school board meetings. these are  the problems to which students and teachers and parents should devote their energies. the equal access law is doing hing to improve academic achievement. it is doing hing to improve the quality of teaching. it is doing hing to improve community support for public education. all it can do is make a tough job tougher for american educators and divert local tax dollars away from schools into costly legal disputes. at a time when we are struggling to maintain a decent level of spending for public education. this is the last thing we need. i hope my colleagues will join in supporting this legislation to repeal the equal access law before it further disrupts. efforts to improve the learning environment in american schools. i ask unanimous consent that several recent news articles on the equal access issue and the text of the bill be printed in the record.
. i am .pleased to join as a cosponsor of senate concurrent resolution 28. a resolution commemorating may 18 as the 20th anniversary of the head start program. this resolution reaffirms congressional support for a program which has. in its 20 years. compiled an impressive track record. head start provides educational. medical. and nutritional services to more than 450.000 lower income preschoolers. in order to eliminate the gap between disadvantaged children and their more fortunate peers. it has been widely recognized as one of our most costeffective and successful programs. due in part to its unique approach stressing parent involvement and strong community support. head start is a program that works. its effectiveness has been documented again and again. in numerous independent evaluations. head start children score higher than participants on standardized tests of intelligence. school readiness. math. language. vocabulary. and perceptual skills. studies have found that they perform better in school and are less likely to require special education. head starters are more likely. in later years. to hold afterschool jobs and are less likely to show signs of delinquent behavior. children receiving head starts medical services generally improve in physical development and motor skills. relative to other children. and they are more likely to be of mal height and weight. to have fewer absences from school. and to perform better on physical tests. children are  the only ones who have benefited from head start. thanks to its consistent emphasis on parent and community involvement. for every 15 children in head start. 10 parents volunteer their services to the program. clearly. the program reinforces parents commitment to their childrens wellbeing. with results that last a lifetime. all these factors account for the most impressive compelling statistic of all: it has been estimated that. taking into account the cost of special and remedial education that head start makes unnecessary. the programs benefits outweigh its costs by 236 percent. head start enriches the lives of thousands of rhode island children and their families. with eight programs currently in operation. serving communities in cranston. newport. th providence. th scituate. south county. providence. riverside. warren. bristol. warwick. and woonsocket. the outstanding efforts of talented and dedicated head start staff members have earned the respect and admiration of parents and community leaders. these efforts have contributed greatly to the success of the head start program. head start has proven to be well worth all we have invested in it. this is a program that has more than fulfilled its promise. and i urge the senate to affirm its continued strong support by acting favorably on this resolution.
. i am pleased today to join my colleagues. senators specter. pel. stafford. .kennedy. dodd. and bradley. in introducing the dropout prevention and reentry act of 1985. this measure will provide grants to local educational agencies for dropout prevention demonstration projects. and fund a national school dropout study to obtain more data on this deeply troubling problem. in the last few years observers of the american educational system have made a great many disturbing conclusions on the state of our nations public schools. a number of extensive studies have called for more rigorous academic standards. modernization of curriculums. and improvement in the quality of teaching. this overdue reassessment of the quality of education has engendered a reform movement that promises to return high standards to our nations classrooms. largely overlooked in this drive for renewed excellence and rigor in public education are the millions of students who drop out of school each year. these are students for whom more demanding requirements and reform measures such as minimum competency tests are irrelevant. alienated by the school environment. and often burdened with family problems and poverty. americas dropouts are falling through the cracks of our educational system in appalling numbers. roughly 1 in 4 of the students who enter u.s. high schools do  finish. in providence. ri. the figure has been estimated at 40 percent. in some urban areas. particularly among miities and the poor. the dropout rate exceeds 50 percent. dropouts disappear from high school corridors. but they do  disappear from society. rather. their names show up on the welfare rolls. they become drug abuse statistics. or they wind up in our overcrowded prison system. in the majority of cases the results are tragic. both for the dropouts themselves and for the society to which most of them are unable to make a real contribution. the visible products of the dropout exodus are lives spent on the margin of society. with our social welfare system or our penal institutions incurring the monetary costs. as anyone who has closely examined the issue ks. there is simple way to keep our young people in school. every dropout has a different set of reasons for leaving school. and many will never succeed in the traditional curricular structure. this measure does  purport to be a complete solution. but it does set forth a number of actions that american schools can take today to begin fighting the dropout problem. under this measure. schools can begin to: locate dropouts and develop ways of drawing them back into the system. identify potential dropouts by recognizing early warning signs. explore the rea-. sons why students drop out and use counseling and remedial help to encourage them to stay in school. offer alternative educational opportunities including vocational training. and establish a dissemination network for information on dropout prevention. the legislation my colleagues and i are introducing today will provide funding. on a competitivegrant basis. for local educational agencies to establish demonstration projects involving these kinds of actions. the project must only reach dropouts and assist them in completing their education. but also identify students who are likely to become dropouts and work to prevent their leaving school. since future dropouts are often identifiable well before they enter the ninth grade. these programs must also develop ways to coordinate dropout prevention efforts between the high school and the junior high levels. projects funded under this act will address the special needs of high schoolage parents. who are highrisk candidates for dropping out. in addition. grantees must disseminate any valuable information they obtain from the projects to other educational agencies dealing with the dropout problem. despite the gravity of this problem. there is a dearth of information on ex-. actly who is dropping out. what kinds of schools they are leaving. and what has caused them to leave the system. for this reason. our bill also calls for a national school dropout study to be conducted while the demonstration projects are underway. the projects will indicate which methods are most successful in helping dropouts and potential dropouts. while the national study determines where we should concentrate future efforts in this area. in the face of the shocking dropout rates currently plaguing school systems in every part of the nation. a reversal of the dropout tide will grow only out of bold. original approaches devised by the educators who are closest to the problem. this act represents a vital step in helping our schools to meet this challenge. and will produce information valuable to education agencies all over the united states. the demonstration projects and the national study will help us determine how to proceed in cutting the dropout rate. they will save many students from the bleak prospect of leaving their education behind for a future of limited possibilities and dead ends. i hope that our colleagues will support this urgently needed initiative.e
. the even start act addresses the grave problem of adult illiteracy without spending billions of dollars the federal government can afford. it links state. local. and federal social services with literacy education to develop model programs coordinating adult and elementary school education. and it is targeted at the most needy and historically underserved americans. programs funded under this legislation will develop methods for solving the problem of illiteracy by teaching families to read and learn together. by providing children from illiterate families with an even start. these programs will begin to break the cycle of illiteracy. i urge my colleagues to support this inative attempt to help those who live in "illiterate america" become reading. contributing citizens. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the .record.
. during the month of july this year. the u.s. senate had an opportunity to learn first hand something i have always believedthat disabled individuals have something to offer all of us. joe cons. a 16yearold young man. became the first senate page with downs syndrome. to joe. it was  a major event. he came. tried his best to do a good job. had a good time in washington and then went back homejust like every other page. to the rest of us. his tenure in the job was a special event because he was  just like every other page. because of the nature of congress. joe cons was probably one of the most visible demonstrations that we have been able to give of the abilities of individuals with disabilities. most people would have thought someone like joe would be unable to be a u.s. senate page. however. through appearing on the today show with bryant gumbel. on various news programs. and in the print media. joe showed us all that we ought to open our eyes to the capabilities of those considered to have disabilities. after joes appearance on the today show i received many letters from all over the country about joe. i ask unanimous consent to have the most touching of those letters inserted in the record at this point.
. 2 days ago the house subcommittee on elementary. secondary. and vocational education held a hearing on the even start act. which i introduced last month in the senate. this bill. which was introduced in the house by representative bill goodling. addresses the grave national problem of adult illiteracy. it establishes pilot literacy programs in which parents who read poorly. or  at all. will learn to read along with their children. this legislation attempts to break the cycle of illiteracy by providing disadvantaged students with the parental reinforcement they need to succeed in school and become readers. even starts intergenerational approach to illiteracy has received widespread support from educators and experts in the field. it has been endorsed by both the national education association and the department of education. i ask unanimous consent that the testimony delivered by three of the witnesses at this weeks hearing on the even start act be inserted in the record. the testimony follows:
the senator is correct and i join him in expressing concern about the lack of uniformity in eligibility standards which apply to educational institutions providing services under the department of defense tuition assistance program. there should be a single. common policy for all branches of the military. and the report of the house committee provides a very clear directiveto that end. as my colleague suggests. i am very happy to reply that the house policy directive does and will prevail in these circumstances. i have been assured by the senate appropriations subcommittee that it does  take issue with the house report on this matter and that the senate committees silence on the matter does  indicate a contrary view. moreover. i have been given every reason to hope that the conference report on the continuing resolution will include a specific affirmation of the house language. but i agree with my colleague that we should take this additional opportunity to record our concern and our understanding of the remedy.*
. i was shocked and saddenecq by last months news reports of the death of a brown university student due to an allergic reaction to a meal eaten in a restaurant. on february 18. katherine brodsky. who suffered from an allergy to nuts. fell ill minutes after eating chili which had been seasoned with peanut butter. what makes this story so tragic is that it could so easily have been prevented. what makes it so frightening is that every person who suffers from a food allergy runs the risk that what they order in a restaurant may contain an ingredient they can tolerate. this is beciuseunder current fda interpretation of the food. drug and cosmetic actrestaurants are  required to disclose the ingredients of the dishes they serve. in the case of packaged food bought at a grocery store. consumers with food allergies are protected by the list of ingredients that must appear on every label. most allergy sufferers are practiced in examinihg ingredient lists. sincemore often that the only treatment for their sensitivity is to avoid the food in question. what protection does this person have. then. when he or she eats out. ingredient information must be soughtand is frequently impossible to obtain. anyone who has ever tried to find out exactly what is in a meal ordered in a fast food restaurant. for example. has undoubtedly encountered this problem. and sometimes. ingredients are so unexpected that even a person with a wellestablished practice of avoiding certain foods would never even think to ask. for example. some people are allergic to corn syrup. a commonly found sweetener. but who could anticipate that some restaurants use it in making french fries. ingredient information for all types of food should be reasonably accessible. and i will soon be introducing legislation to help achieve this goal. my intent is  just to make this information more available for restaurant food. butmore generallyto highlight the vital importance of king what we are eating. protecting those who suffer from allergies is just one of many reasons to provide consumers with information about the ingredients of food served in restaurants. all consumers need this information in order to make wise choices about the food they eat. hing could be more basic to our collective health. 9
. the bill  before us reauthorizes the head start program for 4 more years. thus assuring it of a future as successful as its past. i urge my colleagues to give it their most wholehearted support. head start seeks to close the gap between disadvantaged children and their more fortunate peers. providing educational. medical. and nutritional services to more than 450.000 lowerincome preschoolers. in rhode island. it serves thousands of children and their families. with programs currently operating in cranston. newport. * th providence. th scituate. south county. providence. riverside. $9011 warren. bristol. warwick. and woonsocket. this bill reauthorizes the program through fiscal year 1990. increasing the authorized funding level by 4 percent each year. these modest increases will allow head start to continue its current responsibilities. helping to alleviate need for cutbacks in services. head start is a program that works. its effectiveness has been documented time and again. in study after study. findings like these are typical: head starters score higher than head starters on standardized tests of intelligence. school readiness. math. language. vocabulary. and perceptual skills. they perform better in school. and less frequently require special education. in later years. they are more likely to hold after school jobs. and less likely to show signs of delinquency. thus. the good that head start does resounds through the years. as studies have shown. but it also resounds through entire communities. thanks to the programs consistent emphasis on parent and community involvement: for every five head start children. four parents volunteer their services to the program. clearly. the program reinforces parents commitment to their childrens wellbeing. with results that last a lifetime. all these factors account for the most convincing evaluation of allhead starts benefits. as compared to its costs. when one considers the special and remedial education that are  needed because of head start. the programs benefits outrun its costs by more than 2toi. i urge my colleagues to support further head start successes by supporting this measure.*
. we mourn the passing of our frend john east. the biography of him set forth that he is a man of 55. born in th carolina. he had a distingu.51hed career. phi beta kappa from eollec. he was a college professor. ihen he was elected to the ui.. senate. there are three characteisifs that i particularly remember of jouh east. first of all. he was a man of strong beliefs. he was  a passive onlooker at the scene of life. he had beliefs and feelings on what took place. domestically and internationally. and he spoke out about those. so. first. it was his strong beliefs. second. i remember him for his courage. both his physical courage and his moral courage. as we all k. jopn east was physically afflicted and was. in a sense. confined to a wheelchair. but why do i say in a sense. because. in fact. he was  bound by the limitations of his physical afflication. it did ngt limit him in any way. his courage was demonstrated. furthermore. by the fashion in which he spoke out. he was net one to trim his sails to popular opinion. john east called the shots as he saw them and spoke out vigorously for the beliefs and feelings that he had. so. first it was his strong beliefs and second. was his courage. third. the warmth of his personality. john east was a man who always had a cheerful and friendly smile and greeting. he was a person you were glad to see. despite the problems. the physical difficulties that he might have had. it did  cause him to be a sad and glum person. john east was rightfully a hero to many. the loss of john east is so sad. it is sad for his family. it is sad for his friends. it is sad for the people of th carolina. and the people of the united states likewise. and it is sad for all of us because. obviously. he was discouraged and upset. we can only ask ourselves. could we have reached out our hands and hearts to a greater degree than we did. i think that is a feeling and question that every single one of us in the senate have asked ourselves. so we truly mourn the passing of john east. we think of his strong beliefs. we think of his courage. we think of the warmth of his personality. we will miss him. from his loss. we receive new inspiration to be better members of this body and of the fellowship of mankind.
that is exactly right. the points the senator has made are excellent ones. we have had some stormy hearings on this legislation. as one can imagine. because there are those with deepseated feelings about commitments. it is their job. they are running the institution. and they do  want that institution closed. that is human nature. that is quite logical. in our state. what we have done is that we have a union in our institution. we have worked closely with that union. ours is a much smaller state. so we can do things easier. but that does  mean the bigger states can do it. the workers at the large institution supervise the smaller settingsthe group homes of 5. 10. or 15 individualsand they find it much more satisfying. let me give an indication of how. by demanding more. if you will. giving greater opportunity. the individual reaps greater potential. in a large institution. you can have everybody in the kitchen cooking meals. it would be chaotic. so you have a work force. and that work force prepares the meals and then the residents come and eat. in a smaller setting. you are able to say that people will take turns. if there are. say. only eight invividuals. each will have an opportunity to try to cook. they will learn that the stove has to be turned off. that you can walk away from it. they learn how to keep the home clean. they take turns in vacuuming and making the place neat and tidy. they learn what it is to take a bus to the workshop. i have visited many of these settings where there are those who are severely impaired. and i mean extremely severely impaired. there. the care and the opportunities for leaving the home are vastly reduced. they can do it because they are so impaired. etheless. they .do better than they would in a large institution. aher facet is that it is possible to place the individuals closer to their homes. after all. you have one institutio. in a large state like wisconsin. three or fourbut wherever it is. some people are going to be quite a distance from home. when we put these individuals into smaller group homes. we are able to do it in their own community. in many instances. the state purchases the home and upgrades it for fire safety. and so forth. then they are moved closer to their homes. where their relatives and parents can visit them easier than at some institution far out in the country. it has been a magnificent success. and i appreciate the interest of the senator from wisconsin.
 william howard taft and serving for many years as chairman of the pawtucket school committee until his sudden death in 1922. for its many contributions to pawtucket and rhode island. and for its many ination in the printing industry. i ask my senate colleagues to join me in congratulating the john w. little co. on its 100th anniversary.*
. i commend the distinguished senator from vermont on his outstanding work in putting together the higher education act reauthorization. both he and the distinguished senior senator from rhode island worked tirelessly on this extremely important legislation. and they have done an excellent job. their dedication to quality educational institutions. and student finani cial assistance programs is well kn in this body. and indeed. throughout the nation. and comes through clearly in this legislation. working under difficult budgetary constraints. they crafted a responsible and equitable senate bill that was applauded on all sides. i was proud to be a cosponsor of that legislation. and  i am pleased to vote in favor of the conference report. which i understand is the product of many days hard work. one particular provision of this legislation means a great deal to me. and i would like to take a moment to point it out to my colleagues. the conference has seen fit to include in this reauthorization the leadership in edu-
. i am proud today to pay tribute to the first official "just say  club formed in the state of rhode island. at the tiogue elementary school in coventry. the model for this "just say  club was established in oakland. ca less than 2 years ago. and thousands of clubs have been formed across the nation. early in september. 60 fifth and sixth grade students of the tiogue elementary school united to make a pledge to adopt a drugfree lifestyle. i congratulate these youngsters for their commitment to remain substancefree. and commend the efforts of jane viti. school nurseteacher. who organized the club. our greatest potential for success in the battle against drug and alcohol abuse is in equipping our young people with the strength and kledge to resist the temptation to experiment with these harmful substances. the "just say  club. with its primary focus on prevention. is a wonderful model program for all our nations children. through activities like this. they can help pave the way for a drugfree society in the years ahead. i urge my colleagues. as they make plans to return to their home states after congress adjourns. to encourage their young constituents to form "just say  clubs and to take the pledge of the club. the words are simple. but the promise they hold for the future of our youth and our country is profound. the pledge states: i k who i am. and i k that i want to stay healthy and happy. i can stand up for myself and stick to my decision to live a drugfree life. i can ask for support from my friends and my family. i pledge to say "i to drugs and alcohol. i can help others to say to drugs and alcohol. we are very fortunate that the children of tiogue elementary school and many others throughout our nation have had the courage to make the "just say  pledge. let us join with them and spread the message to say " to drugs and alcohol.e
the designation of the week of april 48. 1983. as national drafting week marks the beginning of the second decade of the american institute for design & draftings program to commemorate the efforts of the more than 360.000 individuals in this country who work as designers and draftsmen. todays conventional wisdom tells us that we need to better coordinate our educational and business organizations if we are to achieve maximum efficiency and results. this goal has already been accomplished by the institutes which teach drafting and design. i feel fortunate that one such organizationthe hall instituteis located in rhode island. hundreds of students from throughout new england have come to hall institute. they come for its personalized system of instruction and for its reputation for imparting to its students the skills and attributes necessary to succeed in industry. it is indeed fitting that pawtucket. r.i.-the birthplace of the industrial revolution in this countryshould also be the home of the hall institute. which is dedicated to teaching the skills necessary to keep this revolution going. with its designation of a national drafting week. the american institute for designers & draftsmen has helped to increase public awareness of the important contribution that designers and draftsmen make to our ecoy. they have my best wishes for continued success in this endeavone
. our nation has made exciting scientific advances in the past 20 years which would have been impossible to envision a hundred years ago. we have explored outer space. we have made magnificent strides in medicine. helping to save lives. reduce suffering. and extend the lifespan of our people. we have seen rapid and remarkable techogical developments which have changed the way we work. live. travel. and communicate. however. too often we tend to take such progress for granted. i believe it is extremely important to recognize that our country would  have achieved a leadership position in science and techogy were it  for a federal commitment to programs of advanced education and research. the scientists. doctors. engineers. and other skilled professionals whose kledge and talents are crucial to the united states must receive consistent strong support in order to continue their vital work. the primary sources for our ecoic. scientific. and techogical development have long been our nations research universities. in these distinguished institutions. many of our brightest scholars have received the necessary training and tools to make tremendous contributions in a variety of fields. the future growth and prosperity of the united states resides in our universities and colleges. we can longer afford a secondrate commitment to support the basic research that is carried out in these institutions. we must renew that commitment today. i am very pleased to join with senator danforth in introducing the university research capacity restoration act of 1983. this is a timely and comprehensive approach .to a challenging problem. it will bolster the federal commitment to basic science and engineering research. provide for improvements in the laboratories and instruments of research institutions. and strengthen career development programs for graduate students and faculty in the sciences and related fields. the federal government has derived immeasurable benefits from its partnership with our nations colleges and universities the university research capacity restoration act of 1983 recognizes that more must be done to improve the ability of our schools to educate and train those whose kledge and abilities are crucial to the future scientific. biomedical. engineering. and techogical progress of our country. the bill will accomplish this objective by encouraging increased federal support for institutions of higher learning which are involved in the programs of six federal agencies and departmentsthe national institutes of health. the national aeronautics and space administration. the national sciqnce foundation. and the departments of energy. agriculture.-and defense. ninetyfive percent of all federal funding of academic research and development is directed at these agencies. the administration has taken an important first step this year in seeking increases for targeted programs in science and engineering projects. research instrumentation. and fellowships. this reflects a commendable recognition of the need for a national recommitment to excellence in science. engineering. and advanced education. however. additional priorities must be addressed. these include undergraduate science education. graduate student support. research instrumentation. career incentives in research and education. and life sciences research and training programs. each of the amendments in this package is carefully targeted to strengthen our production of new kledge in science. engineering. and techogy within the present missions of the agendes i have mentioned. we must  limit the discoveries of tomorrow by flagging in our commitment to research programs today. we must  hinder the ability of our students by neglecting the facilities and research equipment of higher education institutions. we must  dissuade talented scholars from pursuing research careers by limiting fellowship support for graduate students and faculty. although these amendments will be discussed separately throughout the authorization and appropriations process within several committees. i believe the university research capacity restoration act of 1983 provides an essential focal point for congrcss to recognize the importance of a renewed commitment to science research as a national investment. this is an investment from which all of mankind will benefit for many years to come.e by mr. mathias (for himself and mr. dole):
i would ask the senator from oklahoma. as i read the proponents of this legislation they say that the american people are entitled to choice. a choice of where to send their children to school. what does the senator from oklahoma say about that. does this legislation indeed give the parents the choice. furthermore. they say that they are doubly taxed. as it were. when they send their children to the private schools they have to pay their local taxes and then have to pay their tuition to the school and that is unfair. has the senator addressed that.
i want to say to the distinguished senator from th carolina that i appreciate his coming to the chamber. he responded to the invitation that i made. and i appreciate it because i do  want anybody saying tomorrow that the opponents of this legislation cut off debate. anybody is weltome to come and debate it they can talk for 5 hours. if the senator would like to come next time and do that. we would be glad to do it. . as far as what hie said. i think they are interesting comments. i should like to say. if i might. that the senators concern for the strength of the private schools is  necessary because these statistics show that. indeed. during these last 10 years of inflation and reduced population. reduced pool of school age youngsters. private schools have grown. in 197.0. 10.1 percent of the school population in the united states attended private schools. in 1980. 10 years later. 10h.9 percent of the eligible children were attending private schools. when you go from 10.1 to 10.9 percent of the children. that is nearly a 10percent increase for the nrivate schools. that is a 10percent increase for the private school enrollment in this period.
that is right. but let me just return to what the senator was saying about what is levied on the public schools. . first all all. i k the scnator was facetious when he was saying you can sell drugs. the public schools are making a valiant effort to control all kinds of disciplinary problems. problems that reflect society as a whole. they are  indiges to the public school system.
let me point out. to the senator that there are levied on the public schools a whole series of requirements from the federal government and from thle state government. example: thle public schools must accept a child regardless of past disciplinary problems. and the public schools are encouraged and practically mandated to retain that youngster. that is the law. the child has to go to school. where does he go to school. he goes to a public school if a private school will  take him. second. the federal government and other governments have levied on the public schools the requirement that children with learning disabilities must be accepted in the public schools. a child with handicaps. mental. physical. whatever. must  only be admitted. but be provided special services. i believe it is right to confer these responsibilities on our public schools. but it would  be right to provide this federal assi1stance to private schools on which the same requirements have  been made. the same holds true in the case of children for whom english is  an original language. many states require schools to set up bilingual education programs. under the proposal that the senator is supporting. we would have two school systems in this nation. one dominated for the motivated. handicapped. englishspeaking. welldisciplined. and in many cases aboveaverage income youngsters. the other would be largely responsible for serving the poor and the miites and the handicapped and those with whom english is  anl original language. and those with disciplinary and learning problems.-. is that the kind of system you want in the united states. i do  think so. that is the kind of system the senator is encouraging by supporting this. if he does. and i hope that when he finishes the discussion. he will change his mind. because i k he is capable of doing that.
are you willing to levy a requirement that every private school that benefits from this tuition tax credit must provide services for the handicapped. that is an amendment we proposed in the finance committee. and it was roundly defeated by thle proponents of this legislation.
. the public schools of america have been the great melting pot. we have come together as a people unified through the public school system. there. people from all backgrounds have a chance to get ahead. and that is what we wish in our nation. this great public school system of ours is one of our nations greatest strengths and we must  undermine it by subsidizing a second school system. i am  ready to give up on the public schools. and i urge my colleagues to join me in rejecting this proposal and renew our commitment to the american system of universal public education. i thank the chair.
. in adopting title ix of the education amendments of 1072. congress sought to reverse longstanding inequities in the treatment of women by education institutions in the united states. in order to renew our commitment to equal educational opportunities for all citizens. i am pleased to join senator packwood in sponsoring 8. 2363. the sex discrimination in education reform act of 1984. the purpose of title ix is to insure that schools and universities receiving federal assistance provide equal opportunities for both men and women. in enacting title ix. the congress clearly intended to guarantee equal access by both sexes to the programs and activities of federally supported institutions. this includes such areas as admission. athletics. counseling. housing facilities. financial aid. course selection. employment. vocational education. and other activities. title ix has served our nation well. since the law took effect. female students have made tremendous progress in educational pursuits which had traditionally been dominated by men. the m st able gains have been in athletice. the number of females involved in high school and intercollegiate athletic programs has soared since the passage of title ix. and the proportion of scholarships offered to talented women athletes by colleges and universities has risen from 1 out of 100 in 1974 to 22 of every 100 offered today. in the decade since title ix became law. the enrolment of women in vocational educational courses has risen significantly. along with the admission of women to schools of business. law. and medicine. title ix has also provided important protections for the employees of educational institutions from unequal treatment based upon their gender. the positive effects of title ix extend far beyond its applicability to women in educational institutions. title ix has helped to guarantee that area of professional development in our society is limited on the basis of sex. the range of title ix should extend beyond its apphcability to individual programs or activities. congress intended the protections of title ix to apply on an institutionwide basis. and this legislation will clarify that intent. although the wording of title ix bars discrimination in any educational program or activity receiving federal financial assistance. congress has consistently emphasized that the law should be interpreted to bar discrimination throughout an institution which receives any form of federal support. it was never the intention of congress to prohibit sex discrimination in an institutions financial aid program. yet allow the institution to engage in discriminatory athletic practices. an educational institution which receives even a single dollar of federal assistance should  be permitted to limit access to any of its activities on the basis of sex. the u.s. supreme courts recent narrow interpretation of title ix in the grove city college against bell decision compels action by congress to clarify the scope of coverage intended by the law. s. 2363 makes it clear that institutionwide coverage by title ix is triggered by the receipt of federal financial assistance in any form. whether through student aid. direct federal support to the institution. or federal support for a particular program. passage of this legislation will reaffirm the commitment of congress to eliminate sex discrimination in education and to promote equality of opportunity at all levels of our society. title ix has enabled us to make great strides in this vital endeavor.  is  the time to turn back. i commend my colleague. senator packwood. for introducing this important measure and look forward to working in support of its speedy passage.*
. i was pleased to join with senator tarm.e recently in cosponsoring senate joint resolution 210. a resolution designating 1984 as the "year of excellence in education." this: measure is a fitting expression of the senates strong commitment to encouraging continued public awareness of the importance of education to our nations future prosperity. last year. this public understanding of the vital role played by education . was heightened by a series of reports which assessed the shortcomings of our school systems. the report of the national commission on excellence in education helped to catapult education to the forefront of our national consciousness by analyzing our problems and providing a positive blueprint for change. other distinguished studies have followed. urging steps to bolster instruction and reverse the decline in achievement. the thorough reexamination given to education in the united states last year has had a tremendous impact. school boards across the country have taken steps to improve the use of time in school classrooms. to- tighten academic standards. and to improve ties between schools and the community. we have also seen a series of encouraging initiatives at the state level. in rhode island. the state board of regents for elementary and secondary education has increased the graduation requirements for collegebound students and upgraded teacher certification standards. the state is also moving to develop a statewide student competency examination and to upgrade curriculum standards. important progress is being made in the quest for quality in education. but more can be done. and it will require continued leadership from the federal government. from state and local leaders. from school boards. school ad-
. in the drive to improve the level of achievement in american schools. the leadership skills of elementary and secondary school administrators are being tested as never before. today. i join with senators hatfield. chiles. and hollings in introducing legislation to provide career development opportunities for principals and other school administrators. "leadership" is a term we have heard repeatedly during the school improvement debate. in setting a new course for american education. leadership here in washington and from state and local governments is vitally important. but leadership must begin in the schools themselves. we need leadersthose who unify and motivate both faculty and studentsin every school building in the country. although studies on american education do  identify any single ingredient for success in improving schools. they do indicated that our most effective schools are those characterized by strong leadership by the school principal. the principal sets a schools instructional objectives. strengthens the commitment of teachers. evaluates school achievements. and takes corrective action when they fall short. management abilities are closely linked with personal leadership qualities in the school principal. the ways in which a principal allocates time and resources. evaluates staff. adpministers the budget. and handles paperwork contribute significantly to his or her success at improving the schoolwide learning environment. the administration. congress. state and local leaders. and citizens across the nation have called for a renewed commitment to improving educational quality. many factors will help strengthen this commitment. the leadership in educational administration development act of 1984 establishes a program to help equip administrators for the challenge by enhancing their managerial. evaluation. communication. budgetary. and human relations skills.
. i rise in support of the amendment offered today by senator heinz to establish a program of awards to local education agencies to carry out plans for improvement of elementary and secondary schools. i was pleased to join senator heinz in introducing the excellence in education act last year because i believe it is important for the federal government to encourage local efforts to attain the highest possible level of achievement in our schools. this legislation would establish a modest program of grants to local schools where plans for reform are underway. it does  purport to be a sweeping solution to the problems we face in education. but it can help to reinforce the federal governments role in the partnership for improving schools. by  we are all familiar with the report of the national commission on excellence in education. issued last april. in assessing the shortcomings of education in the united states and recommending steps for improvement. the report has helped to catapult education to the forefront of our national consciousness more prominently than at any other time in the past two decades. the report provides a sobering analysis of our problems in education as well as a positive blueprint for change. although thbre will be disagreement about some of the reports conclusions. there can be little question that it has effectively enabled us to focus on where we are and where we should be headed in education today. the commission report does  profess to be the final word but rather a starting point for efforts to improve schools in america. the report has contributed to a greater public awareness about the critical connection between educational quality and our nations ecoic competitiveness and prosperity. other studies and reports have followed. urging steps to bolster instruction and reverse the decline. states and school districts across the country have responded in recent months by implementing a variety of plans for improvement. education remains the primary responsibility of state and local governments. they are closer to the particular problems facing each school district. they can best determine which approach to follow in the drive toward improvement. but i believe it remains extremely important for the federal government to point the wayto exert consistent leadership in the quest for quality. we have begun by calling public attention to the need for inproving education. we can continue by encouraging local efforts to implement the improvements. this legislation provides an incentive for local schools to look ahead. to determine where they want to go and. what must be done to get there. school administrators must be willing to set concrete goals for local schools. they must bring together those whose cooperation is crucialstudents. teachers. parents. principals. the communityand give them something to shoot for. a plan of action with a specific aim. this legislation encourages such local efforts by authorizing the secretary of education to award grants of up to $40.000 to 1.000 schools across the united states over the next 2 years. the schools w uld be selected on a competitive basis by local school districts. state education officials and the secretary of education. awards would be made to schools which demonstrate a commitment to pursue goals of improvement. by setting forth plans to implement recommendations of the recent reports for bolstering educational standards and instruction. among the eligible activities are: modernization and improvement of curricula. increasing of graduation requirements in basic subjects. implementation of attendance policies with clear sanctions to reduce absenteeism and tardiness. experimentation with a longer school day or longer school year. proving incentives to teachers for outstanding performance. including financial awards and administrative relief. such as the removal. of paperwoi k and extracurricular duties. and demonstration of new and promising models of schoolcommunity relationships and businesseducation partnerships. including the use of school personnel and community volunteers to alleviate shortages in areas of instruction such as math and science education. to encourage such public/private partnerships in public education. the legislation sets aside 20 percent of the award money for schools that match federal funds with private sector contributions. this legislation is designed to permit local educators to assess their needs. develop plans. and pursue activities to improve the total school environment. it is thus a unique approach which does  prescribe a single solution but encourages local educators to concentrate on those strategies be:it suited to their schools. it will help to demonstrate that i lie federal government is interested riot merely in talking about quality education. but working as an active partner with local school districts to bring about positive change. last fall. representatives of 144 schools were hoed here in washington for outstanding achievements in the secretary of educations seeondary school recognition program. we are all proud of the magnificent accomplishments of these schools. their recognition helps to bolster public awareness about the many wonderful contributions being made in our public schools today. this legislation will encourage continued strides toward excellence by rewarding schools which are determined to attain the highest possible level of achievement. the passage of this amendment will signify that congress remains deeply committed to improving american education. i hope my colleagues will join me in voting for its adoption.
. as a cosponsor of 5. 1256. the emergency school aid extension act. i would like to express my support for the amendment offered by senators hatch and moynihan to include support for magnet schools as an amendment to s. i have supported s. 1256 because i believe the elimination of racial isolation in our nations public schools remains one of the primary responsibilities of the federal government in education. we must continue to assure that all students are given an equal opportunity to receive a quality education. regardless of background. federal leadership in reducing school segregation has played a crucial role in this endeavor. magnet schoolsschools which attract students from all backgrounds based upon their interest in certain discplineshave been an emously successful tool in promoting voluntary segregation programs. in providence. r.i.. an extremely successful magnet program in the citys public high schools has received widespread community support and helped to improve the learning environment. providence was one of many cities which received support for its magnet program in the emergency school aid act prior to its consolidation in the chapter 2 block grant program. after consolidation. the level of funding available for desegregation programs was significantly reduced. important activities to reduce racial isolation and assist miity and disadvantaged students have been curtailed. the chapter 2 funding formula has hindered many urban school districts in their efforts to implement desegregation activities. i have supported the revival of categorical assistance for these activities in order to enhance the capability of our nations urban schools to address the unique challenges they face today. although the compromise amendment being considered today does  entirely meet the goals set forth in s. 1256. it will provide important support by enabling school systems to compete for assistance outside the block grant. this support will be of emous help to americas urban schools. and i commend senators hatch and moynihan. as well as the other cosponsors of the measure. for their diligent efforts in this matter.e
. in the past year a great deal of concern has been expressed about the need to improve the level of instruction and achievement in american schools. congress and the administration have played an important leadership role in encouraging steps to improve education. but we have recognized that most reforms must originate at the local level to address local problems and priorities. local education leaders are assessing the strengths and weaknesses of their schools and are implementing a variety of changes. few in congress would advocate a federally imposed school calendar. or a uniform school curriculum. or a national student discipline standard. or a federal teacher certification requirement. and so forth. these decisions are best left to the discretion of local school administrators and school board members who are directly accountable to parents and other taxpayers. decisions about the types of student activities to be encouraged in american schools have also been left to local discretion. according to local values and customs. the equal access amendment is intended to protect the rights of voluntary student organizations to hold meetings in the public schools without regard to their religious. political. philosophical. or other content. but in so doing. it would weaken the authority of local school administrators to exercise discretion over school policies in these matters. and it could result in divisiveness in our schools and communities. the sanctioning of religious clubs raises obvious constitutional questions regarding the separation of church and state. the supreme court has  ruled on the question of religious meetings in elementary and secondary schools. but is expected to examine this question within the next year. we as yet have definitive judicial ruling on the equal access question partly because the matter has been tested only rarely. i believe this attests to the abilities of local education leaders to resolve questions about student religious and other clubs according to local preferences and concerns. this legislation would remove such flexibility. local school administrators make decisions every day about what is taught and discussed in our schools and what types of activities contribute to the overall enrichment of students. they work closely with local school board members. faculty. and.parents in developing programs to suit conimunity needs. and in resolving problems when they arise. this legislation could weaken the discretion of these local school leaders. and distract their attention from providing instructional leadership. there is scant evidence that the passage of this amendment will improve the learning environment in american schools. and it is quality education which should be the primary concern of the congress at this time. school administrators face emous challenges today in improving the quality of education in american schools. congress. the administration. state governments. and local leaders are continually urging them to do more to upgrade the level of instruction and achievement.  is  the time to divert their attention from these efforts. legislation to encourage religious and political activity in the schools will do little to resolve our problems in education but could lead to discord between those whose cooperation in the drive for excellence in education is more important than ever. a compelling need for this legislation has  been demonstrated. i believe it could create more problems than it solves for american schools. and i urge my colleagues to vote for its rejection.
. it had been my intention to offer an amendment to s. 2341 to establish a program to expand career development opportunities for elementary and secondary school administrators. since it was extremely important for the senate to approve the vocational education act amendments in a timely fashion. i did  seek to have the amendment considered yesterday. however. it is my hope that the senate will have an opportunity to examine this proposal in the near future. recently. i joined with senators
. i am delighted to join with senator heinz today in offering an amendment to provide startup funds for the excellence in education program. authorized earlier this year as title vi of the education for ecoic security act. this legislation establishes a firstofitskind program to encourage efforts to improve schools across our nation. it establishes a competitive program of grants to local schools which submit plans for improving the learning environment. the excellence in education prgram authorizes the secretary of education to award grants to schools across the united states over the next 2 years. the schools would be selected on a competitive basis by local school districts. state education officials and the secretary of education. awards would be made to schools which demonstrate a commitment to improvement. through such activities asmodernization and improvement of curricula. increasing graduation requirements in basic subjects. strengthening attendance policies to reduce absenteeism and tardiness. experimentation with a longer school day br year. providing incentives to teachers for outstanding performance. and development of new models of schoolcommunity relationships and businesseducation partnerships. while it is more important than ever to maintain a strong national commitment to quality education. americans recognize that solution to many of our problems must originate at the local level. in response to local problems and priorities. the excellence in education program does  prescribe a single solution for the challenges facing american education. but encourages local educators to concentrate on those strategies best suited to their schools. although the amount of funding sought in the amendment is modest. it will permit the department of education to establish this competitive grant program during fiscal year 1985. this program can play a key role in promoting school improvement activities throughout the united states. i urge my colleagues to join me today in supporting the adoption of this amendment.
. other endeavor has constimed so much of our nations energies during the past 100 years as the drive for civil rights. it is a debate which has accentuated both the strengths and weaknesses of our national character. each civil rights victory has been hard fought. and the quest for equality has enriched our society. strenuous efforts must be made to protect the gains which we have made. in this legislation congress has an opportunity to reaffirm our nations commitment to equality of opportunity. the grove city amendment will clarify the broad scope of coverage of title ix by prohibiting discrimination by any education recipient of federal financial assistance. this makes it clear that institutionwide coverage of title ix is entailed when an educational institution receives federal assistance in any form. whether through student aid. direct federal support to the institution. or federal support for .a particular program. the supreme courts grove city decision raised disturbing questions about the scope of coverage of three other laws intended to prohibit discrimination based upon race. national origin. disability. and age. these could also be jeopardized by the courts narrow reading of the title ix statute. thus. it is imperative for congress to restate its intention to provide institutionwide protection against discrimination in these areas. i believe that an institution which receives even a single dollar of federal financial assistance should  be permitted to practice any form of discrimination. in order to make continued progress in assuring equal rights for all our citizens. congriss must act  to clarify the broad scope of coverage it. intended for these statutes. complete equality of opportunity is  yet a reality for all our citizens. but these four statutes have helped our country make significant strides in eliminating discrimination in a variety of important areas. they have opened doors to groups in our society whose aspirations and opportunities had previously been limited.  is  the time to turn back. i hope you will join in voting for the enactment of this vital legislation.
. i am most pleased that my bill. the leadership in educational administration act. has been included in the pending measure. s. 2565. as title ix. it is my opinion. and that this title will expand career opportunities for elementary and secondary school administrators.
. in june of 1984 congress approved the equal access act. establishing for the first time a federal standard for the use of public school facilities in the united states. this law was unnecessary then. it is unnecessary . and it will create more problems than it solves for american schools. today i join with senators mathias. weicker. and metzenbaum. in introducing legislation to repeal this measure. in voting against the equal access bill last year. my primary concern was that.congress should  further compound the problems faced by educators by diverting their attention from efforts to improve public schools. congress and the administration have expressed a great deal of concern about the need to improve american education. we have also recognized that most educational reforms should originate at the local level. the equal access act was  a school improvement initiative. in the wake of the senates rejection of a constitutional amendment permitting organized school prayer. the equal access act provided an opportunity for congress to express support for limited religious activity in public schools. however. it raises many of the same constitutional questions posed by the school prayer amendment and imposes new federal standards over local policies governing the use of school facilities. the act holds that whenever a public school permits curriculumrelated student groups to meet on school premises during instructional time. it must provide access to school facilities regardless of the "religious. political. philosophical or other contentof the speech at such meetings." thus. if groups such as the chess club. the drama society or the ski club. are allowed to meet in the school building. equal accommodation must be made for religious. political and other gatherings. as if there were  already egh requirements imposed on local schools by the federal government.  we are defining the extracurricular rights of students. this is a significant new federal intrusion into the local decisionmaking process. supporters of the measure argued that it would protect the rights of all students to free speech and remove government hostility toward religion in the schools. but the act weakens the authority of local school officials to exercise discretion in these matters and can lead to a quagmire of .confusion and discord where e previously existed. although the equal access law does  expressly sanction organized religious activity during instructional hours. it clearly is designed to insure that religious activity has a place in the public schools. in many communities this is deeply troubling to parents. students. teachers and others who believe religion should be observed in the home and the place of worship.  in public schools. as a result. disputes can erupt dividing students. school administrators. parents. school board members and others in the community whose cooperation is essential. the equal access law raises difficult questions concerning the constitutional separation between church and state. court rulings on this question have been inconclusive thus far. and the u.s. supreme court is expected to provide guidance in the matter later this year. but whether or  the law is found strictly constitutional is. i believe. beside the point. this law is bad public policy. it threatens to divide our schools and communities over mattes that have hing to do with educational improvement. and it can only impede the improvement efforts of local schools leaders. one of the reasons we lack a definitive judicial ruling on the equal access question is that it has been tested only rarely. the principal argument made in favor of this proposal last year was that voluntary student religious organizations were being widely and unfairly precluded from using school facilities. yet the lack of a uniform national requirement has apparently  prevented local school leaders from resolving questions about the use of school facilities. out of 24.000 secondary schools in the united states serving about 20 million students. very fewperhaps fewer than 50equal access cases have been brought to litigation. school administrators. students. parents. and school boards have resolved these questions according to local preferences and concerns. a nationwide survey conducted by the american association of school administrators last year indicates that the equal access law "fixes" an area of public policy that wasnt broken. of 479 school districts responding to the survey. only 8 instances were cited in which student religious groups appealed to local school boards over the denial of their requests to use school facilities. and only 1 district reported that litigation resulted. local school administrators make decisions every day about what is taught and discussed in our schools and what types of activities contribute to the overall enrichment of students. they work closely with local school board members. faculty and parents in developing programs to suit community needs. and in resolving problems when they arise. there is scant evi- s3871 dence of problems requiring this federal law which weakens the discretion of local educators and distracts their attention from providing instructional leadership. there is increasing evidence. however. that the equal access law will have the unintended effect of creating new problems for american schools. in school districts throughout the country. the equal access law is creating confusion and conflict over which organizations should be permitted to meet in school- facilities. should all groups calling themselves religious or political be accommodated. should teachers be required to supervise the meetings. how should "instructional" be defined. is it possible to grant access to some groups but  others. do parents really feel it is the responsibility of the public schools to expose their children to the full range of religious. political and philosophical thought. these are  the questions which should demand the attention of school administrators. these are  the issues which should dominate the agenda of school board meetings. these are  the problems to which students and teachers and parents should devote their energies. the equal access law is doing hing to improve academic achievement. it is doing hing to improve the quality of teaching. it is doing hing to improve community support for public education. all it can do is make a tough job tougher for american educators and divert local tax dollars away from schools into costly legal disputes. at a time when we are struggling to maintain a decent level of spending for public education. this is the last thing we need. i hope my colleagues will join in supporting this legislation to repeal the equal access law before it further disrupts. efforts to improve the learning environment in american schools. i ask unanimous consent that several recent news articles on the equal access issue and the text of the bill be printed in the record.
. i am .pleased to join as a cosponsor of senate concurrent resolution 28. a resolution commemorating may 18 as the 20th anniversary of the head start program. this resolution reaffirms congressional support for a program which has. in its 20 years. compiled an impressive track record. head start provides educational. medical. and nutritional services to more than 450.000 lower income preschoolers. in order to eliminate the gap between disadvantaged children and their more fortunate peers. it has been widely recognized as one of our most costeffective and successful programs. due in part to its unique approach stressing parent involvement and strong community support. head start is a program that works. its effectiveness has been documented again and again. in numerous independent evaluations. head start children score higher than participants on standardized tests of intelligence. school readiness. math. language. vocabulary. and perceptual skills. studies have found that they perform better in school and are less likely to require special education. head starters are more likely. in later years. to hold afterschool jobs and are less likely to show signs of delinquent behavior. children receiving head starts medical services generally improve in physical development and motor skills. relative to other children. and they are more likely to be of mal height and weight. to have fewer absences from school. and to perform better on physical tests. children are  the only ones who have benefited from head start. thanks to its consistent emphasis on parent and community involvement. for every 15 children in head start. 10 parents volunteer their services to the program. clearly. the program reinforces parents commitment to their childrens wellbeing. with results that last a lifetime. all these factors account for the most impressive compelling statistic of all: it has been estimated that. taking into account the cost of special and remedial education that head start makes unnecessary. the programs benefits outweigh its costs by 236 percent. head start enriches the lives of thousands of rhode island children and their families. with eight programs currently in operation. serving communities in cranston. newport. th providence. th scituate. south county. providence. riverside. warren. bristol. warwick. and woonsocket. the outstanding efforts of talented and dedicated head start staff members have earned the respect and admiration of parents and community leaders. these efforts have contributed greatly to the success of the head start program. head start has proven to be well worth all we have invested in it. this is a program that has more than fulfilled its promise. and i urge the senate to affirm its continued strong support by acting favorably on this resolution.
. i am pleased today to join my colleagues. senators specter. pel. stafford. .kennedy. dodd. and bradley. in introducing the dropout prevention and reentry act of 1985. this measure will provide grants to local educational agencies for dropout prevention demonstration projects. and fund a national school dropout study to obtain more data on this deeply troubling problem. in the last few years observers of the american educational system have made a great many disturbing conclusions on the state of our nations public schools. a number of extensive studies have called for more rigorous academic standards. modernization of curriculums. and improvement in the quality of teaching. this overdue reassessment of the quality of education has engendered a reform movement that promises to return high standards to our nations classrooms. largely overlooked in this drive for renewed excellence and rigor in public education are the millions of students who drop out of school each year. these are students for whom more demanding requirements and reform measures such as minimum competency tests are irrelevant. alienated by the school environment. and often burdened with family problems and poverty. americas dropouts are falling through the cracks of our educational system in appalling numbers. roughly 1 in 4 of the students who enter u.s. high schools do  finish. in providence. ri. the figure has been estimated at 40 percent. in some urban areas. particularly among miities and the poor. the dropout rate exceeds 50 percent. dropouts disappear from high school corridors. but they do  disappear from society. rather. their names show up on the welfare rolls. they become drug abuse statistics. or they wind up in our overcrowded prison system. in the majority of cases the results are tragic. both for the dropouts themselves and for the society to which most of them are unable to make a real contribution. the visible products of the dropout exodus are lives spent on the margin of society. with our social welfare system or our penal institutions incurring the monetary costs. as anyone who has closely examined the issue ks. there is simple way to keep our young people in school. every dropout has a different set of reasons for leaving school. and many will never succeed in the traditional curricular structure. this measure does  purport to be a complete solution. but it does set forth a number of actions that american schools can take today to begin fighting the dropout problem. under this measure. schools can begin to: locate dropouts and develop ways of drawing them back into the system. identify potential dropouts by recognizing early warning signs. explore the rea-. sons why students drop out and use counseling and remedial help to encourage them to stay in school. offer alternative educational opportunities including vocational training. and establish a dissemination network for information on dropout prevention. the legislation my colleagues and i are introducing today will provide funding. on a competitivegrant basis. for local educational agencies to establish demonstration projects involving these kinds of actions. the project must only reach dropouts and assist them in completing their education. but also identify students who are likely to become dropouts and work to prevent their leaving school. since future dropouts are often identifiable well before they enter the ninth grade. these programs must also develop ways to coordinate dropout prevention efforts between the high school and the junior high levels. projects funded under this act will address the special needs of high schoolage parents. who are highrisk candidates for dropping out. in addition. grantees must disseminate any valuable information they obtain from the projects to other educational agencies dealing with the dropout problem. despite the gravity of this problem. there is a dearth of information on ex-. actly who is dropping out. what kinds of schools they are leaving. and what has caused them to leave the system. for this reason. our bill also calls for a national school dropout study to be conducted while the demonstration projects are underway. the projects will indicate which methods are most successful in helping dropouts and potential dropouts. while the national study determines where we should concentrate future efforts in this area. in the face of the shocking dropout rates currently plaguing school systems in every part of the nation. a reversal of the dropout tide will grow only out of bold. original approaches devised by the educators who are closest to the problem. this act represents a vital step in helping our schools to meet this challenge. and will produce information valuable to education agencies all over the united states. the demonstration projects and the national study will help us determine how to proceed in cutting the dropout rate. they will save many students from the bleak prospect of leaving their education behind for a future of limited possibilities and dead ends. i hope that our colleagues will support this urgently needed initiative.e
. the even start act addresses the grave problem of adult illiteracy without spending billions of dollars the federal government can afford. it links state. local. and federal social services with literacy education to develop model programs coordinating adult and elementary school education. and it is targeted at the most needy and historically underserved americans. programs funded under this legislation will develop methods for solving the problem of illiteracy by teaching families to read and learn together. by providing children from illiterate families with an even start. these programs will begin to break the cycle of illiteracy. i urge my colleagues to support this inative attempt to help those who live in "illiterate america" become reading. contributing citizens. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the .record.
. during the month of july this year. the u.s. senate had an opportunity to learn first hand something i have always believedthat disabled individuals have something to offer all of us. joe cons. a 16yearold young man. became the first senate page with downs syndrome. to joe. it was  a major event. he came. tried his best to do a good job. had a good time in washington and then went back homejust like every other page. to the rest of us. his tenure in the job was a special event because he was  just like every other page. because of the nature of congress. joe cons was probably one of the most visible demonstrations that we have been able to give of the abilities of individuals with disabilities. most people would have thought someone like joe would be unable to be a u.s. senate page. however. through appearing on the today show with bryant gumbel. on various news programs. and in the print media. joe showed us all that we ought to open our eyes to the capabilities of those considered to have disabilities. after joes appearance on the today show i received many letters from all over the country about joe. i ask unanimous consent to have the most touching of those letters inserted in the record at this point.
. 2 days ago the house subcommittee on elementary. secondary. and vocational education held a hearing on the even start act. which i introduced last month in the senate. this bill. which was introduced in the house by representative bill goodling. addresses the grave national problem of adult illiteracy. it establishes pilot literacy programs in which parents who read poorly. or  at all. will learn to read along with their children. this legislation attempts to break the cycle of illiteracy by providing disadvantaged students with the parental reinforcement they need to succeed in school and become readers. even starts intergenerational approach to illiteracy has received widespread support from educators and experts in the field. it has been endorsed by both the national education association and the department of education. i ask unanimous consent that the testimony delivered by three of the witnesses at this weeks hearing on the even start act be inserted in the record. the testimony follows:
the senator is correct and i join him in expressing concern about the lack of uniformity in eligibility standards which apply to educational institutions providing services under the department of defense tuition assistance program. there should be a single. common policy for all branches of the military. and the report of the house committee provides a very clear directiveto that end. as my colleague suggests. i am very happy to reply that the house policy directive does and will prevail in these circumstances. i have been assured by the senate appropriations subcommittee that it does  take issue with the house report on this matter and that the senate committees silence on the matter does  indicate a contrary view. moreover. i have been given every reason to hope that the conference report on the continuing resolution will include a specific affirmation of the house language. but i agree with my colleague that we should take this additional opportunity to record our concern and our understanding of the remedy.*
. i was shocked and saddenecq by last months news reports of the death of a brown university student due to an allergic reaction to a meal eaten in a restaurant. on february 18. katherine brodsky. who suffered from an allergy to nuts. fell ill minutes after eating chili which had been seasoned with peanut butter. what makes this story so tragic is that it could so easily have been prevented. what makes it so frightening is that every person who suffers from a food allergy runs the risk that what they order in a restaurant may contain an ingredient they can tolerate. this is beciuseunder current fda interpretation of the food. drug and cosmetic actrestaurants are  required to disclose the ingredients of the dishes they serve. in the case of packaged food bought at a grocery store. consumers with food allergies are protected by the list of ingredients that must appear on every label. most allergy sufferers are practiced in examinihg ingredient lists. sincemore often that the only treatment for their sensitivity is to avoid the food in question. what protection does this person have. then. when he or she eats out. ingredient information must be soughtand is frequently impossible to obtain. anyone who has ever tried to find out exactly what is in a meal ordered in a fast food restaurant. for example. has undoubtedly encountered this problem. and sometimes. ingredients are so unexpected that even a person with a wellestablished practice of avoiding certain foods would never even think to ask. for example. some people are allergic to corn syrup. a commonly found sweetener. but who could anticipate that some restaurants use it in making french fries. ingredient information for all types of food should be reasonably accessible. and i will soon be introducing legislation to help achieve this goal. my intent is  just to make this information more available for restaurant food. butmore generallyto highlight the vital importance of king what we are eating. protecting those who suffer from allergies is just one of many reasons to provide consumers with information about the ingredients of food served in restaurants. all consumers need this information in order to make wise choices about the food they eat. hing could be more basic to our collective health. 9
. the bill  before us reauthorizes the head start program for 4 more years. thus assuring it of a future as successful as its past. i urge my colleagues to give it their most wholehearted support. head start seeks to close the gap between disadvantaged children and their more fortunate peers. providing educational. medical. and nutritional services to more than 450.000 lowerincome preschoolers. in rhode island. it serves thousands of children and their families. with programs currently operating in cranston. newport. * th providence. th scituate. south county. providence. riverside. $9011 warren. bristol. warwick. and woonsocket. this bill reauthorizes the program through fiscal year 1990. increasing the authorized funding level by 4 percent each year. these modest increases will allow head start to continue its current responsibilities. helping to alleviate need for cutbacks in services. head start is a program that works. its effectiveness has been documented time and again. in study after study. findings like these are typical: head starters score higher than head starters on standardized tests of intelligence. school readiness. math. language. vocabulary. and perceptual skills. they perform better in school. and less frequently require special education. in later years. they are more likely to hold after school jobs. and less likely to show signs of delinquency. thus. the good that head start does resounds through the years. as studies have shown. but it also resounds through entire communities. thanks to the programs consistent emphasis on parent and community involvement: for every five head start children. four parents volunteer their services to the program. clearly. the program reinforces parents commitment to their childrens wellbeing. with results that last a lifetime. all these factors account for the most convincing evaluation of allhead starts benefits. as compared to its costs. when one considers the special and remedial education that are  needed because of head start. the programs benefits outrun its costs by more than 2toi. i urge my colleagues to support further head start successes by supporting this measure.*
. we mourn the passing of our frend john east. the biography of him set forth that he is a man of 55. born in th carolina. he had a distingu.51hed career. phi beta kappa from eollec. he was a college professor. ihen he was elected to the ui.. senate. there are three characteisifs that i particularly remember of jouh east. first of all. he was a man of strong beliefs. he was  a passive onlooker at the scene of life. he had beliefs and feelings on what took place. domestically and internationally. and he spoke out about those. so. first. it was his strong beliefs. second. i remember him for his courage. both his physical courage and his moral courage. as we all k. jopn east was physically afflicted and was. in a sense. confined to a wheelchair. but why do i say in a sense. because. in fact. he was  bound by the limitations of his physical afflication. it did ngt limit him in any way. his courage was demonstrated. furthermore. by the fashion in which he spoke out. he was net one to trim his sails to popular opinion. john east called the shots as he saw them and spoke out vigorously for the beliefs and feelings that he had. so. first it was his strong beliefs and second. was his courage. third. the warmth of his personality. john east was a man who always had a cheerful and friendly smile and greeting. he was a person you were glad to see. despite the problems. the physical difficulties that he might have had. it did  cause him to be a sad and glum person. john east was rightfully a hero to many. the loss of john east is so sad. it is sad for his family. it is sad for his friends. it is sad for the people of th carolina. and the people of the united states likewise. and it is sad for all of us because. obviously. he was discouraged and upset. we can only ask ourselves. could we have reached out our hands and hearts to a greater degree than we did. i think that is a feeling and question that every single one of us in the senate have asked ourselves. so we truly mourn the passing of john east. we think of his strong beliefs. we think of his courage. we think of the warmth of his personality. we will miss him. from his loss. we receive new inspiration to be better members of this body and of the fellowship of mankind.
that is exactly right. the points the senator has made are excellent ones. we have had some stormy hearings on this legislation. as one can imagine. because there are those with deepseated feelings about commitments. it is their job. they are running the institution. and they do  want that institution closed. that is human nature. that is quite logical. in our state. what we have done is that we have a union in our institution. we have worked closely with that union. ours is a much smaller state. so we can do things easier. but that does  mean the bigger states can do it. the workers at the large institution supervise the smaller settingsthe group homes of 5. 10. or 15 individualsand they find it much more satisfying. let me give an indication of how. by demanding more. if you will. giving greater opportunity. the individual reaps greater potential. in a large institution. you can have everybody in the kitchen cooking meals. it would be chaotic. so you have a work force. and that work force prepares the meals and then the residents come and eat. in a smaller setting. you are able to say that people will take turns. if there are. say. only eight invividuals. each will have an opportunity to try to cook. they will learn that the stove has to be turned off. that you can walk away from it. they learn how to keep the home clean. they take turns in vacuuming and making the place neat and tidy. they learn what it is to take a bus to the workshop. i have visited many of these settings where there are those who are severely impaired. and i mean extremely severely impaired. there. the care and the opportunities for leaving the home are vastly reduced. they can do it because they are so impaired. etheless. they .do better than they would in a large institution. aher facet is that it is possible to place the individuals closer to their homes. after all. you have one institutio. in a large state like wisconsin. three or fourbut wherever it is. some people are going to be quite a distance from home. when we put these individuals into smaller group homes. we are able to do it in their own community. in many instances. the state purchases the home and upgrades it for fire safety. and so forth. then they are moved closer to their homes. where their relatives and parents can visit them easier than at some institution far out in the country. it has been a magnificent success. and i appreciate the interest of the senator from wisconsin.
 william howard taft and serving for many years as chairman of the pawtucket school committee until his sudden death in 1922. for its many contributions to pawtucket and rhode island. and for its many ination in the printing industry. i ask my senate colleagues to join me in congratulating the john w. little co. on its 100th anniversary.*
. i commend the distinguished senator from vermont on his outstanding work in putting together the higher education act reauthorization. both he and the distinguished senior senator from rhode island worked tirelessly on this extremely important legislation. and they have done an excellent job. their dedication to quality educational institutions. and student finani cial assistance programs is well kn in this body. and indeed. throughout the nation. and comes through clearly in this legislation. working under difficult budgetary constraints. they crafted a responsible and equitable senate bill that was applauded on all sides. i was proud to be a cosponsor of that legislation. and  i am pleased to vote in favor of the conference report. which i understand is the product of many days hard work. one particular provision of this legislation means a great deal to me. and i would like to take a moment to point it out to my colleagues. the conference has seen fit to include in this reauthorization the leadership in edu-
. i am proud today to pay tribute to the first official "just say  club formed in the state of rhode island. at the tiogue elementary school in coventry. the model for this "just say  club was established in oakland. ca less than 2 years ago. and thousands of clubs have been formed across the nation. early in september. 60 fifth and sixth grade students of the tiogue elementary school united to make a pledge to adopt a drugfree lifestyle. i congratulate these youngsters for their commitment to remain substancefree. and commend the efforts of jane viti. school nurseteacher. who organized the club. our greatest potential for success in the battle against drug and alcohol abuse is in equipping our young people with the strength and kledge to resist the temptation to experiment with these harmful substances. the "just say  club. with its primary focus on prevention. is a wonderful model program for all our nations children. through activities like this. they can help pave the way for a drugfree society in the years ahead. i urge my colleagues. as they make plans to return to their home states after congress adjourns. to encourage their young constituents to form "just say  clubs and to take the pledge of the club. the words are simple. but the promise they hold for the future of our youth and our country is profound. the pledge states: i k who i am. and i k that i want to stay healthy and happy. i can stand up for myself and stick to my decision to live a drugfree life. i can ask for support from my friends and my family. i pledge to say "i to drugs and alcohol. i can help others to say to drugs and alcohol. we are very fortunate that the children of tiogue elementary school and many others throughout our nation have had the courage to make the "just say  pledge. let us join with them and spread the message to say " to drugs and alcohol.e
. i am pleased to join with my colleagues. senators pell. stafford. and others. in reintroducing legislation intended to reduce this nations alarmingly high dropout rate. the bill. the dropout assistance demonstration act. is a slight modification of legislation we first introduced in the 99th congress. as s. 1525. the house version was passed on august 7. 1986. but unfortunately it was never taken up in the senate. the intent of this bill is twofold: to prevent potential dropouts from leaving school and to draw back those who have already dropped out. the bill will do this through a system of competitive grants to local educational agencies. thus lending much needed support to promising dropout prevention programs in every part of the country. this nations dropout rateestimates of which reach as high as 50 percenttakes a tremendous toll on society. on the ecoy. and on our ability to compete in world markets. the connection between our educational system and our competitive position in the world can be overemphasized: how successfully we deal with the nearly 1 million children who  drop out of high school each year will determine how well we will fare as a nation in the balance of this century. these children are part of our futurewe simply can continue to write them off. as repeated studies have shown. the lack of a high school diploma becomes a lifelong handicap. dropouts show significantly higher unemployment rates. and those who do hold jobs earn far less than high school graduates. each year. dropouts cost the nation about $75 billion in welfare benefits and lost tax revenues. most disturbing of all are estimates by the justice department that approximately 60 percent of prison inmates are high school dropouts. it is all too clear that the consequences of our highdropout rate are tragic. both for dropouts themselves and for the society to which most of them are unable to make a real contribution. as school districts across the country are instituting more rigorous standards. more students are. regrettably. being left behind. that is why we rhust take a twopronged approach: even as we insist on a higher standard of excellence. we must redouble our attention to those who are likely to become discouraged by the increasing demands of school. if we fail in this. the widening gap between the educational "haves" and "haves" can only widen even further. the young people who drop out of our schools are those who. for a variety of reasons. have lost their motivation to learn the skills they need to succeed as adults. the bill we are introducing today will help local school systems restore that motivation by supporting programs which they design to keep kids enrolled in school. it will do this by providing grants for model dropout programs-$50 million in fiscal year 1988 and such sums as may be necessary in the 2 succeeding years. the kinds of programs the bill will fund should be designed  only to reach existing dropouts. but also to identify potential dropouts and january 16. 1987. co) help to keep them from leaving school. and. since potential dropouts can often be identified well before the ninth grade. these programs should also coordinate dropout prevention activities between high schools and their feeder junior high schools and elementary schools. where appropriate. programs may also coordinate activities with vocational education programs. projects funded under this act will address the special needs of highschool age parents. a group with pressing family and financial responsibilities and thus. under particular pressure to leave school. in addition. grantees must make available to other educational agencies any valuable information they gain about the dropout problem as a result of these demonstration projects. finally. the bill calls for a national study of the school dropout problem while these demonstration projects are underway. despite the gravity of the dropout problem. surprisingly little is kn about which students are leaving school. what kinds of schools they are leaving. and- what has prompted them to drop out. this study. together with the results of the demonstration projects. will help determine where future efforts should be concentrated. right . in every part of the country. our best thinkers. teachers. and administrators are applying their expertise to the dropout problem and are coming up with inative ways to keep kids in school. the federal - grants that this bill provides will reward and support those efforts. and will get us on the road to solving the dropout problem. i urge the senate to waste time in considering and approving this bill.e by mr. mitchell (for himself.
. every day here in the u.s. senate we hear about urgent social programs that require funding. for instance. in a couple of days. we are going to start on doing something about housing for the homeless. we are concerned about those folks out there who are sleeping on the grates and have place to go. and i want to do something about them. i want to do something about the proper health care for american citizens where  we have a higher infant mortality rate than any of the 20 industrialized nations in the world. what i am talking about here is a matter of priorities. what are we interested in. are we interested in those folks on the grates. are we interested in those trying to preserve the lives of young children and see that their mothers get proper prenatal care. are we trying to do something about giving our you ng people a chance to go to college with college education grants and tuition grants and loans. are we trying to do something about better job training for our citizens so they can go out and get the jobs that are there if they only had the training. that is what i choose. i think. as to those of us who are voting to sustain this veto. that is the choice we are making.
. i should like to take a moment of the senates time to reflect on a news item that appeared. during the last recess. -and as a result may  have gotten much ice. on july:4. the national education association closed its annual convention with this prediction: the nation faces a shortage of qualified teachersparticularly in math and the sciencesand that shortage is getting worse. polling 128 of the largest school districts in the country. nea found that schools are lowering their standards to fill the gap. to takejust one example. 39 percent of those districts polled said they planned to assign teachers to classes .outside their fields. this doesnt bode well for our childrens education. or for our competitiveness as a nation. we can pass all the trade bills we like. but a shortage of qualified teachers is a serious problem in the one place where it all begins: the classroom. it behooves us to give serious thought to why such a shortage might exist. and what. we can do about it. how ridiculous it is that we entrust the most precious assets we have. our children. to individuals to whom we fail to pay a competitive wage. we have our priorities all mixed up. clear.ly. there is much we can do to improve teaching conditions. first and foremost. that means paying salaries that reflect the importance of the job we entrust to our teachers. we should be cutting class sizes down to manageable levels. we should be freeing teachers from bureaucratic burdens like excessive paperwork. we should give teachers more autoy. and more decisionmaking authority. all these steps will free up.our teachers to do what they do best. and will help attract and keep the best in the profession. attracting and maintaining a -highquality teaching force requires more resources for education. and we. as citizens. recognize this. in a recent poll. 43 percent of those questioned said they wouldpay higher taxes to increase teacher salaries. in the same poll. twothirds said that more federal money should be spent on elementary and secondary education.. were starting to see some very constructive responses on these points at the federal. state. and local levels. here in congress. we just passed a budget that calls for $2.2 billion in new federal support for education above what we spent last year. the effects of this additional funding will be far reaching. for example. the chapter 1 program. providing math and reading instruction to disadvantaged children. will reach hundreds of thousands of additional youngsters. in special education. the federal share of costs will be increased from 10 to 12 percent. funding for programs that open doors to needy college students will increase. including student grants. the college workstudy program. and the trio programs for students who are the first in their families to attend college. and finally. $50 million will be set aside for the new dropout prevention program authorized in the senates trade bill. all told. the budget we have just approved will increase educational spending by nearly $8 billion over what the reagan administration had proposed. this increase will work handinhand with all that states. such as rhode island. have done and are still doing to improve their schools. this year. rhode island increased its aid to local school systems by 10 percent over last years level. and just last month. the legislature approved three major education bills: a comprehensive literacy and dropout prevention program. a new state policy providing additional support to vocational education. and a $3 million "excellence in education" fund. these bills contain provisions that hold distinct promise for improving the quality of rhode islands schools. for example. school districts that develop "schoolsite management" programs will be able to compete for $250.000 in incentive grants. the intent of such programs is to give more authority to those at the heart of the actionteachers and principals. also. school committees will be encouraged to reduce class size to 15 studentsa reform that would relieve a major pressure point for classroom teachers. this . approachencouraging changes. that will be good for our teachers and good for our childrenis a goal which should be reflected in federal educational policy. we need to. giv e our serious attention to what we in congress can do to help promote these changes. for example. schools. that aggressively pursue reforms could get a real boost from a- program of federal incentive grants to reduce class size. enhance teacher pay. pro-. vide. professional development opportunities. and relieve teachers of administrative burdens like paperwork and extra duties.- . . a program like this could be an effective .way to make the most of the new resources that are  being channeled into education. at both the federal and state levels. we need to capitalize on this opportunity to achieve longoverdue reformsreforms that will make teaching the "prestige" profession that it has to be if we are to attract and keep the best. otherwise. we can only look forward to more reports of teacher shortages and of standards being lowered to fill the breach. a shortage of qualified teachers can have only one resulta shortage of qualified students. we would do well to keep this in mind as we continue our work here in the senate. giving serious thought to what we might do to make teaching a more rewarding and satisfying profession. we owe this to our teachers and to our children.
. today central falls. marks the anniversary of enactment several factors are keeping illegal aliens of the immigration reform and con- from seeking amnesty. kane and other comtrol act. one of the most carefully munity organizers said. they include the crafted compromises that the senate high application fee. ($185 a person). rehas worked out. i have often been on strictions in the law which cause many illerecord as a great supporter of this gal aliens to doubt that they will be granted amnesty. and most important. a longheld landmark legislation. and of all the distrust of ins which many illegals have hard work that was put into it by its  overcome. sponsors. it was a hardfought battle. "the ins is traditionally an enforcement and a job well done. agency." kane said. "for years... theyve been the ones who have deported people. people are  going to walk into the ins office and say i want amnesty." the landmark immigration law grants amnesty to those who have lived illegally in the united states continuously since jan. 1. 1982. applicants receive work authorization cards. in two to four months. if the application is approved. the person is upgraded to "temporary residency status." which allows application for permanent residency status. since the law was passed. ins has continued to give the impression of being primarily an enforcement agency. said estella carrera. a coordinator at project hope who has been helping illegals fill out applications. she said the immigration service has interpreted the law too strictly. ins has interpreted the continuous residency requirement as disqualifying for amnesty an illegal who arrived in this country before jan. 1. 1982 but later left the country for a period longer than 45 days. also. ins says. an alien who came here legally before 1982 on a tourist or student visa that expired after 1982 would also fall to meet the continuous residency requirement.
. today i am introducing legislation to help schools achieve a reform which is the basis for all other educational reforms: smaller class sizes. with average class sizes at unmanageable levels of 25 students and upwards. many schools find it impossible to implement their good ideas about improving the quality of education. common sense. scholarly research. and school reform recommendations all indicate that smaller classes would improve student achievement. yet. for lack of funds. class size reduction has remained out of the reach of most school districts. my bill would address this by making incentive grants available to school districts that wish to pursue class size reduction. this would have two effects. first. it would encourage states and localities to address the problem of large class sizes. second. it would launch pilot projects in class sizereduction in every part of the country. thus demonstrating the actual impact of smaller classes on student achievement. why reduce class size. because smaller classes mean more attention for each child and a greatly improved atmosphere for both learning and teaching. read between the lines of .almost any recommendation for school reform and youll see one theme emerge: students need more individualized instruction. more attention to their particular needs. and more contact with their teaches. unfortunately. when onethird of teachers surveyed report having an average class size of more.. than 25. devoting more time to each students individual needs quickly becomes a physical impossibility.
 william t. ohara. a former counsel to the u.s. house of representatives postsecondary education subcommittee. included among oharas publications are "the student/the college/the law" and "john f. kennedy on education." strategic planning called for bold new initiatives including development of further partnerships with the business community. creation of an international studies component. expansion of internship opportunities. specific training in leadership. and an instructional development center for faculty. but the school has  stopped there. bryant has continued to expand. adding new residence halls and a new student union. and converting the old student center into a computer techogy center. the labor department recently released a report showing that in the year 2000 most jobs will require at least a college degree. this report also concludes that most persons will make three or four career changes in their lifetime. against this background. institutions like bryant college that provide quality education" needed for such an ecoy are presented with an immense opportunity to thrive as educational leaders in the 21st century. on its 125th anniversary. i join with all rhode islanders in congratulating bryant college and in sending my best wishes to its administrators. faculty. staff. students. and alumni for great success in the years ahead.
 and soviet leader are hopefully close to cementing a start agreement. such a treaty wilt present us with challenges only alluded to in the inf agreement. since that pact will result in arms reductions. rather that elimination. we will have to attack its verification regime with all of our ingenuity and skill. the willingness to negotiate is therewe have proved that with inf. but the truly hard work is still before us. in start verification. in the ongoing longrange negotiations in geneva and in conventional weapons reductions talks. the great lesson to be learned from the business at hand is that in arms control. good faith coupled with unwavering resolve and a strong military posture is a formula that produces results. let us learn this lesson well. and i6ut it to worthwhile and productive use as we face the many challenges that remain. i urge all senators to support the resolution of ratification. i thank the chair.
. i would like to take a moment to express my appreciation to the members of the commerce appropriations subcommittee for providing allimportant funding for the operations and activities of the national oceanic and atmospheric administration. right . the health of our environment is a matter of nationalactually. internationalconcern. and id say with good cause. global warming. clean air and water. and deforestation are some of the major issues directly related to the wellbeing of our population and our earth. in this context. a plays a vital role. we need to make sure that a has the wherewithal to help us monitor and solve the environmental problems we face. in my home state of rhode island. at the university of rhode island graduate school of ocearaphy. we have one of the best marine research programs in the country. in fact. u.r.i. was designated as a a "center of excellence in coastal marine studies." it is my hope that the excellent work being done at u.r.i. will continue as an integral part of a reserach efforts. and benefit from the funding in the measure we have approved today.
. school closings are far more than a preventive measure on the part of the israelis. they are a punitive measure. loss of literacy and scholarship is a devastating blow to a people that prides itself on its high level of education. i will make the point again that school closures controvert international law. it appears that the school closings violate the geneva convention which prohibit collective punishment. it is against the conventions to deny education to a kindergartener who has never thrown a stone. indeed.  even south africa has engaged in a systematic closure of schools in a particullar area. further. article 50 of the geneva convention relative to the protection of civilian persons in time of war. convention iv. states: the occupying power shall. with the cooperation of the local and national authorities. facilitate the proper working of all institutions devoted to the care and education of children. clearly. israel has chosen once again to disregard this important protection. the timing of the closure renewal is a sharp rebuff to the united states on the eve of the israeli prime ministers visit to this country. i urge my colleagues to make clear to our friend israel that education. which is prized by americans and israelis alike. has place in the middle of a political dispute. when mr. shamir arrives in washington on thursday. we must tell him in uncertain terms that school closures are repugnant and intolerable. schools should be reopened immediately and should stay open. we must stand fast by our principles. and communicate vigorously our distress when our values are trampled upon. i want to thank the chair.
. what do these 12 words bring to mind: trustworthy. loyal. helpful. friendly. courteous. kind. obedient. cheerful. thrifty. brave. clean. and reverent. boy scouts of america. since 1910. scouting has helped build the character and spirit of our youth. through various activities. boys and girls have been encouraged to learn and do things for themselves and others. their actions and deeds are guided by handbooks prepared many years ago. if you take a look at the scouting manual that was originally published in 1911. you may be charmed by the simplicity of the text. to be a scout means to be prepared to do the right thing at the right moment. matter what the consequences may be. it is the scouts duty to be a sunshinemaker in the world. scouts k neither a lower  a higher class. for a scout is one who is a comrade to all and who is ready to share that which he has with others. it may be difficult for some to believe that there are youngsters in the united states who still believe in these ideals and live their lives accordingly. yet every year thousands of young boys and girls participate in scouting activities. scouting in america is stronger than ever. there has been much discussion this year in congress about national youth service. several proposals have been introduced to encourage youngsters to volunteer their time for community service. a common goal of these proposals is to instill in todays youth one of the values which scouting has always sought to impart: doing a good turn for somebody every day. quietly and without boasting. as the handbook says. "this is the proof of the scout." today i would like to salute over 100 scouts in rhode island and nearby massachusetts who have distinguished themselves by achieving the highest ranks and awards in scouting. for a boy scout. the highest ho is eagle scout. a scout who has earned 21 merit badges is entitled to wear the highest scout merit badge. an eagles head in silver. it represents the allaround perfect scout. the silver award is earned by a cadette girl scout during her years in junior high school. the cadette explores the world of careers. develops leadership skills. and upon completion of a service project is presented with the silver award. senior girl scouts continue their exploration of careers and community service and work with younger girls. at the culmination of a major service project. a gold award is presented. which is the highest achievement by a senior girl scout. the following is the list of scouts who have achieved the rank of eagle scout and received the silver and gold awards this year in rhode island. as a fellow eagle scout. i salute them all. the list is as follows:
 agree on the need for additional even start funding. the $60 million authorization proposed for even start is a welcome addition in the battle against illiteracy. the purpose of the tremendously successful even start program is to break the cycle of generationtogeneration illiteracy. all too often. children of readers also grow up to be readers. these children begin their formal education at a distinct disadvantage compared to their classmates who come from reading households. this gap often grows even larger as disadvantaged children fall further and further behind as their school years progress. their parents are bystandersunable to offer even the most basic help. the hawkinsstafford. elementary and secondary improvement act of 1988 established the even start program. grants are made directly to local education agencies or school districts. even start funding is used to provide early childhood education to young children aged 17. while simultaneously providing basic skills and literacy training to their parents. even start provides parents with the tools to be true participants in their childrens education. the program helps parents become their childrens teacher for life. in my home state of rhode island. the first even start funds have arrived and parents are reaching out for this inative training. the school department of the city of west warwick was recently awarded a $214.000 even start grantrenewable for the next 4 yearsto raise the literacy levels of children and their parents. just 4 months after its inauguration. 38 families are involved in the rhode island program. i am delighted to be part of legislation that assists americas brightest hopes in the effort to end illiteracy in our nationparents. in conclusion. i want to ackledge the efforts of those who are already doing so much to fight illiteracy. americas schools. teachers. libraries. volunteer organizations and businesses have accepted the challenge that faces us today. to them i say. thank you. and good luck as we strive together to meet the goal of total literacy by the end of this decade.
. i am pleased to join as a sponsor of. s. 2039. the national writing project act. and look forward to its passage during this session. everyone ks that the three rsreading. writing. and arithmeticare the foundation of the american educational system. american students need to master these skills. but recent studies indicate that many young people are  developing the tools they have to write effectively. the writing report card. an assessment of the writing skills of schoolaged students conducted by the national assessment of educational progress in 1988. revealed that fewer than 25 percent of high school juniors could write an adequate. persuasive letterand most of those were filled with numerous grammatical and spelling errors. twentyfive percent of high school juniors. many of whom will doubt enter college and university programs woefully unprepared to achieve on that level. in the near future these students will become part of the work force and perhaps as many as 25 percent of that workforce will be educationally handicapped. this legislation. the national writing project. focuses the national effort to improve educational standards through the expansion of the nations most successful writing program. seventeen years ago the national writing project was established and has since trained over 600.000 teachers nationwide. including nearly 150 in my home state of rhode island. the national writing project advocates a simple message: teachers need to encourage students to write. through a teachersteachingteachers approach. the project allows educators to share successful writing teachniques and thus identify what works in the nations classrooms. through the promotion of an interdisciplinary approach that taps the writing potential in all students. both teachers and students feel more comfortable about making writing an integral part of their curriculum. the project has won numerous awards since 1972. and the demand for its services is outgrowing its ability to supply. in rhode island the writing project has quadrupled in size in the past 4 years. teachers from 22 of the statess 38 school districts have participated in the program. this summer the rhode island consortium on .writing expects to have 50 qualified teachers. but only 25 places. as a nation that is serious about achievement and educational excellence. we must be willing to support legislation that for the relatively modest price of a $10 million authorization will allow the national writing project to expand. monitor. research. and assess its work. the only reservation i have about s. 2039 is that i am reluctant to designate any one group. even such a fine enterprise as the national writing project. as the sole recipient of such a sum of federal money without the benefit of a competitive bidding process. the federal government must be careful  to establish the precedent of designating deserving programs at the expense of open and fair competition. in closing. i commend my colleague senator cochpmn for bringing this legislation to the senate. i k he and his staff have worked hard to put together this package. and i applaud their work.*
. between their treatment of the schools and the universities. the first section outlines the history of israels progress in reopening the palestinian schools on the west bank and in the gaza strip. on july 22. 1989. just about a year ago. israel annced it would begin to open primary and secondary schools in the occupied territories. while these schools were opened and then temporarily closed. all of them were opened again earlier this year. israel then began to reopen the community colleges. in an effort to ease tensions between the government and the palestinian people. this process has proven successful. in that students have been able to resume their studies. and we have  seen an increase in violence as a result. it is. indeed. this evidence that has led israel to consider reopening the universities. e the difference. schools. primary and secondary on one hand. they have been opened. the community colleges. they have been opened. but  the universities. mr. goren has stated the reopening of the high schools and colleges did  influence the violence in the territories and this was the reason why israel was trying to reopen the universities. there was rise in violence as a result of the reopening of the schools and colleges. i am hopeful israel will continue its progress in restoring the educational opportunities for the palestinian people and in malizing daily life in the west bank and gaza strip. thus far over 14.000 university students have been affected. in addition to the thousands of high school graduates who have been able to continue their study. the second part of this resolution is very straightforward. it expresses three things: first. that israel should undertake to reopen the universities without delay. second. that these institutions should remain open and should  be closed for political purposes. third. that these institutions should be respected and regarded as what they are. centers of education. i urge my colleagues to join in cosponsoring this resolution. in july of last year. the senate unanimously approved a resolution that expressed that these three very same principles: namely. the reopening. they should remain open. and they should remain centers of education and be respected as the same. these same principles with respect to the primary and secondary schools were approved unanimously by this senate last year. in july. this resolution simply extends our encouragement to do the same with the universities. the reopening of these institutions would clearly ease tensions between the palestinian people and the government of israel. and thus help foster a favorable climate that is conducive to the peace process we all so earnestly seek. i commend the junior senator from kansas for her resolution and say i join in it enthusiastically and hope we can make as much progress with it as we did with the resolution pertaining to schools last year.
 of the chamber of commerce five times. and island man of the year. always deeply concerned about the youth of the island. mr. benson established a scholarship fund in 1977 for students who graduate from the block island high school. this unique generosity helped make possible a college education for many deserving island students. i commend mr. benson for his years of community service and i join with all his many island friends in congratulating him on this happy occasion.
. i say to the distinguished senator from ohio he is quite correct. that i did have concerns. and the amendment was withdrawn. as i recall. it was presented by aher senator on behalf of the senator from ohio who could  be there at the time. my objections were as follows: that in our state we have a bottle bill. if you would. in which those who purchase cans and bottles pay a little extra. and that money goes into a cleanup fund for our state along our highways instead of the mal return system. under the system we have in our state. those moneys are used for the training of school youngsters. in other words. who are in effect reformatory. to go out along our highways under supervision and to clean up along the highways along the same lines that the senator from ohio has discussed. in his original measure. he had a requirement that all those who participated in this work should be entitled to all the benefits of a regular state employeevacations. so forth. so i raised several questions. i do  plan to be facetious. but we just did  think that having a provision that those in our reformatories should be allowed vacation time for their work was quite proper. so i believe it is my understanding that that has all been eliminated. am i correct. that this is optional on the states. they can do it or they can do it. it is up to them. is that correct.
. i rise today to pay tribute to tony travato of westerly. rhode island. tony travato was hoed for his putstanding civil service on saturday. may 4. 1991. at the calabrese club in westerly. ri. . tony travato was born in westerly on february 1. 1925. as a youth. he attended the westerly public school and is a graduate of the cheshire academy. thereafter. tony travato attended rhode island state college.  the university of rhode island. and studies clothing design in new york city. he graduated from the american gentleman designing school. as a citizen of westerly. tony travato has been a invaluable asset to the community. he has been an active political leader. serving as state senator. beach commissioner. district moderator. as well as. being a member of the town council. in addition to his participation in a variety of political organizations. tony travato is recognized for 20 years of volunteer work at westerly hospital. he was also instrumental in fostering local reation. including tree planting. tony travatos dedication to westerly exemplifies his sincerity. commitment. and love for his neighbors and the community. his participation in a broad spectrum of local arenas attests to the fact that he is a model citizen. i hope all my colleagues will join me in applauding tony travato in ho of his local efforts on behalf of the westerly community. all rhode island is proud of its native son.9
. in my view. there is investment more important than education. the banking crisis in my state has placed additional burdens on students and families as they work to meet rising tuition costs. it would be unfortunate if students had to interrupt or forego a college education because of a situation beyond their control. the proposal we are introducing would help ensure that this does  occur. i urge my colleagues to join us in sponsoring this measure. by mr. moynihan:
. i rise today to pay tribute to tony travato of westerly. ri. tony travato was hoed for his outstanding community service on saturday. may 4. 1991. at the calabrese club in that town. tony travato was born in westerly on february 1. 1925. as a youth. he attended the westerly public schools and is a graduate of the cheshire academy. thereafter. tony attended rhode island state college.  the university of rhode island. and studied clothing design in new york city. he graduated from the american gentleman designing school. as a citizen of westerly. tony travato has been an invaluable asset to the community. he has been an active civic leader. serving as state senator. beach commissioner. district moderator as well as a member of town council. in addition. he has given of his time and talents as a volunteer for 20 years at westerly hospital. these activities demonstrate tonys sincerity. commitment. and love for his neighbors and the community. i join with all the people of westerly in saluting tony travato and wishing him great success and happiness in the years ahead.*
. i am pleased to join senator riegle in introducing a resolution to designate the week of march 16. 1992. as "national awareness week for lifesaving techniques." according to the national safety council almost 850.000 americans died in 1991 as a result of accidents and heart disease. many of these deaths could have been prevented if lifesaving techniques. such as the heimlich maneuver and cardiopulmonary resuscitation [cpr]. were administered to victim in a timely manner. as you may recall last month. troy trice. a local high school football player. was struck by lightning during practice. the lightning struck troy with such force that it kked off his shoes and helmet. troys heart and lungs stopped functioning. and his arms and legs were burned. immediately after the lightning struck. teammates and coaches began cpr on troy. last week. troy was released from the hospital and is expected to recover completely. doctors credited troys teammates and coaches with saving his life by administering cpr. it does  take long to learn cpr and other lifesaving techniques. and as troy and his family found out. king them can mean the difference between life and death for an accident victim. the senate health promotion office offers a cpr course that requires a 6hour time commitment. the ymca. red cross. and the american heart association also regularly hold classes. the resolution we are introducing today will help improve awareness about opportunities to learn cpr and other lifesaving techniques. i am hopeful that members will join us in cosponsoring this important resolution.e
. i rise today to pay tribute to antonio trovato of westerly. ri. tony trovato was hoed for his outstanding community service on saturday. may 4. 1991. at the calabrese club in that town. tony trovato was born in westerly on february 1. 1925. as a youth. he attended the westerly public schools and is a graduate of the cheshire academy. thereafter. tony attended rhode island state college.  the university of rhode island. and studied clothing design in new york city. he graduated from the american gentleman designing school. as a citizen of westerly. tony trovato has been an invaluable asset to the community. he has been an active civic leader. serving as state senator. beach commissioner. and district moderator. as well as a member of the town council. in addition. he has given of his time and talents as a volunteer for 20 years at westerly hospital. these activities demonstrate tonys sincerity. commitment. and love for his neighbors and the community. i join with all the people of westerly in saluting antonio trovato and wishing him great success and happiness in the years ahead..
. we have all heard the reports about the state of our nations education system. studies show that our high school graduates often lack the skills necessary to obtain entry level employment. and more alarmingly. that our students lag behind those of other nations in math and science ability. these two areas are crucial to the success of our nation in the global marketplace. as painful as these observations are. they have led us to direct tremendous energy toward reforming and improving our schools. s. 2. the bill before us . would create a 10year program of grants to states to assist local school districts and individual schools in implementing comprehensive reform. while i agree that appropriate funding is necessary for education initiatives. this is an ambitious program to embark upon when several proven education programs  in existence are  adequately funded to serve all eligible students. the measure. however. does incorporate new ideas. such as new american schools and regulatory flexibility. and it provides a basis for further discussion on education reform. for this reason. i am supporting s. 2. but  without reservation. it still requires much work. the house has  completed action on its version of the bill. which differs considerably from s. 2. then a conference committee must reconcile difference between the two measures. so while i am supporting s. 2. my vote today does  ensure my vote for the conference agreement. let us see what final emerges. then i can make a final judgment on its merits.
. i would like to take a moment to talk about the learnfare amendment. i believe that the concept of learnfare is a good one. like many of my collegues. i believe there should be some connection between government support and individual responsibility. the idea of learnfare is a good one. namely to tie a childs school attendance to a familys receipt of afdc money. there is question that the longer a child stays in school. the less likely that child is to become welfare dependent in the future. a high school diploma can play a major role in breaking the cycle of dependency. and we should do all we can to encourage children to pursue education. however. i voted against this amendment because i am concerned that any punitive measures taken against a family be linked to increased social services. very often truant children live in dysfunctional families where there are a variety of problems. if we are going to penalize these families for  keeping their children in school. we should also ensure that we do everything possible to provide the family and the child with the services they need to get them back in school. that is the purpose of the waiver program. to tie the sanctions to social services. so. the families may lose something. but they get something in return. by keeping the waiver program intact. i think the learnfare program will be more constructive for the families. after all. our goal is  to punish families. but to help them.
. as we begin the year 1992 and a new session of congress. i believe that it is appropriate to pay special tribute to 121 young men and 46 young women from the state of rhode island who have distinguished themselves through their active roles in the boy scouts and girl scouts of america. since baden powell founded the boy scouts in 1910 and juliette gordon low established the girl scouts in 1912. many youth have chosen to make new friends and to learn new skills by participating in these two fine organizations. in fact. the scouts have shaped a great deal of americas young people in an extremely positive way by promoting patriotism. courage. selfreliance. and teamwork. the eagle scout award is the highest rank that can be attained in the boy scouts of america. likewise. the silver award and the gold award are the highest awards that can be earned by girl scouts of junior high and high school age. respectively. all of these hos recognize those young people who have excelled in leadership. skills. and service. in a day and age when many believe that we live in a problemfilled world. it is encouraging to k that so many youth have taken the initiative to pursue such a worthwhile endeavor. we also owe thanks to their families. their scout leaders. and the scouting organizations themselves. so. it is with great pride that i pay tribute to these fine young men and women. for we can feel safe on the stormtossed waters of the future if our vessel is piloted by these. the leaders of tomorrow. the list of recipients follows:
that is correct. i suppose that you could follow this along. this legislation provides there shall be radon testing of the schools. i suppose somebody could say that as a result of this legislation. a school was tested and that school tested very. very high in radon. that that was brought to the attention of the school authorities. say the school board. and the school board said. "well. we do  choose to do anything about it. forget it." i suppose if you stretch that. there is some way in which a pupil in later years could claim. or parent could claim. that as a result of the negligence of the school board. that the child subsequently contracted lung cancer.
i would like to engage the distinguished managers of the bill in a short colloquy. in particular i would like to focus on appropriations for the environmental protection agencys environmental monitoring and assessment program [emapi. the committee on appropriations has expressed general support for this program. which monitors and assesses the status and trends of ecosystems to identify emerging environmental problems. the information provided by this program is vital if we are to gauge the health of our environment. and identify environmental problems before they reach the critical stage. it is my understanding that of he funds committed to emap. epa plans to devote $500.000 to the testing of environmental indicators for coastal waters. the university of rhode islands graduate school in ocearaphy is uniquely equipped to test such indicators in its marine ecosystem research laboratory. this laboratory is actually a system of tanks which allows researchers to simulate the effects of pollution on coastal waters. after discussions both with epa and the university of rhode island. it is my belief that epa should utilize the facilities and expertise at uris graduate school of ocearaphy to conduct testing of coastal environmental indicators.
. our nation has set six education goals to be achieved by the year 2000. even start goes hand in hand with these goals. especially goals 1 and 5that all children will enter school ready to learn and that every american adult will be literate. the program helps parents develop the skills they need to become partners in their childs education and helps youngsters to reach their full potential as learners by integrating early childhood and adult education into a unified familycentered program. i commend the conferees for their efforts to increase funding for this program.
. i am pleased to join in introducing. with senator bond and others. the parents as teachers/family involvement in education act. this legislation has been introduced in previous congresses. but. regrettably. has never become law. improving education is a stated priority of this congress and new administration. and i believe the parents as teachers program is a good place to start. in brief. the legislation would authorize a modest $20 million over 5 years to be used as seed money for states operating or establishing parents as teachers programs. this sum would fund programs in approximately 1.000 school districts nationwide. often we hear the phrase "our children are our nations future." but are we giving those children--our futurethe attention and gidaxnce that they need in order to grow up and be of benefit to society. when one quarter of our natlons children drop out of school before completing the 12th grade. the answer is a resounding "" there is more important job or greater responsibility than raising children. certainly there are few jobs in which one individual has total responsibility for the very existence of aher person. yet being a parent is one job for which training is provided. the parents as teachers program changes that. by providing parent education and early childhood education from the last 3 months of pregnancy until the child is age 3. the program would be voluntary and open to all income levels and would include group meetings and home visits. this program has a proven track record. begun irl missouri in 1981. there are pilot programs in several states. including rhode island. independent evaluations of the program show that children who have participated score better in assessments of intellectual achievement. comprehension. and general language skills. in addition. parents from the program were shown to be more kledgeable about childrearing and child development. we k that the first years of life are critical to a childs later development and education. the parents as teachers program helps to develop the childs language. social. and personality skills. the parents as teachers program may also help to establish an important pattern of parent involvement in education. schools with strong parentteacher organizations and high levels of parental involvement flourish. i believe that parents are the key to improving education. this legislation gives us the chance to help willing parents to truly become their childrens most important teachers.
madam president. i am pleased to have the opportunity to join in recognizing sister lucille mckillop. a member of the religious sisters of mercy who has served as president of salve regina university in newport. ri. since 1973. sister lucille came to salve regina at a troubled time in the universitys 47year history. salve regina faced extreme financial difficulties and dwindling enrollment. but sister lucille did  let these obstacles daunt her. under sister lucilles leadership. salve regina has undergone a remarkable transformation. the universitys curriculum has expanded to include 6 undergraduate degrees in over 20 concentrations. graduate programs were established. with advanced degrees offered innine fields. including business. financial management. health services administration. and the administration of justice. study abroad programs were created. allowing students to study in europe and in africa. student enrollment has more than doubled. and the school has been recognized as one of the top 10 small comprehensive universities in the east. but sister lucilles contributions. and those of salve regina students. go far beyond the universitys gates. sister lucille serves on numerous bbards including the board of directors of the newport music festival and the advisory board of dorcas place. an adult literacy center in providence. the university and its students have strong commitments to the city of newport and its surrounding communities and have made a tremendous difference in the lives of the less fortunate by organizing food. clothing. and medical drives. and mentorship programs for local youth. sister lucille is rather humble about her many accomplishments. she once said. "i have really  done all of these things. i am like a conductor. i am taking the bows. but the school is the orchestra. we are all making this music together." and what wonderful music it is for the salve regina faculty and students. the city of newport and surrounding communities. and for our state of rhode island. i wish sister lucille continued success in her presidency.
madam president. i am glad the sponsor of the amendment is in the chamber because it seems to me we have to make a real decision on these matters. that is the point i was trying to make previously. we all agree that we do  want to go it alone. that we want to participate and want the others to bear their share. at the same time if every nation who participates just as we want them to participat will only play under their command it seems to me we truly do have a formula for chaos. if there is one thing that every military student agrees upon. somebody has to be in charge. when everybody is in charge it is clear that ody is in charge. i believe if we are going to have to ensure the maximum safety of our troops that somebody has to be in charge. plenty of times it will be the american commander in charge. quite frequently we contribute most of the troops. and indeed that occasion calls for the american to be in charge. but  always. i am prepared to be corrected. but as i read the senators amendment when it is combat troops--matter how many we have--always they must be under united states command. i presume that the u.n. commander. or the britain who might be in charge. or the german. or the french. or whoever it may be. the pakistani. indian. the sole person that the united states troops respond to is the american commander.
. i do  want to prolong this. and i thank my colleague. the senior senator from rhode island. and the distinguished manager of the bill. but i will say that i am distressed over the language in this report. where it does  say. "give us that study or else." it says. "we direct the department to begin consolidation of the services war college." and so forth. it seems to me that is  asking for a report. that is saying to go ahead and take action. i have trouble and. sure. i have a local state interest. both of us do. the senior senator and i. but. also. i refer my colleagues to the defense authorization bill we just passed here recently. which directs the secretary of defense to maintain student levels at the war colleges at the october 1992 levels. in other words. as the services draw down personnel levels. there is  a suggestion that these institutions become smaller. indeed. they are  going to reflect. proportionately. the reductions in the size of the military forces. i believe that is right. i think we ought to have a more educated officers corps. even though we have to go down. so i am in favor of that. butthat certainly does  seem to suggest that there can be consolidations of any major nature. if you are going to keep the student enrollment the same as it was in october 1992. that is my first problem. my second problem is that. again. this is a horizontal interservice type of consolidation suggested. rather than the vertical intraservice consolidation that i previously mentioned. finally. i will e that in preparing for this. i looked to see. what the marine corps was doing. the marine corps has junior officers training. in effect. at command and staff school at quantico. but they have recently started a more senior course there. sort of a war college for the marine corps. which does  seem to be going in quite the direction the chairman would be suggesting.
madam president. i strongly support and am a cosponsor of the amendment offered by the senator from wisconsin. this amendment makes sense. indeed it makes so much sense that i was very surprised--and distressedto find that it is  already part of our federal handgun laws. it is past time to rectify that oversight. under current law. a handgun may  be sold to someone who is a juvenile. yet it is perfectly legal to give or lend a juvenile a handgun. it is perfectly legal for a juvenile to have a handgun in his or her possession. the only illegal action is the formal sale ofa handgun to a juvenile. the is ludicrous. handguns are dangerous and lethal weapons that it handled at all. should be handled by adultsand in my view even then under strict conditions. children simply should  have handguns. the fact that children and teens may possess a handgun perfectly legally is. in my view. one reason why we see such utter slaughter among our young people today. i want to take a moment to emphasize that this slaughter is part of a bigger problem: that of the widespread availability of handguns in our society. we  have in circulation more than 70 -million handguns. which are increas7 ing at a rate of 2 million per year. these are a significant threat to public welfare. it is a shameful fact that this threat is particularly serious for our nations children. today there is virtually place in which children can find safe haven from handgun violence. homes. schools. parks. playgrounds. shopping malls. streets. yards. cars. buses: wherever they go children are exposed. some horrifying examples: in miami. last june. a 6yearold boy was hit by a stray bullet and killed while walking along busy biscayne boulevard with his brother. the boy crumpled to the sidewalk. a nurse driving by stopped to try to save his life but couldnt. the shot came from an argument more than a block away. in monroe. nc. a 5yearold was playing ball last may with his 7yearold brother at a recreation center when shots rang out. the 5yearold was hit and killed. one year ago. a 6yearold connecticut boy was riding the schoolbus home from kindergarten when he was hit in the head by a 9millimeter slug from a handgun. these incidents clearly demonstrate how the presence of handguns generally in our society is harming our youngsters. it is a key reason why i have introduced legislation to ban handguns altogether with certain limited exceptions. the amendment before us does  go as far as i would like. but it has my strong and wholehearted support. we shouldwe mustat the very least prohibit children from having handguns. it is horrible egh when a child is shot by an adult wielding a handgun. but it is even more ghastly when the bullet comes form a handgun wielded by aher child. in the hands of a youngster. a handgun is a tragedy waiting to happen. children who find others handguns or have handguns of their own often accidentally shoot themselves or a sibling. more than 500 children die each year this way. the cases are horrifying: in june. in pittsburgh. 3yearold andre butler shot robert broadus. also age 3. in the right arm with a handgun. the bullet passed through roberts arra and came within two inches of hitting his chest. in may. in st. louis. a 6yearold girl shot her 4yearold brother at home . after she found a fully loaded .32caliber revolver belonging to a relative. in april. in cleveland. a 3yearold shot himself in the head with a gun he found. or. in a moment of teenage depression. children may impulsively use a handgun to attempt suicide: every year. nearly 1.500 children successfully commit suicide with a gun. and this number is rising. and children are finding and using handguns at school. in every state. children are carrying handguns to school as if they were lunchboxes. an estimated 135.000 boys carry guns to school every day. and its  just the big urban cities: roughly 1 of every 8 rural principles reports more guns than ever before in their schools. these handguns cause tragedy: in march 1992. a chicago thirdgrader pulled a handgun from his bookbag and shot a student in the spine. in my own state of rhode island. this year alone we have had 15 school handgun incidents. it is to the point where school budgets must allocate money for $4.000 metal detectors and $150 wands. administrators are donning bulletproof wear. and school police are carrying guns. parents of wounded children are suing school boards for negligence. the kohl amendment makes illegal the possession of a handgun by a juvenile. except in certain limited cases. it makes sense. if we want to take a first step toward ensuring that our children do  continue to be killed or permanently disabled by gunshot wounds. we must approve this amendment. it is the very. very least we can do for our youngsters. i congratulate my colleague on his thoughtful amendment.
. i ask unanimous concent to print in the racord a speech by our colleague. the senior senator from missouri. senator john c. da4forth. that he gave to the yale law school alumni dinner in october of last year.
. i would like to enter into a colloquy with the sponsor of s. 1361. senator simon. to clarify the intent of the paid work provision contained in this bill. i believe most of my concerns will be addressed by an amendment senator thurmond and i have worked out with the administration. and which the managers are prepared to accept. dealing with paid work.  rhode island has one of the most successful techprep programs operating in the country today. the program is a partnership that includes the community college of rhode island [ccri]. 32 secondary high schools and vocational technical facilities. and representatives from business and industry. currently. more than 1.400 students are participating in the program. according to the program director. ms. judy marmaras. the program is divided into two parts: first. a secondary level. aimed at academic skill development. and second. a postsecondary level. focused on advanced technical skill development. the secondary program offers paid work opportunities for its students. however. the postsecondary program does have some employer paid work participation. i might add. director marmaras has indicated that very few employers in our state have the inclination or wherewithal to offer paid work opportunities to high school students. with the adoption of the thurmondchafee amendment. i understand the paid work requirement will be deleted from this bill. however. in reviewing grant applications. i understand it is still the intent of the managers that preference be given to those programs with a paid work component. i want to make sure rhode islands techprep program. which lacks paid work at the secondary level. will  be disadvantaged by this preference. i am hopeful that the existence of some paid work positions at the postsecondary level will satisfy this preference. and that rhode islands techprep program will be on an equal footing with other applicants vying for federal funds under this legislation.
. the goals 2000 legislation is right in line with reform efforts that are underway in rhode island and many other states. passage of this legislation brings us one step closer to forging a new and constructive partnership between every school. school district. state. and the federal government. it is through this partnership that our children will receive the world class education they deserve.
madam president. yesterday the senate adopted a substitute version of the schooltowork opportunities act. s. 1361. this is a positive step in our efforts to develop a national strategy to train college bound students in the job skills needed to keep america competitive. it is good news for our young people. who need the skills and training to market themselves in this tight ecoy. moreover. it is good for industry. which is struggling with a skills gap that is hampering its competitive posture in the global marketplace. the schooltowork opportunities. act would establish a program of grants to states and to eligible private partnerships to implement schooltowork programs. the legislation emphasizes the need for active employer involvement in the training of our young people through the establishment of partnerships between educational and business interests. to be successful. a strong: training program must include schoolbased learning. workbased learning and connecting activities that bring the two experiences together. s. 1361 takes a needed step in this direction by providing federal guidance and direction to the states mandates. madam president. i would offer only two additional observations. first. i was pleased senator thurmond and i were able to work out language with the managers of s. 1361 and the administration to drop the paid work requirement. this provision would have precluded many existing programs from participating in schooltowork partnerships that will result with this legislation.  all programs in place today have paid work participation from employers. in fact. many employers lack the resources to make such a commitment. despite their willingness to provide criticallyneeded training to our young people. in my state. the rhode island tech prep program is a partnership that includes the community college of rhode island [ccri]. 32 secondary high schools and vocational technical facilities. and representatives from industry. this program serves 1.400 students. and has both a secondary and postsecondary component. while the high school component has paid work participation. there is some at the postsecondary level. given the lack of employers with the resources to satisfy a paid work requirement. senator thurmond and i felt this provision should be deleted. again. i want to thank the managers of this bill. and the administration for working with us to remove this obstacle. with the acceptance of the thurmondchafee amendment. programs like rhode island tech prep will be able to take full advantage of this new program. second. i share senator kassebaums concern about the proliferation of job training programs and the lack of a comprehensive strategy. as the distinguished ranking member of the labor and human resources committee correctly pointed out. we currently have some 154 separate training programs. while schooltowork is an excellent and needed step. it falls short of the real consolidation needed. it is my recommendation that we revisit this issue of consolidation to ensure the most effective use of our scarce budgetary resources. in the interim. i hope the waiver provisions contained in s. 1361 will give states the needed flexibility to combine funds and consolidate activities where it is logical to do so.
. i just want to say. i want to find the directions to this place because. obviously. i will send all the rhode islanders who want some money to start ladling out to come on down. the cookie jar is available to dole out to what this worthy group determines to be the type of venture capitalism they ought to. get into. i do  k how this country has survived without these programs. i thought once we were a great entrepreneurial country that was moving ahead and. indeed. was the most creative and inventive nation in the world. and we have done all this without this governmentrun venture capital.  we are going to learn how to do it from these wise men and women in washington. it is certainly an intriguing possibility. the only problem is. of course. our children will -be paying it. i want to thank the chair.
. i want to congratulate the providence college basketball team for winning the big east conference championship this past weekend in new york city. sundays appearance in the big east tournament finals was a first for providence collegeand they made the most of it with an impressive 74 to 64 win over georgetown university on sunday aftern. providence college was founded by the dominican order of preachers in 1917 and has had a rich 75year history of excellence in both the classroom and on the basketball court. in a recent survey of american colleges by u.s. news & world report. providence college was ranked 15th among the finest regional colleges and universities in the thern united states. our distinguished colleague. the senior senator from connecticut. senator dodd. is just one example of the top quality graduates that emerge from the college. this past weekend. however. it was the providence college basketba. team that inspired the schools 3.700 studentsand indeed the entire state of rhode island. with a fourth place finish in the big east regular season. the friars were considered by most to be an underdog in the tournament. after all. the pc team had never advanced beyond the tournaments semifinal game. but providence finished its regular season play with five straight victories and entered the tournament playing its ( best basketball of the season. led by providence native abdul abdullah of providences central high school. the friars made believers of all of us with three more consecutive victories over villaa university. the university of connecticutwho came into the game with a  2 ranking in national pollsand georgetown. as a result of providences big east conference championship. the school was awarded the dave gavitt trophy. dave gavitt--a resident of east providence. riwas the former providence college coach that coached the 1973 pc basketball team to the final four of the ncaa tournament. he was also the first commissioner of the big east and the driving force behind the conferences success. as a result of its big east championship and its outstanding play. the pc team has been invited to participate in this weeks ncaa tournament. the team is scheduled to play alabama in lexington. ky tonight. we wish them the best of luck--and look for them to extend their 8 game winning streak. despite its success. the providence college is  the only rhode island team scheduled to play in the 1994 ncaa basketball tournament. the ivy league champion brown university womens basketball team has also been invited to the ncaas. i want to extend my best wishes and congratulations to the brown team as well. congratulations and three cheers for both of these teams which have stirred such pride in rhode island for their achievements.o
madam president. the goals 2000: educate america act is a very important step toward achieving the improvements in education that our nations children. deserve and for which we have been striving for a decade. we have spent far too long focusing on what is wrong with education. this bill encourages states. local education agencies. and individual schools to look at what is right in education and to use that as a model for improvement and reform. one of the most troubling problems that has plagued many of our nations schools is violence. there are children who are literally afraid to go to school because of the presence of weapons on school grounds. imagine trying to learn in an environment of fear. this bill takes steps to address this unacceptable situation. it includes the safe schools act. as well as my amendment to expand one of the goals to read "by the year 2000. every school in the united states will be free of violence. drugs. and the presence of unauthorized firearms." this is an important step in the right direction. the role of our schools has changed drastically in the past three decades. and schools have taken on extraordinary new burdens. today. we are seeing youngsters with learning disabilities. youngsters who dont get egh to eat. youngsters born with a drug or fetal alcohol problem. youngsters from totally shattered families. as a society we expect that our schools will take in these children and help make their lives better through education. and many schools have met these expectations. yet. we  have an element that makes our work even more 4difficult. and that element is guns. children of all ages. in every state across the nation. have access to guns. when i was gover in my state. the worst one might hear of at the schools was a fistfight a gun incident. or shooting. was unheard of. rhode island is  a major urban area. yet this year we have seen a dozen gun incidents in our schools. what is the only route for school administrators to take. to ensure the safety of all who are in the school. administrators are forced to divert scarce funds from books to $4.000 metal detec-. tors. in.july 1o92. 25 percent of the 45 largest school districts were using metal detectors. today. 69 percent are using them. the safe schools amendment authorizes federal grants to school districts to fight violence in their schools. the money may be used for planning strategies to prevent violence. conducting safety reviews. developing violence prevention activities. proyiding counseling for victims of violence. and even purchasing metal detectors and other security equipment. this is an important step toward ensuring our schools are safe. the presence of guns in schools di-. minishes the work of educators across the country. this bill takes steps to ensure that our heavily burdened schools are free of guns andthe violence that results. i am also pleased to be here this morning to ensure passage of this important legislation because my state of rhode island is working very hard to develop the kind of education reform plan that this bill encourages. the national education standards and improvement council will develop national opportunitytolearn standards. content standards. and student performance standards and assessments. but it will be up. to the states to determine the content of their education reform plans and to decide what provisions will be implemented. this bill takes a bold and positive approach by recognizing that every child has the ability to learn and by taking steps to assure that the tools are available to enable all children to reach -their full potential. setting high standards for teaching and learning and making sure that students have mastered the material presented to them is long overdue. earlier. i spoke about the new challenges that face our nations schools. as those challenges have increased. parental participation in education seems to have dropped off in many areas. goals 2000 makes clear that parents play a key role in the education of their children. it seems to me that without parental involvement in education. there will be real reforms and improvements. this legislation includes a goal that calls upon parents to become partners with their childrensschools. experience has taught us that children whose parents are actively involved in the educational process simply do better in school than children whose parents or families are. disengagtei. this bill includes other important provisions related to parental involvement that i cosponsored: the parents as teachers program [pat] and the home instruction program for preschool youngsters (hippy]. both of these programs operate successfully in rhode island and across the nation. their purpose is to ensure that all children start school on the right foot. in sum. madam president. the goals 2000 legislation is right in line with reform efforts that are underway in rhode island and niany other states. passage of this legislation brings us one step closer to forging a new and constructive partnership between every school.- school district. state. and the federal government. it is through this partnership that our children will receive the world class education they deserve.
. i ask that the names of these exemplary west warwick high school students and their teacher. ellen garland. be entered into the congressional record. as follows: lauren bentley. krista bourgoin. greg brennan. kimberly caressimo. jennifer cook. michael cook. paul gauvin. carolyn gereau. deborah goldgaber. christopher gre. erin hearne. christina james. james jeff im. steven joseph. . benjamin lyttle. geoffrey monti. erin murray. christopher phillips. kristie piascik. angela rossi. pablo suarez.*
. this week we have begun consideration of the improving americas schools act. and i am pleased to be an original cosponsor. this bill provides more than $12 billion in federal assistance to state and local educational agencies. primarily to assist children at riskincluding children in poverty and children with limited proficiency in englishto attain the high academic standards being developed as a result of the goals 2000: educate america act. which was approved earlier this year. i am particularly pleased with the reauthorization of the even start family literacy act. which i authored in 1987 and which was enacted into law as part of the 1988 elementary and secondary education act. this began as a very modest program. first authorized at $50 million. in 1992. the program was reauthorized at $100 million. and this year. we go even .further by authorizing even start at $120 million. even start provides services to children. from infants to 7yearsolds. and their families. one of our nations gravest challenges is the persistence of illiteracy. i introduced the even start program because illiteracy .tends to be passed from one generation to the next. tragically. even parents with the best intentions tend to pass their illiteracy on to their children. study after study indicates that children who are read to during their preschool years. learn to read more easily than children who are  read to. children of readers too often grow up to be readers. and these children begin school at a distinct disadvantage. even start strives to break this cycle of illiteracy by funding literacy programs directed specifically at reading parents and their preschool children. we all agree that parents are their childrens first teachers. and that children. whose parents are involved in their education. flourish. even start helps parents to develop the skills needed to participate. in a meaningful s 10040 co fashion. in the education of -their children. the even start program includes core services. such as adult literacy training. training for parents to prepare them to assist in their childrens education. and early childhood education. additional services may include child care services. testing and counseling. education of parentb :amd their children in their own homes. and transportation. even start helps in our efforts to achieve three of our nations educational goals: goi one "all children will start schoolready to learn." goal six -every adult american w1. be literate * * *." goal eight "every school .ill promote partnerships thaot will increase parental involvement and participation in promoting the -social. emotional and academic growth of children." even start tackles the dilemma of -parents who ae -unable to help their children succeed in school because of their own literacy problems. imagine the anguish of parents who k they should be reading to their children. but can-. who can interpret or response to es from teachers or bulletins. and who must stand by help.lessly while their children struggle to handle the challenges of school all alone. imagine the despair of -the child who gets reinforcement at home for what he or she learns at school. even start attacks this problem from both sides. by assisting the child and the parent. funds anthorized by s. l513 for even start will be targeted toward teenage parents. 78 percent of whom are likely to live in poverty. teenage parents and their children are of -special eoncern. because too ften these teen parents have awternative but to drop out of school. without a pr ogram like even start. the chi ldren of these parents would be likely to fall into the cycle of illiteracy.. in addition t the een start famiy literacy prsgram. s. 1513 reauthrrizes a mumber of worthwhile prorarns that i whoeheartedly snport. tuing t naticnal awritig drojact. which he.ps teachers to improe their witinq sekils and the teachng of writing skills. the star schocls progrm. whlch drovdfe grants for teisccmnanfncatazs parzt nerships for dist=ace eduacatin services in =ath. science. and fcriign languages. the- magnet sahools prbgre-. which h hezm sc=sosful in disrecuraging segregation. -the dropout pre.ention demnsgtration program thall i introduced wrth senaws st frd and pell. to identify likely di=onts and to enc rage children who have failed to ocomplete high school to return to school. the rlue ribbon schools program. which autherizes the secretary of educanten to identify and reward individual schools for achieving excellence. and the jacob javits gifted and talented program. which azsists schools in poviding special %vgrans .fr our most talented students.
. i would like to recognize the achievements of 25 students from central falls jr./sr. high school of central falls. ri. these students. kelly bianchi. janeth blandon. melissa casto. berta couto. yolanda dasilva. daisy diaz. elizabeth diaz. michelle doucet. susan freitas. elizabeth garstka. martha gutierrez. melanie kowal. linda layous. rebecca lussier. michael macedo. juan manza nelci paiva. beatriz. pati christine patricio. celena sackal. kathleen siwy. hannah tarawali. helena taveira. agnes wec. and alexandra zaldana have distinguished central falls and the state of rhode island through their selection as rhode islands delegation to the "we the people . . . the citizens and the constitution" national finals competition. i would also like to recognize their teacher. mr. bertrand brousseau. who deserves much of the credit for the success of the team. the district coordinators. john waycott and charles golden. and state coordinator henry cote also contributed a great deal of time and effort to help the team reach the national finals. this program. supported and funded by congress. has been developed to educate young people about the constitution and the bill of rights. the 3day national competition simulates a congressional hearing in which students oral presentations are judged on the basis of their kledge of constitutional principles and their ability to apply them to historical and contemporary issues. administered by the center for civic education. "we the people ... the citizens and the constitution." has provided curricular materials at upper elementary. middle. and high school levels for more than 60.000 teachers. 22.000 schools. and 20 million nationwide. this tremendous program provides an excellent opportunity for students to gain a perspective about the history and principles of our nations constitutional government. i wish these budding constitutional experts the best of luck and look forward to their future pirticipation in our nations political arena.0
i want to offer my support for senator mikulskis amendment. i was a skeptic of this program when it was first proposed. it sounded too expensive. and the concept of stripended service seemed incongruous with voluntarism. that was before i had a chance to see the positive impact of this program on the ground in my own state of rhode island. young people from all walks of life have gone into a number of communities to help clean up neighborhoods. improve the literacy of inner city school children. and to improve public safety and the environment. let me give you an example of what we are finding in rhode island. two years ago. marilyn concepcion was a high school dropout. getting that far was an accmplisment. one in her family had ever gone beyond the sixth grade. this 19yearold woman joined rhode island city year. an americorps program. to earn her ged certificate. with training from the city year staff. concepcion began to tutor and mentor a group of first graders. she taught them to read. taught english as a second language. gave them insight into the value of learing. the importance of an education. some of these children had never been given the type of encouragement that marilyn concepcion provided. the shortterm impact marilyn concepcion had on these childrens lives has been measurable. they pay attention more in school. their selfesteem has been increased. but the real impact. the most concrete effect on their lives may  be felt for aher 10 to 12 years. when these children become members of the work force or go onto college. spurred by the positive influence shed had on her students. marilyn concepcion decided she wanted to go to college. she applied to. and was accepted by. brown university. she became the first recipient of browns offer to match the $4.700 americorps educationalawarda challenge grant program just annced by a number of universities and colleges in our state. if this is the kind of results we are obtaining with only 1 year of experience. i think it is only fair that we let this program continue for some period of time to better evaluate its performance.
finally. . if anything lessens local control over education in the district of columbia. it is this conference report. it has  been asked for by the d.c. school board. but congress set up a special board and a new program for the district of columbia. supporters of the voucher plan say the district of columbia should provide choices to parents. they say the district of columbia should have charter schools. they call for partnerships between city schools and the smithsonian institution. the truth is that the district of columbia has all of these things. the district has public school choice. there is a charter school program at a school  six blocks from the capitol. down the street there is a middle school which has entered into a partnership with the smithsonian. d.c. public schools are the only public schools in the area that provide an allday kindergarten program. and every high school in the district is a magnet school. is there room for inprovement. of course there is. and i suggest that if those who put forth this plan were truly interested in improving the education of d.c. students. they would provide sorely needed additional resources to the public schools here. they would encourage the district of columbia to look at schools and programs that are succeeding here and try to emulate that success. i find it extraordinary that the 104th congress. which is dedicated to local control and cutting spending. is seeking to enter into a brandnew spending program to micromanage a local school system. i will vote against cloture. and i urge my colleagues to do so. exhibrr 1
well. the senator is absolutel.y right. there was a certain trepidation when you got a call that "mr. packard wants to see you in his office." i would hustle around to see if i missed out somewhere. or if i left something undone that i ought to have done. it was sort of like when you were in school and being called to the principals office. i tell. it kept you on your toes.
. i ask that the names of these exceptional west warwick high school students and their teacher. michael trofi. be entered into the congressional record as follows: susan. bickerstaff. joshua brassard. carlos cruz. jason deletesky. nicholas dube. brandon hall. paul heatherson. cynthia jutras. jennifer lavoie. jessica lavoie. jessia lefrancois. steven marandola. richard marrese. jesse nason. matthew raiche. walter richardson iv. michael streeter. and tara watson..
 and general manager of the new jersey devils. the teams assistant general manager was jack ferreira. a graduate of lasalle academy in providence. and a former assistant coach for brown university. the team was coached by ron wilson. he grew up in east providence and played hockey for providence college. hes  the head coach of the anaheim mighty ducks. defenseman mathieu schneider is a graduate of mount saint charles high school in woonsocket. ri. the athletic trainer. peter demers. a longtime trainer for the los angeles kings. is originally from pawtucket. to top it off. the team trained at providence colleges schneider arena. so you can see that this team had a distinct rhode island flavor to it. and so. i join with all rhode islanders and americans in congratulating the u.s. hockey team for their marvelous achievement. i suggest the absence of a quorum.
. i want to congratulate michael trofi. a fine teacher who deserves so much credit .for guiding the west warwick high school team to the national finals. as mr. trofi and this fine -group of. west warwick high school students prepare for their trip to washington to compete in the national finals on april 2628. i want to congratulate them for what they have already achieved and wish them the best of luck in the final competition. these students. with the guidance of mr. trofi. have learned what our nation is all about and what countless men and women have fought and died to protect. matter what the outcome of the contest is. they have each earned the greatest prize of all: kledge..
. you may be interested to k that since the enrollment of its first class on september 24. 1947. the university has expanded to offer 29 undergraduate majors in the arts and sciences and 16 graduate programs. including a ph.d. in humanities. i am particularly pleased that the continued success and achievement of salve regina will be celebrated this year. and i am very proud to congratulate salve regina university for its 50 years of dedication and excellence in education.9
. tomorrow morning the senate will vote on the creation of the first federally funded private school voucher program in the nation. it is accident that this new voucher program is being debated on. the d.c. appropriations bill. e of us has a constituency in the district of columbia. we can do anything to the district. and we are unaccountable to its voters for our actions. and in recent years. congress has done quite a bit to the district of columbia. two years ago. in recognition of poor city management and extreme budgetary problems. congress created a financial control board to help get the city back on its fiscal feet.  quite a year ago. the control board annced the formation of an emergency management team for the citys schools. the elected school board was relieved of its authority. the superintendent was urged to resign. and a new team was established. which is headed by retired gen. julius becton. general becton signed on for a 3year tour of duty in d.c. schools. yet before even a full year has passed. congress is poised to pull the rug out from under -him by creating a private school voucher plan. supporters of private school vouchers prefer to call them school choice. but parents dont choose the schools their children will attend. private schools select the children they will accept. this is  a luxury our public schools enjoy. public schools are committed to providing an education to all children: to children who come to school at any time of the year. to children with disabilities. to children whose primary language is  english. to children with disciplinary problems. and to children with low iqs. private schools have the ability to select the smartest. the least difficult students with the fewest challenges to overcome. supporters of the voucher plan point out that there are a number of innercity. parochial schools that take whatever child comes to the door. there is doubt that parochial schools have an important role to play and are doing a good job. but that does  mean that they should receive federal funding. it does  mean that they have taken on all of the obligations of our public schools. i believe that it is wrong to provide federal dollars to private or parochial schools to enable them to skim the best students from the public schools. vouchers also would skim the students whose parents are involved in their childs education. leaving the public schools with the greatest challenges. supporters of the voucher plan say district of columbia should provide choices to parents. they say district of columbia. should have charter schools. they call for partnerships between city schools and the smithsonian institution. the truth is that district of columbia has all of these things. the district has public school choice. there is a charter school program at a school  six blocks from the capitol. down the street there is a middle school which has entered into a partnership with the smithsonian. d.c. public schools are the only public schools in the area that provide an all day kindergarten program. and every high school in the district is a magnet school. a lot of attention has been paid to the fact that the schools didnt open on time this year. and congress is  without responsibility for the delay. but very little mention has been made of the rigorous standards that have been put into place in every school. here. starting this school year. teachers. parents. and students have a clear idea of what the children should k at each grade level. last week. students all across the district were tested in reading. math. and language arts to see what level they are at. at the end of the school year. they will be tested again. to assess their progress. the performance of teachers and principal also will be based on these assessments. the pressure is on  to let a single child slip -through the cracks. and i think that is an emous step in the right direction. teachers and principals are turning up the heat on parents. as well. parents of students in d.c. public schools are signing compacts. agreeing to be full participants in their childs education. they are visiting classrooms. to see firsthand what and how their children are learning. they are becoming responsible for making sure their children do their homework. and parents are being asked to check the work and sign it. they are being asked to read to their children regularly. i ask unanimous consent that an article from the washington post. dated september 28. 1997. about back to school night at a local school be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i rise today in support of s. 1213. the oceans act of 1997 and to thank the bills principal sponsors for addressing my concerns. this legislation has broad. bipartisan support and as the senior senator from the ocean state. i am glad the united states senate will be on the record on ocean and coastal policy as we enter 1998. which the united nation has designated as the "year of the ocean." the oceans act of 1997 is a significant bill. its 1966 predecessor. the marine resources and engineering development act. was one of the seminal developments in environmental law. the act created the commission on marine science. engineering. and resources. better kn as the stratton commission. the stratton commissions report. "our nation and the sea" was delivered in 1969 and. among its many important recommendations. led directly to the creation of national ocearaphic and atmospheric administration in 1970. i would e that two distinguished rhode islanders played leading roles in the stratton commission. university of rhode island professor emeritus john a. knauss. then the dean of the university of rhode islands graduate school of ocearaphy. was a commission member and chaired the panel on environmental monitoring and on management and development of the coastal zone. professor emeritus lewis alexander of the university of rhode island. who has had a distinguished career in government and academia. was the commissions deputy director. i expect that the rhode islanders will play key roles in the new stratton commission. the value of our oceans and coastal areas can be underestimated. more than half of the united states population lives in or near a coastal area. the commercial fishing industry alone. which depends on these areas. contributes $111 billion dollars per year to the national ecoy. moreover. oceans are the lifeblood of the world. the health of our marine resources is intertwined with that of ecosystems throughout the world. the purpose of the bill before us is to develop and maintain a comprehensive national policy for our oceans and coastal areas. a national ocean policy includes a broad range of issues from commerce. environmental protection.. scientific research. to national security. to that end. the bill establishes a 16member national ocean commission. which will be assisted by an interagency national ocean council. in developing and making recommendations to congress for a national oceans policy. as originally reported by the committee on commerce. science and techogy. the creation of the national ocean council. raised two concerns. first. how would the national ocean council affect the execution of existing environmental laws. second. is it timely  to create a permanent council prior to the report of the independent national ocean commission created in the bill. the managers amendment that is before us to day answers both of these questions. any possible ambiguity regarding the national ocean councils role is resolved. existing responsibilities under federal law are unaffected. i was concerned creation of a permanent council  would unduly constrain the commissions recommendations. the managers amendment makes it clear. however. that the national ocean councils function is to assist the independent national ocean commission in the preparation of its report. after the commission completes its report. the council will take the commission report into account in developing an implementation plan for a national ocean and coastal policy. the national ocean council will also cease to exist one year after the commission submits its report. before closing. i want to commend senators hollings for his persistence with respect to oceans and coastal policy. i also want to thank him. as well as senators se and mccain. for addressing my concerns in the managers amendment.
. one has worked harder or has shown more persistence on behalf of the impact aid program than michael pinto. barely a month goes by without a letter from superintendent pinto reaching my desk. advocating the impact aid program and its importance in middletown schools. recently. a newport daily news article described superintendent pinto as an easygoing and amiable administrator." in fact. in the spirit of true compromise for the good of education and the community. superintendent pinto has said. "[ill) tell the school committee that im  interested in a lot of 3to2 votes. ill give up something for a 5too vote." it is that quality--doing what it takes to reach a consensus--that has made him a successful leader. as michael prepares for his private life away from the duties of his terribly demanding job. i want to congratulate and thank him for all that he has given to his community.0
 of the new jersey devils and will also serve as general manager of the u.s. olympic mens hockey team. ron wilson went on to a successful professional playing career in the national hockey league and europe. today. he is the very successful coach of the local entry in the national hockey league. the washington capitals. he is well equipped to lead our team next month in japan. having successfully coached the u.s. team in the 1996 world cup to a major upset of canada to win that prestigious competition. the victory was the biggest win for the united states since the 1980 winter olympics. hockey is. as i said. a passion in rhode island. indeed. coach wilson will look down his bench and see three other rhode islanders on his team bryan berard. keith carney. and matthew schneider. and the u.s. womens hockey team will include a majority of players who played their high school or college hockey in rhode island. the nagagames will soon begin. and i extend the heartiest best wishes for success to coach wilson. his fellow rhode islanders. and all americans wearing our uniform.*
and i went away distressed. so  we will have an opportunityin this bill. as the majority leader has made it clear the way we will proceed. and i look forward. as we get into this. that he will support a bill that will accomplish the goals of the nation in the context of all the other demands that are placed upon the budget of the united states. i will conclude by stressing once again that we have an increase in this bill this year. istea ii. over the past. of 20 percent when the other discretionary accounts are frozen. in other words. the defense items and the entitlement items are all frozenwhether you are talking head start. school lunches. the school programs. the health programs. they are frozenand we get a 20 percent increase. which is pretty good. for this program. i thank the chair.
. this amendment provides for a study of transportation of school children on transit buses. the secretary of transportation will study safety issues relating to the transportation of school children by various and different modes of transportation.
madam president. yesterday. many in america hoed st. patrickbut all week long in rhode islandveneration belongs to the university of rhode island rams basketball team. the socalled experts said it couldnt be doneand. admittedly. the odds were against them. after all. the little rhodys of the world just arent supposed to beat the college basketball powerhouses like the jayhawks of kansas. but somewhere along the way to oklahoma city. someone forgot to tell that to the rhode island rams. someone forgot to tell tyson wheelerthe same tyson wheeler who was once told he was too short to play college basketball at allthat the davids of rhode island couldnt beat the goliaths of kansas. someone forgot to tell that to cuttimobley. who always gives his best whether it is in keaney gym or in the national spotlight. that rhode island couldnt beat one of the best teams in the nation. and clearly. someone forgot to tell antonio reydsdean and luther clay that they werent supposed to be able to compete with the much taller and perhaps stronger inside presence of the kansas allamericans. theres a word on rhode islands state flag that these rhode island rams have come to symbolizethat word is "hope". its a sentiment we hold dear in my home stateand one which was displayed for all the world to see. we may be the smallest state. but we k that means: we must always try harder. its a philosophy to always give your very best. and to never give up. thats the kind of fighting spirit that turns the cause of "hope" on our flag into the action of "courage" on the court. rhode islands advance to the "sweet sixteen" provides a needed reminder that at one time or aher. weve all been underdogs. whether it be in schoolyard. or in the workplace. or on the basketball court. each and every one of us has faced seemingly insurmountable odds at one time or aher in our lives. thats what makes rhode islands recent win over the kansas jayhawks that much sweeter. for the rhode island rams have given -us more than a wonderful basketball season. theyve reminded us that the davids can beat the goliaths of this world. they have sent a signal to the underdog in all of usthat if one perseveres and gives ones best. there indeed is always hope. so. madam president. i congratulate the rhode island rams and applaud the example they have set. rams coach jim harrick and all of his players have earned a special place in -the hearts of rhode island and the nation. i. along.with the people of my state. am proud of their accomplishments. these fine young men have set an example which well treasure for years to come. they have given us "hope." go rams.
 vetoes this bill. i will vote to sustain his veto. at first blush. this proposal sounds appealing. why shouldnt parents be encouraged to save for their childrens education. the problem is that the "encouragement" the proposal would provide. costs more than s1.6 billion over 10 years and. according to the treasury department. 70 percent of the benefits go to the richest 20% of americans. that is money that would be better spent on improving public schools. particularly lowincome. urban schools where most of the problems exist. also. it permits families to use funds from these taxexempt accounts to pay for tuition at private and religious schools. doing so would mean that the federal government is subsidizing private and religious education. i believe that the federal role in education must be to support public schools. nearly 90% of students attend public schools. our nations public schools are required to take children who come to school at any time of the year. children with disabilities. children whose primary language is  english. children with disciplinary problems. and children with low iqs. private schools have the ability to select the smartest and the least difficult students. with the.fewest challenges to overcome. families who send their children to private schools typically come from higher income levels. yet it is these families who would receive the greatest benefits from education savings accounts. there have been a number of amendments to this bill. some of the amendments that i opposed have merit. and i would like to take a moment to explain my reasons for voting against them. senator moseleybraun offered an amendment that would have provided tax incentives to help pay for school construction. although her amendment failed. senator moseleybraun has been very successful in making us all aware of the deteriorating conditions of our nations school facilities. i voted against her amendment because i believe her approach would be very difficult for the irs to administer. and i have concerns about using suderfund taxes as an offset. senator gorton offered an amendment. and. although i have serious concerns about its effect. he has highlighted an important problem with federal education funding. i share his view that states should have some flexibility in spending federal education funds. they should be able to target these funds to schools with the greatest needs. but i dont agree that $10 billion should be given to the states in block grants without the appropriate committees holding a single hearing. also. the commissioner of education in my state had very serious concerns about the impact of this amendment. next year. when the elementary and secondary education act is up for reauthorization. i hope that consideration is given to senator gortons point of -view and that appropriate hearings are held. i wholeheartedly agree with senator murrays desire to encourage smaller class sizes. particularly in the primary grades. in fact.. in 1987. i introduced a bill that would have created a demonstration program on small class sizes. regrettably. the labor committee never held hearings on my bill. i voted against senator murrays amendment because i am concerned about providing short term federal support for hiring new teachers. how would the school districts pay to keep 100.000 new teachers after the federal funding expired. this is a question posed by representatives from local school committees in rhode island when they visited my office earlier this year. finally. i voted for senator ashcrofts amendment to prohibit federal funds from being used for national testing. unlike many of my colleagues i am  opposed to national testing. parents should be able to compare their childs performance with children across the united states. parents should be able to compare the performance of their childs school with schools across the state and throughout the nation. nevertheless. i agree with senator ashcroft that it is congress responsibility to authorize a national testing program before federal funds can be used to implement such a program. regardless of the outcome. we have had a good debate on a very important issue. namely the federal roll in education in america.
. i want to congratulate bert brousseau. a fine teacher who deserves so much credit for guiding the central falls high school team to the national finals. on tuesday. april 7th i was pleased to visit the central falls winners. i couldnt resist giving them a spontaneous oral quiz. i ant happy to report that they responded to my questions superbly. congratulations to mr. brousseau and his students for what they have already achieved. and best of luck in the final competition. these students. with the guidance of mr. brousseau. have learned what our nation is all about and what countless men and women have fought and died to protect. matter what the outcome of the contest is. they have each earned the greatest prize of all: kledge.*
. i am delighted that the senate has approved legislation which i cosponsored to help ensure the safety of our nations schools. senators campbell. jeffords. and faircloth introduced 8.2235. "the school resource officers partnership grant act of 1998." in june. it was approved unanimously by the judiciary committee and approved by the senate yesterday. the goal of this legislation is to help put a stop to crime and violence in our nations schools. through this legislation. partnerships will be developed between state and local law enforcement agencies and the school districts in which they serve. while national statistics on violence in schools indicate an overall downward trend. the types of violence that have occurred recently. particularly in the last school year. are hing short of traumatic. the sight and sound of schoolyard shootings have become all too familiar. americans were shocked. time and time again. by the devastating sight on the evening news of youngsters being carried to ambulances" from school grounds following shooting sprees by other youngsters. looking back at the 19971998 school year. several particularly alarming incidents occurred: in october. a 16yearold at pearl high school in mississippi went to school with a hunting rifle. he shot and killed a student and a teacher. leaving a second teacher with a bullet wound in the head. in december. a student at heath high school in west paducah. kentucky used a pistol to kill 3 other students. the shooter was 14yearsold. in march. 2 boys in jonesboro. arkansas. an eleven yearold and a thirteen yearold. pulled the fire alarm in their school. as students and teachers left the building. the two boys began shooting. they killed five people: four young girls and a teacher. in april. a 14yearold boy in edinboro. pennsylvania went to a school dance with a gun he apparently removed from his fathers bureau drawer. he killed a science teacher and injured two students and aher teacher. at thurston high school in springfield. oregon a 15yearold who was suspended for carrying a gun to school. returned to school the next day and opened fire in a crowded cafeteria. he killed two students and wounded 19 others. police suspect he shot and killed his parents. as well. it is secret that i support tougher restrictions on gun ownership. earlier this year. senator durbin and i offered an amendment to the spending bill for the departments of commerce. state and justice. our amendment would have held adult gun owners responsible if their weaponwhich had  been stored properlywas used by a child to injure himself or someone else. i felt that this was the least we could do to help protect children from needless gun violence. unfortunately. the majority of my senate colleagues didnt agree. and our amendment was defeated. despite that setback. i believe that it is congress responsibility to take steps to assist local communities in their battle against school violence. children bringing weapons to school and drug use among youngsters arent problems of big city schools alone. in my own state of rhode island during the last school year. there were more than 400 weaponsrelated suspensions. to put that number in the proper perspective. we have fewer than 450 elementary and secondary schools in rhode island. including private and religious schools. we should  fool ourselves into thinking that the kind of atrocities that all of america witnessed in schools last year cant happen in our childrens schools. it is my sincere belief that the school resource officers partnership grant act is a step in the right direction. this legislation will make federal funds available to local law enforcement agencies. working in partnership with local school districts. for "school resource officers." these sros. who must be professional law enforcement officers. would address gangrelated crime and violence. including drug use. in and around schools. they would work with students. teachers. and administrators on crime prevention and personal safety. and perhaps most importantly. they would work directly with students on conflict resolution to help avert violent oubursts that can leave inent children dead or injured." there are communities throughout our nation whose police officers have undertaken these very tasks. in rhode island. police officers in newport. providence. and west warwick. to name a few. already are working within schools on crime prevention. mentoring. and conflict resolution. our bill would allow local law enforcement agencies to use a portion of their federal community policing funds for these officers. i applaud our teachers and administrators for their efforts to confront and address violence in schools. but we can expect them to undertake this battle alone. this bill will make the kledge and resources of professional law enforcement agencies available to our schools. i k it will help keep our children safe.o
. next month a very special school will be celebrating its 20th anniversary. on ember 15th. 1978. the ruth and max alperian schechter day school in providence. rhode island opened its doors to ten students. today. its classrooms are filled with over 230 students. and it is one of the fastest growing jewish institutions in rhode island. the ruth and max alperian schechter day school is a state accredited. egalitarian. conservative jewish day school serving children from kindergarten through grade eight. in addition to having a fine reputation for providing its students with a wellrounded education. the alperian schechter day school also focuses on academic growth. ethical values. and jewish identity. its academic programs are both rich and challenging in general and judaic studies. recognizing -that a partnership with parents is essential to the education of our youngsters. the alperian schechter day school continues to promote open communication with families. as a community of learners. the entire school body works together to create a community of successful. wellrounded members while encouraging continued learning and increased participation in school activities. in fact. students from the alperian schechter day school continue to build on their education. even after graduating. as academic advisors work with families and students to ensure future success. alperian schechter day school graduates have gone on to attend a variety of colleges and universities including. yale university. harvard university. university of rhode island. georgetown university. rhode island school of design. and many. many other fine institutions of higher learning. in addition. students have had the opportunity to serve as interns in our nations capital. build houses with habitat for humanity. and work with disabled children. in closing. i want to congratulate the ruth and max alperian schechter day school on its 20th anniversary and hope for its continued success in providing academic excellence to our youngsters.*
. i want to congratulate michael trofi. a fine teacher who deserves so much credit .for guiding the west warwick high school team to the national finals. as mr. trofi and this fine -group of. west warwick high school students prepare for their trip to washington to compete in the national finals on april 2628. i want to congratulate them for what they have already achieved and wish them the best of luck in the final competition. these students. with the guidance of mr. trofi. have learned what our nation is all about and what countless men and women have fought and died to protect. matter what the outcome of the contest is. they have each earned the greatest prize of all: kledge..
. you may be interested to k that since the enrollment of its first class on september 24. 1947. the university has expanded to offer 29 undergraduate majors in the arts and sciences and 16 graduate programs. including a ph.d. in humanities. i am particularly pleased that the continued success and achievement of salve regina will be celebrated this year. and i am very proud to congratulate salve regina university for its 50 years of dedication and excellence in education.9
. tomorrow morning the senate will vote on the creation of the first federally funded private school voucher program in the nation. it is accident that this new voucher program is being debated on. the d.c. appropriations bill. e of us has a constituency in the district of columbia. we can do anything to the district. and we are unaccountable to its voters for our actions. and in recent years. congress has done quite a bit to the district of columbia. two years ago. in recognition of poor city management and extreme budgetary problems. congress created a financial control board to help get the city back on its fiscal feet.  quite a year ago. the control board annced the formation of an emergency management team for the citys schools. the elected school board was relieved of its authority. the superintendent was urged to resign. and a new team was established. which is headed by retired gen. julius becton. general becton signed on for a 3year tour of duty in d.c. schools. yet before even a full year has passed. congress is poised to pull the rug out from under -him by creating a private school voucher plan. supporters of private school vouchers prefer to call them school choice. but parents dont choose the schools their children will attend. private schools select the children they will accept. this is  a luxury our public schools enjoy. public schools are committed to providing an education to all children: to children who come to school at any time of the year. to children with disabilities. to children whose primary language is  english. to children with disciplinary problems. and to children with low iqs. private schools have the ability to select the smartest. the least difficult students with the fewest challenges to overcome. supporters of the voucher plan point out that there are a number of innercity. parochial schools that take whatever child comes to the door. there is doubt that parochial schools have an important role to play and are doing a good job. but that does  mean that they should receive federal funding. it does  mean that they have taken on all of the obligations of our public schools. i believe that it is wrong to provide federal dollars to private or parochial schools to enable them to skim the best students from the public schools. vouchers also would skim the students whose parents are involved in their childs education. leaving the public schools with the greatest challenges. supporters of the voucher plan say district of columbia should provide choices to parents. they say district of columbia. should have charter schools. they call for partnerships between city schools and the smithsonian institution. the truth is that district of columbia has all of these things. the district has public school choice. there is a charter school program at a school  six blocks from the capitol. down the street there is a middle school which has entered into a partnership with the smithsonian. d.c. public schools are the only public schools in the area that provide an all day kindergarten program. and every high school in the district is a magnet school. a lot of attention has been paid to the fact that the schools didnt open on time this year. and congress is  without responsibility for the delay. but very little mention has been made of the rigorous standards that have been put into place in every school. here. starting this school year. teachers. parents. and students have a clear idea of what the children should k at each grade level. last week. students all across the district were tested in reading. math. and language arts to see what level they are at. at the end of the school year. they will be tested again. to assess their progress. the performance of teachers and principal also will be based on these assessments. the pressure is on  to let a single child slip -through the cracks. and i think that is an emous step in the right direction. teachers and principals are turning up the heat on parents. as well. parents of students in d.c. public schools are signing compacts. agreeing to be full participants in their childs education. they are visiting classrooms. to see firsthand what and how their children are learning. they are becoming responsible for making sure their children do their homework. and parents are being asked to check the work and sign it. they are being asked to read to their children regularly. i ask unanimous consent that an article from the washington post. dated september 28. 1997. about back to school night at a local school be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i rise today in support of s. 1213. the oceans act of 1997 and to thank the bills principal sponsors for addressing my concerns. this legislation has broad. bipartisan support and as the senior senator from the ocean state. i am glad the united states senate will be on the record on ocean and coastal policy as we enter 1998. which the united nation has designated as the "year of the ocean." the oceans act of 1997 is a significant bill. its 1966 predecessor. the marine resources and engineering development act. was one of the seminal developments in environmental law. the act created the commission on marine science. engineering. and resources. better kn as the stratton commission. the stratton commissions report. "our nation and the sea" was delivered in 1969 and. among its many important recommendations. led directly to the creation of national ocearaphic and atmospheric administration in 1970. i would e that two distinguished rhode islanders played leading roles in the stratton commission. university of rhode island professor emeritus john a. knauss. then the dean of the university of rhode islands graduate school of ocearaphy. was a commission member and chaired the panel on environmental monitoring and on management and development of the coastal zone. professor emeritus lewis alexander of the university of rhode island. who has had a distinguished career in government and academia. was the commissions deputy director. i expect that the rhode islanders will play key roles in the new stratton commission. the value of our oceans and coastal areas can be underestimated. more than half of the united states population lives in or near a coastal area. the commercial fishing industry alone. which depends on these areas. contributes $111 billion dollars per year to the national ecoy. moreover. oceans are the lifeblood of the world. the health of our marine resources is intertwined with that of ecosystems throughout the world. the purpose of the bill before us is to develop and maintain a comprehensive national policy for our oceans and coastal areas. a national ocean policy includes a broad range of issues from commerce. environmental protection.. scientific research. to national security. to that end. the bill establishes a 16member national ocean commission. which will be assisted by an interagency national ocean council. in developing and making recommendations to congress for a national oceans policy. as originally reported by the committee on commerce. science and techogy. the creation of the national ocean council. raised two concerns. first. how would the national ocean council affect the execution of existing environmental laws. second. is it timely  to create a permanent council prior to the report of the independent national ocean commission created in the bill. the managers amendment that is before us to day answers both of these questions. any possible ambiguity regarding the national ocean councils role is resolved. existing responsibilities under federal law are unaffected. i was concerned creation of a permanent council  would unduly constrain the commissions recommendations. the managers amendment makes it clear. however. that the national ocean councils function is to assist the independent national ocean commission in the preparation of its report. after the commission completes its report. the council will take the commission report into account in developing an implementation plan for a national ocean and coastal policy. the national ocean council will also cease to exist one year after the commission submits its report. before closing. i want to commend senators hollings for his persistence with respect to oceans and coastal policy. i also want to thank him. as well as senators se and mccain. for addressing my concerns in the managers amendment.
. one has worked harder or has shown more persistence on behalf of the impact aid program than michael pinto. barely a month goes by without a letter from superintendent pinto reaching my desk. advocating the impact aid program and its importance in middletown schools. recently. a newport daily news article described superintendent pinto as an easygoing and amiable administrator." in fact. in the spirit of true compromise for the good of education and the community. superintendent pinto has said. "[ill) tell the school committee that im  interested in a lot of 3to2 votes. ill give up something for a 5too vote." it is that quality--doing what it takes to reach a consensus--that has made him a successful leader. as michael prepares for his private life away from the duties of his terribly demanding job. i want to congratulate and thank him for all that he has given to his community.0
 of the new jersey devils and will also serve as general manager of the u.s. olympic mens hockey team. ron wilson went on to a successful professional playing career in the national hockey league and europe. today. he is the very successful coach of the local entry in the national hockey league. the washington capitals. he is well equipped to lead our team next month in japan. having successfully coached the u.s. team in the 1996 world cup to a major upset of canada to win that prestigious competition. the victory was the biggest win for the united states since the 1980 winter olympics. hockey is. as i said. a passion in rhode island. indeed. coach wilson will look down his bench and see three other rhode islanders on his team bryan berard. keith carney. and matthew schneider. and the u.s. womens hockey team will include a majority of players who played their high school or college hockey in rhode island. the nagagames will soon begin. and i extend the heartiest best wishes for success to coach wilson. his fellow rhode islanders. and all americans wearing our uniform.*
and i went away distressed. so  we will have an opportunityin this bill. as the majority leader has made it clear the way we will proceed. and i look forward. as we get into this. that he will support a bill that will accomplish the goals of the nation in the context of all the other demands that are placed upon the budget of the united states. i will conclude by stressing once again that we have an increase in this bill this year. istea ii. over the past. of 20 percent when the other discretionary accounts are frozen. in other words. the defense items and the entitlement items are all frozenwhether you are talking head start. school lunches. the school programs. the health programs. they are frozenand we get a 20 percent increase. which is pretty good. for this program. i thank the chair.
. this amendment provides for a study of transportation of school children on transit buses. the secretary of transportation will study safety issues relating to the transportation of school children by various and different modes of transportation.
madam president. yesterday. many in america hoed st. patrickbut all week long in rhode islandveneration belongs to the university of rhode island rams basketball team. the socalled experts said it couldnt be doneand. admittedly. the odds were against them. after all. the little rhodys of the world just arent supposed to beat the college basketball powerhouses like the jayhawks of kansas. but somewhere along the way to oklahoma city. someone forgot to tell that to the rhode island rams. someone forgot to tell tyson wheelerthe same tyson wheeler who was once told he was too short to play college basketball at allthat the davids of rhode island couldnt beat the goliaths of kansas. someone forgot to tell that to cuttimobley. who always gives his best whether it is in keaney gym or in the national spotlight. that rhode island couldnt beat one of the best teams in the nation. and clearly. someone forgot to tell antonio reydsdean and luther clay that they werent supposed to be able to compete with the much taller and perhaps stronger inside presence of the kansas allamericans. theres a word on rhode islands state flag that these rhode island rams have come to symbolizethat word is "hope". its a sentiment we hold dear in my home stateand one which was displayed for all the world to see. we may be the smallest state. but we k that means: we must always try harder. its a philosophy to always give your very best. and to never give up. thats the kind of fighting spirit that turns the cause of "hope" on our flag into the action of "courage" on the court. rhode islands advance to the "sweet sixteen" provides a needed reminder that at one time or aher. weve all been underdogs. whether it be in schoolyard. or in the workplace. or on the basketball court. each and every one of us has faced seemingly insurmountable odds at one time or aher in our lives. thats what makes rhode islands recent win over the kansas jayhawks that much sweeter. for the rhode island rams have given -us more than a wonderful basketball season. theyve reminded us that the davids can beat the goliaths of this world. they have sent a signal to the underdog in all of usthat if one perseveres and gives ones best. there indeed is always hope. so. madam president. i congratulate the rhode island rams and applaud the example they have set. rams coach jim harrick and all of his players have earned a special place in -the hearts of rhode island and the nation. i. along.with the people of my state. am proud of their accomplishments. these fine young men have set an example which well treasure for years to come. they have given us "hope." go rams.
 vetoes this bill. i will vote to sustain his veto. at first blush. this proposal sounds appealing. why shouldnt parents be encouraged to save for their childrens education. the problem is that the "encouragement" the proposal would provide. costs more than s1.6 billion over 10 years and. according to the treasury department. 70 percent of the benefits go to the richest 20% of americans. that is money that would be better spent on improving public schools. particularly lowincome. urban schools where most of the problems exist. also. it permits families to use funds from these taxexempt accounts to pay for tuition at private and religious schools. doing so would mean that the federal government is subsidizing private and religious education. i believe that the federal role in education must be to support public schools. nearly 90% of students attend public schools. our nations public schools are required to take children who come to school at any time of the year. children with disabilities. children whose primary language is  english. children with disciplinary problems. and children with low iqs. private schools have the ability to select the smartest and the least difficult students. with the.fewest challenges to overcome. families who send their children to private schools typically come from higher income levels. yet it is these families who would receive the greatest benefits from education savings accounts. there have been a number of amendments to this bill. some of the amendments that i opposed have merit. and i would like to take a moment to explain my reasons for voting against them. senator moseleybraun offered an amendment that would have provided tax incentives to help pay for school construction. although her amendment failed. senator moseleybraun has been very successful in making us all aware of the deteriorating conditions of our nations school facilities. i voted against her amendment because i believe her approach would be very difficult for the irs to administer. and i have concerns about using suderfund taxes as an offset. senator gorton offered an amendment. and. although i have serious concerns about its effect. he has highlighted an important problem with federal education funding. i share his view that states should have some flexibility in spending federal education funds. they should be able to target these funds to schools with the greatest needs. but i dont agree that $10 billion should be given to the states in block grants without the appropriate committees holding a single hearing. also. the commissioner of education in my state had very serious concerns about the impact of this amendment. next year. when the elementary and secondary education act is up for reauthorization. i hope that consideration is given to senator gortons point of -view and that appropriate hearings are held. i wholeheartedly agree with senator murrays desire to encourage smaller class sizes. particularly in the primary grades. in fact.. in 1987. i introduced a bill that would have created a demonstration program on small class sizes. regrettably. the labor committee never held hearings on my bill. i voted against senator murrays amendment because i am concerned about providing short term federal support for hiring new teachers. how would the school districts pay to keep 100.000 new teachers after the federal funding expired. this is a question posed by representatives from local school committees in rhode island when they visited my office earlier this year. finally. i voted for senator ashcrofts amendment to prohibit federal funds from being used for national testing. unlike many of my colleagues i am  opposed to national testing. parents should be able to compare their childs performance with children across the united states. parents should be able to compare the performance of their childs school with schools across the state and throughout the nation. nevertheless. i agree with senator ashcroft that it is congress responsibility to authorize a national testing program before federal funds can be used to implement such a program. regardless of the outcome. we have had a good debate on a very important issue. namely the federal roll in education in america.
. i want to congratulate bert brousseau. a fine teacher who deserves so much credit for guiding the central falls high school team to the national finals. on tuesday. april 7th i was pleased to visit the central falls winners. i couldnt resist giving them a spontaneous oral quiz. i ant happy to report that they responded to my questions superbly. congratulations to mr. brousseau and his students for what they have already achieved. and best of luck in the final competition. these students. with the guidance of mr. brousseau. have learned what our nation is all about and what countless men and women have fought and died to protect. matter what the outcome of the contest is. they have each earned the greatest prize of all: kledge.*
. i am delighted that the senate has approved legislation which i cosponsored to help ensure the safety of our nations schools. senators campbell. jeffords. and faircloth introduced 8.2235. "the school resource officers partnership grant act of 1998." in june. it was approved unanimously by the judiciary committee and approved by the senate yesterday. the goal of this legislation is to help put a stop to crime and violence in our nations schools. through this legislation. partnerships will be developed between state and local law enforcement agencies and the school districts in which they serve. while national statistics on violence in schools indicate an overall downward trend. the types of violence that have occurred recently. particularly in the last school year. are hing short of traumatic. the sight and sound of schoolyard shootings have become all too familiar. americans were shocked. time and time again. by the devastating sight on the evening news of youngsters being carried to ambulances" from school grounds following shooting sprees by other youngsters. looking back at the 19971998 school year. several particularly alarming incidents occurred: in october. a 16yearold at pearl high school in mississippi went to school with a hunting rifle. he shot and killed a student and a teacher. leaving a second teacher with a bullet wound in the head. in december. a student at heath high school in west paducah. kentucky used a pistol to kill 3 other students. the shooter was 14yearsold. in march. 2 boys in jonesboro. arkansas. an eleven yearold and a thirteen yearold. pulled the fire alarm in their school. as students and teachers left the building. the two boys began shooting. they killed five people: four young girls and a teacher. in april. a 14yearold boy in edinboro. pennsylvania went to a school dance with a gun he apparently removed from his fathers bureau drawer. he killed a science teacher and injured two students and aher teacher. at thurston high school in springfield. oregon a 15yearold who was suspended for carrying a gun to school. returned to school the next day and opened fire in a crowded cafeteria. he killed two students and wounded 19 others. police suspect he shot and killed his parents. as well. it is secret that i support tougher restrictions on gun ownership. earlier this year. senator durbin and i offered an amendment to the spending bill for the departments of commerce. state and justice. our amendment would have held adult gun owners responsible if their weaponwhich had  been stored properlywas used by a child to injure himself or someone else. i felt that this was the least we could do to help protect children from needless gun violence. unfortunately. the majority of my senate colleagues didnt agree. and our amendment was defeated. despite that setback. i believe that it is congress responsibility to take steps to assist local communities in their battle against school violence. children bringing weapons to school and drug use among youngsters arent problems of big city schools alone. in my own state of rhode island during the last school year. there were more than 400 weaponsrelated suspensions. to put that number in the proper perspective. we have fewer than 450 elementary and secondary schools in rhode island. including private and religious schools. we should  fool ourselves into thinking that the kind of atrocities that all of america witnessed in schools last year cant happen in our childrens schools. it is my sincere belief that the school resource officers partnership grant act is a step in the right direction. this legislation will make federal funds available to local law enforcement agencies. working in partnership with local school districts. for "school resource officers." these sros. who must be professional law enforcement officers. would address gangrelated crime and violence. including drug use. in and around schools. they would work with students. teachers. and administrators on crime prevention and personal safety. and perhaps most importantly. they would work directly with students on conflict resolution to help avert violent oubursts that can leave inent children dead or injured." there are communities throughout our nation whose police officers have undertaken these very tasks. in rhode island. police officers in newport. providence. and west warwick. to name a few. already are working within schools on crime prevention. mentoring. and conflict resolution. our bill would allow local law enforcement agencies to use a portion of their federal community policing funds for these officers. i applaud our teachers and administrators for their efforts to confront and address violence in schools. but we can expect them to undertake this battle alone. this bill will make the kledge and resources of professional law enforcement agencies available to our schools. i k it will help keep our children safe.o
. next month a very special school will be celebrating its 20th anniversary. on ember 15th. 1978. the ruth and max alperian schechter day school in providence. rhode island opened its doors to ten students. today. its classrooms are filled with over 230 students. and it is one of the fastest growing jewish institutions in rhode island. the ruth and max alperian schechter day school is a state accredited. egalitarian. conservative jewish day school serving children from kindergarten through grade eight. in addition to having a fine reputation for providing its students with a wellrounded education. the alperian schechter day school also focuses on academic growth. ethical values. and jewish identity. its academic programs are both rich and challenging in general and judaic studies. recognizing -that a partnership with parents is essential to the education of our youngsters. the alperian schechter day school continues to promote open communication with families. as a community of learners. the entire school body works together to create a community of successful. wellrounded members while encouraging continued learning and increased participation in school activities. in fact. students from the alperian schechter day school continue to build on their education. even after graduating. as academic advisors work with families and students to ensure future success. alperian schechter day school graduates have gone on to attend a variety of colleges and universities including. yale university. harvard university. university of rhode island. georgetown university. rhode island school of design. and many. many other fine institutions of higher learning. in addition. students have had the opportunity to serve as interns in our nations capital. build houses with habitat for humanity. and work with disabled children. in closing. i want to congratulate the ruth and max alperian schechter day school on its 20th anniversary and hope for its continued success in providing academic excellence to our youngsters.*
. i believe the current generation of college students is the best our country has yet produced. certainly they are the most passionately committed to bringing peace to the world and social harmony to our own society. the vote on this amendment may be characterized as a vote of confidence in this generation of idealists. indeed a vote of confidence in the future of our nation.
executive director. american vocational association. washington. d.c. dear mr. burkett: i appreciate very much your recent letter and want to assure you that i am most sensitive to the concerns you have expressed. in our view the proposed comprehensive manpower act will greatly strengthen the opportunities for vocational education to develop our nations manpower. i want to assure you and your membership that the department of labor is committed to the fullest utilization of the educational system under this bill. which has the full support of the administration. as one who has served both the educational system and manpower programs in my public life. i share the aversion to the possibility that a "dual school system" might ever emergeone serving the advantaged middleclass. the other serving the poor and disadvantaged. general educational and occupational skill training opportunities must be part of a continuous process. available to all citizens as best suits their individual needs. the department of labor has taken careful steps to assure that the nations vocational educators are integral partners in planning and implementing a comprehensive manpower system. at the state and local level representatives of general and vocational education programs and postsecondary training must serve on the manpower services councils. responsible to the govers and mayors (or other local elected officials) serving as prime sponsors. these councils will have major roles in planning and evaluating local manpower programs. through federal regulations it will be clear that the educational community must be represented on these councils by officials such as the superintendent of schools. the director of postsecondary education. and others who have major and substantive responsibility for the communitys educational programs. second. state and local prime sponsors will rely upon existing vocational education facilities. area skill centers. postsecondary technical schools for the provision of institutional training and basic and remedial education under a communitys comprehensive manpower program. the proposed comprehensive manpower act contains strong safeguards against the duplication of facilities and programs or the utilization of the existing educational resources to less than their full capability. as evidence of the labor departments commitment to this policy. it was through our initiative that the incentive funds set aside to stimulate exemplary utilization of the vocational education system under the house bill were more than doubled over the level allowed under the senates manpower bill. we view these funds (up to $75 million under a $2 billion authorization) as offering an opportunity for very creative and inative programs and for strengthening the staffing of state departments of education and local vocational education agencies in fulfilling their enlarged responsibilities under this act. we strongly support the requirement. introduced by congressman lloyd meeds. that the department of labor and the department of health. education and welfare report to congress early in the process on the extent to which the vocational education agencies are being utilized under the coinprehensive manpower act. we also fully support the intent of the special report. to be prepared by the commissioner of education. on the integration of vocational and general education objectives throughout the nations school systems. effective vocational orientation and preparation at the earlier stages of a childs life would obviate the longterm need for many of our adult manpower training efforts. finally. the comprehensive manpower act requires the concurrence of the secretary of health. education and welfare in any actions under the act of an educational nature. this responsibility extends both to the development and issuance of rules. regulations. guidelines. or standards of performance which would affect educational programs and the approval of the educational and institutional training components of annual comprehensive program plans and individual project grants. clearly. as our full partner in implementing new manpower legislation hew will have both the responsibility and the authority to disapprove any programs which are  educationally sound. we recognize that hew will require effective staff capability both nationally and in its regional and field offices to carry out this major responsibility. i want to assure you that the department of labor will lend its vigorous support to hews staffing requirements under the administrationsupported comprehensive manpower act. as both assistant secretary of labor for manpower and one who is vitally concerned with vocational education. i deeply value your support and look forward to the guidance and leadership which the american vocational association can provide in strengthening our partnership under the comprehensive manpower act. sincerely.
. the critics of our day often ige the many good things accomplished by our parents and grandparents. the nation was built by men and women. young and old. who believed in excellence and worked hard to leave a better foundation than that which they inherited. but there are two peoplein fact. a whole town in my statewho have  forgotten that this is the generation of grandparents who found better ways to raise food. build homes. construct schools. and encourage scientific research and who harnessed the atom and sent man to the moon. charles byron. physical education instructor at the lincoln middle school in meriden. and mrs. mildred newlon. director of the golden age committee. headed up an allday outing at hubbard park in meriden1.000 senior citizens enjoyed hot dogs. ice cream. and cold drinks served by girl scouts and students from lincoln school under sunny skies on june 19.  only did mr. byron and mrs. newlon provide an active day for meridens "special people"-a day of addresses by public officials. a groupsing. and waltz and dance musicbut they organized free bus transportation and even brought 27 crippled "special people" to the leafy park. this is an outstanding example of a town that recognizes the needs of our wonderful generation of parents and grandparents. a town that  only recognizes the needs but opens its heart to provide its "special people" with special activities. i am proud that mr. byron and mrs. newlon of meriden. conn.. are my constituents.
. youth. and their parents. say they prefer an allvolunteer military service to the draft. many young men. however. say they would  volunteer themselves. what motivates a young man to volunteer. even though he has been accepted at college. what induces him to continue in the service today and to make the military his professional career. what do parents think of their sons personal decision to volunteer. what is the reaction of this young mans hometown to his appearance before them as a professional military man. when they knew him as a typical high school student only a few years before. what can this young men say to his friends and neighborsespecially to his peers  in military uniformabout war and peace. these questions are asked by families in all of our 50 states. some of the answers were supplied by a class of 1965 graduates of new canaan. conn.. high school. six years ago the townspeople had seen this 18yearold boy go off to boot camp as a marine infantry private. they knew he fought at hue in the tet offensive of .1968 as a platoon lieutenant. this year the board of selectmen and the first selectman. the hoable charles f. kelley. sought a young man with military service to deliver the memorial day address on may 31. 1971. they invited capt. douglas caldwell. 24. a regular duty officer with force troops. pacific. to return to his hometown to participate in the traditional ceremony in which he first took part as a 3yearold boy. i ask unanimous consent that captain caldwells speech be printed in the record.
. on march 4 the washington star published this years "all washington" basketball teams. and i was delighted to see connecticuts mike conly among those selected for the allstar prep school team. all of us in 342 are extremely proud of the job mike has done both with his senate duties and his athletic challenges. he is a great credit to young america and particularly to his parents and friends in walk. conn.
. i would like the managers of the bill to clarify what is meant by "continuous activities throughout the year". and would  the activities that would satisfy this requirement vary from school to school depending on the resources and facilities at that school and the needs of the youths involved.
i do have to point out that while the amendment. as drafted. uses as a basis for a formula the total school population that which goes to the state. the money is then apportioned on the basis of need and on the basis of situations that exist at the local level. so it is a combination of the two. the need factor. in other words. enters into the formula as the state distributes the grants to local educational agencies.
what specific recommendations to assure that these situations of inequality are dealt with. i see that the senators amendment says that e of these funds shall be used to compel a school systemand so forth. what in here is going to create equality of educational opportunity.
. this is  the first time that such an approach has been offered to the senate. in may 1974. i proposed an amendment authorizing $2.5 billion per year for 5 years for states to develop and implement programs to build quality education for all children. yet. when i mentioned the harsh fact that there would be a price to be paid for such a planspecifically. a 1.5 percent surtax--support for the amendment dissolved. that is the dismal record of congress. each year we windowshop for better education. but shy away from the cash register. in 1972. $3.6 billion were authorized. $1.6 billion were appropriated. in 1973. $4.8 billion were authorized. $1.8 billion were appropriated. in 1974. $4.1 billion authorized. $1.9 billion appropriated. and that. gentlemen. is how american education got on the cover of newsweek. my distinguished colleague from massachusetts has led the fight on a related front. raising title i funds to a level more in tune with the needs of our lower income areas. once again i ask the question: how do we expect to build a decent school system for all americans without paying the price. do we mortgage our belief that every american child deserves a fighting chance. or do we sell them down the river. or. does the congress of the united states. at last. put its money where its rhetoric is. title i funding is a recognition of a basic fact of american lifethe unequal financial resources of some areas versus others. it provides money for special help for ecoically disadvantaged school districts. quality education. what we are attempting today. is a matter of local. state and national policy. equal educational opportunity is a matter of constitutional law. the desire the parents of roxbury and south boston share with millions of parents. black and white in our country today. is for firstrate schools to build firstrate futures for their children. overcroweded classrooms. overworked teachers. broken machinery. faulty equipment. wonder students learn more in the streets than at school. equality and the elimination of prejudice is going to costin money. lifestyle or both. i am putting my colleagues on ice that when the second supplementary comes upi do  k what the distinguished senator from massachusetts intends to do visavis his particular motion herebut i intend sooner or laterand it is going to be sooner. this is the last time i am going to stand byto make my colleagues choose as to what is important in this country. if we are  going to have a vote on this issue today. believe me. this is the last time we will . the next time we come around i will ask for a vote. once again. i commend my distinguished colleague. senator kennedy. for a positive approach toward a critical problem of this nature which so far has received hing but catcalls and pointed fingers. violence and hatred. the problem is there and unless we are willing to settle for inequality. somebody had best come up with a solution
. the bill i am introducing today aims to correct the sad reality of american educationthat depending where you live and your income. your child will get slum or super education. unfortunately. in the congress. as in many parts of this nation. the education issue is busing. rather than devising programs to build a quality school system. elected officials find fingerpointing at the courts more attractive. yet. people forget that the courts are the last actors in the constitutional drama. they act as the final protectors of constitutional rights. and it was a violation of those rights that forced the courts to order the busing of schoolchildren. i have and will continuue to oppose efforts to undermine the headway the courts have made to make equal education opportunity a reality for all americans. the courts have done their duty. it is long past time for the legislative and executive branches to do theirs. we k too well. quality education will  come from a bus. a judge. or an angry parent. it will come only by means of local initiative. parental guidance. and financial support from a legislature with childrens betterment uppermost in mind. equal educational opportunity is a matter of constitutional law. the development of a quality educational system rests with federal. state. and local officials. thus. the question that remains is how best to provide quality education for our young. for years this senator has proposed and supported legislation to make the hard choices for better education. in may 1974. i proposed an amendment authorizing $2.5 billion per year for 5 years for states to develop and implement programs to build quality education for all children and to increase the equality of educational opportunity. yet. when i mentioned that we had to finance this program with increased taxes. support for the amendment evaporated. like other congresses. that congress windowshopped for better education. but shied away from the cash register. the legislation i am introducing today. entitled "the quality educational assistance act of 1976." carries forward the principles of this original proposal. the bill would authorize an additional $1.5 billion a year for the next 5 years in grants to states. to distribute to local school districts for the purpose of improving the quality of education and to increase the equality of educational opportunity for all. the funds would be allocated to the state based on the ratio of the number of public schoolchildren aged 5 to 17 years to the total number of such children nationwide. the state educational agency would apply to the federal commissioner of education within hew for grants under a comprehensive plan of proposed programs. procedures. and reports. before receiving any federal assistance. the commissioner would have to approve a statewide education plan that will insure an equitable distribution of funds within the state. procedures for disapproval by the state educational agency of local agency applications include ice and opportunity of hearing. likewise. state educational agencies would be entitled to ice and opportunities for hearing in the case of disapproval by the commissioner of a states application for assistance. there also exists provision for state and local educational agencies to file for judicial review of any action of the commissioner. in approving this plan. the commissioner will consider two principal factors: first. the population of children aged 5 to 17 in each school district within the state. second. the relative need of local educational agencies within the state. these will guarantee a more equitable distribution of resources to the public elementary and secondary schools of our nation. particular emphasis will be placed on the communities with greatest needwhere children need all the more of a helping hand upespecially in our nations innercity and rural areas. states will have a wide range of options to choose from. their state program can be suited to their states needs. where there are difficult problems to solve. i hope that states and localities will work together to find new creative solutions. among possible options are increased use of basic skills programs to increase language and mathematical ability and bilingual programs. more preschool programs could familiarize children with the school environment and develop needed work and discipline habits at an early age. states and cities could upgrade school facilities. build better and more attractive libraries. and improve equipment and textbook quality. money could be used to attract firstrate teachers with salary bonuses and adequate staffing and protection. the magnet school concept could be used to attract students of different backgrounds to a top quality school in an ecoically varied area. all these suggestions. and others. should be considered. the goal of this legislation is top quality schooling for americas young. the specific techniques can vary. the product is what countsyoung americans who can read. write. add. subtract. young americans who are prepared for the realities of life. by mr. tower:
. i would like my colleagues to join me in recognizing the 10th anniversary of the washington workshops foundation. as many of you are aware. hundreds of high school student leaders from across the united states participate annually in this 1week seminar. studying the human and practical elements of our national government. the purpose of the washington workshops is twofold: to offer indepth study and onthescene involvement in the american legislative and political process and. at the same time. to communicate this voice of american youth to our governmental leaders. on numerous occasions i have had the opportunity to address these student groups and i am always impressed with the incisive questions asked by these concerned young leaders. a partisan foundation. the washington workshops annually offers a 3week. high school. academic internship program as a followup seminar to the 1week dialog experience. several of these young americans have worked on my staff over the past 9 years. their dedication and willingness to do whatever is required has been most gratifying. they are concerned and involved individuals. determined to find solutions to the problems which frustrate all of us today. may i offer my support and continued best wishes for the success of the washington workshops foundation in the decades ahead as they  celebrate their 10th anniversary.
. it is my understanding that the appropriations bill before us contains some $15 million to allow state vocational rehabilitation agencies to establish. or cause to be established. programs of independent living for severely handicapped individuals. i understand further that to be eligible to receive these funds a state vocational rehabilitation agency would have to have an approved state plan for independent living. and that the state additionally would have to meet certain administrative requirements described in section 705 of the rehabilitation act of 1973. as amended. i would merely attempt to clarify that a small portion of the proposed $15 million can indeed be properly used by the state vocational rehabilitation agencies in planning for comprehensive services for independent living. as well as for planning and overseeing the administration of the independent living centers established under part b of title vii of the rehabilitation act.
i am restoring it because this body passed the house language. let me read it: part of the appropriations contained in this act shall be used by the department of justice to bring any sort of action to require directly or indirectly the transportation of any student to a school other than the school which is nearest the students home. except for a student requiring special education as a result of being mentally or physically handicapped. in effect. what has happened here is that the inhibition which was voted by voice vote in the house was approved here on the senate floor. that is where it sat until i offered an amendment which added language. my language is  up for debate before my colleagues.
. i wish to heartily congratulate bnai briths horeb lodge in new haven. conn.. on the occasion of its 125th anniversary. bnai brith is connecticuts oldest fraternal organization. but one with an accent on youth. in 1925. bnai brith began sponsoring hillel foundations which today serve some 400.000 collegr age jewish students on more than 400 campuses nationwide. high school teenagers numbering nearly 25.000 take part in bnai brith youth organizations and a broad spectrum of young people depends upon its career and counseling service to help sort out the bewildering array of schools to atter:d and career paths to follow. horeb lodge has taken an active role in the funding and staffing of these service organizations. i wish to commend the lodge and bnai brith as a whole for their dedication to the future generation of american leaders.*
to continue: civil rights act of 1964: title iv authorizes the u.s. attorney general to initiate school desegregation suits and authorizes federal financial and technical aid for school desegregation. title vi prohibits discrimination on account of race. color. or national origin in programs supported by federal funds. one of the most important programs is that of federal assistance to education. and the threat of cutoff of such funds by the department of health. education. and welfare has been an important means of enforcing school desegreation. (b) school desegregation: results of implementation: let us take a look and see what we can come up with here in the way of figures. in the south. where schools had been segregated by law. about 98 percent of black students were in segregated schools in 1964. in the south in 1970. 84.3 percent of black students in public schools attended schools with a 90 to 100 percent miity student enrollment. by 1976. this figure had decreased to 23.4 percent. in the continental u.s. in 1970. 46.9 percent of black students in public schools attended schools with a 90 to 100 percent miity student enrollment. by 1976. this figure had decreased to 39.5 percent. that public schools in the south are more desegregated than public ochools throughout the continental u.s. may be explained in part by residential segregation resulting from white exodus from cities. the u.s. news and world report stated recently (may 8. 1978. page 43) that: black pupils today are still racially isolated in most big cities. schools that have been "desegregated" are turning back toward allblack enrollment. these are the findings of a survey by members of the staff of this magazine who covered key cities in all regions of the country. views on the educational results of integration efforts are mixed. but one trend is unmistakably clear: so many white families have been fleeing the cities that white pupils are  heavily outnumbered in the schools of most big cities. so the problem is  a problem of the south. it is a problem that belongs to all of usth. east. south. west. midwest. across the land. it is our problem. indeed. as we try to resolve one aspect of the result of 200 years of discrimination in one manner. it appears that the problem pops out somewhere else in aher form. what we are seeing here today is that we should give up and let the thing sort itself out. it did  sort itself out for 200 years. and it will  sort itself out . there is  one of us here who wish it would  occur that way. to say to the justice department of the united stateswhich is  republican or democrat. conservative or liberal. charged with the responsibility of enforcing our laws and. for the most part. probably 90 percent. staffed by professionals-"you can apply certain remedies which are disagreeable to the population as a whole." completely guts their ability to act in any discrimination case. that is the issue here. you might be discriminated against because you came from some country which is in temporary disfavor with the citizens of this country. you may be discriminated against because you have some physical or mental impairment. you may be discriminated against because of the fact of your sex. what you are saying here in this situation. which does deal. in the main. with race. is. "we are going to establish a principle that the justice department can pursue the enforcement of our laws. but only when we agree with it." do you understand how we are going to politicize the process. when your day comes. when you are standing in that court and you are asking for an independent judgment on your behalf. all of a sudden it is longer independent. it has become politicized. that is what is at issue here. the politicization of the entire process. that is something that  one of us as citizens can afford.
once the principle is establi4hed on a matter of those cases that relate. as this does. to discrimination by race or school desegregation cases. once it is established by virture of this principle. then you can apply any other fact situation and the principle remains. so. indeed. you could put more funds into retarded cases. elderly cases. and so on. you can go right down the list. once the principle is established.
. i thank the distinguished chairman for his comments. i wish to say this to my colleagues: the 25percent cut was scheduled by the administration in this area. thanks to the chairman and others on the committee that cut was prevented. and all the programs tor the disabled. the retarded. the deaf. the visually impaired. et cetera. have been level funded to 1983. for heavens sake do  put into the arena  the deaf. the blind. tht retarded. and the disabled and start scrapping for those funds. what the committer did was to make sure that we got it level funded rather than having it cut. and everyone would be treated equally. quite frankly.  only that. but in terms of state grant programs if the senate wanted to go ahead and assist gallaudet. or any other endeavor. the american school for the deaf in connecticut. they could go ahead and do so. i found it galling that we should even be level funded. but start this picking and choosing process. and believe me i think we defeat all of our ends and the fact that all of us want to help those who need our special care in this country. that is what this issue is about.  against gallaudet. but because of the very restricted amount of funds that are available. at least let us treat all those who need our special care in an equal fashion. i think senators will find themselves just as uneasy as i am. once we start to scramble for funds among those who are disabled. who is to say whether or  the loss of sight or the loss of hearing or retardation or physical disability deserves more of our care. so believe me. with the help of the chairman.  1. the significant achievement was to get this level funded.  cut at all. beyond that point let us  start to represent any particular form of disability but rather at least fight for as much as we can in funding for all of them. and that is the reason why i oppose this specific amendment of the senator from th carolina.
the senator is  quoting the senator from louisianas preamble which recites it has all been one big. great failure. here is the very town that started it all. and what they are sayin is that it has been a success. i am far more inclined to boelieve the facts as reported to me by the residents and by the media of that area than i am the generalizations of my good friend from louisiana. i certainly will accept. at least in terms of a description of fact if  the accuracy of the conclusion. what the senator from louisiana says about his own constituency. certainly i would  dispute that. but this is  a rapides parish bill. maybe the fact situation is patterned after rapides parish. but as i read this. it applies to the united states of amercia. to 50 states. to thousands of cities and communities. yet we are told in the preamble that: "(b) the congress finds that"(lj court orders requiring transportation of students to or attendance at public schools other than the one closest to their residences for the purpose of achieving racial balance or racial desegregation have proven an ineffective remedy and have  achieved unitary public school systems and that such orders frequently result in the exodus from public school systems of children which causes even greater racial imbalance and diminished support for public school systems: 1(2) assignment and transportation of students to public schools other than the one closest to their residences is expensive and wasteful of scarce supplies of petroleum fuels. conservation. i find that rather interesting. i have fought the distinguished senator from louisiana for almost 4 years on the matter of mandatory conservation. and  all of a sudden i find it in an education bill. "(3) the assignment of students to public schools or busing of students to achieve racial balance or to attempt to eliminate predominantly one race schools is without social or educational justification and has proven to be educationally unsound and to cause separation of students by race to a greater degree than. would have otherwise occurred.
i think the new york times phrased it very well when they said "the u.s. is about to launch a policy of unilateral disarmament in the worldwide contest of ideas." unilateral disarmament in the worldwide contest of ideas. let me give a specific. concrete example of what i am talking about. about a yearandahalf ago i had occasion to visit the island of cuba. i hear a great deal of consternation expressed by members of this administration. indeed memnbers on the floor of the u.s. senate. as to the cuban troops in ethiopia and in angola. while i certainly do  advocate looking upon that with favor. i want to point out that that is here near the danger that we face from the activity that i am about ready to describe. it is my feeling that africa is going to swallow up those cuban troops just like they swallowed up the colonial troops of europe. and like they swallowed up the chinese and anybody else who goes there. they will  last very long. however. in the visit to cuba i had occasion to visit what is  called. the isle of youth. formerly the isle of pines. on that island sit about 60 senior high school complexes. many of them are devoted to students from foreign nations. the one i visited had 000 namnibian students. 600 young people getting their education courtesy of the soviet union and cuba. namibians have as their native language english. so there is language barrier with americans. indeed. the language barrier is greater for them being in cuba. those namibians are  here getting their education in the united states. they are in cuba and they are going back to that emerging nation and they are going to become the leaders of namibia. the business leaders. the educational leaders. the scientific leaders. the political leaders. the military leaders. with an education courtesy of the soviet union and cuba. i asked the question in our subconnittee: how many namibians have we had here in the united states of america. the united states with its university of south carolina. with its yale university. its princeton university. its university of southern california. its georgetown. its george washington university. its university of maryland. brown univers.ty. duke. right on down the list. how many have we had here in the past year. two.  do  worry that the main threat is being posed by those troops. you worry about those 600 students and. mind you. that was one of many complexes. others being devoted to other nations. it is a great term the new york times used "unilateral disarmament in the worldwide contest of ideas." here is the great thing that the united states has to offer the world: our educational complexes. systems. and personnel. we have just decided to withdraw from the field while at the same time we say that we want to be the  1 in power in this world. that makes as much sense as saying. "we are going to be the  1 in this world insofar as our preeminence. our power. but we are going to cut edication 25 percent. we are going to cut science 25 percent." may i remind my colleagues that the united states is  going to outman the soviet union. that is a biological impossibility. we are going to continue our preeminence. by what comes from up here. our minds. our quest for techogy. our mastery of techogy. our quest for science. our mastery of science. so this business that we can leave educationin the international sense or we call leave education in the domestic sense is sheer suicide for this small nation. which has thrived and grown great because of its ideas. that is why we want to emphasize all of this in this appropriation bill. to reaffirmi might add we did everything we could in a monetary sense. i might saymy good friend from texas . chairman of the armed services committee i will leave the hardware to you and i will take care of the ideas.
i thank my distinguished colleague from california for his very moving and very accurate remarks. . if there are further senators who desire to speak on this amendment. it is my intention to ask that we lay this amendment aside temporarily so that i may offer my second amendment on vocational rehabilitation.
. at the present moment in american history. we arenearing a great deal of rhetoric about the .need to return to the values of an earlier americato end our long addiction to the idea of receiving aid from washington. and to decentralize ourselves back into selfreliance. so many people have jumped on this particular bandwagon. for all kinds of reasons having to do with selfinterest. that it has come to seem questionable whether any of this tally can be taken seriously. it goves me special pleasure. therefore. to take e of the 25th anniversary charter year of an american university that has come to embody the values that too often receive mere lipservice from other institutions. i refer to the university of hartford. located in my own state of connecticut. though its roots stretch back into the previous century. the university was officially chartered only 25 years ago. since that time. it has begun to make an impact on this country that is out of proportion to its actual size. i do  wish to claim that the university of hartford does  receive a significant portion of its funding from the feddral government. it does. expecially in the area of student financial aid. and it is struggling. like so many other private and public institutions. with cutbacks in funding that threaten many of its present and potential students. but the university of hartford nevertheless embodies a set of values and attitudes that deserves close attention from legislators. from other educators. and from the american public. unlike many colleges and universities that owe their origins to the federal largesse of the postwar period. the university of hartford was founded from the grassrootsout of a sense of local pride and local need. when it was chartered in 1957. it drew into its embrace such established local schools as the hartford art school. hillyer college. and the hartt college of music. today. it forms a vibrant mosaic that includes the barney school of business and public administration. the college of engineering. and the ward technical college. what distinguishes the university of hartford. however. is its outlookand that outlook can best be described as a very high form of adaptiveness. as a newly chartered institution. the university had sooner caught its breath. so to speak. than it was confronted by the severe budgetary challenges of the seventies. and it had sooner learned to take those in its stride than it had to face. as it is  facing. the unprecedented pressures of the eighties. olher colleges and universities. confronting the same threats to their existence. have tended to become either rigid or panic stricken. the university of hartford offers a refreshing contrast. it has responded by choosing a new administration. and by filling its executive ranks with individuals who would  be out of place in the upper echelons of private industry. it has worked hard to see to it that students admitted in a less straitened period are  forced out of the university by cuts in their scholarships and loans. it has set an internal pace that can be described as serious and concerned. but at the same time confident and optimistic. it continues to establish itself on the national educational scene as a school with traditional strengths and inative ambitions: one of the very first american universities to understand that the pressures that have always characterized american business must  be faced. too. by those whose mission it is to educate americas ybuth. the university of harfords 25th anniversary charter year gives me the opportunity to praise it. but my praise. obviously. looks forward to the decades still to come and to the 21st century as well. we are embarked on a national experiment whose consequences must be described. at the pres ent time. as extremely uncertain. even those who wish the experiment hing but success must admit that the outcome is in doubt. at the present moment. therefore. we are particularly in need of national "role models" in every area of american lifegroups. agencies. and institutions that teach us how to confront an ambiguous future without terror or despair. and without premature congratulations. the university of hartford is an institution of this kind. it is my very real pleasure to inform you of its excellence and to commend it to you as an example for your own colleges and universities. long may it flourish.e
. i urge defeat of the gorton amendment. i do so for the same reason i urge defeat of the helms amendment and i urge defeat of the johnston amendment. the fact is that the senate. in any of these amendments. is  creating a solution to the problem of discrimination and segregation. it is merely preventing that arm of the government. which has the independence and the courage. to state the solution of what it can or can do. i will vote on this floor for any proposition put forth by any senator that constructively addresses itself to the problem of discrimination and segregation in our school systems. but any amendment and any proposition that either says or modifies that which the judicial branch of government has conceived in the vacuum that we have created will have my opposition. i urge defeat of the gorton amendment for those reasons.
. for the survivors of american workers. for the survivors of american soldiers who fought in vietnam and elsewhere. indeed for anyone who expected that his or her children would always be eligible for social security student benefits. let us at least allow these children a decent interval in which they can adjust the shortsighted measures passed during this most recent session of congress. i urge my colleagues to support speedy passage of this bill.e by mr. baucus (for himself and mr. exon):
. as a cosponsor of the stafford amendment to provide adequate funding for the guaranteed student loan (gel) program. i am pleased that the republican leadership has agreed to include the amendment in the 1983 budget resolution. i have been steadfastly opposed to the drastic reductions in funding levels for the student financial assistance programs. either directly by requests to significantly reduce funding levels or by restricting eligibility requirements. with my colleague. senator stafford. i recommended full funding as authorized by the omnibus recon. ciliation act of 1981 for fiscal year 1983 appropriations for the campus based programs. this past winter i held field hearings in my home state of connecticut to personally get feedback from some of those most affected by the administrations proposals.  i am giving my full support to the gsl program to insure that those students who need financial assistance for a higher education will receive it. the opportunity for a college educa. tion should  be eliminated by a students inability to pay. limiting access to higher education is shortsighted and ill advised. the strength of our nation is dependent on an educated citizenry.  only for the sake of individual citizens but for the sake of our nation as well. it is vital that higher education be maintained as a national priority. without adequate funding for the gsl program we will be faced with a tragic setback in terms of access and choice to higher education for all but our nations most prosperous. indeed the proposed new standards for the gsl program would shift much of the burden for the cost of loans to the students and their families. the origination fee would increase from 5 to 10 percent and an insurance fee would be added when appropriate. graduate students would longer be eligible for the lower. more reasonable interest rate of 9 percent. this would discourage many from pursuing specialized professions which require additional years of preparation. due to the proposed elimination of the federal special allowance payments 2 years after repayment begins. students would be required to take on the full subsidy at that time. this means that the student and lender must renegotiate the loan at the current market rate. two years out of college. students may be paying as high as 16 percent interest on their loans. it is unclear from the proposed standards as to what the rights of the student and the lender would be concerning this renegotiation process. the proposed new standards would result in implications for the lender as well as the student. lenders would likely be more hesitant to lend to students. considering the changes which would give more responsibility to the student for guaranteeing repayment of the loans. most importantly. we need to consider why the costs of the gsl program have escalated. the costs associated with the gsl progtam involve payments directly to the lenders. which are largely contingent on market interst rates. in order to reduce longrange costs. we should emphasize bringing down the interest rates in the general ecoy as opposed to limiting the financial assistance available to students. this takes the onus off the students and their ftunilies. which is a far better sclution. countless numbers of deserving students are dependent on these loans for the opportunity to reap the benefits of higher education. it is essential that we do  "close the window of opportunity" (david. bokman. yale university) for our most valuable resource. the young men and women of our nation.e
. i have in my hands a memorandum prepared by the congressional research service of the library of congress. it is from the american law division. the subject is "possible arguments in opposition to amendment to strip the federal courts of jurisdiction over cases involving school prayer." (memorandum] (this is in response to your request for brief "talking points" that might be used in opposition to an upcoming amendment to the debtceiling bill. that amendment would eliminate the jurisdiction of the federal courts over cases involving voluntary school prayer. arguments that might be used are attached.)
. my response to the senator from th carolina is that for weeks all we have heard is the articulate. eloquent arguments on the matter of abortion by my good friend from. oregon .  the matter referred to is the matter of school prayer. the distinguished senator from th carolina has yet to hear from the senator from connecticut on that subject. i think i am at least entitled to the same amount of time on school prayer as was given to the senator from oregon on abortion.
. i am speaking in support of senator forns bill. s. 2655. the student loan assistance amendments of 1982. which would amend the higher education act of 1965. to provide supplemental borrowing authority under the guaranteed student loan program for all students denied social security benefits as a result of the 1981 budget reconciliation legislation. those students. whose incomeearning parent is either decreased. retired. or disabled. had depended along with their families on the government promise of financial assistance to attend college. most of the students will  be able to compensate for the loss of social security benefits which is in the form of a grant even if it is phased out over 4 years. since the 1981 budget resolution. there are stricter eligibility requirements and less funds available for all the federal student aid programs. at a time of a paucity of financial resources. the denial of social security benefits will only exacerbate the situation for needy students. this subsistence benefit made the difference for those students whose family was  able to contribute to their college education. the loss of social security benefits will seriously limit "access to" and "choice of" college for needy students. these are two basic tenets of equal educational opportunity. equal educational opportunity is a basic principle by which we live. it is inconsistent with our ideals that some citizens should be denied a college education due to inability to pay. we must preserve this right for all our people. a college education  only benefits the individual. there are also benefits to society. higher education for our citizens contributes to the nations political. ecoic. and cultural advancement. it is an investment in our nations future. this bill insures continuity in the financial support provided by the federal government for needy students which. in essence. provides an equal educational opportunity for all. in my state of connecticut alone. 10.000 students would be eligible for this assistance which is a loan.  a grant. sub. ject to determination of need. it is a small cost to the federal government but it will make a big difference to many needy students. i urge my colleagues to support this worthwhile piece of legislation.e
. overall the basic framework of the rehabilitation act of 1973 remains intact under the provisions of 8. 1340. the changes that are made in this bill are to strengthen. stabilize. and insure continuation of the successful vocational rehabilitation services offered under the act. the successes of the vocational rehabilitation act are a tribute to the federalstate partnership that exists to serve the disabled citizens of this country. i urge passage of this bill.
the senator from south dakota is correct. in addition. the committee expects the secretary to. make preliminary paymentswhich will be utilized by federally impacted local educational. agencies during the current school yearin a timely manner.
.. it is very unusual for the senator from connecticut to try to keep his temper in check. but i do  want to hear about the vocational rehabilitation bill. i do  want to hear it because it represents 1 years worth of work and was passed by the u.s. senate. it is a fine piece of legislation. it is a years worth of work. we considered the old law and changed it. properly. to adjust to changing circumstances. we then passed it in the u.s. senate. it went over to the house and they loaded it up with education and other amendments because they figured. it is a must bill. it sure is a must bill. but it was wrong to load up the vocational rehabilitation bill with these new authorizing levels so as to put their burden on the backs of the disabled. and let me add. that there are compliments to be paid to the administration. which refuses to allow me to go to conference. shame on both houses. talk about truely worthy people standing and waiting for congress to actthere is a good example of what politics has done in an area of crucial legislation. thanks to either party. in any case. i make the point of order that the pending amendment is in violation of rule 16. paragraph 1 in that it increases appropriations already contained in the bill which do  carry out the provisions of any existing law treaty. or resolution passed by the senate this session. or budget estimate.
let me say. . margaret heckler is a hard worker. she is trying to learn about every aspect of the executive branch. she is already well schooled in the legislative branch. i want to say i do  doubt her integrity. and i do  doubt that she is trying to become a spokeswoman for many across the nation. i do  want anything in terms of what the committee did to reflect any disapproval of the secretary. i also want to say to my good friend. the chairman of the authorizing cornmittee. i am very sensitive to the problems that have been raised here. it is a matter that tht. commnittee will take into its consideration. i want to emphasize to the chairman that we did  try to trespass on his turf.
. i am pleased and proud to rise in support of s. 1341. a bill i. as chfairman of the subcommittee on the handicapped. originated. this bill will revise and extend the education of the handi. capped act. s. 1341 has come to us from the house for final passage. it passed the house floor by a vote of 415 to 1. this piece of legislation is a compromise measure which represents the tenacity and determination of all those who are dedicated to improving and expanding the educational opportunities for handicapped children and youth. in order to allow for implementation in the next school year. this bill was negotiated informally prior to house floor action to expedite the process before recess. although the senate referred this bill to the house on june 29. 1983. the house was  prepared to take up the measure this session. nevertheless. when the proposal came from the house staff to work together to get the bill out this year. i enthusiastically agreed. with the cooperation of senator randolph. the ranking miity member of the subcommittee and senator hatch. the chairman of the full committee. we worked out a compromise. which sooner rather than later. will result in needed changes in the programs and services for our nations handicapped children and youth. also. i might add that we received invaluable assistance from assistant secretary madeleine will of the office of special education and rehabilitative services in order to achieve this goal. a great deal of attention has been given to the education of the handicapped act amendments of 1983. these amendments focus on the discretionary programs. primarily parts c. d. e. and p and  the state grant program. part b. better kn as public law 94142. the discretionary programs complement and supplement the vital state grant program. dr. james gallagher. one of the witnesses at the oversight hearing on this bill. states that: it is my belief that these are the programs that bring quality to service delivery for handicapped children. when there is a wise investmnt in research that generates new ideas and products. leadership training to generate gifted young persons to influence the shape and direction of the field. demonstration to provide models of excellence and outreach to speed dissemination: then one has a program that is alive with energy. enthusiasm. find quality people. s. 1341 of today is essentially the same as s. 1341 of june 29 when it passed the senate floor and was referred to the house committee onl education and labor. for part a of thle actwhich pertains to the state grant programthere were only technical changes in the senate bill. changes in definitions of handicapping conditions or special education were accepted from the house bill. a national advisory committee and requirements for prescribing regulations were agreed upon. the state grant program was amended to include a provision which wiil direct funds to handicapped children in private schools. improvements were made in both the evaluatio the imnpact of thle iawand the preschool incentive program. both of which are within part b. the evaluation section was revised extensively. more indepth evaluation studiies including longitudinal studies onl state and local expenditures and on handicapped persons leaving school. are required. the reports to congress must be more comprehensive and will be disseminated to the public. from the house bill. additional data collection requirements were accepted including the number of handicapped youth exiting the programs and the number of handicapped youth partici. lpating in vocational education. the preschool incentive section will allow for handicapped children from birth on to be eligible for this program for thle first time. in part c. five discretionary programns were revised and a new discretionary program was added. thle section onl regional resource centers was undated to insure that technical assistance and training activities would focus on persistent problems in providing quality educational programs. the section on deafblind children and youth taken from the house bill provides for direct and indirect services with the emphasis on the indirect services and a new program on transitional services for older deafblind persons. the section on early childhood also extends eligibility to birth. in addition it provides for state planning grants to develop statewide early childhood programs. the severely handicapped program remains the same. but it is  officially authorized in the general authority. section 624research. ination. training. and dissemination activities. the section on postsecondary education is expanded to provided programs for the deaf and other handicapped individuals. the new initiative is on secondary and transitional services for handicapped youth. this inative new program focuses on the welldocumented unmet needs of handicapped persons in terms of preparation for employment and independent living. included are cooperative models for service delivery. part d. the training section. emphasizes preservice training for special education teachers. administrators. researchers. and related services personnel and others. exemplary models for both preservice and inservice training are promoted. meeting professional recognized standards is accepted from the house bill. from the senate bill a redefined and strengthened emphasis on parent training has been mandated as a permanent inclusion in part d. this new requirement is intended to assure that all who participate in the process of educating disabled children. teachers. adminstrators. related service personnel and parents have full kledge of the legal rights and protections of youngsters covered by part b. part e on research was revised for clarity. it allows the executive branch to determine the most relevant research priorities. part f on instructional media remains the same. included in s. 1341. in addition to authorized funding levels for fiscal years 198486. is aher senate provision increasing thle authorized funding for part b by $54 million. while there will be conference and therefore conference report on s. 1341. there are provisions in the agreed upon bill on which further comment is appropriate. concerning section 622 part c. thle deafblind program. evaluation and data requirement% were added to rectify the problems pointed out by dr. chielimisky of the u.s. general accounting office before the house subcommuittee on select education on july 14. 1983. please refer to that testimony for an explanation of these additional requirements. for the new initiative on secondary and transitional services. section 626 of part c. a demographic study will be conducted in order to obtain information on the estimated number of handicapped youth in each state who will be leaving public schools in a 5year period and are in need of continued progr~ams and servies.
the senator is absolutely correct what is being said is that there has to be an organisation to that childs prayer. be it a clawn organt. zation. a school organlatlon. or a law. et cetera. a child ia free to pray today. a child can pray during his lunch hour. a child can pray prior to an exam. a child can pray before he comes up to bat. a child can pray in school. a child can. an individual can. that. is a total freedom. what the senator i doing in this amendment is to say that freedom is longer total but rather circumscribed in a certain way. that is the argument. we have total freedom today. anything that is passed in this chamber makes that freedom till the less. i might add do  forget what we are talking about. there is difference in the constitution as a matter of age. there is differentiation whatsoever. we are all free from the time we are born to the time we die to go ahead and pray anywhere. anytime. there is restriction on the individual. the restriction comes on govern. ment. the school is government. in the course of my discourse last night with a certain acting type. he indicated he did  realize the school was government. school is the government. at least public school is. that is the government. so there is restriction. everyone in this nation is free to find their own way to their maker. to the creator. but what the senator does here today is to say in what form that worship is to be. and that is the essence of the debate. indeed i would be the first one to join the senator from iowa in any situation where a child of his or her own volition or indeed anyone else in this country is being denied the right to pray. . again. i repeat my question: tell me where it is that anyone in this nation is denied the right to make his appeal. his prayer to his god.
what the nation wants. is the use of religion as a disciplining force in the secular life of the nation.  that is what should  happen. anyone is free to pray. they are free to pray today.  there is  a freedom for the school to organize prayer. i would agree with the senator. there is  a freedom for the state to organize children to pray. there is  a freedom for the school board to order the children to pray. but the child. as an individual. may pray. as. indeed. i may.
let us  talk about what is going to happen. do  you think students pray in school just prior to their exams. i will bet there are prayers all over the room. do  you think that somebody sitting in the dugout. in a baseball game. is  doing some praying about getting a hit or making a catch.
let me say this to the senator from utah. i have the utmost respect for him. our disagreement on the issues is wellkn. he presents his side of the case in an eloquent. articulate and dignified way. i have problems at all. personally or officially. with somebody in the ring who is fighting well and hard. he does all of that. in a lighter vein however. the senator might be interested in a telegram i received this morning which shows aher side of the coin. a very important truth was revealed to me this morning. and i thought the senator from utah might like to share this lighter moment with me during the course of the debate. i received the following telegram addressed to senator weicker. from elmhurst. ill. you are doing a great job. keep up the good work. have room for you and yours. your pal. satan. the significance of this is that for many of us. it finally resolves the question once and for all of where satan is. he is in elmhurst. ill. that means that those of us in washington. connecticut. et cetera. need have fear. so long as satan stays in elmhurst. ill. but as long as we do keep our humor in this matter. ill can come from this kind of a debate. though i do confess that the introduction of religion into a political campaign. which we have seen undertaken by the president during the lasth48 hours. makes me uneasy indeed. i think it should be clearly spelled out that the positions of the various senators or the mem. bers of the house. the positions of the republicans and democrats on this matter. are  criteria for deterinining whether these men and women are fit to serve in their various capacities. i am sure whdt the founding fathers meant in article 6 when they said religious test shall be required was  just a natter of law de jure. but was also a matter of law de facto. who wants to be the first to apply a religious test. again school prayer. i want to disabuse aher misconception or smoothing over of the real meaning of what we are talking about. school is aher word for governmentgovernment. is there anybody who cares to dispute that public school is government. in private schools they may pray. it is in the public schools that we are talking about. that is government. does it sound better. then. if i say government prayer. how about selling this constitutional amendment as government prayer. how far do you think you would get. it is the intentional use of that word school which is meant to gloss over what is really at issue. at issue is  prayer in school. what is at issue is school prayer. there is the distinction.  one case has been cited by the propone.nts of this amendment which prohibits prayer in school by an individual. at issue in this amendment is school (government) prayer. the other. feel good word. as i will call it is voluntary. that is supposed to make it more acceptable. when you are a 5-. 6-. or 7yearold child and everybody bows their head. you bow yours. if everybody keeps quiet. you keep quiet. if everybody stands up. you stand up. there is hing voluntary about it in a practical sense. and there certainly is hing voluntary. as was explained to me the other day during one of these discourses on the amendment. when i was told that those who do  want to do it can go out of the room. there is hing voluntary about that. so let us get to the heart what is involved herevoluntary and school. let us substitute government for school and let us see how the nation cuddles up to that. then. on the subject of voluntary. we have voluntary prayer today. what is sought here is involuntarya quick moment. albeit briefwhen all of a sudden. the individual does  lay claim to his own religious destiny. the question was asked of me. "but it is only 90 seconds. that is a very. very small period of time. is it ." bit. 
i agree that the effect of changing method of distribution of impact funds in the middle of he school year would cause substantial problems for local school districts. for this reason. i believe it is only equitable that we accept the amendment of the senator from montana. however. 1 believe that it should be clear that i do so with the understanding that it does  apply except for this current school year.
. i want to state my opposition to the pending denton amendment as modified by the senator from oregon. we have before us perhaps the best construction of a bad idea. religion in the jnited states is a prly .te an off clalact. allowing religious groups to meet on school prenmises involves schools and states and government in the business of religion. with dangerous consequences. try as he might. the senator fronm oregon can hope to extinguish all of the host of controversies which this measure will create when it leaves here and goes into operation in 15.000 school districts across the country. lie has made progress toward some goalsreducing the ambiguities of the forums created. exclusion of outsiders. expanding categories of protected speech. and some othersbut that d(oes  redeem the basic faults of this proposal and others like it. i prefer the approach suggested by our founding fathers and the courts. that we maintain a scrupulous intent to separate matters of religion and government. by which both religion and government benefit. i have a number of questions  for my colleague from oregon. would the senator from oregon tell me if he believes his amendment violates the supreme courts decision in mccollum against board of education. does it have any effect on the constitutional status of released time religious instruction.
. i wonder if the senator from oregon would agree that hing in the act should be interpreted to permit school officials to discriminate against students because they choose  to participate in meetings under this act. would it student so agrieved have a right to bring action in court.
i wonder. since from time to time i get into some difficulty with my own party. whether or  the senator might arrange for my way to be paid to san francisco to watch his convention so i might learn what democracy is all about.
i appreciate the distinguished senator from hawaii bringing this matter to may attention. during our recent subcommittee hearings in hawaii it became quite clear to me how important hawaiis educational institutions are to the citizens of hawaii. i can assure the senator from hawaii that i shall direct my committee staff to work closely with the appropriate officials within the u.s. department of education to ensure that a timely and hopefully mutually satisfactory solution will evolve. it is my expectation that the deparment will make every effort to ensure that hawaii los college is given every opportunity to fulfill its obligation in a reasonable manner. mr. matsunaga. i thank the distinguished senator from connecticut.
. overall the basic framework of the rehabilitation act of 1973 remains intact under the provisions of 8. 1340. the changes that are made in this bill are to strengthen. stabilize. and insure continuation of the successful vocational rehabilitation services offered under the act. the successes of the vocational rehabilitation act are a tribute to the federalstate partnership that exists to serve the disabled citizens of this country. i urge passage of this bill.
the senator from south dakota is correct. in addition. the committee expects the secretary to. make preliminary paymentswhich will be utilized by federally impacted local educational. agencies during the current school yearin a timely manner.
.. it is very unusual for the senator from connecticut to try to keep his temper in check. but i do  want to hear about the vocational rehabilitation bill. i do  want to hear it because it represents 1 years worth of work and was passed by the u.s. senate. it is a fine piece of legislation. it is a years worth of work. we considered the old law and changed it. properly. to adjust to changing circumstances. we then passed it in the u.s. senate. it went over to the house and they loaded it up with education and other amendments because they figured. it is a must bill. it sure is a must bill. but it was wrong to load up the vocational rehabilitation bill with these new authorizing levels so as to put their burden on the backs of the disabled. and let me add. that there are compliments to be paid to the administration. which refuses to allow me to go to conference. shame on both houses. talk about truely worthy people standing and waiting for congress to actthere is a good example of what politics has done in an area of crucial legislation. thanks to either party. in any case. i make the point of order that the pending amendment is in violation of rule 16. paragraph 1 in that it increases appropriations already contained in the bill which do  carry out the provisions of any existing law treaty. or resolution passed by the senate this session. or budget estimate.
let me say. . margaret heckler is a hard worker. she is trying to learn about every aspect of the executive branch. she is already well schooled in the legislative branch. i want to say i do  doubt her integrity. and i do  doubt that she is trying to become a spokeswoman for many across the nation. i do  want anything in terms of what the committee did to reflect any disapproval of the secretary. i also want to say to my good friend. the chairman of the authorizing cornmittee. i am very sensitive to the problems that have been raised here. it is a matter that tht. commnittee will take into its consideration. i want to emphasize to the chairman that we did  try to trespass on his turf.
. i am pleased and proud to rise in support of s. 1341. a bill i. as chfairman of the subcommittee on the handicapped. originated. this bill will revise and extend the education of the handi. capped act. s. 1341 has come to us from the house for final passage. it passed the house floor by a vote of 415 to 1. this piece of legislation is a compromise measure which represents the tenacity and determination of all those who are dedicated to improving and expanding the educational opportunities for handicapped children and youth. in order to allow for implementation in the next school year. this bill was negotiated informally prior to house floor action to expedite the process before recess. although the senate referred this bill to the house on june 29. 1983. the house was  prepared to take up the measure this session. nevertheless. when the proposal came from the house staff to work together to get the bill out this year. i enthusiastically agreed. with the cooperation of senator randolph. the ranking miity member of the subcommittee and senator hatch. the chairman of the full committee. we worked out a compromise. which sooner rather than later. will result in needed changes in the programs and services for our nations handicapped children and youth. also. i might add that we received invaluable assistance from assistant secretary madeleine will of the office of special education and rehabilitative services in order to achieve this goal. a great deal of attention has been given to the education of the handicapped act amendments of 1983. these amendments focus on the discretionary programs. primarily parts c. d. e. and p and  the state grant program. part b. better kn as public law 94142. the discretionary programs complement and supplement the vital state grant program. dr. james gallagher. one of the witnesses at the oversight hearing on this bill. states that: it is my belief that these are the programs that bring quality to service delivery for handicapped children. when there is a wise investmnt in research that generates new ideas and products. leadership training to generate gifted young persons to influence the shape and direction of the field. demonstration to provide models of excellence and outreach to speed dissemination: then one has a program that is alive with energy. enthusiasm. find quality people. s. 1341 of today is essentially the same as s. 1341 of june 29 when it passed the senate floor and was referred to the house committee onl education and labor. for part a of thle actwhich pertains to the state grant programthere were only technical changes in the senate bill. changes in definitions of handicapping conditions or special education were accepted from the house bill. a national advisory committee and requirements for prescribing regulations were agreed upon. the state grant program was amended to include a provision which wiil direct funds to handicapped children in private schools. improvements were made in both the evaluatio the imnpact of thle iawand the preschool incentive program. both of which are within part b. the evaluation section was revised extensively. more indepth evaluation studiies including longitudinal studies onl state and local expenditures and on handicapped persons leaving school. are required. the reports to congress must be more comprehensive and will be disseminated to the public. from the house bill. additional data collection requirements were accepted including the number of handicapped youth exiting the programs and the number of handicapped youth partici. lpating in vocational education. the preschool incentive section will allow for handicapped children from birth on to be eligible for this program for thle first time. in part c. five discretionary programns were revised and a new discretionary program was added. thle section onl regional resource centers was undated to insure that technical assistance and training activities would focus on persistent problems in providing quality educational programs. the section on deafblind children and youth taken from the house bill provides for direct and indirect services with the emphasis on the indirect services and a new program on transitional services for older deafblind persons. the section on early childhood also extends eligibility to birth. in addition it provides for state planning grants to develop statewide early childhood programs. the severely handicapped program remains the same. but it is  officially authorized in the general authority. section 624research. ination. training. and dissemination activities. the section on postsecondary education is expanded to provided programs for the deaf and other handicapped individuals. the new initiative is on secondary and transitional services for handicapped youth. this inative new program focuses on the welldocumented unmet needs of handicapped persons in terms of preparation for employment and independent living. included are cooperative models for service delivery. part d. the training section. emphasizes preservice training for special education teachers. administrators. researchers. and related services personnel and others. exemplary models for both preservice and inservice training are promoted. meeting professional recognized standards is accepted from the house bill. from the senate bill a redefined and strengthened emphasis on parent training has been mandated as a permanent inclusion in part d. this new requirement is intended to assure that all who participate in the process of educating disabled children. teachers. adminstrators. related service personnel and parents have full kledge of the legal rights and protections of youngsters covered by part b. part e on research was revised for clarity. it allows the executive branch to determine the most relevant research priorities. part f on instructional media remains the same. included in s. 1341. in addition to authorized funding levels for fiscal years 198486. is aher senate provision increasing thle authorized funding for part b by $54 million. while there will be conference and therefore conference report on s. 1341. there are provisions in the agreed upon bill on which further comment is appropriate. concerning section 622 part c. thle deafblind program. evaluation and data requirement% were added to rectify the problems pointed out by dr. chielimisky of the u.s. general accounting office before the house subcommuittee on select education on july 14. 1983. please refer to that testimony for an explanation of these additional requirements. for the new initiative on secondary and transitional services. section 626 of part c. a demographic study will be conducted in order to obtain information on the estimated number of handicapped youth in each state who will be leaving public schools in a 5year period and are in need of continued progr~ams and servies.
the senator is absolutely correct what is being said is that there has to be an organisation to that childs prayer. be it a clawn organt. zation. a school organlatlon. or a law. et cetera. a child ia free to pray today. a child can pray during his lunch hour. a child can pray prior to an exam. a child can pray before he comes up to bat. a child can pray in school. a child can. an individual can. that. is a total freedom. what the senator i doing in this amendment is to say that freedom is longer total but rather circumscribed in a certain way. that is the argument. we have total freedom today. anything that is passed in this chamber makes that freedom till the less. i might add do  forget what we are talking about. there is difference in the constitution as a matter of age. there is differentiation whatsoever. we are all free from the time we are born to the time we die to go ahead and pray anywhere. anytime. there is restriction on the individual. the restriction comes on govern. ment. the school is government. in the course of my discourse last night with a certain acting type. he indicated he did  realize the school was government. school is the government. at least public school is. that is the government. so there is restriction. everyone in this nation is free to find their own way to their maker. to the creator. but what the senator does here today is to say in what form that worship is to be. and that is the essence of the debate. indeed i would be the first one to join the senator from iowa in any situation where a child of his or her own volition or indeed anyone else in this country is being denied the right to pray. . again. i repeat my question: tell me where it is that anyone in this nation is denied the right to make his appeal. his prayer to his god.
what the nation wants. is the use of religion as a disciplining force in the secular life of the nation.  that is what should  happen. anyone is free to pray. they are free to pray today.  there is  a freedom for the school to organize prayer. i would agree with the senator. there is  a freedom for the state to organize children to pray. there is  a freedom for the school board to order the children to pray. but the child. as an individual. may pray. as. indeed. i may.
let us  talk about what is going to happen. do  you think students pray in school just prior to their exams. i will bet there are prayers all over the room. do  you think that somebody sitting in the dugout. in a baseball game. is  doing some praying about getting a hit or making a catch.
let me say this to the senator from utah. i have the utmost respect for him. our disagreement on the issues is wellkn. he presents his side of the case in an eloquent. articulate and dignified way. i have problems at all. personally or officially. with somebody in the ring who is fighting well and hard. he does all of that. in a lighter vein however. the senator might be interested in a telegram i received this morning which shows aher side of the coin. a very important truth was revealed to me this morning. and i thought the senator from utah might like to share this lighter moment with me during the course of the debate. i received the following telegram addressed to senator weicker. from elmhurst. ill. you are doing a great job. keep up the good work. have room for you and yours. your pal. satan. the significance of this is that for many of us. it finally resolves the question once and for all of where satan is. he is in elmhurst. ill. that means that those of us in washington. connecticut. et cetera. need have fear. so long as satan stays in elmhurst. ill. but as long as we do keep our humor in this matter. ill can come from this kind of a debate. though i do confess that the introduction of religion into a political campaign. which we have seen undertaken by the president during the lasth48 hours. makes me uneasy indeed. i think it should be clearly spelled out that the positions of the various senators or the mem. bers of the house. the positions of the republicans and democrats on this matter. are  criteria for deterinining whether these men and women are fit to serve in their various capacities. i am sure whdt the founding fathers meant in article 6 when they said religious test shall be required was  just a natter of law de jure. but was also a matter of law de facto. who wants to be the first to apply a religious test. again school prayer. i want to disabuse aher misconception or smoothing over of the real meaning of what we are talking about. school is aher word for governmentgovernment. is there anybody who cares to dispute that public school is government. in private schools they may pray. it is in the public schools that we are talking about. that is government. does it sound better. then. if i say government prayer. how about selling this constitutional amendment as government prayer. how far do you think you would get. it is the intentional use of that word school which is meant to gloss over what is really at issue. at issue is  prayer in school. what is at issue is school prayer. there is the distinction.  one case has been cited by the propone.nts of this amendment which prohibits prayer in school by an individual. at issue in this amendment is school (government) prayer. the other. feel good word. as i will call it is voluntary. that is supposed to make it more acceptable. when you are a 5-. 6-. or 7yearold child and everybody bows their head. you bow yours. if everybody keeps quiet. you keep quiet. if everybody stands up. you stand up. there is hing voluntary about it in a practical sense. and there certainly is hing voluntary. as was explained to me the other day during one of these discourses on the amendment. when i was told that those who do  want to do it can go out of the room. there is hing voluntary about that. so let us get to the heart what is involved herevoluntary and school. let us substitute government for school and let us see how the nation cuddles up to that. then. on the subject of voluntary. we have voluntary prayer today. what is sought here is involuntarya quick moment. albeit briefwhen all of a sudden. the individual does  lay claim to his own religious destiny. the question was asked of me. "but it is only 90 seconds. that is a very. very small period of time. is it ." bit. 
i agree that the effect of changing method of distribution of impact funds in the middle of he school year would cause substantial problems for local school districts. for this reason. i believe it is only equitable that we accept the amendment of the senator from montana. however. 1 believe that it should be clear that i do so with the understanding that it does  apply except for this current school year.
. i want to state my opposition to the pending denton amendment as modified by the senator from oregon. we have before us perhaps the best construction of a bad idea. religion in the jnited states is a prly .te an off clalact. allowing religious groups to meet on school prenmises involves schools and states and government in the business of religion. with dangerous consequences. try as he might. the senator fronm oregon can hope to extinguish all of the host of controversies which this measure will create when it leaves here and goes into operation in 15.000 school districts across the country. lie has made progress toward some goalsreducing the ambiguities of the forums created. exclusion of outsiders. expanding categories of protected speech. and some othersbut that d(oes  redeem the basic faults of this proposal and others like it. i prefer the approach suggested by our founding fathers and the courts. that we maintain a scrupulous intent to separate matters of religion and government. by which both religion and government benefit. i have a number of questions  for my colleague from oregon. would the senator from oregon tell me if he believes his amendment violates the supreme courts decision in mccollum against board of education. does it have any effect on the constitutional status of released time religious instruction.
. i wonder if the senator from oregon would agree that hing in the act should be interpreted to permit school officials to discriminate against students because they choose  to participate in meetings under this act. would it student so agrieved have a right to bring action in court.
i wonder. since from time to time i get into some difficulty with my own party. whether or  the senator might arrange for my way to be paid to san francisco to watch his convention so i might learn what democracy is all about.
i appreciate the distinguished senator from hawaii bringing this matter to may attention. during our recent subcommittee hearings in hawaii it became quite clear to me how important hawaiis educational institutions are to the citizens of hawaii. i can assure the senator from hawaii that i shall direct my committee staff to work closely with the appropriate officials within the u.s. department of education to ensure that a timely and hopefully mutually satisfactory solution will evolve. it is my expectation that the deparment will make every effort to ensure that hawaii los college is given every opportunity to fulfill its obligation in a reasonable manner. mr. matsunaga. i thank the distinguished senator from connecticut.
. last ember 19. our country lost one of its greatest and quietest leaders. george aiken. the quintessential yankee. served the state of vermont for three and a half decades in the u.s. senate and represented the conscience of america in this body for all of that time. i consider myself particularly fortunate to have had the opportunity to k gover aiken. as he preferred to be called. and to learn the greatness of his ways firsthand. my first years as a member of the senate. from 197175. were the final years of the govers long career here. as a new member of this body. i was a willing witness to aikens work. which was based on common sense. decency. and a genuine devotion to his state and the people of vermont. he taught me and countless others that honesty. integrity. and diligence in the pursuit of them are the sole criteria by which to judge a man or a nation. he practiced each of these virtues daily and. in doing so. contributed to this institution considerably and made all of us who had the privilege to serve with him better senators. i urge my colleagues to recall senator george aiken and his service. further. i encourage those who are  familiar with this great man. who has been absent from this chamber for 10 years. to learn about his life and simple wisdom. his "senate diary" makes good reading.
. i wish to take this opportunity to recognize the east lyme viking marching band from east lyme. ct. these 173 high school musicians. through various fund raisers. subsidized their own trip to washington to march in celebration of the inauguration. the vikings have performed around the world representing  only east lyme. ct. but the united states as well. they have an impressive list of hos and awards. they are repeated wimers of numerous statewide and regional competitions such as the barnum festival. the groton marching competition and the woonsocket marching competition. the east lyme marching band is widely recognized as one of the best bands in the state and they are the pride of their parents. the town of east lyme and indeed all of connecticut. while it was a bitter disappointment for all involved. i want the band members to realize what a great ho it is to have been chosen to represent connecticut on such a prestigious occasion. this has been a memorable experience for all these fine musicians. i would like to extend my admiration and gratitude to the dedicated parents. fans and supporters. as well as each and every band member. thanks to: linda allik. daniel amann. thomas amann. erik anderson. michelle arsenault. dana askelson. mark askelson. jana avery. robin balaska. jennifer bates. nancy bates. theresa bates. michael begg. karen bell. kathleen bet. amy bennett. patricia benvenuti. diane bialowans. greg boivin. suzette boutin. michael brand. carl brown. matt brown. michael brown. kristine burkhardt. robin burkhardt. cynthia burnham. deborah burnham. lisa capozzoli. chris cavanaugh. theresa cavanaugh. marjorie cave. ronald chao. tyrone chao. karen christensen. holly cini. christian coale. laura coleman. keith crawford. andrea cronin. anna cushman. michael dargel. ann degray. edward delaura. tammy denesha. kristine dishaw.. catherine dolan. vanessa dorman. stacey duke. michelle dwyer. erika ellis. brian faulkner. dana fiorillo. monica fisch. catherine fox. dawn fraser. wendi giachi dean gilbert. denise gilbride. debra gillman. mary gilstad. paul gilstad. john graham. carolyn gregor. sonia greenhagen. kathleen hall. albert harraka. ste phen harraka. kathleen hartley. jeff holleran. heidi houseman. tracy houseman. katherine ingalls. robert ingalls. anne isleib. eileen isleib. tammy javor. elaine jclly. peter jolly. timothy kavar. kimberly kelly. tracy kowalski. mary kowenhoven. thomas kowenhoven. kimberly kress. kevin krom. karl lafountaine. laura lagrotteria. colleen labranche. jennifer lanza. amy lazev. scott lazev. robert levandoski. chressy lewis. theresa liappes. bithia lim. nathan lim. elizabeth lindquist. dennis lynch. mandy macdonald. chris mactavish. barbara mahon. pamela mahon. lori maiora lori malchiodi. beth mansfield. lorf mansfield. lynda manzi. kari mariani. karen. marr. sandra marr. andrea martin. renee mazzella. valerie mcginley. jennifer mckinlay. troy mesick. matt miller. jim mingo. l ivonat. tracy monal. dean mooney. mark nelson. kim page. cynthia painter. theresa painter. kirsten parker. christine pellegri paul peterson. kathryn petitpas. melinda petteruti. kirsten pflomm. dianne porucznik. kurt prochorena. mark reams. matthew reams. robyn ribner. john ripley. john rogers. teri rosenblatt. steven rozen. krista rue. jennifer russo. michael saler lynne sanford. denise saunders. michelle saunders. christina shenas. sandra sinagra. steven sinagra. thomas sistare. carol skinner. melissa smith. stacy smith. cori snell. barbara somes. geoffrey somes. scott stadnicki. diane steenson. christy stevens. michele taday. edward toth. sarah tura scott tura sheri uhrich. jill ulery. james villa richard virgin. natalie wagner. marion westner. deborah whiteford. scott whitehouse. steve whitehouse. paul williams. ellen wilson. annmarie young. assistant musical directors: karen anthony. carol cassanero. richard decapio. alfred laporte iii. gary rubchinsky. and robert shastany. superintendent of schools john a. whritner. chairman of the east lyme board of education david. and director donald mactavish.e
. the senator from new york who is necessarily absent due to a death in his immediate family. has offered this amendment. which is acceptable. regarding school district payments under section 2 of the federal impact aid program. i am offering the amendment in his behalf and have already submitted his statement for the record. this amendment merely ensures that local education agencies receive the payments to which they are entitled within 30 days after enactment of the supplemental. i urge passage of the amendment.
. i send a resolution to the desk at this time for myself. mr. kerry. mr. stafford. mr. nickles. mr. thurmond. mr. simon. mr. kennedy. and mr. hatch. the resolution commemorates the accomplishments of public law 94142 on the 10th anniversary of its enactment. cosponsored by all of the members of the subcommittee on the handicapped. this resolution reaffirms congress support for this landmark legislation that has opened the doors of public education to some 4 million handicapped children across the country. in 1954. when the u.s. supreme court decided brown versus board of education of topeka. the court held that education "is a right which must be made available to all on equal terms." it was 20 years after that decision that congress extended equal educational access to the handicapped children of our nation. with the passage of 94142 all handicapped children were assured a free appropriate public education. matter what their disability. matter how severe their disability. the significance of this mandate can be understated. with its passage. access to public education in this nation became truly universal. just 10 years ago. many of the nations handicapped children had the doors of the schoolhouse closed to them. thousands were shut away in institutions with schooling. those who did manage to enter the schoolhouse doors often found inadequate programs waiting for them. public law 94142 opened those doors and today all handicapped children are entitled to a free appropriate public education. today it is illegal for a school district to say " to a handicapped child. today. parents are fully enfranchised partners with educetional professionals in determining their childs program. as a parent of a handicapped child in special education. i can personally testify to the effectiveness of this partnership. the impact of this legislation is impressive. 4.128.009 handicapped children were served under 94142 last year. 465.763 education professionals were trained to work with handicapped students. and over 7.5 billion federal dollars were appropriated in the last 10 years. but these numbers do  tell the whole story. these numbers do  measure the true impact of this legislation. we must look at the change this legislation has fostered in all of us to see its most significant impact. public law 94142 asks us to look at handicapped children in the same light that we see handicapped childrenas human beings with individual differences. unique needs and unique potentials. we. do  have to look hard to see the payoffs of equal opportunity for handicapped students. the mentally retarded adolescent working in a cleaners after school. the wheelchairbound athlete competing in a race. the deaf student attending college alongside his hearing peers. we are all richer for the accomplishments of disabled citizens. while it is my purpose today to e the progress made over the last 10 years. we can forget that the accomplishments of this act are only possible because of a vigorous defense of this act. congress and the american people have challenged to affirm support for public law 94142 many times. when the reagan administration proposed block granting 94142. congress said "" when the reagan administration proposed cutting funding for 94142. congress said "" when the reagan administration proposed gutting the 94142 regulations. the american people said " with a voice that congress heard loud and clear. last july. after the supreme courts smith versus robinson decision. which undermined parents full protection for the educational rights of their handicapped children. the senate unanimously said " by passing the handicapped childrens protection act. which reverses that decision. we have also been able to make significant improvements in the programs authorized by the education of the handicapped act. both the transitional service program. which assists handicapped youngsters leaving school in moving into the adult world. and the parent training program. which advises parents of their rights under 94142. are new programs added to the law in 1983. the $90 million increase in funding for special education programs. which we secured for the fiscal year 1986 budget. is a step forward as well. we can all be proud of the improved programs and increased funding we have secured. but we must also affirm our commitment to continue the battles before us. what will the accomplishments be in the next 10 years of public law 94142. will we be celebrating defeats of block granting and flat funding. or will we be celebrating true movement forward. let us hope we can report that all handicapped children are being served beginning at birth. rather than beginning at age 3. let us be able to report that all handicapped youngsters who turn 21 and move into the adult world are working and living in their communities along with their handicapped peers. let us be able to report that the federal government has fulfilled its promise and is funding 40 percentrather than the current 7% percentof the cost of special education. i urge my colleagues to join me in cosponsoring this important resolution. and to reaffirm your support for this critical federal program. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this resolution be printed in the record.
. i can report firsthand what has been achieved by virtue of this law. report firsthand in the sense of seeing the faces of the children who attend the classes authorized by this legislation. funded by the appropriations attendant thereto. this is an investment of the american people that would bring joy to everyones heart. but it is also. true that in the disposition of funds at the local and state level this portion of our population still has to fight hard to get what they deserve. one small storyand then i will wrap upbest illustrates the benefit that we all derive as american people whenever we try to do something special for that individual who needs our special care. one aspect of 94142 has been the early intervention program. in effect what this does is send youngsters to school in their first 6 months. it being found that education at that age takes hold and clearly influences the future life path of these individuals. that has been a small program with only a few million dollars. but it has been amazingly successful. youngsters who in the past have been uneducatable or have suffered from the lack of education are taking their place in the mainstream of our society because of early intervention. . for whatever pride one takes in having afforded this opportunity to the handicapped. we  k that early education for all of our children is better. so that which was discovered on behalf of the handicapped will soon probably become the m. maybe  as early as 6 months but certainly much earlier than children  go to school. so that the handicapped child in the united states will benefit from this particular outreach to the handicapped children. it is also true that in the united states of america when we move together we move well and when we try to move ahead at the expense of each other. we falter. public law 94142 is a very bright chapter in the history of the u.s. senate. the house of represeritatives. and the executive branch. it was a great legislation but even greater is what it has produced for our children. so i hope that we longer doubt its success or seek to hobble it in pursuit of success but. rather. conceptually and monetarily. continue to keep this one of the brightest stars in our galaxy of achievements as a
. i rise today to introduce the education of the deaf act of 1985. cosponsored by senators stafford. kennedy. kerry. thurmond. and simon. this bill is a response to the subcommittee on the handicappeds oversight hearing conducted earlier this year pn gallaudet college and the national technical institute for the deaf. and the gao study issued this summer. gallaudet college and the national technical institute for the deaf are important national resources . providing high quality services for deaf studentsservices that address a critical need. services which are clearly a federal responsibility. congress has provided virtually all of the funding for gallaudet for over 120 years and the national technical institute for the deaf since 1965. yet. until this -ummer. there had never been any formal congressional oversight by congressother than appropriations hearingsto examine these important programs in depth. currently. the authorizations for gallaudet and the national technical institute are indefinitethere is established reauthorization cycle. the significant changes in the last 20 years in the philosophy and practice of the education of handicapped students highlight the need for ongoing oversight of these institutions of higher education. at our subcommittee hearing in june. we received testimony from representatives of the department of education. gallaudet college. the national technical institute for the deaf. and the general accounting office. the testimony revealed some important facts and indicated the need for change. we heard that: the total federal expenditure of $92 million annually for postsecondary deaf education serves less than half of the college age deaf students in the country. of the $92 million spent by the federal government on deaf education. $90 million goes to gallaudet and the national technical institute for the deaf. the cost per student at gallaudet is $23.000 per year and almost $20.000 per year at the national technical institute for the deaf. these costs are significantly higher than those at similar institutions. while mainstreaming has been established as the state of the art for educating handicapped students. gallaudet runs segregated elementary and secondary programs which are intended to serve as models for the rest of the country. the bill i introduce today is a response to these concerns and others. it combines the authorizing legislation for gallaudet. kendall elementary school. the model secondary school. and the national technical institute for the deaf and establishes a 5year reauthorization cycle for these programs. it requires that the elementary and secondary school programs operate under the requirements of public law 94142. the education for all handicapped children act. it establishes authorized funding ceilings allowing inflation increases over the next 5 years. and encourages the programs to raise private funds. annual independent audits of both gallaudet and the national institute for the deaf are required. a program officer is designated in the department of education to provide ongoing review and evaluation. finally. the bill establishes an ad hoc national commission on the education of the deaf with the charge of studying the current status of deaf education throughout the country and reporting specific recommendations to congress for improvements. this commission would follow in the footsteps of the 1965 national advisory committee on education of the deaf. whose report of 20 years ago was instrumental in initiating the dramatic improvements in deaf education that have occurred since that time. let me close by reaffirming the importance of the federal commitment to programs educating the deaf. both gallaudet and the national technical institute for the deaf provide high quality services to deaf students. these programs have made unparalleled contributions to deaf education. i urge my colleagues to renew the commitment to the provision of quality education programs for deaf students and to join with me in cosponsoring the education of the deaf act of 1985. i ask unanimous consent the text of the bill be printed at this point in the record.
. i rise to pay tribute to mr. donald hirsch. who is retiring this month after a distinguished career of public service. during the past year. i have become very well acquainted with mr. hirsch. who has become virtually indispensable as a consultant to the laborhhseducation appropriations subcommittee. time and time again. he has helped us resolve highly complex technical matters relating to appropriations legislation. often working under the pressure of extremely tight deadlines. he has never complained about the long hours due to the all too frequent night sessions of the senate. i find it hard to understand how don maintains his cheerful disposition tinder the most adverse of circumstances. for many years prior to his assignment with the appropriations committee. don hirsch provided valuable technical assistance in his capacity as assistant general counsel for the department of health and human services. and prior to that. as deputy chief of the legislation division in hhss office of the general counsel. he also served as deputy chief of the education division and as special assistant. to the general counsel in the former department of health. education. and welfare. in the early 1960s. mr. hirsch was assistant u.s. attorney for the district of columbia and his governmental service in 1958 was as a legislative attorney for the department of health. education. and welfare. he is the recipient of numerous awards. including a superior service award in 1972. a distinguished service award in 1975. a special citation from the secretary of hew. and.a senior executive service bonus award in over the years. mr. hirsch has had extensive teaching experience. including many seminars on the legislative process. and frequent lectures on legislative drafting and the legislative and appropriations process. in 1980. he published "drafting federal law." establishing him as one of the nations leading experts in this area. it has been a long journey from his graduation from harvard law school in 1958. and the college of arts and sciences at new york university in 1951. that journey included 4 years of service with the u.s. air force between 19511955. the journey is far from complete. however. since i understand mr. hirsch will be active as a consultant and educator following his retirement from federal civil service. on behalf of all the members of the appropriations. committee and its staff. we wish don hirsch the best of luck and happiness in his future endeavors.o
. i am pleased that the senate has  passed s. 1874. the education of the deaf act. the passage of this bill reaffirms the senates commitment to supporting educational programs for the deaf. this act combines the authorizing legislation for gallaudet college and the national technical institute for the deaf to make them consistent with other existing special education statutes. the bill also strengthens congressional oversight of the schools. and changes the name of gallaudet college to gallaudet university. the authorization levels for gallaudet and the national technical institute for the deaf are increased over the next 5 years to maintain current services. the bill also establishes an ad hoc national commission on education of the deaf to study and evaluate the current stateoftheart in deaf education. and make appropriate recommendations to congress. with senate passage of this bill. we turn the nations attention to the special education needs of our deaf citizens. and ensure that the programs we support can continue to make world class contributions to the field of deaf education. most importantly. we reaffirm our commitment to ensuring that quality education opportunities are available to all.*
madam president. i rise in support of s. 1965. the higher education amendments of 1986. this bill. which was unanimously ordered reported by the full committee on labor and human resources on march 19. is the product of many months of intensive work and negotiations. as a member of the education. arts and the humanities subcorm~ittee. i commend our chairman. senator robert stafford. for his leadership in crafting a bill which has wide bipartisan support. that was easy task. and our distinguished subcommittee chairman has. in his usual gentle. intelligent. and compassionate way. crafted a bill which responds to the needs of students and the academic institutions they attend while being mindful of the pressing ecoic concerns we face. the senate bill meets a most important goal in that it preserves access to higher education by removing ecoic barriers. that was a primary goal of the original higher education act of 1965 and remains a top priority in this legislation. neither the present federal deficit.  the administrations efforts to promote less government for the disadvantaged. shall motivate us to neglect the educational needs of our nations young people. these programs are essential for our ecoic prosperity and reductions here would only serve fo reduce our hope for the nations future. the bill before us today maintains the important mix of federal grant. loan. and work opportunity programs for student financial assistance. continues a number of high priority categorical programs. and promotes educational soundness for historically black colleges. the higher education community estimates that the administrations student aid proposals would eliminate or reduce awards in the coming year for over 3 million students whose only source of support would otherwise be unsubsidized loans. such loans carry a high burden of debt. and there is guarantee that these students would even qualify for such loans. indeed. many would . it is secret that this administration is great friend of higher education. during his first days in office. education secretary william bennett denigrated student aid recipients by implying that they are all buying stereos. cars. and spending three weeks at the beach. benefit program is problemfree and it is the job of the department to seek out the few abusers and take them to task. but the facts on student aid recipients speak for themselves. it is a fact that more than 75 percent of students receiving pell grants come from families with incomes below $15.000. the remainder of the recipients are generally those with incomes  much higher or at the margins of the poverty line. it is they who would suffer the most. madam president. by cutbacks such as those on the administrations agenda. i am pleased. therefore. that with some improvement in programmatic operation and enhancement of authorization levels. these programs have been left largely intact. i k my good friend from vermont. mr. stafford. agrees with me when i dictate that i wish we could do more for those students who wish to pursue a postsecondary education but lack the resources. as a result of federal programs. many have access where they would  otherwise. many can only attend the least expensive institution.  necessarily the most appropriate for them. however. i am gratified that this bill reaffirms our basic commitment to the education of our nations future generations. and i urge my colleagues to support this important legislation.
. i believe that this bill. the higher education bill. provides for some enhancements in the federal support for higher education. however. there are many in the academic community who are concerned about the continuing needs in graduate education. this nations future strength in science and techogy depends in large measure on the quality of our graduate education. in spite of growing competition from abroad. there is reason to believe support for graduate education in this country is declining in both quantity and quality. recent information indicates: federally funded fellowships and traineeships dropped from approximately 60.000 in 1969 to fewer than 13.000 in 1981. between 1980 and 1983. the number of fulltime science and engineering students receiving federal support declined by approximately 10 percent. between 1974 and 1984. the percentage of federal support for graduate and professional students that comes as loans increased from 26 to 73 percent. ninety percent of financial assistance for graduate and professional students provided through the department of education is provided as loans. less than 2 percent of the departments loan assistance is provided to graduate students. by the mid1990s. an increage in college enrollments and an unusually high rate of faculty retirements will create a sharp demand for new faculty. our ecoic competitiveness. the health and security of our citizens. and the quality of our intellectual and cultural life depends in part on the nations capacity to sustain the quality of both -its undergraduate and graduate education enterprises. i hope we will keep in mind such concerns as we continue to shape the future of higher education programs for  and in the future.
. i rise in support of s. 1874. the education of the deaf act of 1986. this bill passed the senate on may 6. 1986. and was amended and passed by the house on june 26. 1986. i am pleased that we are accepting the house amendments and i would like to thank my colleague on the house side. congressman pat williams. for his leadership on this legislation. by accepting the house amendments. several improvements are made which i believe will serve to further facilitate quality educational programs for deaf individuals. specifically. the scope of deaf education which the commission is charged to study is expanded to include the continuing education needs of deaf adults as well as the problems associated with illiteracy among deaf individuals. in addition. the minimum number of commission members who must be deaf is increased from two to five. the general authority for kendall demonstration elementary school and the model secondary school for the deaf is amended with a charge to these schools to develop curricula. instructional techniques. materials. and programs for teaching hearing impaired and deaf students in situations alongside hearing students. the house amendments make other technical and substantive changes to the original senate bill which we accept. ably. the" house amendment provides authority for the establishment of federal endowments for gallaudet and the national technical institute for the deaf. such programs are intended to stimulate the financial independence of these two schools. by providing a separate authorization of appropriations for the endowments. we insure that. should federal funds be committed to this purpose. those funds will  be taken from those which are required for operation and maintenance of the schools. finally. the house has amended the bill to provide an indefinite authority for appropriations to the schools. while we do accept this change. this is in way intended to signal a shift in federal funding policy for gallaudet and ntid.
that is correct. there has been change in federal policy since this program was created in 1983. as originally intended. these programs were designed to assist parents participate effectively with professionals in recognizing and addressing the special educational needs of handicapped children. for example. should parents need a staff person to accompany them to any meeting with school officials regarding the provision of services to their child. this legislation clearly permits them to do so.
 is fiscally sound. savings have been achieved. and steps have been taken to address the costly problem of loan default. most programs have received only modest increases in authorization levels over current appropriations. however. student aid to the neediest students has been increased. in this regard we can take great pride. s. 1965 recognizes the ecoic pressures of the 1980s but refuses to ige the ecoic needs of our nations young people. today we reaffirm our commitment to higher education. we reassert that a strong system of higher education which is accessible to all who wish to pursue it is a critical aspect of our nations strength. again. i commend my good friend and colleague. the distinguished senator from vermont. for his commitment but most of all his leadership in this area.
i do  wish to mislead my colleagues. particularly the distinguished majority and miity leaders. but i have a problem. i may as well put it out on the table. the fact remains that in this bill. there is $150 million additional money called for to provide funds for the local school districts to provide drug education programs. there is an additional $175 million being added to the adamha block grant. $50 million of the $175 million goes directly to the block grant. $125 million goes to those states with a high incidence of drug abusers. we have an additional $50 million for the distinguished senator from ohio ( of the appropriations committee is  here. but i think i am safe to say. being a member of that committee. that the committee is up against its allocation as a whole. unless somebody can tell me where we are going to get $375 milion. i am  going to be part of.  will i permit that type of charade to take place. if this is important. if this is a priority. then i suggest that we  only give all the authorization and all the speeches and all the amendments. but we find $375 million for rehabilitation. for school education. and for the alcohol. drug abuse. and mental health block grant. you go ahead and tell me if you have it. if it is new money. new allocations. whatever. fine. i have problem. but right  that money is  here and my colleagues should k exactly where we sit on this matter.
i would just like to say so the record does state clearly that i completely support first of all. the sentiments expressed by the distinguished senator from th carolina in these amendments. i do support a u.s. presence in the gulf if it guarantees free flow of commerce in international waters. i have serious reservations about the effectiveness of a reflagging policy. and certainly of the reflagging policy that i  learn only applies to reflagging kuwaiti ships in international waters.
. i am pleased that the senate has agreed to an amendment to s. 373 prohibiting funding for a program significance panel to review projects being considered for dissemination through the national diffusion network. the national diffusion network. first established in 1974. seeks to promote excellence in education by making exemplary educational programs and practices available to interested schools throughout the country. prospective projects undergo a thorough review by the department of education to determine their effectiveness. approved projects are then placed on the networks list. and then may apply for federal funding to help their dissemination. recently. however. the department instituted a program significance panel. whose job it is to determine whether projects seeking federal funding are appropriate for disseminationin addition to the "effectiveness" review. by adding this new layer of bureaucracy to the review process. the federal government has interjected itself into decisions regarding curriculum content. decisions which have always been left up to individual school districts. i find it hypocritical that this administration. which constantly touts states rights and dences federal intrusion into education. should be engaged in the business of deciding which projects are appropriate for local school districts. instead of fostering "choice." a favorite buzzword for secretary bennett. the department is minimizing choice by impeding the dissemination ofeffective projects. this matter came to my attention a few months ago when an article appeared in the new york daily news entitled "federal panel calls holocaust course unfair to nazis." the article focused on a project called "facing history." developed in 1975 by two massachusetts teachers toinstruct students about the. holocaust. the project was deemed effective by the department in 1980 and has since been in the networks pool of acceptable projects. but in 1986. when "facing history" applied for federal funding to assist in dissemination efforts. the program significance panel turned it down. one panel reviewer commented: the program gives evidence of balance or objectivity. the nazi point of view. however unpopular. is still a point of view. and it is  presented.  is that of the ku klux klan. this year. the department says that history projects were  a priority. so e were funded. including "facing history." etheless. im  optimistic that "facing history" would have been funded this year either. when a 1987 reviewer commented that it has a "profoundly antichristian bias" and could be "profoundly offensive to fundamentalists and evangelicals." the antisemitic nature of these comments is deeply repugnant. and has place in a federally sanctioned review. and second. i dont believe the federal government should be endorsing extremely subjective judgments about whether a particular project is appropriate for dissemination through the national diffusion network. that was. and should again be. a matter for the local school districts to decide. one is forcing any school district to adopt "facing history" as the one method of teaching children about the holocaustbut it has been shown to do so in an effective manner. and that alone. in my opinion. should qualify the project for federal funding. i am pleased that the senate has adopted this amendment. and i urge my colleagues strong support for this provision in conference.
. this is one of the tough moments which we have to confront and which are meant to be the hallmark of holding the position of a u.s. senate. i am sure there are those who are fearful of the fact that if they vote against the amendment of the senator from colorado. they will have some in the electorate. and some who are political opponents. accuse them of being for homosexuality or lesbianism. however. that is devious demagogucry. neither should this be decided on the basis of home rule. my opposition to this amendment is because it is plain oldfashioned. straightforward bigotry and discrimination. if the method that is being used to obtain this discrimination: that is. directing the district of columbia to permit discrimination is outlandish. and it is. then the substance of the matter before us is outrageous. i do  k what the sexual preferences or thought of the student body of georgetown are. and i do  want to k. it is e of my business. and it is  the business of the u.s. senate. this is a matter between the university and its students. is this the only kind of sexual activity that bothers my colleagues in the senate or are there other thoughts and acts against which we should legislate. the opportunities to pry and single out are vast. but i believe in academic freedom. and i believe in the individual under the constitution. and i believe in the courage of this institution. for all of these reasons. this amendment should go down into the sewer from whence it came.
let me just say that both senator chiles and i have long advocated and worked for nurse training and education programs through our appropriations bills. and. i do believe that this new undergraduate nurse scholarship program is a commendable initiative to address the nurse shortage problem. however. i do agree with senator chiles. in taking issue with appropriations language on an authorization bill.
. i am impressed with the achievements of the national foundation on the arts and the humanities. and particularly with the educational efforts of the national endowment for the humanities. since its establishment. the endowment has carried on a balanced program involving public projects. research grants. fellowships and educational projects. increasingly the emphasis of the endowment has been on educational projects aimed at improving the quality of the humanities in our schools. colleges and universitiesfor example. i e from the authorization hearings that the endowment will allocate onethird of its fiscal 1969 estimate to its educational program. one focus of this concern with education is the endowments drive for better presentation of the humanities in the schools. two major endowment projects begun in 1967 are likely to have a profound effect on the teaching of the humanities at the elementary and secondary level. one is the commission on the humanities in the schools. composed of distinguished educators and private citzens who will make recommendations to the endowment for the improvement of the teaching of the humanities. the other is the national humanities faculty. a group of outstanding college and university scholarteachers who will work with a small number of school systems on an experimental basis. with a view to promoting ination in the schools instruction and curriculum. as these two projects suggest. the endowment is trying to create an atmosphere in which the colleges and universities recognize the opportunity available to them in the schools. and the schools recognize the potential of the nations colleges and universities. aher focus of the endowment is in the area of higher education. the largest single activity in the endowments programs under the new authorization involves grants to colleges and universities for improving the quality of humanities instruction. in 1965. the federal government is estimated to have spent $550 million for academic science education in the nations institutions of higher learning. the concentration on the sciences must be supplemented by renewed effort to develop momentum in the humanities. which are central to the preservation of the american heritage. one aspect of this drive to get the humanities into motion involves institutional cooperation. the humanities can benefit greatly from the efforts of colleges and universities to complement and reinforce each others faculty. curriculums. and libraries. the endowment made two grants in this area in 1967. one enabling the university of pennsylvania and four other area colleges to create and refine an interdisciplinary graduate program. and the other allowing the great lakes college association to develop a program for institutional cooperation that will strengthen the humanities departments of the member colleges through joint planning of their curricula and through exchanges with university departments. all of these educational projects. whether they are at the elementary school level or at the college and university level. are aimed at achieving the major objectives of the endowments education programthe development of better teachers of the humanities and the improvement of the substantive quality of the humanistic material they present.
. today marks the 90th birthday anniversary of one of new englands and massachusetts most distinguished and dedicated educators. headmasteremeritus archibald v. galbraith. of williston academy. easthampton. mass. in addition to being a trustee of smith college and chairman of the board of trustees of the rened clark school for the deaf. dr. galbraith served for almost a third of a century as headmaster of williston academy. under his long administration. this fine school prospered and flourished. and it is exaggeration to suggest that its present high scholastic standing in the academic community is largely attributable to the vision. leadership. and devoted service of dr. archibald galbraith. in a state which has produced many giants in the field of education. the name of dr. archibald galbraith will always stand out as one of our really great teachers and brilliant administrators. it is with special pride. therefore. that i take this opportunity of wishing dr. galbraith the very happiest of birthdays. if any man ever had a right to look back upon his life with the utmost satisfaction and with the kledge that his contribution to the field of education has been a particularly rich and fruitful one. it is certainly the man who today celebrates his proverbial fourscore and 10 years amongst us. in wishing for dr. galbraith all of the best for today and always. i am privileged also to express my appreciation for all that he has done to bring the highest standards of excellence to the educational institutions which have been so remarkably enriched by his truly distinguished and devoted service.
i have great respect for both of them and certainly. under mal circumstances. i would agree with them that the office of education would be the proper place for a program such as headstart. this would be true under mal circumstances and in the best of all possible worlds. but let us face it. we do  have the best of all possible worlds. we k there will be serious problems if headstart is taken out of the office of ecoic opportunity and placed under the office of education before they are ready to assume responsibility for it. i wonder what provisions. if any. the senator from colorado would have in his amendment to protect the headstart program from school systems that admittedly do  want to participate in such a program.
i do  assume that the transfer from the office of ecoic opportunity to the office of education would necessarily result in dislocation. i can make that assumption and i think the senator from california is quite correct. however. we do k that the director of the office of education has said before the committee that his office is  in a position to accept the program at the present time. we k from the record. and from the problems which many states have had with their own school systems. that they are  in a position to accept a headstart program. we k the school systems in the country. generally speaking. are  able to bring in professional personnel to work in the community with the headstart program. and they have had hing in their programs to date to indicate they could be effective in the social and psychological fields. because they are almost entirely geared to the field of formal education. if we admit that headstart is more than an educational program. i think the assumption would be valid that there would be dislocation if we place it in the office of education rather than in the office of ecoic opportunity. my main point. however. is that headstart is working under the office of ecoic opportunity. it has been called a magnificent success. why stop a success. we need more of it. i say at this time that since the office of education is  able to take it. why  leave it there.
. we must develop a more effective method of distributing federal education funds. the report of the civil disorders commission calls for "greater concentration of aid to school districts having the greatest proportion of disadvantaged students." this can be accomplished by eliminating grants which  inexplicably go to wealthy communities and placing the funds which become available where they are most needed. title i of the elementary and secondary education act of 1965 is the largest single federal aidtoeducation program. yet the provisions of this title authorize a highly inequitable system of awarding federal grants. standards of eligibility contained in the title are based primarily upon the existence of children of lowincome families without reference to the nature of the district in which they live and go to school. because almost every community in the united states. matter how affluent. still has a number of poor families. virtually every local school district has become eligible for title i funds. this has been true even in the case of communities with excellent school systems in which poor children who attend public schools are already receiving quality education. i am aware that all funds received pursuant to this title are used specifically to assist disadvantaged students. rather than a given school system as a whole. nevertheless. considering that even federal funds are limited. i believe it is  too much to ask that affluent communities bear the financial burden of providing compensatory education for the few disadvantaged students who remain within their boundaries. accordingly. i recommend that the distribution formula be altered so that title i grants will begin to go exclusively to communities in which at least 10 percent of the schoolage children qualify as disadvantaged students.
 of the brandeis university student body. his statement. brief. succinct. and unquestionably sincere. is an articulate expression of the desires and objectives of americas young people. the need to recognize change and to deal with it. the need to have more control over policies which directly affect their lives. and the preference for working with existing institutions and figures of authority to achieve these ends. are all a vital part of the socalled student revolution. i commend mr. yoffies objectives. and his method of achieving them. and ask unanimous consent that the text of his remarks be printed in the record.
. it has recently come to my attention that the "forgiveness" or cancellation clauses of the national defense education act student loan program do  apply to teachers in the vital and constructive headstart program. as the law is presently worded. teachers in stateapproved elementary and secondary schools. or in institutions of higher learning. are given a 10percent forgiveness of their loans from the federal government. teachers in poverty areas are given an even larger cancellation. of 15 percent. yet teachers in headstart programs are  covered by either of these provisions. i feel certain that this situation is due largely to legislative oversight. surely it was  the intent of the law to penalize persons who chose to dedicate a year or more of service to this important program. the function of a headstart teacher is just as important and just as useful as the service performed by a teacher in the regular public school system. to correct this inequity in the present law. i am introducing legislation which would include headstart within the definition of schools approved by the states as recognized educational institutions. this proposed legislation will have the effect of granting at least a 10percent cancellation. and in most cases a 15percent cancellation. to teachers serving in headstart programs. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the bill be printed at this point in the record. and i urge its prompt and favorable consideration by my colleagues.
. we are  dealing here with the education of young children whose development might be adversely affected by exposure to subversive ideas. we are talking about the education of grown men and women. fully able to think for themselves. security clearances and agency checks are  required before university professors can teach military personnel who might be sent to an american university for further education. why then should they be required of professors who are assigned to teach those same personnel in locations overseas. in my view. the requirement of a national agency check is  only unnecessary. but basically harmful to the concept of a university educatiof. throughout western history. universities have traditionally been the places in which information could be freely exchanged and ideas openly tested. it is within this marketplace of ideas that each man has been able to survey the choices available to him. and to make informed selections. in terms of philosophy or fact. on the basis of that which has greatest meaning for him. hing has ever been gained by limiting the choices. in fact. ideas and concepts gain from being challenged. and those who hold them emerge stronger in their convictions once all the options have been considered and evaluated. the ion of some political or ideological check on scholars engaged in free inquiry and instruction is alien to the entire concept of a university. wherever it functions. it is this belief in the intrinsic value of academic freedom which impels me to introduce this legislation. i ask unanimous consent that this proposed legislation. abolishing the agency check requirement for overseas teaching personnel. be printed at this point in the record.
. it is with pleasure that i e the decision of the appropriations committee to restore the full funding for educational opportunity grants. last year the senate agreed to appropriate $140.6 million for these important student aid grants. in conference with the house. however. $16 million was deleted from the bill. since the appropriations bill was long overdue. there was practical way to prolong the fight for this one item at that time.  the decision has been made to restore this $16 million item and to bring appropriations for equal opportunity grants more nearly up to a level which meets the need. since 1966. initial year awards have been made to 123.000. then 132.000. and last year to 140.000 beginning college students. at the same time. through the efforts of the colleges themselves. and under the inspiration of programs like upward bound and talent search. more students than ever before are becoming interested in attending college. there are still many young people who will  be able to go on to higher education. even with the full funding provided by this supplemental appropriation. but the $16 million restoration will go a long way toward filling the gap for 1969. i commend the committee for its good efforts. and express my sincere hope that the sum will be retained.
they are aware of the problem. and they are trying to get on top of the problem. and i think we should give them an opportunity. i might also point out that the defense department is cooperating in seeking better balance and in reducing classified research to a minimum. these things are ongoing at the present time. as the senator very well points out. of course. i am interested in maintaining the integrity of mit. harvard. and the other institutions of higher learning in the commonwealth and throughout the country. but i think these programs are  being given close scrutiny by the administration and the faculty as well as the student body.
. the office of education title iv program represents a manypronged approach to the problem of desegregation. many school districts throughout the nation have been found in violation of the law in recent years. either by virtue of de jure or de facto segregation. but while a court can tell a school district what must be done. it does  have the capability or the expertise. in most cases. to suggest how it should be done. one of the functions of the office of education. therefore. is to provide advice and assistance to schools in their efforts to comply with the law. under title iv. for example. grants are provided for the purpose of training teachers. and for hiring consultants on school transition and community relations. support is provided to university desegregation assistance centers. office of education specialists are made available at the regional level to advise local school officials. all of this work is vital to the welfare of the communities involved. and is essential to a smooth transition and the maintenance of high educational standards. the office of education has asked for $20 million for the title iv program. the bill presently before us reduces that appropriation to $12 million. twelve million dollars was insufficient to meet the departments needs even prior to the october 29 supreme court decision. alexander against holmes county. since the decision. however. the needs have grown dramatically. we can permit the department to function with only $3 million available for new obligations and local assistance programs at a time when hundreds of new districts will be facing substantial desegregation requirements. we can leave the department unable to hire new desegregation assistance specialists at a time when the demand for them is greater than ever before. we can require the department to cancelfor budgetary reasonsthree regional university desegregation assistance centers for the theast. midwest. -and pacific coast sections at a time when the pressure will be upon all sectors of the nation to meet desegregation orders. a $20 million appropriation would make possible 137 grants to local school boards. 36 state department of education assistance units. 10 university institutes and 19 university assistance centers. plus nearly $3 million for technical services and administration as needed. even these are modest requirements. but they must be met if the law of the land is to be enforced. they must be met if quality education is to be provided to all our children. and they must be met if the transition to desegregated facilities is to be made peacefully and productively in those communities where a potential for disruption exists. the need is great. the proper course is clear. i hope that the pending amendment will be overwhelmingly adopted.
. a majority of the professors at my law school alma mater. boston university. recently expressed in a joint letter to me their opposition to the confirmation of judge carswells ination. in their letter. these professors of the law stressed the need for "outstanding professional and intellectual qualifications" on the supreme court. and the need to appoint only fairminded individuals. on both counts. they believe judge carswell is lacking. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the letter be printed at this point in the record.
. in 1958. the congress wisely recognized the need to expand educational opportunities for young people who could  themselves afford the rising costs of higher education. the declaration of purpose preceding this act stated. as a national goal. that "student of ability will be denied an opportunity for higher education because of financial need." at the same time. it was recognized that students who benefited from this student loan program might. in many instances. use their education to serve the needs of their community. in order to encourage such service. and in order to provide some reward for those who chose this path. it was decided that a percentage of the federal loan would be forgiven for each full year of service in certain crucial categories. these categories included fulltime teaching in elementary or secondary schools. teaching in title i programs. and u.s. military schools overseas. fulltime teaching of handicapped children. or service in the armed forces. in 1970. however. we have a number of programs which were  in existence in 1958. for example. preschool training has assumed a new importance in our society. special programs have been developed to aid the educationally handicapped and to provide technical training to those presently unsuited to the demands of the job market. we have expanded our horizons overseas. and realized that education is the key to ecoic development and to world peace. at the present time. an estimated 17.000 fulltime teachers are participating in the headstrt program. between 900 and 1.000 teachers of reading. math. and vocational education are working in the job corps. 326 teachers are participating through vista. and over 6.000 volunteers are teaching or preparing to teach fulltime in the peace corps overseas. these young people are making just as vital a contribution to our defense and national wellbeing as are those who teach in regular elementary or secondary schools. they are frequently teaching at far lower wages than are paid to regular laws have  been updated. they are  able to receive the advantages of the forgiveness clause. i realize that this provision of the 1958 act was made more inclusive by the amendments recently passed by the senate as a part of the elementary and secondary education act. but i believe the coverage can and should be extended even further. and i ask that this matter be given careful consideration. i introduce a bill to amend the national defense education act of 1958 as amended. and ask that it be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. in a time of great national distress individuals and institutions alike are in peril of losing their way. the extraordinary stresses of recent weeks and the deep passions which have been aroused have created special hazards for members of the academic community. students. teachers. administrators. and institutions of higher learning themselves have suffered from the commotion and confusion which have gripped the land. as one deeply committed to the precious traditions of academic freedom. i must admit that i have been gravely disturbed by the tendency of some colleges and universities to jeopardize that heritage by adopting. as institutions. specific positions on current political issues. i believe it is imperative that colleges and universities continue to foster thorough study and personal commitment to the political process. but i believe we must view with honest alarm the adoption of institutional political positions. however serious the issue and however anguished the academic community may be. the divisive war in southeast asia and the bubbling discontents at home have brought some colleges and universities to the brink of a threshold beyond which may lie  the sanctuary of impartial and objective study. but the vulnerable reaches of passion and political pressure. for academic freedom can only mean individual freedomthe freedom of individual scholars and students to pursue the truth under the shelter of a hospitable environment within and without the academy. that individual freedom is impaired as much by a collective imposition of political judgment by the college or university. as by a comparable imposition by the nation at large. when an academic institution expresses a collective political opinion. it does so at considerable cost to the neutrality it requires to perform its fundamental mission of stimulating the search for truth by remaining constantly open to varying opinions. new information. and fresh insight. it does so also at the cost of iging or misrepresenting dissident views within its own family. significant political issues are almost always controversial. but even if they were . and even if the institution could speak with unanimity. it could do so only by flouting the vital heritage of perpetual openness. in short. to voice political judgments. colleges and universities must pass from the posture in which the possibility of present error and future truth is the cornerstone. to the posture in which the permanent obligation to root out falsehood is in danger of being subordinated to the prevailing opinion of a shifting majority. at moments like these. those who truly value the life of the mind. those wbo realize that the integrity of inquiry is incompatible with institutional political action by colleges and universities. should stand and be counted. they should send forth a plea for the most careful reconsideration by the academic community of that communitys proper relationship to the world of public affairs. such a plea has been published by a large group of distinguished members of the faculty of smith college. in brief. their open letter to their colleagues and students at smith defines a number of the concerns which many persons. both academics and outsiders. are feeling. by means are their arguments or my own to be taken as a demand that colleges and universities isolate themselves from politics. indeed. i believe their argument and mine would be that the greater contribution of the academic community to the public life of the united states lies in diligent cultivation of political interest and political activism on the part of students and faculty. but such interest and activism can best be rished when educational institutions are adamantly open. i would submit that the first principle of academic freedom for individuals is academic neutrality by institutions. to neglect the latter is to jeopardize the former. and those who fight for one must be less ardent defenders of the other. i commend to my colleagues and others the thoughtful statement by members of the smith college community. and ask unanimous consent that it be printed at this point in the record.
 in the event that pair of candidates receives a sufficient percentage of the popular vote. specifically 40 percent. in such an instance. the nations chief concern would be to guarantee the continued stability and viability of the republic. we must insure that the winner would be the man with the broadest possible base of legitimate support from which he can govern a badly divided nation. i believe that the amendment which i am introducing today will accomplish that critical purpose. the need for electoral college reform is glaring. we can let this opportunity for substantial reform be forsaken. but neither can we allow opportunities for disruption. distortion or delay to undermine our efforts. with these thoughts uppermost in mind. i commend this proposal to my colleagues for their serious consideration.
 of boston university. dr. calvin b. t. lee. delivered an address on this subject which is remarkable for its candor and valuable for the recommendations which it so vividly outlines. his remarks are  complimentary where the commonwealth of massachusetts is concerned. ours is a state which is fifth in affluence in the nationand 49th in terms of expenditures for higher education. this inconsistent ratio has been made possible over the years by the presence in our commonwealth of nearly 100 private institutions of higher learning. which through the expenditure of private funds have been able to educate well over twothirds of all the college students in the state. public resources have thus been relieved of a tremendous potential burden. but private institutions of higher learning are facing increasing deficits: tuition can longer make up the difference between investments. endowments. and alumni giving. if massachusettsand by implication. other states. in the union as wellare  to be faced in the near future with the problem of absorbing thousands of students thrust upon public institutions through the financial failure of private colleges. constructive and cooperative steps must be taken immediately. dr. lees address is a cogent plea for such cooperation. i commend it to the senate and to the commonwealth for serious consideration. and ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
this is certainly an excellent proposal by the distinguished senator from colorado. i do  have the amendment before me. but i do have his summary of the amendment. as i understand it. under this program scholarship money would be available. as well as subsistence and book money. for a fulltime course of study leading to an undergraduate or graduate degree.
there would be a moral obligation. then. to accept if the job were offered. but if. after a student received his academic degree. he decided he did  want to stay in the field of foreign service but might want to go on into law school and practice law. he would then have received training by the federal government and yet have legal obligation to come into the foreign service.
. i am greatly disappointed over the retrogressive role of the department of agriculture in the present situation. it seems inconceivable to me that the department has flatly refused to fund the school lunch program at a level adequate to meet the needs of our nations schoolchildren. over the strenuous objections of members of congress. school administrators. teachers. and parents alike. the department has preferred to use its resources to benefit the producers rather than the consumers. the numerous hearings held before the select committee on nutrition and human needs and the department of agriculture have  made a significant impression on the department. i can only hope that our positive action today on senate joint resolution 157 will bring with it the force and impetus needed to cause a change of heart and a change in policy. it is with these concerns in mind. and particularly keeping in mind the needs of the millions of children between the ag3s of 6 and 16 who must go to school each day with empty stomachs. that i urge support for this resolution and a speedy implementation of a full and effective school lunch program.
. i submit today a resolution to designate april 9. 1972. as a day to commemorate the patriotic hymn "america." this wellkn hymn. which is sung regularly in public places throughout the nation. was written 140 years ago by the reverend samuel francis smith while he was attending the andover theological school in andover. mass. the school. subsequently affiliated with the newton theological school and is  kn as the andovernewton theological school. is the oldest theological seminary in the nation. the words of this great hymn carry an inspiring message for all americans. the hymn is truly a patriotic paean exalting the spirit of freedom which marks this nations heritage. the shining light of liberty is the theme of the hymn. and is a blessing of which we should ever be mindful and grateful. by approving the establishment of a national day of commemoration. the congress could demonstrate its appreciation for the simple but inspiring message which this hymn has brought to hundreds of millions of americans. i believe that the 140th anniversary of its composition is an appropriate time for the author of the hymn to receive this deserved recognition. i ask that the words of the hymn. and the resolution. be printed at this point in the record.
ial selection process in a lecture at westminster college in fulton. mo. on april 4. mr. finch has drawn on his broad experience on both the local and national levels to make many progressive suggestions. including the enactment of a federal uniform elections law. although i withhold comment at this time on each of the details of his plan. i do agree with his conclusion that: it has fallen to our generation to confront the sobering fact that the struggle to achieve a meaningful representative government is an unending one . . . and we have to make everyones vote mean something or else nes vote will mean anything. i commend this speech to the attention of senators and to all americans who are interested in this vital issue. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
 of the braves national league baseball club. selling that club to milwaukee in 1953. and buying back part interest when they moved to atlanta many years later. he served as a trustee for the jimmy fund for cancer research. and received hoary degrees from boston college. holy cross. st. anselms college in new hampshire. and lesley college in boston. he also served as a fellow of brandeis university. and was cited by the national conference of christians and jews for his promotion of racial and religious understanding. yet.  all of lous accomplishments have been in the public eye. perhaps his greatest accomplishment is a very personal one: he has given the world seven fine sons and daughters. and 38 lovely grandchlidren. lou perini left his mark on the land he loved. a man of such stature will be sorely missed. and i extend to his wife florence. his childen. his grandchildren and friends. my sincerest sympathy and my deepest respects.
i thank the senator from alabama. he has been most gracious and i am most grateful. . neighborhoods change. school assignments change. here does h.r. 13915 define the term "neighborhood." without definition. this policy could be effectively used as an excuse for segregation. as in the past. through gerrymandered assignment areas. what meaning does the term "neighborhood" have to large high school and junior high school attendance districts. which cover many neighborhoods. the answer is e. this expression of policy in support of an educaticnal system that does   or could  exist is irresponsible. how can the congress of the united states enact a mythical policy. we should be more responsible than writing undefined catchwords into law.
. the measure moves from the declaration of policy which can be realized to the findings of facts that can be supported. section 3(a) of h.r. 13915 would have congress find that "many school systems have been required to engage in extensive transportation of students" in order to eliminate dual school systems. since only 3 percent of the children  riding school buses are doing so for desegregation purposes. the term "extensive" has nationwide application. the experience statewide would also contradict this finding. the facts are that there is less busing.  more busing. as the dual educational system is eliminated. this is because children are longer bused past one segregated school to get to aher. in alabama. desegregation orders resulted in a decrease in 1 million passengermiles. in mississippi. 318.095 children were bused to maintain segregated schools. only 292.472 were bused when segregation was ended. the same experiencea decline in the number of students bused and the number of miles transportedresulted after desegregation orders were entered in charlotte. in richmond. in leon county. fla.. and elsewhere. the finding in 3(a) 3that school systems have been required "to expand large amounts of funds" is likewise  supported by fact. in 1933. the expenditure for pupil transportation was 3.5 percent of the cost of operating public schools. in 196970. it was 3.6 percent. and it should be ed that in the intervening years. there was a nationwide move toward consolidation of schools away from the outmoded oneroom schoolhouse. are  those who  argue that busing is expensive. the same people who sought to bar the use of federal funds for busing. perhaps in some cases desegregation plans do require increased expenditures. if local educational agencies are required by a federal court or agencyto increase transportation. i think it is only proper that federal funds be made available to meet part or all of these increased expenses. i can understand the logic of proponents of this bill who  charge that busing is expensive. yet who have consistently argued that federal funds should  pay for student transportation. but more importantly. viewed as a percentage of public school expenditures. transportation is but a small budget item. there is basis for congress to find that school systems have spent large sums for busing.  can congress conceivably find. as section 3(a) (4) suggests that transportation of students "creates serious risks to their health and safety and disrupts the educational process." such a finding iges the evidence that the schoolbus is the safest way for children to get to school--safer even than walking. a 6year study by the pennsylvania department of education found riding three times safer than walking. the national safety councils latest statistics show that while there are 2.4 fatalities per 100 million miles of travel in private automobiles and 0.29 in airplanes. the figure for schoolbuses is 0.06
 has signed into law similar limits. there is. therefore. reason for congress to raise the spectre of undue danger on the school bus. i can only conclude that this finding about busing risks is included in the measure before us to stir up emotions. it serves useful purpose. neither does the finding which follows section 3(a) (6). which states that the supreme courts guidelines for remedies to dismantle dual systems have been "incomplete and imperfect." this section. in effect. issues a challenge to the very nature of the judicial process. particularly with respect to transportation. the supreme court has made it clear in swann thatrigid guidelines as to student transportation can be given for application to the infinite variety of problems presented in thousands of situations." but as previously mentioned. the court and congress. in swann and public law 92318. respectively. have provided a "clear. rational and uniform" standard generally for student transportation contrary to the finding of section 3(a) (6). but the court in swann rejected rigid guldeliness as being impossible to devise. in 1955. in brown ii. the court determined it was proper for the district courts to exercise their equity jurisdiction with its traditional flexibility to fashion specific remedies for each unique factual situation in school desegregation cases. last year the court affirmed this position in swann. it stated thatconditions in different localities will vary so widely that rigid rules can be laid down to govern all situations. yet that is what this bill seeks to do in defiance of the court. local educational agencies do  act in a vacuum when it comes to remedying a dual school system. over a period of 18 years. the supreme court has established clear guidelines for remedying a dual school system. swann makes clear the limits on transportation and the absence of a requirement of racial balance or racial quotas to desegregate school systems. in green against county school board of new kent county. va.. the court ruled out freedom of choice or "open enrollment" plans. and swam spelled out clear alternatives: redrawing attendance zones and "pairing". "clustering" or "grouping" of schools. there has been doubt as to the district courts responsibilities in the desegregation process. in brown ii. the court said school officials and the courts are responsible for achieving the constitutional requirements for desegregated schools. the schools were given the responsibility for developing plans. but the court stated that "the courts will have to consider whether the action of school authorities constitutes a good faith implementation of the governing constitutional principles". in green and swann. the court reiterated this opinion. the court has also been clear as to the speed with which desegregation responsibilities should be discharged. n brown i. the court said district courts should implement desegregation rulings "with all deliberate speed". the court also said that limited delays in achieving complete desegregation would be acceptable if a school board could "establish that such time is necessary in the public interest." ten years later in griffin against county school board for prince edward county. va.. the court served ice that such delays were longer acceptable. in 1968. in green. the court ordered desegregation to take place immediately: "the burden on a school board today is to come forward with a plan that promises realistically to work and promises realistically to work ." the following year. in alexander against holmes county. miss.. board of education. it held: the obligation of every school district is to terminate dual school systems at once and to operate  and hereafter only unitary schools. contrary to the finding of section 3(a) (6). guidelines do exist as to remedies. responsibilities and speed in eliminating dual school systems. due to the varied nature of our school systems. the supreme court has ruled out rigid formulae for compliance. but has provided general guidelines which are adequate for the task. the suggestion that the courts have failed is an unnecessary one. except for the purpose of the authors of this legislation. which is to limit the jurisdiction of the courts in school desegregation cases. we see in section 3 of h.r. 13915. an effort to use incorrect findings of fact to prove the courts have failed. in subsequent sections. the bill provides that the congress shall remedy these alleged failings.
i thank the senator. . aher prohibition contained in section 404. would  allow for the iging or alteration of school district lines unless there is proof of discriminatory purpose. this section represents an unnecessary intrusion into the judicial process. it appears to have been prompted by a recent district court decisions in richmond and detroit. which are currently under review in the federal appellate courts. it is inappropriate for congress to attempt to legislatively dictate a result in pending litigation or attempt to impose its view of constitutional requirements on the courts. yet this is the basic intent of this measureto intrude into the judicial processes and dictate constitutional requirements that would thwart constitutional rights. and thus deter the constitutionality mandated desegregation of our nations public schools. if this effort to impede school desegregation was  sufficiently sinister itself. consider section 406 of the measure before us. this. section would seek to undo every existing courtordered or title iv desegregation effort  underway. it would allow 1.500 desegregated or desegregating school systems. with the assistance of the attorney general. to return to the courts and federal agencies to have their plans modified in accordance with this bill. and the provisions of this deviously drafted measure would allow the return to segregation. this would be in cases where district courts have already approved planssometimes modified them. to be sureby which the process of desegregating school systems is proceeding in accordance with law. what section 406 would say to the courts and schools is. "let us open this all up . you can stop desegregating. go back to the courts. modify your plans. and. in fact. return to the segregated point you were at before you either voluntarily proceeded to desegregate or you were ordered to do so under law." this would put us back decades. and this would totally disrupt areas where many. many times the people have found that the desegregation of the public schools is  the bugaboo many have tried to make it in proposing this legislation. millions of americans have found that their fears have been allayed. and they are working very well to bring about the desegregation of their public school systems. but this measure. particularly this section. would encourage them to return to the segregation which they had before. to me this is a unconscionable proposition for anyone to have set before congress. this "reopener" clause is frightening in its potential. the wording is so broad that it would allow the reopening of all past desegregation cases going all the way backover 18 years of progress to the brown case. in testifying before the house committee of the judiciary. attorney general richard kleindienst was asked whether the right to reopen cases under section 406 would apply only to cases involving busing or to all desegregation cases. he answered: all desegregation cases. even where busing might  even be an issue involved in it. you are going to have an opportunity for a school agency to come into a federal district judge and say. this order was entered into 12 years ago. congress has laid down a new national standard and we want to reexamine this and apply the remedies and priorities set forth in the national standards. and obtain a new order in this particular case. this measure invites chaos across the country. because the remedies and priorities of this measure thwart desegregation plans and violate the constitutional rights of our citizens. separatists. black. and white. will return to the forefront as the chance is offered to undo the hard work and good will of reasonable men and women. those who have worked hard to make integrated schools a workable reality would be shunted aside by separatists. with the aid of congress. in arguing that section 406 is unconstitutional. the association of the bar of the city of new york stated: it is cynical in the extreme. therefore. to permit new rounds of litigation where successful adjustment to constitutional order exists. that is  an understatement.  is the associations assertion that section 406 is unconstitutional. if this section intends to create a right to reopen proceedings which is greater than the traditional equity doctrine to review in the light of changed circumstances. and i assume it is or the section would be unnecessary. then it singles out on the basis of race a class of federal court decrees for special treatment since it applies only to desegregation cases. therefore. i contend that placing such a burden on miity group litigants violates the doctrine of hunter versus erickson. in that 1969 decision. the supreme. court held unconstitutional a provision added to the charter of the city of akron. ohio. which required any ordinance regulating the sale or lease of property on the basis of race to win the approval of a majority of voters in a general election before it could take effect. the court held that the charter could  place "special burdens on racial miities within the governmental process." section 406 would place special burdens on racial miities. this section makes it more difficult for miity children to enjoy their right to equal educational opportunity since it forces them to relitigate cases they had presumably already won. thus i contend this section is most probably unconstitutional under the principle of hunter versus erickson. yet i take little comfort in the presumed unconstitutionality of this reopener. that the house of representatives could pass and the senate could even consider such a provision frightens me. how can the congress proceed so callously with respect to the rights of millions of americans. i would like to believe that it has done so unkingly. but this section was drafted and considered. section 406 only stands out amid the cynical provisions of this measure because. as the association of the bar of new york said. it is "cynical in the extreme." under ordinary circumstances almost every provision of this measure would similarly be labeled. section 407 would allow the transportation portions of court orders to be terminated upon a finding that the school system is  excluding any person from any school on account of race. in other words. busing would remedy the illegal situation. but the moment this had occurred it would be possible for the school system to return to the situation prior to the busing order. then only if it could be shown that the system is "effectively excluding any person from any school because of race. color. or national origin. could the court reissue a busing order. here again the burden is on the plaintiffs. who could conceivably be going back and forth to court. section 407 would be a revolving door which would result in periodic utilization and termination of busing orders. and the educational process would suffer in the confusion. section 408 would terminate entirely court desegregation orders once a school system has been found to have a unitary system. it contains time limits and would permit the lifting of an order the moment a school system can claim to be unitary. this provision is contrary to the practice in other areas where illegal conduct sought to be remedied has ceased. in such areas as antitrust. trade regulation. and voting rights. courts exercise jurisdiction after the illegal conduct that prompted the litigation has been remedied. section 408 also would apply whether the schools involved were in the past segregated de jure or de facto. together. sections 407 and 408 would nullify section 201. which defines as a denial of equal educational opportunity the failure of an educational agency which formerly practiced deliberate segregationde jureto take affirmative steps to remove the vestiges of a dual school system. sections 407 and 408 would require hing more of a de jure school system than a de facto system. this is inconsistent with section 201.
. i do  propose to let this matter drop here. the boston globe has done its duty by turning the spotlight of publicity in the finest traditions of journalism. on federally subsidized education programs of questionable usefulness and repute. government must accept the challenge by providing remedies and redress. when proposals for action are received from the veterans administration and the office of education. i will have additional comments on the future of these vocational education enterprises.
. that is exactly what section 915 of amendment  1144 would do. and it is inconceivable to me that the proponents of this measure really want to do this. aher prohibition contained in section 916. would  allow for the iging or alteration of school district lines unless there is proof of discriminatory purpose. this section represents an unnecessary intrusion into the judicial process. it is inappropriate for congress to attempt to legislatively dictate a result in pending litigation or attempt to impose its view of constitutional requirements on the courts. yet. this is the basic intent of this measureto intrude into the judicial processes and dictate constitutional requirements that would thwart constitutional rights. and thus deter the constitutionally mandated desegregation of our nations public schools. if this effort to impede school desegregation was  sufficiently sinister itself. consider section 918 of the amendment before us. this section would seek to undo every existing courtordered or title vi desegregation effort  underway. it would allow thousands of desegregated or desegregating school systems. with the assistance of the attorney general. to return to the courts and federal agencies to have their plans modified in accordance with this amendment. and the provisions of this deviously drafted measure would allow the return to segregation. and that is what the authors of this amendment want. this would be in cases where district courts have already approved planssometimes modified them. to be sureby which the process of desegregating school systems is proceeding in accordance with law. what section 918 would say to the courts and schools is. "let us open this all up . you can stop desegregating. go back to the courts. modify your plans. and. in fact. return to the segregated point you were at before you either voluntarily proceeded to desegregate or you were ordered to do so under law." this would put us back decades. and this would totally disrupt areas where many. many times the people have found that the desegregation of the public schools is  the traumatic experience many have attempted to make it in proposing this amendment. millions of americans have found that their fears have been allayed. and they are working very well togetherblacks and whitesto bring about the desegregation of their public school systems. but this measure. particularly this section. would encourage them to return to the segregation which they had before. to me this is an unconscionable proposition for anyone to have set before congress. this "reopener" clause is frightening in its potential. the wording is so broad that it would allow the reopening of all past desegregation cases going all the way backover 20 years of progress to the brown case. in 1972 in testifying before the house committee of the judiciary. attorney general richard kleindienst was asked whether the right to reopen cases under section 406 of h.r. 13915 would apply only to cases involving busing or to all desegregation cases. he answered: all desegregation cases. even where busing might  even be an issue involved in it. you are going to have an opportunity for a school agency to come into a federal district judge and say. this order was entered into 12 years ago. congress has laid down a new national standard and we want to reexamine this and apply the remedies and priorities set forth in the national standards.and obtain a new order in this particular case. such measures invite chaos across the country. because the remedies and priorities of these measures thwart desegregation plans and violate the constitutional rights of our citizens. separatists. black. and white. will return to the forefront as the chance is offered to undo the hard work and good will of reasonable men and women. those who have worked hard to make integrated schools a workable reality would be shunted aside by separatists. with the aid of congress in arguing that a reopener provision is unconstitutional. the association of the bar of the city of new york in 1972 stated: it is cynical in the extreme. therefore. to permit new roundo of litigation where successful adjustment to constitutional order exists. that is  an understatement.  is the associations assertion that a reopener provision is unconstitutional. if this section intends to create a right to reopen proceedings which is greater than the traditional equity doctrine to review in the light of changed circumstances. and i assume it is or the section would be unnecessary. then it singles out on the basis of race a class of federal court decrees for spe3cial treatment since it applies only to desegregation cases. therefore. i contend that placing such a burden on miity group litigants violates the doctrine of hunter against erickson. in that 1969 decision. the supreme court held unconstiutional a provision added to the charter of the city of akron. ohio. which required any ordinance regulating the sale or lease of property on the basis of race to win the approval of a majority of voters in a general election before it could take effect. the court held that the charter could  place "special burdens on racial miities within the governmental process." section 918 could place special burdens on racial miities. this section makes it more difficult for miity children to enjoy their right to equal educational opportunity since it forces them to relitigate cases they had presumably already won. thus. i contend this section is most probably unconstitutional under the principle of hunter against erickson. yet. i take little comfort in the presumed unconstitutionality of this reopener. that the house of representatives could pass and the senate could even consider such a provision frightens me. how can congress proceed so callously with respect to the rights of millions of americans. i would like to believe that it has done so unkingly. on october 10. 1972. i could give the benefit of the doubt to the authors and supporters of such a provision. today. i can. section 918 only stands out amid the cynical provisions of this measure because. as the association of the bar of new york said. such a reopener provision is "cynical in the extreme." under ordinary circumstances almost every provision of this measure would similarly be labeled. section 919 of amendment  1144 would allow the transportation portions of court orders to be terminated upon a finding that the school system is  excluding any person from any school on account of race. in other words. busing would remedy the illegal situation. but the moment this had occurred it would be possible for the school system to return to the situation prior to the busing order. then only if it could be shown that the system is "effectively excluding any person from any school because of race. color. or national origin could the court reissue a busing order. here again. the burden is on the plaintiffs. who could conceivably be going back and forth to court. section 919 would be a revolving door which would result in periodic utilization and determination of busing orders. and the educational process would suffer in the confusion. section 920 would terminate entirely court desegregation orders once a school system has been found to have a unitary system. it contains time limits and would permit the lifting of an order the moment a school system can claim to be unitary. this provision is contrary to the practice in other areas where illegal conduct sought to be remedied has ceased. in such areas as antitrust. trade regulation. and voting rights. courts exercise jurisdiction after the illegal conduct that prompted the litigation has been remedied. section 920 also would apply whether the schools involved were in the past segregated de jure or de facto. together. sections 919 and 920 would nullify section 904. which defines as a denial of equal educational opportunity the failure of an educational agency which formerly practiced deliberate segregationde jureto take affirmative steps to remove the vestiges of a dual school system. sections 919 and 920 would require hing more of a de jure school system than a de facto system. this is inconsistent with section 904.
. does the unanimousconsent agreement under which we are  operating foreclose my right to offer an amendment to the bill itself. i understood that it would pertain only to the socalled gurney amendment to the bill. which was before the senate earlier today.  we have the bill itself. i had the intention of offering amendments to the bill.  to the gurney amendment. but to the bill. those two amendments had to do with provisions regarding the next closest school and attorneys fees. matters which are  included in the bill. may i have a ruling from the chair as to whether the unanimousconsent agreement we are operating under  forecloses my offering an amendment to the bill such as i have described.
. the amendment  pending before the senate would restore a vital part of title i to the elementary and secondary education act. part c concentrates funds in those rural and urban schools where there is the largest concentration of children from lowincome families. the school districts receiving these funds are among some of the poorest in the nation. yet educating children from lowincome families is one of the most expensive tasks in elementary and secondary education. part c was deleted by the mcclellan amendment as adopted. part c. however.  differs from the provisions for part c as originally written in s. 1539 in two very important respects: first. the authorization of $75 million for this authorization part is separate and distinct from the other parts of title i. it is drafted along the same lines as the dominick amendment. already accepted by mr. mcclellan. which restored part b of title i. second. state may receive more than 12 percent of the total amount appropriated for part c. the result of this is that the funds which new york would receive under the provisions of s. 1539 are reduced and the funds which every other state receives are thereby raised. the effect of this amendment is that every state would receive additional title i funds. these funds would be distinct from and in addition to the funds a state would receive under title i. part a and title i. part b. as a result of the adoption of the mcclellan amendment. many local school districts lost fundsincluding many school districts within states which as a whole were advantaged by the mcclellan amendment. the funds which would be distributed under part c will help in part to offset these losses. part c will also be even more necessary when it is realized that there will be a great dispersion of title i funds as a result of the new title i distribution formula. the new formula distributes title i funds according to the orshansky povertylevel children. the change from the old formula will mean that the number of eligible children will increase from 5 million to 7.7 million. part c concentrating money where the greatest number of lowincome children are. is therefore needed as a complement to part a even more under the new title i formula than under the old. thus although part c is  one of the largest sections of this bill in terms of the amounts appropriatedaccounting for only about 4 percent of all the title i authorizationit can be crucial in helping to determine the quality of education offered in urban and rural schools districts with high concentrations of lowincome children. i realize that there were very well justified criticisms of part c as it existed prior to the changes dictated by this amendment. had these changes  been made. congress would surely have been justified in discontinuing this program. until  part c has fallen short of its promise because of wasteful small grants in amounts as low as $10 or $15. use of inadequate data and inadequate concentration on the poor children who are supposed to be served by part c. these shortcomings in existing law. however. have  been corrected in the committee bill and in this amendment. the number of part c grants are limited and the effect is concentrated. data and statistics will be the same as are used for other parts of the elementary and sec-
. on april 4. in inserted in the congressional record a series of articles from the boston globe on the current status and practices of the private profitmaking vocational education industry. at that time. i said that the questions raised by the globe series demanded a response from the congress and the administration for it is largely through the operation of various federal funding techniques that this industry is supported. inadvertently. four of the articles in the series were omitted on april 4. i ask unanimous consent that these articles be printed in the record for the sake of completeness.
. that the initial step in this reappraisal should be taken at extensive and exhaustive congressional hearings. senator claiborne pell. chairman of the subcommittee on education. committee on labor and public welfare. has already indicated to me that his committee plans hearings this year. as the vocational education act of 1968 is up for renewal next june. i k that senator pell has already carefully studied the original boston globe articles and is aware of the magnitude of the difficulties surrounding the proprietary vocational education industry. i am supplying senator pell with original copies of the correspondence i have referred to in my remarks this morning as well as other material i have obtained. i trust this information will be helpful in formulating productive hearings from which improved vocational and home study educational opportunities will be available to veterans and veterans alike so that they may make increased contributions to society. exibrr 1
 to designate ember 10. 174. through ember 16. 1974. as national career guidance week be inserted in the record at this time. by doing so. i hope that we and the people of our great nation will be alerted to our need for vocational guidance. and to the fine efforts of the national vocational guidance association.
. in my remarks to the senate on april 4 and again on june 26. 1974. i indicated that the boston globes investigation of f rofltmaking vocational and home study schools raisel a number of disturbing questions about the business practices of these schools and the inadequacy of the federal response to the issues.raised by the series. at that time i urged that the federal government must meet the challenge presented by the globes disclosures by providing remedies and redress to beleagured vocational school consumers. on august 15. 1974. the federal trade commission promulgated a proposed trade regulation rule for the proprietary vocational and home study school industry. briefly. this proposed rule. the product of an intensive ftc investigation. would: first. prohibit the use in advertisements of generalized earnings and employment claims. second. require factual substantiation for any specific earnings or employment claims made by the school. third. require the disclosure to each prospective student of the schools dropout rate. fourth. require disclosure of the placement and earnings success of the schools own students if any placement or earnings claims are made. fifth. provide for a 10day "cooling off/reaffirmation" period before any contract becomes effective. and sixth. provide for pro rata refunds to those who do  complete their courses. i believe that this rule constitutes the type of effective federal action that will provide remedial relief to consumers. in the first instance. the rule contains several provisions that would assist consumers in avoiding an erroneous contractual decision inducted by high pressured or misleading recruitment techniques: first. by prohibiting the use of generalized manpower and/or earnings projections the rule insures that consumers will longer be misled by allusions to industrywide assessments of job or salary potential. rather. the rule requires that schools disclose more reliable and pertinent informationhow many of this schools students obtained jobs and what salaries did they earn. second. the disclosure of dropout and placement statistics will serve to provide consumers with the type of information required in order to properly assess the opportunities available to enrollees at a particular school. this information will serve to balance whatever representations the school or its representatives may have made. and third. the 10day reaffirmation period allows the consumer to evaluate and digest the statistics disclosed to him as required by the rule. the consumer may then make his contractual decision in a more dispassionate atmosphere. if he decides that the statistics disclosed to him indicate a lessthanpromised performance record. the consumer can void his contract by  signing the reaffirmation form within 10 days. second. the rule provides remedial relief to consumers when changed circumstances or altered career plans compel a student to withdraw from a particular course of study. given the relative inexperience of most proprietary school consumers. the pro rata refund allows a student to withdraw from a school without being penalized for this decision. finally. the proposed rule offers the potential for a substantial improvement in implementing the intention of concxx--2202part. 26 gress in providing federal subsidies for vocational training through the veterans benefits and federally insured student loan programs this. in turn. insures that taxpayers money is being spent for its intended purposemeaningful occupational training. furthermore. it appears to me that the pro rata refund provision of the proposed rule may also serve to reduce the substantial default problems that plague the proprietary sector of the fisl program. there are indications that a good number of proprietary students refuse to ho their federally insured loans. because they feel that their contractual obligation to the school was procured by the use of false. deceptive. or unfair techniques. the existence of a strict pro rata refund would allow a student to withdraw from such a school and receive from the school a sum of money which .can be used to begin paying off the fisl obligation. in sum. i strongly support this effort by the federal trade commission to cure some of the more oppressive business practices of some proprietary schools but for the federal taxpayer as well. moreover. i believe that this particular trade regulation rule demonstrates the viability of using a rulemaking mecha.nisr to cope with industrywide trade practices. i would encourage the federal trade commission to- make greater use of this technique in the future. particularly when the facts disclose the type of pervasive abuse that has been indicated in the proprietary school industry. at this point. i ask unanimous consent that the ftcs proposed rule be printed in the record.
i did  k that the senator had used the term. but certainly he had implied that there had been some harassment by what the senator has called hew bureaucrats. i think we should make it very clear to hew that the u.s. senate. or the congress. for that matter. will  tolerate harassment on the part of hew of any school district or any school board. as the case here may concern. but i would think that in attempting to achieve that purpose. which the senator desires. he would  want to upset the whole applecart and put us back in the situation where we were when we were confronted with the helms amendment just a few moments ago. if the senator has assurance that he will have hearings. through the legislative history which we are  creating. would that  suffice.
i quite agree with the distinguished senator from ohio. and i think he has made a real contribution in bringing this matter before the senate.  only ohio state students are involved. but students really in the 33 states that have exhausted their workstudy funds. and without these funds many would have to seek employment through the general job market. . the distinguished chairman of the committee. senator magnuson. and i. have looked into this matter. and we would like to clear up the status of funds for college workstudy. first. a total of $300 million was appropriated for this program in the regular 1975 laborhew bill. when the emergency employment bill came along. everyone agreed to provide $119.8 million more. that would be egh for 250.000 parttime jobs. this is one of the best student aid programs. and we realized at the time the schools were in desperate need of funds and. as you k . the president vetoed that bill. yesterday the house appropriations committee reported a continuing resolution. that is house joint resolution 499. to which the senator has already referred. which would provide the same amount for college workstudy as was in the jobs bill. $119.8 million. i am hopeful that the continuing resolution will be enacted without any delay. i think the senator has had the assurances of the distinguished chairman of the full committee and the distinguished ranking member
i look back into some of the criticisms. one is thatin addition. funds for emergency school desegregation assistance have been included at the same level as in past years. although the incidence of new courtordered and voluntary desegregation plans has decreased substantially. we had hearings on that. as the chairman will recall. and we had people from the south. the west. and the th who all complained that they needed this money so sorely at this point. it shows absolutely wisdom as to what is going to be happening in the school year of 197677and. for that matter. 197576. because we need the funds . and they would suggest here. i take it. that we should cut back even below the level that we had in 197475.
. i have said how much i respect my chairman. we disagree on this point. i feel that a lot of good work is being done in postsecondary educational research. i do  happen to think tennis is as frivolous as the distinguished chairman does. he has pulled out one and i can argue for that one. i can say that many excellent research programs have been done. and we do need research in postsecondary education. it is very sorely needed. if we are to improve it. as i look at it. the budget estimate was $17.500.000. the house cut it by $4 million already. to $13.500.000. we had quite a discussion on this in the committee. senator case was very strong for improvement of postsecondary education. this particular item. i think senator stevens and some others were also very strong. we went along with the house cut of $4 million. as i understand it. the senator from delaware. for whom i have great respect. wants to cut it aher $3.500.000. in deference to my chairman and to the senator from delaware. to avoid a lengthy debate and a rollcall on this. would the senator consider a cut of $1.5 million or $1.7 million. when we go to conference with the house. we will have to drop it anyway.
all those groups the senator mentioned are certainly helped by research in postsecondary education. i disagreed with secretary weinberger. but  i want to agree with that he said when he wrote to us. he even asked us to restore the $4 million that was cut from the budget request by the house of representatives. the secretary said: $4 million for the fund for the improvement of postsecondary education. this increase is vital to support the presidents effort to bridge the gap between education and work. moreover. without this increase. the funds ability to develop more cost effective educational approachesin a period of financial stringency in postsecondary educationwill be sharply curtailed. this is certainly a laudable goal. i do want to point out to the distinguished senator from delaware that this is an important program. the president has said we want to close that gap between education and work. certainly. i am sure. that is something the senator from delaware wants to do. certainly our chairman wants to do that. i just feel that to cut it down any further below the house level of $13.5 million would be illadvised. the chairman is making the suggestion that if the senator from delaware will agree on $2 million. we would take the $2 million and go to conference with the house of representatives on it.
let me state to the senator from florida that he can teach that kid to read. write. and add. but does that kid take that education and transfer it to a work program. for which he is totally unprepared in this world today. and i think the senator from florida and the senator from delaware k it. but the senator from delaware has modified his amendment. and we will accept it. so that we will have an education bill. i hope the senator does  get old and become more cynical and more skeptical. education is still the  1 issue for us in this country. i agree with him. i salute the work he has done in 21272 con this field. and would hate to see him lost to it.
. i wish to say to the distinguished senator from west virginia. that i can agree with him more on just about everything that he said on the need for vocational and technical education. i think that our bill reflects that very well. i was invited to address a commencement exercise just last week for adult education. and a lady 75 years of age received her diploma from high school. it used to be. get either a high school diploma or college degree. and that was the end of it. you were set for life. but in our changing techogical society. there is a need for continuing education at all times. and people are changing jobs so much. i do  want to get into it at this time at any great length but many senators are waiting for a vote on this. we are going to have the yeas and nays on final passage on this bill. but i just want to say that is a great contribution. and ihqpe we will continue to recognize that we can put all of our money into baccalaureate. that some of that money has to go into vocational. technical education. and adult education as well.
the pending rules are in our society. anything but hardline. permitting segre- the civil rights movement continues. gation of the sexes in body contact sports the courts are recognizing the rights of and by ability groupings. further. the those handicapped by laguage or physirules permit a 1- to 3year adjustment cal inability. here in congress we are period for elementary and secondary called upon to give legislative expression schools. a period during which there may to the appeal for equal rights from many be segregation by sex. groups. certainly the least of them passing the casey amendment at this women. time could throw this process into con- in the casey amendment we are asked fusion and. in fact. might even result in to turn back the clock. to undo progress reversing many of the gains that have made or to block progress forthcoming. been made. thus. we face the issue squarely: to go this leaves hoary service fraterni- forward or go back. to continue the ties and sororities which senator bayh journey toward the bright day of equality declined to cover with his exemption. of opportunity for women. or to step back however. the casey amendment seeks to into the dark night of sex discrimination. put these organizations out of the reach i do  believe the senate will turn of title ix. its back on the women of this country. the primary function of hoary i believe it will choose to go forward toservice fraternities and sororities which ward the full vindication of womens often include students is  social. but rights. rather to help new and prospective pro- the nearmiss on the house floor yesterday should impel the senate to do fessionals learn the ropes of their pro- what the house may yet doand that is fessions. make useful contacts in finding to reject the casey amendment. that and effectively performing their jobs and would be consistent with the record of learn news of their profession. the senate on this issue. that would be most careers in which women are try- the right and proper thing to do and we ing to break job barriers have prestigious must do it. hoaries or fraternities whose mem- . i favor on a campus. it usually is smaller in size amendment  44. precluding any reand less prestigious than the male group. "quirement of integration on the basis of thus. i think it is fair to say that to - sex in physical education classes. boy exclude women from participation in scouts. girl scouts. ymca. ywca. hoary groups would be to impair their campfire girls. boys clubs. girls clubs. ability to get into the mainstream of and sororities and fraternities. whether their profession or intended profession. hoary. service. or social. which was hew has said it believes title ix reported by the conference committee should apply to these organizations when in disagreement. certain aspects of the provision have their activities are a part of the institu- already been deleted from the applications educational program. in an april tion of the hew regulations purporting 24 letter to chairman magnuson. secre- to implement title ix of the education tary weinberger stated: amendments of 1972. relative to any exception of these activities from that discrimination on the basis of sex in edutitle would be directly contrary to its basic cation programs and activities receiving purpose of providing equal educational op- federal financal assistance. portunity for both sexes. however. the hew regulations still i think the secretary has hit the nail require mixed classes of boys and girls on the head. it would be directly con- in that portion of physical education trary to title ix. for a major goal of programs  involving contact sports. title ix is to increase.  to decrease. additionally. the regulations still apply the access of women to the professions. to sororities and fraternities other than this process of access often begins purely social organizations. before and  after graduation. the as i pointed out in this chamber as experience with hoaries and fraterni- recently as july 8. 1975. section 86.34 of ties during college days may significantly the hew regulations provides that an influence a womans professional career. educational institution "shall  provide any course or otherwise carry oul any of its educational program or activity separately on the basis of sex." as stated. there are a couple of limited exceptions such as body contact sports and sex education classes in elementary and secondary schools. however. as i indicated on july 8. such traditional physical education activities as lifting barbells. doing pushups. and chinning bars are all  body contact sports. and under the hew regulations such activities must be taught in mixed groups of both sexes. further. the regulations provide that "where use of a single standard of measuring skill or progress in a physical education class has an adverse effect on members of one sex. the recipient shall use appropriate standards which do  have such effect." presumably this provision is intended as a caveat to a prior subsection of the regulations which permits the "grouping of students by ability as assessed by objective standards of individual performance developed and applied without regard to sex." thus. in the example mentioned. taking those hew provisions together. the inevitable conclusion is that an educational institution may use whatever standards its chooses to group students by ability in physical education programs. provided that a proportional balance of members of both sexes results in each group. therefore. if the teachers use muscular development as the objective standard for grouping students in the aforementioned physical education activity. and if the resulting groups consist of disproportionate numbers of boys and girls. that standard for grouping must be discontinued. and the teacher must select other "appropriate standards which do  have such effect." one wonders what the other "appropriate standards" would be. clearly. it is  the purpose of title ix of the education amendments of 1972 to require that boys and girls lift barbells together. in the same groups. and following the same pace of weight progression. but the hew regulations say they must. the language of the amendment in disagreement would rectify this ridiculous situation. and it would allow teachers and local school officials to determine which physical education programs and activities should be taught on a coeducation basis. and which are more properly offered in separate groups of boys and girls. - i urge that this necessary provision be retained in the bill.
. the congress of the united states can go on record as supporting such an unconscionable amendment. we have come too far and worked too hard. title vi of the 1964 civil rights act and title ix of the education amendments of 1972 are two of our proudest legislative accomplishments. if we pass this amendment we would be effectively nullifying programs which are designed to insure compliance with these acts. other statutes. and the equal protection requirements of the fifth and 14th amendments to the constitution. senator helms said in his earlier remarks that only 40 percent of the children in boston were going to school. i believe this figure is inaccurate. on the first day of phase 2 of bostons desegregation order approximately 59 percent of the public school children attended class. and as of yesterday. 75 percent of the children in the city of boston are going to school. there is problem with the children. in fact. if the parents. certain organizations. and the congress of the united states would leave them alone. there would  be any problems. and we could immediately desegregate the public school systems that have been intentionally and illegally segregated. it should be emphasized that we are  trying to balance the school systems. with an equal number of black and white children. that issue is a red herring. the supreme court has never required busing to create a racial balance. all the supreme court has ever held is that you can. by deliberate government action. segregate the public school systems of this country. that is good law. and that is good morality.
there has been more busing for the purpose of segregation in this country than there ever has been or will be for the purpose of desegregation. second. i want to give the senator aher statistic: 40 percent of the american schoolchildren ride to school on a bus every day. aher 25 percent of the american schoolchildren go to school on public conveyances. that means 65 percent of the american schoolchildren are transported to and from school every day. that leaves only 35 percent who actually walk to school. i can understand that parents. black or white. would rather have their children go to a school within walking distance. but i am saying to the senator that we have found that many schools in this countryit was  easy to find. but after great labor it was foundhad been segregated because of race. even in my own capital city of boston. we would find that there was a white high school and a housing project which was 90 percent black. practically right next to it. and that in that white high school. there was  one black child. that the black children were being bused from that housing project to a black cornmunity where they could atteend black schools. i am sure that the senator will find that. in th carolina. the same sort of situation exists. that black children have. for years and years. been bused past white schools to black schools in order to get an education in a segregated school system. the court has found that that is wrong. the senator must realize that that is wrong. it is morally wrong. it is constitutionally wrong. all the courts have been trying to do is say that it is unconstitutional. where we find it. we have to find some means of bringing about desegregation and. after everything else has failed. busing can be used as a constitutional tool. i do  think the courts have been wrong. i think the courts have made the correct decision.
. on tuesday. ember 11. i testified before the senate judiciary committee on the proposed constitutional amendments to prohibit busing for the purposes of school desegregation. in my testimony. i discussed many of the misconceptions that surround busing. outlined my objections to the specific proposals before the judiciary committee. and suggested a number of positive actions that local. state. and federal leaders may take to achieve equality of educational opportunity. because of the importance and the controversial nature of the busing issue. i would like to share my remarks with my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent that my remarks be printed in the record.
as such. i do  think the senator said "as such" at the time. he is qualifying it . it is  a busing amendment. indeed it goes far beyond busing. and threatens one of our most fundamental civil rights laws. title vi of the 1964 civil rights act. the senator referred to a statement in the committee report which was put in the report at the request of the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee. the senator from washington . i went along with that language because.  only do i respect the distinguished chairman. but i think he had a point. the language contained in the committee report is asking hew to comply with the law. what the senator is asking the senate to do is repeal the law. let me read the language that we have: the committee is particularly concerned about the present situation involving hew and the seattle public schools. the department. citing federal civil rights laws and regulations. has ordered the seattle school district to transfer a large number of teachers and other educational staff by september. 1976. this includes the shifting of many miity teachers especially trained or recruited to work within schools having large numbers of miity children. the committee expects the department. as it applies the civil rights laws. to make every possible effort and to take whatever steps are necessary so as to avoid harming the education of school children in seattle or elsewhere. this is  an impossible task. it is. in fact. a wholly reasonable expectation. that is what the senator from washington has asked. i think it is a reasonable request of hew. and i go along with that request. but i do  want the record to show that the senator from washington is in favor of repealing title vi of the civil rights act. he was and is one of its strongest supporters. we should  consider this report language. which i agree is good language. as indicating any change in his basic position. he wants reasonableness on the part of the assignment of those teachers and so does the senator from th carolina. and so do i. it is the right thing to do and more. the amendment the senator from th carolina is suggesting today goes far beyond busing. far beyond any language senator magnuson has suggested. the language. i respectfully say to him. which he is introducing today would. in effect. repeal title vi of the civil rights act with respect to the provisions of this appropriation bill. it would certainly hurt bilingual education in this country. it would hinder schools from keeping any records. any data at all. which would be helpful in carrying out the civil rights laws of the land.
the senator is saying that e of these funds can be used to require schools to classify teachers or students by race or national origin or to prepare or maintain any records. files. reports or statistics pertaining to these classifications. hew itself has sent in an -effect statement which tells us exactly what the effect of the helms amendment would be. and i intend to put that in the record. what the senator is saying is that he would limit the departments ability to obtain records and other information that hew says are essential to identify discriminatory practices by school districts receiving federal financial assistance. and to monitor the elimination of such practices. this amendment would include all schools. and all applicable funds under this appropriation bill. thus hew would be severely restricted in its ability to either identify constitutional violations. or do anything to eliminate them. if that is true. hews hands are tied and you are. in effect. nullifying title vi of the civil rights act. you are taking us way back before 1964. you are turning back the clock on our nations commitment to equal educational opportunities for all our schoolchildren.
but in attempting to get at that he goes so far that he in effect. repeals title vi with respect to the provisions of this bill. the senators amendment would also adversely affect most education programs. including bilingual education programs. regarding hewrequired busing. the senate has already acted on this matter. last fall we passed the byrd amendment which prohibits hew from requiring the transportation of any student to a school other than the school which is nearest the students home. and that same language. i want to say to the senator. is included in this appropriation bill. that same language is included in the house appropriation bill. and i will make attempt.  do i k of any other senator who will make any attempt today. while we are considering this bill. to strike that language from the bill. so that language will  be in conference. it will continue to be the law. in addition. the senator from missouri
. the list of problems facing this nation is as profound as it is lengthy: the vitality and viability of our cities. environmental degradation. new sources of energy. transportation. improvement of our health delivery systems. new approaches to the dual problems of crime and povertythe litany is familiar to all of us. the solutions to these problems are  obvious  will they be easy to come by. however. there is one element of the solutions that is doubtless truewe will need even better trained managers. engineers. scientists. and techogists to lead us into our third century as a nation. and the nations superb and extensive network of graduate schools is the best mechanism available to develop the training programs for the leaders and scholars on whom we must rely to solve our identified problems and to identify our unseen problems. over at least the next decade. the primary need in graduate programs will  be broad expansion of enrollments and programs as it has been in the past decade. but elevation of the level of quality of graduate education. modification of graduate programs to meet the changing needs of society and modification to meet the needs of new kinds of students. traditional graduate education tends to stress the training of students for research and teaching in academic fields. there are going to be fewer of these jobs in the future. at the same time. the nation has an urgent need for persons equipped by rigorous advanced study to deal with problems such as energy. the environment. and the needs of the cities. moreover. there are large new segments of society seeking graduate education: miities. women. older and parttime workers in particular. all these factors indicate the need to transform substantial parts of graduate education through the revamping of curricula. the designing of new courses. establishment of new relationships with industry and government. and the creation of new problemoriented entities within universities. while these changes are being brought about. it is necessary to concentrate upon maintenance and elevation of standards in graduate education. "better" rather than "more" must be the guide over the coming decade. many of the significant problems that lie before this nation have a special impact on members of miity groups. the problems of our cities. including urban decay. crime. mass transit. and poverty. fall disproportionately on miity persons who are still in the process of overcoming generations of discrimination. it is imperative that we continue to increase the number of miity persons reaping the benefits of graduate training. we desperately need their contributions to changing social issues. particularly those that severely affect miities. programs to attract and support advanced training of miity members are needed  only to remedy the continuing effects of past discrimination but also to assure the unique perspective which miity members can offer in addressing the full range of continuing national concerns. the widely accepted objectives of equal opportunity for all our citizens will  become a reality until many more members of disadvantaged groups become trained professionals and managers. enter leadership positions in government and industry and join the faculties of our educational institutions. support must be provided to improve programs to attract and involve miity individuals. fellowship funds also should be authorized to assure that miity individuals will be encouraged to pursue their education and training to the limits of their ability. in addition to the need to increase miity participation there are other ways that graduate education can assist in accomplishing national objectives. just as the federal government turned to universities to educate the students. to train the manpower and to perform the research that were national priorities in the past. we should again turn to these institutions to do their share in education. training and regearch that we need to address our current and future priorities. the adaptation of graduate education to new goals. however. will be inadequate without outside assistance. the universities simply do  have resources adequate to reorient graduate education on the scale and within the time required. the national board on graduate education and the association of graduate schools have reported extensively on the needs and problems confronting graduate institutions in modifying graduate programs to respond to emerging national needs. the national board has aptly stated important national goals if graduate education is to continue to contribute effectively to society: insuring that graduate education contributes to the national commitment to eliminate discrimla on based on race. sex. age. and socioecoic status. stimulating changes that - encourage the most effective contribution of graduate education and research to the solution of urgent nationa: problems. encouraging responsivness to the needs of students. including the development of graduate programs that serve parttime and older students. as well as the needs of urban residents. the response of the federal government to these national needs should be a program which encourages ination and change in graduate faculties. curricula. courses. research and program organization. it would be folly for the government  to provide the modest seed funds neces:ry to encourage this necessary ination. this kind of adaptation is in the interest of society as a whole. and it is also often beyond the financial capacity of universities to design and carry out without special assistance. much more than fellowships is required. new sequences of study must be designed. faculties from different disciplines and schools must bu linked creatively. new researc- programs must be integrated with new training programs. the purpose of the graduate programs title of these higher education amendments is  to expand graduate education  even to support current programs. growth and expansion were federal goals in the past and the graduate schools accomplished these objectives in remarkable fashionso much so that one often hears tales of an excess or "glut" of ph. ds. in the united states. the fact is that we do  have a glut of ph. ds. so much as we have a mismatch between some graduate training programs. and a startling list of national problems. we are training individuals in programs that are  related to national needs while at the same time there is great need for thousands of individuals with advanced training to address the full range of national problems. we do  have an oversupply of trained people. on the contrary we need more trained people. we do  require fewer ph. ds. so much as we require modifications of existing programs and perhaps creation of some new ones in order to educate and train the leaders and scholars we so desperately need to solve our problems. the nation is suffering from an undersupply of highly trained people who can contribute to solutions of national problemspetroleum and mining engineers to address our energy problems. geologists to inquire into earthquake predictions. metallurgists and solid state physicists to develop effective efficient. and ecoical collectors of solar energy. administrators of public programs to improve our health care. education and other social service delivery systems. botanists. biologists. ecologists to investigate our environmental problemsthe list could be extended indefinitely. our significant problems are unlikely to be solved unless we update our graduate programs and train our people for the task. title ix. the graduate programs section of these higher education amendments. addresses both of these needs. part a provides grants to graduate institutions to strengthen. improve and encourage ination in graduate programs and to develop selectively new training efforts in areas of national concern. it will build on the strength and scope of our existing graduate programs and provide support for development and modification of curricula and training opportunities. part b of title ix provides fellowships to encourage and support students who enroll in approved graduate programs. priority would be given to students who enroll in fields of high national priority especially to those individuals in academic career fields such as business. government. or industry. part c provides fellowship opportunities specifically for those pursuing careers in the public service--clearly an area of current national concern. again consideration will be given to individuals with academic experiences. especially those who have previously demonstrated a commitment to a career in the public service. part d provides fellowship for persons of disadvantaged backgrounds and also to those studying mining. minerals. and conservation. each of those is clearly an area of high national priority. part e requires the commissioner of education to report annually to the congress the recipients and amounts of program grant and fellowships fund awarded. together with an evaluation of how these awards contributed to the achievement of title ix priorities. this will assure that the commissioner and the graduate schools are responsive to these legislative mandates and accountable to the congress. title ix is clearly in the national interest. trained and educated people are our most important national asset. we should actively encourage our graduate institutions and our most talented individuals to prepare themselves to respond to new national concerns. title ix provides this encouragement and renews our clear national commitment to excellence in graduate education.
. i was privileged to k dr. johnson and his distinguished family while i was a student at howard university. and to his wife alice. his two daughters. carolyn graves and anna faith jones. his three sons. dr. mordecai w. johnson. jr.. dr. archer c. johnson. and william howard johnson. i extend my personal prayers. we have all suffered a great loss.
ial recommendation to extend for aher year under the waiver provisions of the trade reform act of 1974 the mfn status of the socialist republic of romania. in determining our attitude. we must face the facts as far as romanian policies are concerned. we find much to recommend in romanias foreign policies despite her continued membership in the warsaw pact. and we would like to encourage her attempts to become increasingly independent. yet. in doing so. we should  forget the onerous internal policies of the romanian government in regard to human rights. particularly toward reuniting separated families where one member had fled abroad and wants his family to join him or her. and with regard to the 2.5 million hungarians and 500.000 germans of the province of transylvania. the dedication of the united states to the cause and furtherance of human rights everywhere is too wellkn to be repeated. we are concerned about discrimination against miities everywhere. including those in the socialist republic of romania. their complaints have been often documented  only by americanhungarian organizations. including the american hungarian federation on the national level. but by many internationally rened newspapers and periodicals in the united states and western europe. they include the slow but steady decrease in school sections where the majority of the subjects are still taught in hungarian. especially on the secondary. technical. and vocational levels. they inlude local pressures against the free use of the mother tongue and sign in hungarian in the cities with even more than 40 to 50 percent hungarian population. and a complete iging of the history of transylvania because before 1920 the area belonged to hungary or was under hungarian rule. in addition. denationalization pressures include disversal by job assignment of the leadership of the hungarian community: that is. the professional school and university graduates into purely romanian provinces and counties while settling romanian professionals and university graduates into the hungarian regions. may i call the attention of the senate to this state of affairs and ask the administration to consider these issues in talking with the romanian government. and my colleagues to consider them carefully in making ut. our minds about the extension of the mfn status. lest possible approval be misunderstood for a blanket approval of the policies of the romanian government toward human rights. especially of those of the more disadvantaged national miities.
. the senate and house recently reached agreement on an amendment to the higher education bill that was offered by senator john glenn. the glenn amendment provides specific legal authority for federal assfistance to school districts utilizing magnet schools and other inative methods as component parts of school desegergation plans. i ask unanimous consent that the following material from the ohio press be printed in the record to document further the positive and constructive efforts of senator glenn on this very difficult issue.
. prior to our recess. i would like to call to the attention of my colleagues the recently released report of the u.s. commission on civil rights entitled "fulfilling the letter and spirit of the law: desegregation of the nations public schools." this report is based on one of the most extensive and thorough studies of school desegregation undertaken in recent years. civil rights commission staff conducted over a thousand interviews with the people most affected by school desegregationinterviews with students. parents. teachers. school administrators. and local elected and civic leaders. the commissions report provides detailed information on the progress of desegregation in 33 school systems in all parts of the country and presents general data based on a survey of over 1.200 school districts. although i can summarize the wealth of information contained in this 300pluspage report. i would like to share a few of my thoughts and observations about it. twentytwo years ago. the supreme court declared in brown against board of education that racially segregated public schools violate the constitution. the commissions report documents the fact that despite delays and defiance. the nation is moving closer to compliance with the constitutional command to eliminate school segregation. the report of the civil rights commission contradicts the widely publicized misconception that school desegregation is chaotic and counterproductive. unlike the 60second television reports which focus on the temporary problems of one school out of an entire school system. "fulfilling the letter and spirit of the law" documents that for most students desegregation is both a peaceful and positive educational experience. the commission credits the general success of school desegregation to the conduct of students. strong community leadership. and citizen respect for the law. i am sure that all americans who share my concern for the children of this nation and their constitutional rights are encouraged by the commissions amply documented conclusion that "school desegregation works."
i would just like to say. . dr. luther foster. and we agree that this is a stopgap. that there is an emergency. and that this is an important institution serving a large area of people. as the senator has said. it is the.most integrated school of its kind in the country. but primarily it does serve miities. we are willing to accept this amendment. and i understand the distinguished chairman. senator mcclellan. and the distinguished ranking member. senator young. are willing to accept this amendment and. hopefully. we will hold it in conference.
. the sub- in washington and i am glad to report committee on laborhew appropria- that it is making considerable progress tions shares the concern of the senator in formulating its basic theoretical and from kansas about the ur- conceptual approach for attacking the gent need for school facilities at fort policy issues ahead. it was particularly riley and other installations. the sena- heartening to e that the commission tor from south carolina . is striving to maintain a close liaison the senator from missouri (mr. eagle- with both the executive branch and ton). and the senator from kentucky the congress. in fact. the commission
we are aware of the present needs at fort riley. under public law 815. the committee on appropriations has included $50.000.000. an increase of $25.000.000 over the 1977 level. twenty million of the increase recommended by the committee is targeted at helping to meet the school construction needs at military bases such as fort riley.
. i have discussed this matter with the distinguished senator from kansas. and he makes a strong point. the committee is aware of the problem at fort riley. kans.. and has given very serious consideration to this and to school construction funds.
i thank the distinguished senator from th carolina. i understand his reasons for supporting my amendment to strike this language. i again have to say how very much i am inspired and pleased by his courageous stand and by his understanding. more important. of the real problem involving school desegregation. what busing is and what it is . i think he has made a very clear and very convincing case. what he has said is absolutely true. and i wish others would look at it realistically and  hypocritically as. unfortunately. some do in this country. 
all right. on my time. does the senator realize that in the last decade. hew has only defunded one school district in this country. at ferndale. mich.. the senator would lead our colleagues to believe that hew is withholding funds all the time from school districts. it is just  the fact. the senator should k that. he did  expect hew to defund under richard nixon and under gerald ford.  he has his own administration in there. let us see what is going to happen. they did  defund them then. what does he think they are going to do under joe califa
i asked why the senator at this time in 1977. when the desegregation of public school systems in this country is progressing without violence. when those districts that are under court order are desegregating their school systems without violence. feels that it is necessary to take a step even further back than the byrd amendment which we adopted in 1975.
. while we have debated this matter again at some length. i can only reiterate what i said before: that the amendment offered by the senators from missouri and delaware would go far beyond the byrd amendment which we adopted in 1975. it would deny the remedies of clustering and pairing. and it certainly would put us further back in our effort in this country to desegregate public school systems that have been segregated only by official action. all that has been said today only reiterates the need for the u.s. senate to stand up at this time in our history and say to all children in this country. "we guarantee you an equal educational opportunity. we do  guarantee you integrated education. but we do guarantee that you will  be segregated by any arm of government." that is what we are talking about. we are talking about more than that. we never have talked about any more than that. i hope that the motion i have made to strike out this languagewhich would include the socalled eagletonbiden languagewill be agreed to by this body.
. i just want the record to show that those barrels of oil that the senator is so worried about certainly are  being used to desegregate the school systems. fiftyfive percent of all the children in this country ride to school on buses. but only 4 percent of them ride to school on buses because of desegregation. i hope the senator will  leave it on the record that he believes we are spending all this money on oil for the desegregation of public schools. let us worry about energy when we get to it. that is  the case at all. if the senator believes that the amendment offered by senators eagleton and biden is going to stop courtordered busing. the senator again is wrong. the senator from th carolina is absolutely right: it is  going to stop courtordered busing. and i do  think we should give the impression that it is. if anybody votes on this amendment in the belief that they are going to stop courtordered busing. they are being misled.
. this amendment would allow the desegregation remedies of restructuring. clustering. and pairing. and it is an amendment with which we have lived with very well for 2 years. it is certainly less restrictive than the amendment that we just voted upon. it does  allow busing any more than the present state of affairs. as we have already indicated. but it would still allow hew and school districts to fashion and to use a remedy which they need. namely. pairing. clustering. or restructuring. i hope that senators in their wisdom will agree to this amendment which. as i said. is the old byrd language of 1975 and which we have lived with. it does  go as far as i would like to see it go by any means. and it is rather strange that i should be the one offering this amendment when i fought against it initially. but we compromised and accepted it in 1975. and i present it at this time
apparently. the concern of the distinguished senator from virginia. which others have as well. has been heard by the department of health. education. and welfare. because. as our chairman said. when secretary califaappeared before the committee. he gave us certain assurances. one was that. in future years. the elementary and secondary school survey would only be conducted every 2 years. he also annced that increased technical assistance will be provided to schools which are required to fill out the forms in the future. our committee. in its reporti direct the senators attention to our committee report on this bill.
the report has directed that the surveys be less complex and easier to fill out. the report also urges the office for civil rights to cooperate more closely with the chief state school officers and local educational agencies. the number of schools that will be required to fill out the annual survey form in future years will be greatly reduced and there is a good chance that there will be major elementary and secondary school survey in 1977 and 1978. which concerns the senator. i ask the senator. will he agree to a modification of his amendment. that modification would be that "e of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this title shall be obligated or expended unless the secretary determines such expenditures to be necessary for the elementary and secondary schools." would this accomplish the senators desires.
i wholeheartedly agree with the distinguished floor manager. and i commend him again and again for what he did in the committee on the administration bill. but i would be somewhat distressed to learn that there are. say. several hundred utility companies already in business. i take it what the senator is saying to me is that we would grandfather them in. if i am correct.
there are . i said to the house the other day that a democrat gets just as cold as a republican up our way. as far as i am concerned. the democrats in my district are of just as much importance to me as i k the republicans in your district are to you. you are going to fight for the republicans in your district and i am going to fight for the democrats in my district. if we make any mistakes. we are big egh to admit it. if they make some mistakes downtown. i am going to challenge them and ask them to explain. because we ought to learn from past mistakes. today. when the house acted as it did. i think the house is to be congratulated. and so are you. and so is the respected former speaker of this house who lent his great influence to that effort.
i do  k. i suppose it means "at once." may i quote the language of the massachusetts law to which i previously referred. being subsection 8. section 3. chapter 368. of the acts of 1946: to create such advisory agencies and conciliation councilslocal. regional. or statewideas in its judgment will aid in effectuating the purposes of this chapter. and the commission may empower them to study the problems of discrimination in all or specific fields of human relationships or in specific instances of discrimination because of race. color. religious creed. national origin. or ancestry. in order to foster. through community. effort or otherwise. good will. cooperation. and conciliation among the groups and elements of the population of the commonwealth. and make recommendations to the commission for the development of policies and procedures in general and in specific instances. and for programs of formal and informal education which the commission may recommend to the appropriate state agency. such advisory agencies and conciliation councils shall be composed of representative citizens. serving without pay. but with reimbursement for actual and necessary traveling expenses. and the commission may make provision for technical and clerical assistance to such agencies and councils and for the expenses of such assistance. i am delighted that the committee bill provides for these agencies "in order to foster. through community effort or otherwise. good will. cooperation. and conciliation among the groups and elements of the population of the commonwealth." as i stated. the committee bill wisely incorporates that recommendation. having referred to the testimony of mr. elwood s. mckenney. commissioner. massachusetts fair employment practice commission. at page 248 of the hearings. let me quote portions of that testimony as evidence which i think is pertinent and convincing. i do  k mr. mckenney personally but i k him by reputation. i am told by our colleague. the gentleman from massachusetts . that he is one of the persons primarily responsible for the great success of the law in massachusetts who has an excellent background for practical advice to us: in 1942. 1944. and 1945 investigations were made by the legislative committees in massachusetts with respect to the extent of employment discrimination in the commonwealth of massachusetts. those investigations revealed. as late as the one in 1945. that there was without doubt considerable discrimination in utilities. most manufacturing concerns. retail stores. and other places of business. * s * * * i would like to examine our experience in the 3 years of this law in massachusetts. prior to the enactment of the statute in massachusetts the representatives of industry said that the passage of fepc legislation would create such a burden upon employers that the most damaging effect it would have .would be to drive business out of the state. well. the 1948 report of the boston chamber of commerce speaks for itself. that report said that during 1948. the third year that the fairemploymentpractice law was in effect. 86 new business organizations had been established in metropolitan boston. and. further than that. 58 existing firms had begun new construction at a cost of $300.000.000. * s * s s it is also significant that after 21/2 years of fepc in massachusetts. the associated industries in massachusetts and the boston chamber of commerce both issued statements that although they were  in favor of the law as a matter of principle. they were satisfied legislation of that type could be administered without causing a burden upon industry. o a s s * in massachusetts there were many. many businessmen. and there still are. who are  in favor of the principle of fepc legislation. but because it is the law we have considerable evidence that they have given voluntary compliance to it. * * s s s there is little doubt that the experience in massachusets. new york. new jersey. and connecticut has convinced the legislatures. industries. and the people in these states that the fepc can be effective. 0 0 * 0 s from the beginning of its administration in the fall of 1946. the massachusetts fair employment practice commission has processed over 500 complaints of ecoic discrimination involving business organizations employing over 400.000 persons. * * * * s i think a federal act. provided the persons who administer it are chosen intelligently. can be administered just as well as the acts in the states of massachusetts and new york. let me emphasize that. for i think it is the very heart of the success of the massachusetts act as mr. mckenney asserts and you will e he also makes the same reference to the new york administration. i can say too emphatically that if the persons who may be named and will have the responsibility of administering this law learn from the experience in massachusetts. new york. connecticut. and other states and apply that experience. there is every reason to believe that one will be injured but that all will be benefited. i realize that the debate longer seems to be of any great importance here in washington in determining congressional intent. i regret that that has too frequently been the case in construing a law in our courts. however. i do state with all the emphasis at my command that i want you to vote affirmatively on these amendments if. and only if. you want them to be construed by the commission and by the courts as a legislative mandate which must be recognized and applied. and can. under any circumstances. irrespective of the personnel of the commission. be distorted or disregarded. please be assured that while i feel keenly this is the proper approach. i prefer that you vote against the amendments if you want to give this commission any more inclusive power or if you want to give them any reason to believe that this amendment does  mean exactly what it says. this should  be a punitive venture in the united states  should it give any person named to this commission any shadow of authority to engage in a clubswinging effort. i repeat that. if any do. i am entirely confident a great many of those who tonight or tomorrow morning work for this bill will work endlessly and successfully to abolish that commission at the earliest possible date on the ground of their complete disregard of the purposes and intent df this law as clearly stated in the house version.
i just want to call the attention of the committee to the fact that the national defense establishment on december 30. 1949. had this to say in its report: "they." meaning the military department "are also supporting the proposed legislation for a national science foundation." we reported this bill 6 months before. on june 14. 1949. coming from massachusetts i want to say that there is shred of evidenceand i do  k this man. shapleythere is  a shred of evidence that karl compton. expresident of m. i. t. and a sponsor and a witness before our committee. or president conant of harvard university. the director of the sheffield scientific school at yale university. and literally scores of others. prominent americans. including gen. "hap" ard. of the air force. are inclined to support any communistinspired legislation in this house.
secondly. that the proposed allocation for the first quarter of 1952 in steel. for instance. was in the neighborhood of 92.000 tons while school authorities stated they would need a minimum for necessary construction of 250.000 tons.
. the effect of this amendment is clear and simple. it strikes out section 2 of the senate bill and substitutes for it section 2 of the house bill. so it conforms precisely to the house bill in this particular. there are three reasons for the amendment. first of all. the amendment provides exactly the procedure which we followed in the original draft act. that is to say. the draft act taking effect during a school or college year provided that anyone who had already begun his school or college year and was drafted might complete that particular year. the amendment applies only to the current year. when we passed the original draft act on september 16. 1940. we faced the same issue. and we met it in the same way. when the bill came before the house of representatives it faced the same issue and met it in the same way. i believe the amendment is altogether just and righteous. it means that if a young man has started his school or college year he may complete that year. he is  exempted. but his service is deferred so that his educational course for that year may be of value to him and to his country. then he goes into the service. we did it in the first instance. the house has done it in the house bill. and i believe we should do it .
. i concur in the desire to have a vote. but i need to add a statement as to one feature. this measure will probably  go into effect until some time in december. we shall. therefore. have men in the midst of their high school and college courses. many of those men are working their way through school. having proceeded that far. what they have done would be completely lost. the interests of the army would  be adversely affected by the adoption of this amendment. because the service of those men would be deferred for only 2 or 3 months. until the end of the current school year. then they would go into the army. with the benefit of the college course on which they had worked.
merely to keep the record straight in regard to the pay items. but  to enter into detail regarding them. i think it is necessary to look into the facts of the cases when they arise. when the pay of the pages was increased from $4 to $5 it was increased to precisely the same amount which is to be paid the pages in the house of representatives. but. more than that. the pages receive mileage. and they are required to pay for their own school tuition. and most of them live away from home and have expenses in that connection. i think the increase in the pay of the pages is justified on its merits. in view of the facts of their situation. matter what the other situation may be.
. i wish to say just a few words in expressing appreciation of the efficiency with which the committee staff and the subcommittee staff and the chairman of the subcommittee have handled these matters. the hearings on this appropriation bill were conducted with a great deal of expedition. it appears from a consideration of the house committee report and from the hearings before the senate committee that much care has been given to this bill in all its details. the total increase in the amounts of the appropriations. as recommended by the subcommittee and as explained by the senator from wyoming. consists almost entirely of amounts for the building of two schools and the making of plans for certain other schools. i wish to point out that those additions are  variations from the districts program. they are part of a wellestablished and thoroughly planned program whch has been developed over a period of years by the distinguished senator from louisiana . who brought about a study of the school system of the district of columbia with a view to building up the school facilities without borrowing money by the issuance of bonds. but by providing for a reasonable addition of new buildings to the school system from year to year. what is proposed here is merely the continuande of a wellplanned and established program. the provision for the schools which is added in the bill is in accordance with the result of exhaustive research to determine which ones are needed under the program. in view of the changing conditions in the district of columbia. i think there is question that these additions should be made. and i urge the passage of the bill.
first. i wish to express my appreciation to the senator from massachusetts for his very fine statement and analysis of the pending joint resolution. i wish to emphasize the fact that the senator from tennessee has made it possible for us to point out that it is  necessary to accept theprovision in the joint resolution with regard to counting the electoral vote or even the provision with respect to casting it. in order to eliminate the defect which. i agree with both senators. ought to be eliminated. namely. the existence of the electoral college and chance that a member of the electoral college may go haywire. that provision. as well as the provision for counting the votes. in the event that the election should be thrown into the house of representatives. can be corrected without in any way involving us in the dangers and difficulties and unkns which the provisions to which i object would lead us.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide assistance to the states in certain surveying and planning with respect to college facilities. i ask unanimou. consent that the bill. together with a statement regarding the bill. which i have released. be printed in the record.
. yesterday i introduced a bill providing financial assistance to states for use in an expanded public community college program. in preparing this bill. s. 2810. i exchanged views with a good many university officials and others interested in the field of education. i ask unanimous consent to have some of their responses placed at this point in my remarks in the body of the record. it should be added that the release of these replies has been authorized in each case by the correspondent. i hope that these favorable replies from many at the higher education level will demonstrate to the senate the need for some constructive action to overcome the current shortage of facilities which confronts highschool graduates anxious to take the next step toward their education.
i thank the senator. he is most generous. as a member of the committee. i have had an opportunity. which most of the members of the senate outside the committee have  had. to consider the bill with some care. it is my considered judgment. as a result of such consideration. that the bill has very slight value. if any. as an antirecession measure. i feel that the action taken tentativelyand i think it will be confirmedto postpone consideration until april 14 is justified. if i did  feel this way. i could  have voted as i did. despite my high regard for the miity leader. there is very little chance that much. if any. of the work which will be done by federal loans under the bill will be in areas which are depressed. it will  be that kind of work that will be done. there is little chance that people who are out of work in the depressed areas will get any work by reason of the passage of the bill. . there are certain matters of proposed legislation which the senate should consider without delay and before taking a recess. several days ago a number of my colleagues and i proposed that the senate consider an unemploymentcompensation bill as an antirecession measure. however. it is evident that that bill will  be considered before the recess is taken. that is a shocking situation. neither has there been consideration of a school bill. which on its own merits should receive prompt and early consideration. with regard to the pending bill. to obligate funds for the purpose referred to. my concern is that this bill. good as it may be. may very well lessen the opportunities for the congress to pass measures such as those providing for urban renewal. hospital construction. adequate public housing. and. above all. assistance to the states and communities in the case of school construction. that is why the pending measure should  be considered too hurriedly. the pending bill has slight value as an antirecession measure. moreover. further consideration of the pending bill might result in lessening the chances to have the senate consider and pass important measures for public assistance. to which the congress should give priority.
i appreciate the comment by my distinguished colleague from minnesota. i still hope he will keep an open mind on the question whether he will or will  offer the amendment to the bill. if the senator offers the amendment. he will  be introducing the school question to the bill. the school question is in the bill. the bill permitsand i think it shouldloans to school districts for the construction of public school buildings. the senator will  be introducing the subject by presenting his amendment. all he will be doing is saying that such loans. when made for that purpose. shall carry an interest rate of only 2 percent. the senator will be adding hing to jeopardize the passage of the bill. in my honest judgment. and. .
. in our city. from time to time. important statements. many of which represent weeks and months of study and the effort and considered judgment of many people. are prepared and published. many of these are of great significance. breaking new ground in the development of public policy. for a day or two they hold the spotlight in our news mediums. for this brief period the sheer soundness of such statements shines through like a beacon of light. people agree with them. they read that wheels have been set in motion and they sit back. assured "things are on the track". but if the wheels go forward only briefly. if the wheels then continue spinning without any real progress. the warning of these sentinels of our security is wasted. in the last 2 years. there have been a number of studies. both governmental and governmental. in the field of education. involving proposals for congressional action. yet it  appears that unless some steps are taken quickly. that this session of congress may adjourn without the members of the united states senate having had an opportunity to vote on such legislation. last ember. dr. alan t. waterman. director of the national science foundation. in summarizing the findings of some of these studies. declared: we do k that statistically only about 50 percent of highschool graduates who are judged capable of receiving college training go on to college. we k that many potentially able scientists and engineers. as well as leaders in other fields. are lost as a result of the failure of this 50 percent to receive advanced training. we must. therefore. redouble our efforts to attract into our institutions of higher education the potential that is  being lost. and within this group we should make special effort to reach those with aptitudes for science and mathematics. dr. waterman concluded: let us hope that the sputnik adventures will serve to awaken every citizen of the country to the importance of certain "musts" if we are to maintain leadership in the fields of science and techogy. every citizen must realize the importance of adequate school facilities in his neighborhood and the need for improved science teaching in the secondary schools. we do  want to claim for these fields any more than their fair share of gifted boys and girls. but we must see that every student who is capable of receiving higher education is enabled to get that education. we must see that those with special aptitudes for scientific or technical fields are aware of the fact and given an opportunity to pursue the fields for which they are best suited. we must also realize the importance of some kledge of science for all educated people. even though they have intention of following science as a career. shortly after congress convened. on january 23. 1958. the distinguished majority leader. senator johnson of texas. in reporting on a study by the senate preparedness subcommittee. addressed the senate in a similar vein: our country is entering a new period of history in which the total resources of america must be brought to their greatest development. segment of our ecoy or of our life must be iged or neglected. our programs. our policies. and our practices must all be in good working order. a full national effort is required and this can be achieved only by people working together. the goal is  merely to imitate some soviet missile or some soviet achievement. this attitude could lead us into a hypic trance in which we would forget that our true strength is our freedom. that is a fundamental which we must  forget. we would lose much more than we would gain if we tried to match totalitarian accomplishments by adopting totalitarian methods and values. our need to mobilize today flows from a necessity of forging ahead to broader frontiers of freedom merely from the need of catching up with the soviets. we must  fail because we sell short the potential of a free society. we must suceed by unleashing our minds. unleashing our capacity. and moving forward with the great force. vigor. and imagination of which we are capable. the majority leader emphasized the importance of education with these words: it is obvious that all our plans for the future will be frustrated if we dont foster the training of our children along broad lines through greater concentration on science and mathematics without neglecting the humanities * * * there can be adequate defense for the united states except in a reservoir of trained and educated minds. on the same day the distinguished majority leader. in commenting again on educational needs. predicted action on an education bill in the present session of congress this year. later that day. the majority whip. senator mansfield. the distinguished senator from montana. introduced a bill to provide an expanded program of federal scholarships for study in the sciences and linguistics. in discussing his bill. he said: we can enact federalaid legislation which would help high schools and colleges improve and add additional laboratory facilities in their science departments. finally. we can and must enact a broad graduate and undergraduate scholarship program in the sciences and engineering. an expanded federal scholarship program would do much to increase our supply of these professionals. six months later the rockefeller brothers fund issued a report on education and the future of america. an apt title indeed. in this report. prepared by a distinguished panel of educators. journalists. scientists. and administrators. there appeared this report on the unhappy conditions in our nations schools: our schools are overcrowded. understaffed. and illequipped. in the fall of 1937. the shortage of publicschool classrooms stood at 142.000. there were 1.943.000 pupils in excess of mal classroom capacity. these pressures will become more severe in the years ahead. elementary school enrollments .will rise from some 22 million today to about 34 million by 196061. by 1969 high schools will be deluged with 50 to 70 percent more students than they can  accommodate. by 1975. our colleges and universities will face at least a doubling and in some cases a tripling of present enrollments. if we are to meet these pressures. our schools will need greatly increased public support and attention. and much more money. but they also need something besides money. an unsparing reexamination of current practices. patterns of organization and objectives. from time to time one still hears arguments over quantity versus quality education. behind such arguments is the assumption that a society can choose to educate a few people exceedingly well or to educate a great number of people somewhat less well. but that it can do both. but a modern society such as ours can choose to do one or the other. it has choice but to do both. i agreed with all of these statements when they were madein ember of 1947. on january 23. 1958. and on june 23. 1958. i agree with these statements today. their message is clearthe need for a tremendous effort to improve our schools has  passed. but it is clear. as we enter what may be the closing weeks of this session of congress. that members of the united states senate are  being given an opportunity to debate and vote on the necessary measures to strengthen our scientific and educational effort. the senate committee on labor and public welfare has completed lengthy hearings on several educational bills. the 1.602 pages on the subject have been neatly bound in a 2inchthick transcript. the hearings were concluded on march 13. last week marked the completion of 4 full months since the ending of the hearings. the senate committee on labor and public welfare has completed its work on several other matters since then. however. insofar as educational legislation is concerned. the committee has  been heard from for the past 4 months. the legislation which has been pending before the senate committee on labor and public welfare for the past 7 months could do a great deal to overcome these shortages. the administration bill before the committee would create 10.000 new federal scholarships each year for 4 years. it would assist local schools in the development of better scientific and mathematics programs. it would assist in the development of more welltrained college teachers. encourage and improve the teaching of foreign languages. as well as provide better statistical data on american education so that proper steps may be taken as needed. senator lister hill. the chairman of the committee. has a bill with similar objectives pending before the committee. the schoolconstruction bill which the administration proposed in 1957. although defeated in the house that year. is still pending- before the senate committee. the need for this legislation is as great as ever. the effects of the shortage of classrooms go far beyond the 1.943.000 pupils in excess of mal classroom capacity. for it is  just the 10 or 15 too many pupils crowded into some classrooms that sufferit is the whole class. principals and teachers have been forced to strain existing facilities. establishing makeshift classrooms in basement boiler rooms. in school corridors. or even worse. in limiting classes to half sessions. in order to give some education to all students. the inevitable result has been a decline in quality. further. as many school officials strive to meet the need for bricks and mortar in order to house students. they are. perforce. obliged to dedicate limited revenues for construction. rather than teachers salaries. the senate has been meeting early and late on many pressing and important problems of the nation. it is  an easy task to select and schedule legislation for senate action. i would argue emphatically. however. that our school children are being overlooked by the united states senate. if we adjourn this session without substantial education legislation. we will have failed in a national emergency.
. in succeeding years the universitys school of law. the far eastern studies and italian institutes. a new dormitory. science laboratory and library at south orange and the seton hall college of medicine and dentistry were established under the monsigs leadership and direction. these represent just a few of the eworthy contributions during the last years of a full and dedicated life of service for which we are greatly indebted.
he left his mark upon this body and upon the lives. minds and hearts of all of us. an individual with very distinct and definite views which he never feared or hesitated to express. an individual who consistently followed through on his convictions. and he held his convictions  with arrogance. but with great firmness. he was a very consistent man. for him to believe something was to put it into action. and in this day. when the appearance of things seems sometimes more important than the actuality. that quality is of special value. he was a man who was involved. as the senator from minnesota has just said. with all of gods creations. and especially with other human beings. one whom he knew suffered without dick suffering. too. or rejoiced without his sharing in that joy. this very involvement had. i really believe. something to do with the fact that he died at such an early age. there was checkrein on him. he was constantly pouring out his feelings. his mind. his emotions. with everything that came before him and into everything that came before him. this morning my beloved former colleague. alexander smith. phoned me and asked me expressly to say to my colleagues here today that he was deeply shocked to learn of dicks death. he wanted me to say. and he joins with me in saying. that he had the highest regard for dick neuberger as a very fine senator and as a wonderful person. this influence of dicks. this imprint that he made upon people. is deeply shared by alexander smith. rightly. everyone who has spoken has mentioned his relationship with mauine. and surely there never was a happier marriage. one more deeply satisfactory or satisfying. my wife and i knew them both well. were fond of them in a very deep and personal way. and she shares with me the sense of loss that we feel this morning. my wife joins with me in our most heartfelt sympathy. good wishes and deep affection for maurine.
. i introduce for appropriate reference. a bill providing a program of financial assistance to the states for construction of public community colleges. this is substantially the same bill i introduced in the previous congress. the situation has changed in only one important particular: the need for action is greater than ever. the longer we delay action. the greater the number of our capable young people who will be unable to better themselves through higher education. authorities tell us we must double our educational facilities over the next 10 years. many in the educational community are already alive to this crisis. indeed. most colleges and universities are striving to enlarge and improve their facilities on their own. these efforts have been helpful. but they are  egh. by any means. one of the most widely acclaimed answers to our problem of providing for the expansion of college facilities has been the relatively new and fast growing 2year community college. community colleges  make up more than half of the 677 2year colleges in the -united states. enrolling an estimated 900.000 students. the popularity of these colleges is easily traceable to important advantages they afford to the average high school graduate. community colleges can offer a variety of programs. fulfilling needs of students planning to continue in college at a 4year institution. students desiring only 2 years of study in the vocational or technical training areas and adults intending to further their education while working. community colleges also offer important savings to a student in that it is usually possible for him to live at home and even to work parttime. should he desire to do so. and since community colleges mally have requirement for costly dormitories. and the like. there are important savings in school construction costs. it is because i. too. believe that the community college is the best way to meet the growing requirement of our young people for higher education that i again introduce this bill. assistance to elementary and secondary schools remains essential. but we can limit our goals to either of these areas alone if this country is to meet its responsibilities in the field of education.
it has been said that the proposed legislation should  be used as a means of enforcing desegregationthat is to say. as an instrument for putting into effect the supreme courts interpretation of the constitution. in the school desegregation case. if the senator from ohio will permit me to say so. i wish to state that i think that. except for those who favor segregation. that argument is made only on the basis that the bill will have less chance to be enacted into law if the bill is made an affirmative instrument of desegregation. but i have  heard anyone say that even for the sake of effecting the passage of the bill. it should be allowed to be an instrument for strengthening segregation. is it  true that the senators amendment would  in any way make the bill of any effect. affirmatively. toward bringing about desegregation in the schools.
i appreciate very much the fact that the senator from new york has made that point very clear. i am a cosponsor. with him. of this amendment. as is the senator from illis . the senator from new york . and other senators. it seems to me that regardless of whatever may be our view as to the desirability of making the school systems program an instrument to bring about. a little more quickly. decency in this country. and to do so affirmatively. there can be justification whatever for putting on the statute books of the country a bill which would delay desegregation. yet that would be the effect. as stated more than once. and as annced officially on the floornamely. that account whatever will be taken. in connection with the distribution of the funds. as to whether the funds will be given to a school which is practicing segregation or whether the school has made any move at alland some have  done soto comply with the supreme courts decision.
it is my judgment that it is  fair to the members of the congress of the united states. in this body or the other body. to say that any substantial number of them are going to be affected in their voting on the school aid bill by the consideration we are  talking about. and that any asserted danger that adoption of this amendment might endanger the passage of the bill is  based upon any reasonable prospect.
. it is  always possible for our countrymen. indeed. the world at large. to k of the many fine impressions which the united states makes on student visitors. all too often the reverse is true. i ask unanimous consent that a letter written by an exchange student from abroad be printed in the record. quite probably. many other letters of a similar nature are written but never see the light of day.
ial commissions have focused attention on these colleges as the most logical way to expand higher education facilities. the hope has been expressed by one outstanding educator that junior colleges may be able to enroll 50 percent of all students entering college by these 2year institutions vary from community to community depending on local needs. but in general they offer all or a part of the following programs: first. a transfer program. enabling the student to transfer to a 4year college or university to pursue a program leading to a baccalaureate degree in the arts or sciences. or to a professional degree. second. a terminal program. designed to provide a specific unit of training for entrance into employment. but  intended to include transfer to a degreegranting 4year institution. third. a program of general education.  intended to include transfer to a degreegranting institution. fourth. a program of adult education that may parallel those described above. depending on the demand. usually offered in an evening session. because of the advantage of this type of institution and because of the contribution it can make to the educational needs of this country at the higher levels. i was greatly pleased and gratified by the willingness of the chairman of the subcommittee on education. the other members of the subcommittee. and the members of the full committee on labor and public welfare to accept an amendment to title 3 of the bill. an amendment which i offered to a bill several years ago. for a community college program. title iii of the bill will go a long way to assure every american the opportunity to continue his education up to the maximum of his ability. the expansion of existing 2year colleges and the establishment of new ones have been recommended by the committee on labor and public welfare in its report on the bill. the committee looks on the 2year institutions as providing "widespread opportunity for posthighschool education of college grade at a reasonable cost both to the student and to the supporting public. the committee regards the community college as a major new hope for the successful accommodation of increasing college enrollment." the essence of title iii is to provide federal financial assistance to the states on a matching basis to stimulate increased state and local effort in constructing community colleges. federal outlays of $50 a million for 5 years are a modest contribution toward the costs that are faced by the states in community college construction. secretary of health. education. and welfare abraham ribicoff has recognized the great value of community colleges. in testimony before our committee he said: a community college to me is the answer to the floodgate of education in this country. i feel with the fantastic cost of education. the fantastic cost of buildings. the fantastic cost of room and board. that the answer to the large educational problem will be found in the community. our population is changing and shifting. we are shifting away from the villages in the country. and our rural population is shifting to the city. it is expensive  to build a college and university in the country. i think with all the boys wanting to go to school. you will find a higher education basically developing in community colleges right in builtup areas in the cities. where young men and women may live at home and go to college. and this would eliminate the necessity of athletic fields and student unions and dormitories. expense for room and board. which is more expensive in many schools than the tuition. and this would be where the growth will be. senator case. in the community colleges. and everything should be done to encourage it. dr. alan t. waterman. director of the national science foundation. testified before our committee and indicated his interest in the provisions of s. 1140. my bill for assistance to the junior colleges. which  has been adopted by the committee as title iii of the pending bill. while urging support for a broad program of aid for construction of college facilities. he referred to s. 1140. in these words: s. 1140 raises aher and quite interesting set of questions. if i interpret correctly the recent trends in higher education. the 2year college. although already of considerable importance. is likely to become still more important in the next few years. the projected increases in college enrollments between  and 1970 will place many strains on our existing institutions. the possibility of providing federal funds to assist in the establishment of additional community colleges is therefore worthy of careful attention. already. the community college program has indicated its great potential for helping young people achieve education beyond high school. our committee was told that in the state of washington one community college last year turned away a thousand applicants because of lack of space. in some junior colleges on the eastern seaboard the enrollment is completed 10 months ahead of the academic year. i think that the comprehensive community college meets so many problems for so many people that its establishment is almost assured of immediate success. in the first instance it brings education close to students. making training accessible both in terms of distance and cost. it offers training for those who want to transfer to a university to prepare for a professional career or for those who are interested in a semiprofessional or technical career. and for many people it provides the stimulation to continue their education through adult programs many years after they have completed their high school training. in many of our smaller communities the community college therefore tends to become a center of education and culture. providing facilities for various age groups. since the 2year institutions are relatively new in the field of education. there are those who do  yet recognize their value. but i point out that these new institutions offer facilities different from those of the 4year university and at the same time alleviate the pressure on the 4year schools. unless we help establish more of these junior colleges and expand the existing ones. there will be a growing number of young men and women of real ability who will have to miss out on college training. last year. dr. arthur s. flemming. former secretary of health. education. and welfare. told a house committee hearing that. despite the remarkable growth of college enrollments. experts estimate that some 160.000 to 200.000 of high ability annually fail to attend college. these youngsters are losing out on training which will enable them to reach their fullest capacity. the nation is losing out on the fullest development of their talents and abilities. these young people should  be deprived. and the nation can afford to let it happen.
madam president. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to authorize the disposal of elli island for use by the training school at vineland. n.j. several years ago ellis island was declared surplus to the needs of the federal government and the general services administration was authorized to arrange for disposal of the property. in 1960 the department of health. education. and welfare invited applications for acquisition of ellis island at up to 100percent public discount to groups acting in the field of health. education. or welfare. or a combination thereof. after review of the applications submitted at that time the department rejected all applications and. in effect. returned the problem of disposing of ellis island to the general services administration. early in the first session of this congress several bills were introduced in both the house and the senate directing the administrator of general services administration to convey ellis island to different organizations for varying financial considerations and varying purposes. the training school sought to purchase ellis island outright from the general services administration but was informed that inasmuch as these bills were pending in the congress. the agency could  consider any bids. it is apparent that the general services administration is looking to the congress to make the policy decision as to the purpose to which ellis island should be devoted in the future and the organization which should acquire the island to carry out this purpose. the training school at vineland is a profit corporation of the state of new jersey which has pioneered in the field of mental retardation since 1888. the school was one of the first institutions in the world to establish a laboratory for basic research in mental retardation and to establish a school for the training of teachers in this field. leading to the development of techniques of special education which are commonplace today. one result is that the training school has become a demonstration center receiving annually more than 5.000 visitors to observe these techniques and methods in action. the board of trustees of the training school is headed by pearl buck. of dublin. pa.. the author. besides the chairwoman. the board of trustees include john b. prizer. of chestnut hill. pa.. vice president and general counsel. pennsylvania railroad. elwood f. kirkman. of margate. president. boardwalk national bank. atlantic city. george k. batt. of morristown. executive vice president of dugan bros. bakery. bernard shanley. of bernardsville. attorney. morris feld. of clifton. secretary of national cleaning contractors. inc.. bayard england. of linwood. president. atlantic city electric co.. . i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in full at this point in the record.
. i join my colleagues in the expression of feelings of great loss on the death of irving ives. it was with a very heavy heart that i learned. over the weekend. that he had died. it was with a feeling of shock. too. although we all knew he was in failing health. we simply had . i think. accepted the fact that he was fatally ill. when i came to the senate i found senator ives already a figure of distinction. i had kn of his work in the legislature of the state of new york and previously as head of the school at cornell. i came to look upon him as one of my guides and advisers. particularly in regard to matters relating to the great field of labormanagement relations and also. of course. to the broad field of human and civil rights. in which his interests were so very deep and as to which his contributions were so very great throughout his long period of public service. he was a man whose mind was open at a time when open minds were  the rule. he broke new ground in his recognition of the problems which had been brought to our ecoy and to the whole fabric of american life in both the areas i have mentioned. which have been so well described by the senator from new . without the work that he did in this field. i venture to say we would  have managed to make the advances we have made in these two great areas of american life. he will be sorely missed in his own community and in the state of new york. we in washington. d.c.. representing the nation. will miss him deeply. mrs. case shares with me a great sense of personal loss. and joins with me in expressing our affections to mrs. ives and to george.
. has saidit is. in my opinion. a service which deserves to be ranked with those of hamilton in advocating the constitution. of jefferson in acquiring louisiana. and of clay in giving us a truly american policy. mr. morrills service is the more eworthy when we consider the time it was rendered. the darkest period of the civil war. the contributions of the landgrant colleges to agriculture through education and research have been immense. and it is interesting to e that the u.s. department of agriculture. with which these colleges have cooperated closely and fruitfully. is also celebrating its centennial this year. the history of the landgrant system has proved the fallacy of the hypothesis that the quantity of students must decrease the quality of learning. twentyfive of the 42 american el prize winners who studied in this country earned their degrees in landgrant institutions. in 1862 one american in 1.500 went to college. today one out of three high school graduates attends college and landgrant colleges graduate more than onefifth of these students. thus far. i have spoken in general of the achievements of the landgrant system. but it is important to see in detail what they have accomplished. and i would like to cite as one example the accomplishments of rutgers university. of which i am a graduate and former trustee. in 1864 the new jersey state legislature established the rutgers scientific school as the states landgrant college. it was founded on the principle that race. religion. ecoic background. could prohibit the prospective students entry into the institution. and it has held to this principle. in the last century rutgers has made many significant contributions to agricultural and technical kledge. rutgers university is only one of the landgrant colleges. and if one multiplies its achievements by the nearly 70 landgrant colleges  in existence. one can appreciate the tremendous progress they have made in the past. and are still making. and will continue to make in the future. i should like to pay tribute to the landgrant colleges for their eager shouldering of responsibilities for education in a constantly changing society. theirs has been a most effective method for insuring equality of opportunity in american education.
. many factors point to the continued growth of these unique educational institutions. the time is rapidly approaching when community colleges should become as general in our country as central high schools. the growing need for skilled technical and professional workers means that we must extend our range of general education beyond the high school and must carry it into at least 2 years of college. during the 1950s there was a 58percent increase in the number of skilled technical and professional workers. in the 1960s. the indications are that this tremendous growth will spurt even higher as the pressures of automation and other techogical progress make their impact on our employment situation. higher education is longer a luxury. parents throughout the country recognize that unless their youngsters are equipped with adequate education. they will be among the job leftouts who seek the good jobs. but find they are  qualified for them. in addition. the complexity of public problems which every citizen must face makes it essential that the young people of today become alert and informed adults capable of understanding and participating in the resolution of the great issues of tomorrow. throughout the nation there have been encouraging signs that the value of community colleges is being recognized. several states have made audits of their higher education facilities and have measured them against the steadily increasing pressure of demand for college training. in evaluating these studies. numerous states have come to the conclusion that the community colleges offer tremendous advantages in meeting present and anticipated needs. the community college is indeed a community institution. within its facilities there is the capability for meeting a wide range of needs in the community. and to do so ecoically. the community colleges provide a 2year terminal program for students  going on to a 4year college course. a transfer program for those who do wish to complete a college training program of 4 or more years. technical training for those who desire to enter skilled vocational and subprofessional careers. and continuing education for adults who want to further their education while working. on the fiscal side. they are ecoical to establish and they are ecoical to. attend. community colleges do  include expensive dormitory and eating facilities. and. therefore. do  require the tremendous sums involved in such structures. student expenses are usually low. because. for the most part. junior colleges are within commuting distance. and thus make it possible for students to live at home and. if need be. to work part time in their own communities. in new jersey. these community colleges have received a great impetus through the enactment of legislation to assist counties in establishing colleges. the very presence of these colleges within sight of high school students who are thinking about their future is bound to make the difference between having many qualified youngsters go on to college or having them write "the end" to their education at the high school exit doors. in the past session of congress. one of the most bitter disappointments was the defeat of higher education legislation. at first. all of us were encouraged when the house passed a bill by a vote of 319 to 79. and later the senate passed a similar bill by a vote of 69 to 17. then the bills went to conference. and finally the conferees found a way to work out an agreement on the proposed legislation. but a majority of the house of representatives voted to recommit the measure. and it died. my proposal for federal aid to community colleges was a part of the senatepassed bill. and was included in the conference recommendation. in fact. there was opposition to this program. either in committee or on the floor of the house or on the floor of the senate. the disagreements about provisions of the higher education legislation dealt with other parts of the program. it is clear that we need such legislation. my bill. which is in the form passed last year by the senate. would provide a 5year program of matching grants to public colleges. with $50 million a year indicated as the federal share. the administrations omnibus education bill adopts my bill for a 3year period. the demand for the development of facilities for adequate training grows stronger each year. in our state of new jersey. for example. the high schools will graduate over 15.000 more seniors 4 years from  than they did last june. and the percentage of seniors who want to go to college has been steadily rising. it is estimated that by 1966. 40 percent will want to go on. numerous states. including my own. have been export states in the higher education field. sending forth each year numerous boys and girls who must look elsewhere for college opportunities. the program which i offer in this bill will help thousands of youngsters obtain a higher education. this will be useful to them and useful to the nation. for unless we realize the fullest potential of our young people. we shall  be able to realize the fullest potential of our nations most important resources.
s manpower report to congress this month pointed out that the trend in youth unemployment demands special concern and action. alarming numbers of our youth lack work opportunities as well as the educational preparation necessary for a rewarding adult life. . one of every seven youngsters between the ages of 16 and 21  out of school is also out of work. both lack of work opportunity and lack of suitable preparation are involved in this situation. and are combining to spread frustration and disillusion among large numbers of young people. our educational level is the highest in our history. but it will have to advance at a faster rate to keep pace with the -growing complexities of the scientific age. the education received is often out of step with rising skill and versatility requirements of our advanced ecoy. * the manpower report also pointed out that shortages of qualified workers are particularly widespread in scientific. engineering. teaching. health. and other professional and technical fields. because expansion in scientific research. greater seducation and health needs have led to .increased demand for such manpower. these ordinarily are  occupations toward which unemployed workers can be directed. extensive education and training are needed for such demands. the supply of welltrained personnel can be built upovernight from existing unemployed manpower resources. the report underscored the need for .effective planning to develop additional college facilities. adequate to the needs of our population and the demands of the time in which we live. the college survey bill would provide .up to $2.500.000 in matching grants to the states. it is a companion measure to my community college legislation. which would assist the states in establishing and expanding 2year public community colleges.
 of the united states requesting for the first time major federal participation in the expansion of diagtic and other facilities of the very same type proposed by the vineland school for the retarded. this school is an internationally recognized private institution. willing to pay the government for the privilege of taking ellis island off its hands. the vineland school for the retarded was a forerunner in the fields of research and in training the mentally handicapped. today the school is in the forefront as a demonstration center which annually receives more than 5.000 visitors to observe in action both new and wellestablished techniques. to those concerned with the symbolic value of ellis island. there could be more exciting prospect than that the historic gateway to freedom in the new world be rededicated to a new and perhaps even more dramatic gateway to freedomthe freedom of the large numbers of mentally retarded individuals in our population from the handicaps of total dependence. the persecution of prejudice. and the lack of opportunity to achieve their maximum potentials within the limited endowment accorded them. i ask unanimous consent to include in the record two newspaper articles. one from the july 7. 1963. edition of the newark sunday news and aher from the july 3. 1963. edition of the newark starledger. which also appeared in the plainfield courier news. these articles describe the history and the admirable accomplishments of the vineland school for the retarded.
 ed: the opportunity for a college education is severely limited for hundreds of thousands of young people because there is college in their own community. studies indicate that the likelihood of going to college on the part of a high school graduate who lives within 2025 miles of a college is 50percent greater than it is for the student who lives beyond commuting distance. this absence of college facilities in many communities causes an unfortunate waste of some of our most promising youthful talent. a demonstrated method of meeting this particular problem effectively is the creation of 2year community collegesa program that should be undertaken without delay and which will require federal assistance for the construction of adequate facilities. i recommend. therefore. a program of grants to states for construction of public community junior colleges. there is an especially urgent need for college level training of technicians to assist scientists. engineers. and doctors. although ideally one scientist or engineer should have the backing of two or three technicians. our institutions today are  producing even 1 technician for each 3 science and engineering graduates. this shortage results in an inefficient use of professional manpowerthe occupation of critically needed time and talent to perform tasks which could be performed by othersan extravagance which can be tolerated when the nations demand for scientists. engineers. and doctors continues to grow. * * * i hope that the senate will support community colleges as a part of a higher education bill. they represent the only chance for higher education for thousands and thousands of our bright young men and women who might otherwise be denied this opportunity.
 of the united states to proclaim the week of ember 16 to 22 as national student council week. the students councils of our secondary schools  represent a national institution and merit nationwide recognition by all our citizens. many of our nations future leaders are to be found in these student organizations. the student council is more than an organization contributing to high school administration. as an elected body. it also is a training ground for democratic procedures and ideals. the members of these councils are learning early to deal with community affairs and are given lessons in the duties and responsibilities of citizenship in a democracy. it goes without saying that we in congress. who serve as models for these councils. should foster and encourage this type of experience. the celebration of a national student council week is one way we can show our faith in the ability and responsibility of american youth. my own state of new jersey was the first to declare a statewide student council week in 1959 by proclamation of the gover. since then. i e that out of 38 so far studied. 14 celebrate a student council week. with 9 more possible in the near future. in 1963. the new jersey association of high school student councils was given responsibility at the annual national association convention of promoting the idea of a national student council week. i am happy to support this effort. and i urge others to do so. at this point. i ask unanimous consent for insertion in the record of the entire text of the proposed joint resolution.
 of harvard university. who made a 2year investigation of the education of teachers for our elementary and secondary schools. in his book. dr. conant says on pages 166167: we are living in a period of change in regard to many aspects of education. the ferment in secondary education is less than that in the elementary field. four developments are eworthy. first. the rapid introduction of new methods and materials. particularly in physics. in chemistry. in biology. and in mathematics. second. the increasing tendency to push down into the lower grades the teaching of material once thought proper only for the higher grades. third. the introduction in some high schools of college work in the 12th grade by means of the advanced placement program. fourth. the increasing use of television. team teaching. and some form of programed instruction. all these developments have had and will continue to have their impact on the education of secondary school teachers. pages 198199: those who make this policy must decide which of two possible paths is likely to prove superior. the first path leads through a series of late aftern and evening courses. these courses may well be chosen because they are offered at a convenient time and place. unfortunately. they are sometimes chosen because they make little demand on the teachers intellectual and emotional energies. they are attended by teachers whose days work has already placed an incredible strain on these resources. and the time and energy devoted to the course must often be substracted from that needed for the work of ensuing days. the courses offered are usually those designed to attract the largest possible number of teachers and rarely if ever include advanced academic courses in the areas of a teachers specialization. the second path leads to a set of courses designed by the teacher and his university advisor for his specific purposes. these courses are attended by people who have the leisure of summer session or academic leave to devote full time to their studies and who because they are fulltime students. have access to libraries and laboratories. and time to use them. they should include advanced courses in the academic fields the students teach. at least there is far greater possibility that such courses will be available in summer schools than in the aftern and evening arrangement. granted that there is some value to the first path. the second seems to me clearly superior. i therefore urge the public to adopt policies that will encourage teachers to take this latter route. in addition. i should like to attach some quotations from the book. "the miseducation of american teachers" by mr. james d. koerner. whose book is recommended by sterling m. mcmurrin. former u.s. commissioner of education. .page 138: the reason the national averages are so low in mathematics and foreign languages for elementary teachers is that so many teachers take work whatever in these subjects. to understand the low state of mathematics and language instruction in the primary grades. one has only to look at the college records of the teachers.  do they take much science. a course in biology is frequently the whole of it. so general is their education that they often do  get beyond the sophomore survey level in any academic subject. while they ige completely a large number of academic fields. although secondary teachers get more academic work than elementary teachers (those. that is. who do  major in education). too often their pattern of courses does  seems to make sense. it suggests a mere potpourri. even in the major field. also. the major often fails to include work that teachers of the subject clearly need. english majors. for example. more often than  will show work in advanced composition. advanced grammar (or any other kind). linguistics. or the phonetic alphabet. they usually show a collection of discrete courses in authors and periods that reveals particular design and that leaves them with emous gaps. history majors show work in historiography and often e in sequential studies of periods or cultures that are most important to a high school teacher. if they major in social studies instead of history. as many of them do. their courses get little beyond the introductory or survey type in almost all subjects. they get. like the elementary teacher. a general education with a vengeance. they can be said to have had a "major" only by an unwarranted extension of the term. page 176: moreover. these masters transcripts. as ed earlier with the undergraduate records. are freighted with courses taken at night. in the summer. on saturdays. and by extension and correspondence. such times are convenient for teachers. to to be sure. but the courses are inevitably inferior in the quality of faculty and of student performance to that in regularly scheduled courses in residence. i introduce. for appropriate reference. my bill and ask that it be printed in full at this point in the record.
 of the united states proclaim the last week of october of every year as national student council week. the student councils of our secondary schools  represent a national institution and merit nationwide recognition by all our citizens. many of our nations future leaders are to be found in these student organizations. the student council is an organization of students. elected by students. to serve them as their official representatives in matters of concern to the entire school. student council selfgovernment is a valuable training ground for democracy. it provides a medium through which student opinion may be heard. and a forum for student consideration of common school problems. the members of these councils and the students who are represented by them are learning at an early stage of their lives how to run the affairs of a community. it is. in effect. a proving ground providing a living lesson in the duties and responsibilities of citizenship. as gerald m. van pool. director of student activities. national association of secondary school principals. has stated: one of the best ways to learn to do anything is to do it. thus. by providing an opportunity for high school students to do the things which a good citizen does. the student council teaches good citizenship. it encourages students to become interested in civic matters and to take significant steps to alleviate a situation or to suggest ways and means of improvement. the main purpose of the student council is to teach good citizenship. and thus the student council becomes. in reality. a laboratory of citizenship. an organization that teaches our young people to be good citizens by doing the things which a good citizen does. at a time when in the congress and in the country we are vitally concerned with improving the education of our youth. the celebration of a national student council week is one way we can show our confidence in the ability and sense of responsibility of american youth. my own state of new jersey was the first to proclaim a statewide student council week and has done so annually for 13 years. since then. many other states have joined our ranks. in 1963. the new jersey association of high school councils was given the responsibility at the annual national association convention of encouraging a national student council week. i am happy to support this effort. with this in mind. i ask unanimous consent that the entire text of our proposed resolution be inserted in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. and further i ask unanimous consent that it lie on the table for 7 days so that others may join in cosponsoring it.
 johnson. can encourage a pupil and influence the shape of his future life. many great americans owe their first inspiration to their teachers. it is imperative that this country have good schoolsbut our schools are only as good as our teachers. it is necessary to remind the citizens of this country of the contribution teachers make to the national welfare and to the growth of the individual child. although their contribution can never be sufficiently hoed. proclamation of national teachers day is a small yet tangible way to demonstrate our appreciation for all our teachers. the elementary. secondary. and college teachers. the teachers of the exceptional child and the teachers of vocational skills. who have done so much for america.
i appreciate the comments of the senator from oregon. i believe that we three are in complete agreement on the issue. i do  k what representative davis is talking about. i do k that the feeling he expressed was shared by all the house confereesand i hope it is  an unfair statement to say that they were deeply resentful of the fact that an area selected for a school should be used for some other purpose. therefore. they all stood adamant against our provision. which included the money for the new site. speaking for myself. i dissented from agreement on that point by accepting the house position. it is probably true that the house conferees unanimously. so far as i k. were opposed to the plan. that is the only way we could get them to accept the $109.000 for the operation. for 1 year. of the john f. kennedy playground.
yes. it was purchased for the school and then borrowed. i believe. by a group which wished to have a demonstration playground. whatever the hassle wasand i k hing of iti assume that the playground was so popular. useful. interesting. and attractive in a el and important way. that a hue and cry was raised against taking it back.
 graciously ackledged that the proposal owed much to the efforts of the senator from oregon and of myself. i was delighted. of course. to learn that consensus can be a twoway street. i am even more delighted. however. to see this billa milestone of education progress which i am proud to have had a part in developingmoving toward early enactment.
. on april 17. 1966. a program of commemoration by 55 jewish and jewish groups. attended by 2.000 people. took place in newark. n.j.. on the 23d anniversary of the warsaw ghetto uprising. that infamous incident. in which almost all of warsaws jews perished. will never be forgotten. i ask unanimous consent to insert in the record the following message which i addressed to the audience at newarks weequachic high school on april 17.
. todays new york times carries an account of the organization in new jersey of a new group. widely representative of the community at large. to combat extremism and to strengthen democratic processes. the organization is tentatively called the new jersey committee to preserve the democratic process. as the times account indicates. its leadership will include outstanding new jerseyans in such -fields as labor. education. business. and industry. the professions. religion. welfare. and politics. i am hoed to serve as one of the trustees. the new organization is the outgrowth of a conference held last june at the newark state college in union. n.j. the purpose of the conference was threefold: exposure of the dangers of the radical right and left. study of methods to combat these threats to the democratic process. and consideration of measures to strengthen the democratic fabric of our society. the participants agreed that a continuing state organization was both necessary and desirable to combat the growth and effects of extremist activity and this. in essence. is the purpose of the organization. specifically. the committee will endeavor to strengthen local community organizations who must deal with extremist activity most frequently. in a sense. it is regrettable that such an organization is necessary. on the other hand. to the extent that the committee can and will stimulate our citizens to more active participation in community matters. it will serve an affirmative purpose in strengthening the fabric of our democratic society. i ask unanimous consent to insert at this point the account contained in the new york times of wednesday. april 20.
. i should like to take this opportunity to congratulate. on the completion of its 5 years of operation. the world press institute at macalester college in st. paul. minn. the institute under the direction of james v. toscahas been doing a very effective job of winning friends for our country by bringing to the united states those young men who are and will be the opinionmakers in their respective nations. recently. i had the good fortune to meet with a group of foreign reporters brought to washington by the institute and i found them both interesting and interested. these young men were intelligent and articulate and knew what questions were worth asking. they were  selected on the basis of their favorable views toward the united states. but rather because of their ability. maturity. and openmindedness. in fact. harry morgan. the young founder of the institute. has expressed the opinion that if the reporters prejudices are against the united states. so much the better: as he put it. we have need to convert our friendit is our critics whom we should try to win to our side. the world press institute continues to do important work for our country and all of us owe it and the men behind it a vote of thanks for the friends they have won for america.
s and other assembled leaders on the issues of the middle east crisis. dr. bernstein is dean of the woodrow wilson school at princeton university. and it was a great regret to me that i was unable to be present when this distinguished new jersey scholar spoke. but i later read dr. bernsteins talk and found it to be an exceptionally candid and incisive analysis of recent history in the middle east. so that others who did  hear him may have. the benefit of his insights. i ask unanimous consent that the text. of his address be printed in the record.
i thank the senator from oregon. i share his point of view completely. speaking as one senator. i thank him for his leadership in this manner. . the subject of busing raises emotional overtones immediately. we can deal with this problem in one of two ways. we can attempt to improve matters. or we can use emotions for wrong purposes. in my opinion we will be doing the latterand i am  charging this is anyones intent but that will be the effectif the federal government adopts as its policy that federal money whatever shall be used for the purpose of busing in order to alleviate racial imbalance in schools. by adopting such a policy the federal government would make the situation very much worse whereas all our efforts should be to improve things. we would be limiting the discretion and impairing the ability of local school boards. the states. and the courts to experiment in different ways of accomplishing the delicate and difficult changes in attitudes that must be changed if we are to make real progress. instead of following the low road of the least common deinator. we should be trying to raise our sights in every action we take in the senate. and this amendment would go directly in the opposite direction. i had occasion a few weeks ago to speak out against making the question of school busing a political issue in the new jersey legislature campaign. and what i said then i would like to repeat . i think the mal situation. and one we like to think of as the rule. is the neighborhood school. we believe this is right. but busing also has some marginal value. in some cases. in our efforts to bring us to the point where we can have integrated and neighborhood schools. certainly. we should never use this emotional issue for any unworthy purpose. partisan advantage or otherwise. and we certainly should  tie the hands of the states or of local school boards or the courts with whom this matter rests in pursuance of their obligation under the constitution. let alone the 1964 act and other acts. we should  take any step which would be a retrogression. and this amendment would be a great retrogression. i here testify. as a member of the senate over many years. that this matter does  involve any commitment we made when we passed the original civil rights act. the senator from oregon said correctly that all we said then was that that act did . of itself. require busing. we have  done anything since to contravene that position. we should   take a steu backward. as we would if we  say that federal money can be mingled with local or state funds in any effort to improve racial balance in our schools.
i would like to press this a little bit further. suppose the action is taken by a local school board in regard to setting up a plan for transportation of students. or such a plan is ordered by the state school authorities. but that that action is taken under. in a sense. duress. if you will. of this sort: the matter is pending in a court. the court has given. we will say. the local school board or state school authorities a certain length of time in order to bring about some steps toward desegregation. would that action of the school board under those circumstances still meet the terms of the senators amendment.
the important role that the private sector can play in attacking todays urgent racial and social problems has been pointed out many times in recent weeks. and there is heartening evidence of growing interest and activity on the part of business and civic leaders in various aspects of the problem. in particular. housing. education. and employment. two recent speeches. one by richard b. scudder. publisher of the newark news. and the other by charles f. lazarus. president of the american retail federation. make clear the need for community commitment to the achievement of equality of opportunity for all our citizens. this commitment is  only a moral imperative. it is an ecoic and social imperative if our society is to survive. i ask unanimous consent that extracts from mr. scudders address to the alumni of montclair academy and remarks by mr. lazarus to the american association of collegiate schools of business be printed in the record.
. i support the senator from new york completely. i think this issue is an illustration of something that is increasingly coming to be true. i support the impacted areas school aid bill. but that program is  designed to help disadvantaged peoplewho are relatively few in numberfor whom the javits amendment is intended. that bill is  even for the relief of schoolchildren. it is for the relief of people who pay taxes. because the money provided for in the impacted school measure will go from the federal treasury into the school districts and is money which the school districts already were obliged to pay. i am  against that. it is all right. but that is a bill for the great majority of the american people. the same thing is true of the highway bill. the great majority of the american people are road users and they want to have money for roads. but what we are doing here is pegging out a bill for the relief of a miity who are disadvantaged.  for the comfortable majority. it is easy egh to say " to this. senators will  lose one vote in relation to the votes they will gain. but the real test in the senate and in the congress of the united statesand it is a test that increasingly confronts us in this whole country of oursis whether we are going to allow the comfortable majority to rest in its affluence. without taking care of the disadvantaged miity. that is the issue we face on this vote. and i support the senator from new york.
. as a cosponsor of the amendment. i direct my comment to one point. it is quite true that the federal government has the right in the sense of power to do what it wants to do in the way of attaching conditions. the question concerns the wisdom and the rightness of it under our federal system. the senator from oregon and i are often on different sides of some arguments and on the same side of other arguments. however. the senator has been absolutely consistent this time. i do  mean to suggest any absence of consistency on his part in any matter. however. in the matter of the federal system which we are sworn to protect. the senator has been consistent all the way through and is consistent here. we do  want to have the federal government. the department of education. or any other federal bureau or bureaucracy. interfere with the administration of our colleges. even in respect of the continuation or continuation of what the senator from ohio has called beneficences. that ought to be left to the colleges themselves. this is true whether the money comes from the federal government. the state government. or any other public source. the college administration ought to have this responsibility and ought  to be able to duck it.
that is the sense in which i used the word. he is the kind of companion that you would rather have at your side in difficult times than anyone else. and this is a difficult question we are dealing with here. there is aher point. if i may address myself to it briefly. that i should like to raise. and that is what. in the judgment of my colleagues. is the meaning of the word "applicant" in the house language. specifically. does it refer both to the student and to the institution of higher learning. or only to the one. the comment made by the senator from rhode island adds a little point to this question. it might very well be true that the individual institution might find other funds to deal with a situation which it thought was unfairly dealt with by the federal law. but an overassiduous administrator might think that this was contemptuous conduct on the part of the institution. i wonder. therefore. if the institution is an applicant.
. if there are any who doubt the determination of the department of health. education. and welfare to enforce firmly and fairly the school desegregation program under title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. i urge that they read a speech delivered recently by the director of the office for civil rights of the department of health. education. and welfare. in a speech at atlanta. ga.. before school officials from throughout the south. leon panetta. director of the offloe of civil rights. made it absolutely clear that the department of health. education. and welfare intends to continue effective enforcement of the title vi program to end discrimination and illegal segregation in formerly dual school systems. at the same time. he made it clear that the department will move against illegal segregation which may exist in school systems which have never been organized formally on a racially segregated basis. i congratulate mr. panetta for his unequivocal statement. so that all members of congress will have an opportunity to read it. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. on june 12 i introduced for senator hart and myself s. 2375. a bill to amend the civil rights act of 1964 to authorize the attorney general to initiate school desegregation suits based on his finding that discrimination exists in a school district. since then a number of other senators have expressed a desire to cosponsor this bill. therefore. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the names of the senator from hawaii . the senator from pennsylvania . the senator from south dakota
. i ask unanimous consent that. at the next printing the name of the senaotr from washington be added as a cosponsor of s. 2375. to amend the civil rights act of 1964 to authorize the attorney general to initiate school desegregation suits based on his finding that discrimination exists in a school district.
. i suggest that the whitten amendment is shooting at a straw man. at my request. the department of health. education. and welfare recently conducted an informal survey of more than 300 desegregation plans which were put into effect by local school districts in september of this year. officials in the departments office for civil rights informed me that most of these plans actually resulted in decreased busing of students and that only eight of them resulted in increased busing. and even in those eight districts the increase in busing was  great. in one district which operated 17 buses before putting the desegregation plan into effect. for example. only one additional bus was needed to carry out the plan. in aher district. which had operated 10 school buses before adopting its desegregation plan. the number was increased to 12. a district which had operated 22 buses previously. added only three more to carry out its desegregation plan. in e of the eight districts which increased busing to accomplish desegregation did the increase reach even 10 percent in terms of the number of pupils involved. why. then. has the department of health. education. and welfare said the whitten amendment would severely hamper its efforts to afford every child in this country an equal educational opportunity. one answer is that the whitten amendments restrictions on assignment of students fly in the face of a supreme court decision which said that socalled freedomofchoice plans for desegregating schools had to be effective in order to be acceptable. the futility of requiring desegregation and then permitting acceptance of a plan that does  work is so apparent that i will  develop that point further at this time. however. there is aher answer that may  be so obvious. the whitten amendment would prevent any district from requiring the busing of students. in other words. the same buses which had been used to transport all black students to one school and all white students to aher school could  be used to overcome that same dual school system. i do  want to mislead anyone. the figures i have cited in regard to the effects of busing in more than 300 desegregation plans put into effect in september deal only with those plans filed under the voluntary compliance program which hew carries out under title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. these are the plans worked out by the school districts themselves and accepted by hew if they are determined to be effective. the figures i have cited do  include desegregation plans imposed upon local school districts by the courts under title iv of the civil rights act. i cited only the figures for the title vi program carried out by hew because this is the program which the whitten amendment would affect. the amendment is  directed to the courts. moreover. i oppose the whitten amendment  only because it would severely hamper the efforts of the department of health. education. and welfare in school desegregation. i oppose it also because it would restrict the flexibility of state and local officials who have recognized the unfairness of segregated schools on their own and are themselves trying to do something about it. in my own state of new jersey. for example. we have recognized the serious problems of racial imbalance in our schools. even though. as i pointed out a week ago. they are far less severe than the problems in some of the states of the south. also. the new jersey state board of education is seeking to do something about the problems in our state. on ember 5. the state board adopted a resolution directing that steps be taken immediately to end de facto school segregation in new jersey. as a result of that resolution. representatives of 38 school districts with the most severe racial imbalance problems in new jersey have been invited to attend a 2day seminar next weekend in order to obtain advice from state officials on how plans can be formed to desegregate these schools. state officials have told these 38 districts. plus 61 others with racial imbalance problems. that by february 4 they must submit policy statements adopted by local boards on correcting the imbalance and plans of action to eliminate segregation. in my view. we should encourage initiatives of the sort being taken in my state.  discourage them by severely limiting our states and local school boards in the choices they may wish to make in determining the method best adapted to their own needs in meeting the goal of desegregating their schools.
it seems to me that it is very useful for the senator from michigan to make the general statement that he is making . because it emphasizes that e of these things is an absolute in itself. busing is  good or bad in itself. the abolition of a school is  good or bad in itself. these socalled freedom of choice arrangements are neither good  bad in themselves. yet. what those who support the house amendment and the language in the senate committee bill are attempting to do. and have attempted all along to do. is to erect each one of these things into some kind of an absolute handed down from sinai. if you will. and they have wasted much oratory on trying to glorify these mechanical things into some kind of great principle. it is time. as the senator from michigan is doing. that we strip away all the trappings that have been attached or have been attempted to be attached to it. we are  for or against busing. we are certainly for neighborhood schools. but  in all circumstances. if they can be used as a means of creating or perpetuating a segregated systemand this is the whole point. the question is : busing or  busing. to this school or that school in its present location. the question is. shall we continue to have segregation in our schools. that is the point. the effort on the part of those who make great speeches on this floor in behalf of seemingly tremendous principles is simply an effort. when everything is stripped away. to perpetuate the segregated system that  only has been condemned by the supreme court but also has been condemned by every man in his heart on the basis of simple morality.
. i introduce a bill to amend title i of the elementary and secondary education act. for appropriate reference. title i is the federal program which provides assistance to local school districts to meet the special educational needs of educationally deprived children in school attendance areas having high concentrations of children from lowincome families. my bill would require applicants for this assistance to submit plans for reducing or eliminating racial. social. and linguistic isolation in their schools. numerous studies. including the coleman report on equality of educational opportunity which was done for the department of health. education. and welfare and a report by the new york state board of regents. have shown that isolation. whether racial. social. or linguistic. is a major factor in the educational disadvantage of miity children. originally. i had intended to offer the substance of my bill as an amendment to the currently pending legislation to extend the elementary and secondary education act for aher 4 years. however. because of the importance of this subject and the complexity of the programs involved. i decided it would be better if this whole subject was considered thoroughly in committee hearings. the complexity of the problems already encompassed by the pending extension of the elementary and secondary education act is demonstrated by the fact that the committees excellent report on this bill entails 443 pages. it is my hope that consideration of the issues raised by my bill will  be forced to compete for the attention of the senate with the many other important issues contained in the pending bill. it is my understanding that my colleague. the junior senator from rhode island . chairman of the subcommittee on education of the committee on labor and public welfare. may hold hearings on legislative oversight in connection with elementary and secondary education later this year. i urge that my bill and all other proposals dealing with these or related issues be thoroughly considered at those hearings in an effort to develop legislation to deal with this matter. i recognize that my bill may be only the first step in a comprehensive program that is needed. however. i believe it represents a needed step which can be implemented quickly.
i take it the senator does  contend that apart from this section there is any inhibition on a local school board from using whatever means it thinks desirable to eliminate racial segregation in its own schools.
i was  asking the question about what this section states. i said apart from this section is it true a local school board is  disabled from using whatever means it wants to achieve racial balance in its system.
i suggest to the senator that his statement of the effect of this. and. indeed. its terms. in spite of his great command of the english languagewhich he should  have to brag about because all of us would testify to itbut in spite of that what the senator said about this is  an adequate description. it would  just prevent hew from forcing the school board. but it would also apply to the local school board.
may i state the question one other way. does the senator contend that even if this section should be agreed to and stay in the bill it would be possible for secretary finch to give to any school board funds to help it work out a program of desegregation that it decided on including. if you will. assignment of pupils.
. for 20 years babe ruth baseball has provided teenage boys with the opportunity to play baseball in an organized program designed to develop physical fitness. sportsmanship. and fair play. beginning in hamilton township. a suburb of new jerseys capital city of trenton. babe ruth baseball has grown from a small sandlot club to the worlds largest teenage baseball program with more than 325.000 participants. babe ruth baseball long ago expanded beyond new jerseys borders. today it has leagues in all 50 states as well as in canada. puerto rico. europe. guam. mexico. and asia. each year these leagues. supervised by volunteers from all walks of life. teach youngsters baseball skills and the basic traditions of sportsmanship and team cooperation. it is a tribute to the most beloved baseball hero of all time that so many young men are being helped by the organization that bears babe ruths name.
i thank my colleague. the senator from minnesota. i am indeed very happy to join him and other colleagues in this amendment and two others which will follow on the same general subject. these amendments are the result of concern that the other sponsors and i have about abuses which are possible if the money provided in this bill for school desegregation is  dispensed with great care. the administration has asked for inclusion in this bill of $150 million to assist local school districts to carry out their desegregation plans. secretary finch of the department of health. education. and welfare. when he testified recently before a joint hearing of the education subcommittee and the select committee on equal educational opportunity. assured the senate the "under circumstances" will these funds be used to assist districts which are in mere technical compliance with the law or which otherwise abuse the intent of the law. the three amendments we have introduced propose to provide the secretary with explicit authority to fulfill this commitment. past experience with civil rights legislation shows that the administrations task is made more difficult and delays are encountered when the secretarys authority is  explicitly stated in the law. it is the intent of these amendments to avoid confusion over the intent of congress in making these funds available to assist school districts throughout the nation attain quality integrated education. in response to my request for the departments views on these amendments. secretary finch said they are "consistent with the purpose of the appropriation. which is to assist school districts to meet their responsibilities under the law." while these amendments do  deal with all possible areas of abuse. they cover those that most readily come to mind. it is within the discretion of the secretary to handle others and i am confident that he will do so. however. we will watch closely the development of this program and will bolster the legislative authority of the secretary should this become necessary. what specifically would these amendments do. amendment 702 provides that funds may be extended to school districts which have transferred property or services to private schools that practice discrimination on the basis of race. color or national origin. this amendment seeks to prevent the money provided in this bill from being used to support abuses such as one described in a recent report by the national education association. the nea described one situation in which a public school was declared surplus by school officials in june 1969. and sold to an individual. using sealed bids. for $1.500. the purchaser. in turn. sold the school to a private group for $10 and it then was turned into a private segregated school. our amendment would make it clear that school districts which have engaged in this type of practice are  entitled to seek assistance under the programs which will be funded under this bill. amendment 703 prohibits the use of funds appropriated under this bill to supplant funds from federal sources which has been reduced as a result of desegregation. it is the intent of this amendment to require that the funds contained in this bill will be used only to supplement state and local funds which would otherwise be made available to support education programs in the affected school districts. amendment 704 would make clear that any school district in the process of desegregating under a legal requirementwherever the district is located and regardless of whether the requirement is imposed by state or federal lawwould be eligible for assistance under this appropriation so long as its desegregation plan is being implemented and meets the requirements of title vi of the civil rights act of 1964 at a minimum. the administration originally testified that assistance provided under this appropriation would be available only to school districts in the 17 southern and border states. we believe that any school district which is desegregating according to the standards of federal law should be eligible to receive assistance.
. sections 209. 210. and 211 are  strangers to the senate. in slightly modified form. we have seen them repeatedly over the past several years. all three sections attempteither through direct legal impact or through confusionto hamstring efforts to carry out school desegregation required under the constitution. sections 209 and 210. the socalled whitten amendments. have been revised this year so that they would  alter school desegregation requirements under title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. this title forbids discrimination in the use of federal funds. the change made in these amendments this year is that they would prohibit busing of students. abolishment of schools. or assignment of pupils at any school which is desegregated as that term is defined in title iv of the civil rights act. this title excludes racial imbalance from the definition of segregation. in this connection. it should be ed that the fourth circuit court of appeals. in a decision in swann against charlottemecklenburg board of education on may 26. 1970. held that the definition of desegregation in title iv does  limit the power of school boards or courts to remedy unconstitutional segregation. in other words. the incorporation of the definition included in title iv into sections 209 and 210 does  limit the power of school districts or courts to remedy unconstitutional segregation. despite their lack of legal effect. however. sections 209 and 21- could encourage some people. particularly those who have resisted desegregation in the past. to believe that. in fact. there has been a change in the basic law. these sections could serve to confuse local authorities as to their constitutional responsibilities. i can see reason to encourage confusion over the constitutional obligations of schools to desegregate and i support the effort to eliminate these provisions from the bill. section 211. the socalled jonas amendment. is of even greater concern to me. unlike the whitten amendments. the jonas amendment would have a definite legal effect. although i can imagine how anyone could consider it to be a desirable effect. the jonas amendment would deny vital federal education aid to any school district which goes beyond "freedom of choice" in seeking to carry out its constitutional obligation to desegregate. in this sense. the jonas amendment would deny to school boards their freedom of choice as to the best and most effective way to desegregate schools. the supreme court has ruled that these socalled "freedom of choice" plans to desegregate schools are acceptable only if they actually result in desegregating those which were. in fact. previously segregated. the department of health. education. and welfare has found that "freedom of choice" plans are  effective in desegregating these districts in the vast majority of cases. these plans often fail to be effective because of fear of reprisals and intimidation and because of social custom which has grown up during centuries of discrimination. this means that most previously segregated school districts are required by law and by the constitution to adopt some desegregation plan other than "freedom of choice." the jonas amendment would  change that. most school districts still would be required to go beyond "freedom of choice." the difference would be that the federal government would  be able to provide any assistance to help them work out their problems. this would be directly contrary to the effort to provide additional federal assistance to help our local schools overcome desegregation problems. i hope that all members of the senate will seek to help our schools work out their problems rather than to put additional obstacles in the path of a good education for all children in this country.
. there was unanimous agreement among the conferees on all items of disagreement between the two houses except one. four of usall on the senate sidedid  agree with the conference committees decision to accept the house position by including sections 209 and 210. the socalled "whitten amendments." in the bill. i opposed these provisions because they could encourage confusion over the constitutional obligations of schools to desegregate. but. as several of my colleagues and i pointed out before this bill was sent to conference. sections 209 and 210 would  in any way alter school desegregation requirements under title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. title vi forbids discrimination in the use of federal funds. sections 209 and 210 prohibit busing of students. abolishment of schools. or assignment of pupils at any school which is desegregated as that term is defined in title iv of the civil rights act. title iv excludes racial imbalance from the definition of segregation. but it does  limit the responsibility of school districts to -eliminate dual school systems root and branch. this was made clear by the fourth circuit court of appeals in a decision in swann against charlottemecklenburg board of education on may 26. in its decision the court said that the provisions of title iv "are  limitations on the power of school boards or courts to remedy uncoristitutional segregation. they were designedby congressto remove any implication that the civil rights act conferred new jurisdiction on courts to deal with the question of whether school boards were obligated to overcome de facto segregation." because the courts decision and the legislative record we have made in the senate should dispel any real possibility of confusion over sections 209 and 210. i shall  oppose adoption of the conference report. to do so at this point would only serve to delay needed assistance to our schools and students.
he could. i believe. but the burden would be on local officials to prove the needs. i think i would say this. this is my own view. this. i k. would meet the situation we are trying to get at specifically in newark. this could be done.  as a federally subsidized school. but only as a matter of convenience under arrangements under which the full value of the facilities would be paid for in rents by the local school district.
. in light of the present continuing debate in the u.n. security council about alleged portuguese involvement in the invasion of guinea. i am today releasing the text of correspondence i have had with the state department on u.s. policy toward portuguese activities in africa. my original inquiry of the state department was prompted by a letter i received in ember from a maplewood. n.j.. high school student. laurence e. tobey. at that time i wrote mr. tobey that his letter to me "raised some points with which i was  familiar." and i thanked him for what i consider to be "a well thought out and informative letter." while the state department reply is  responsivd to all the details mentioned by mr. tobey. my understanding is that it is probably the most complete public disclosure to date of u.s. policy toward portugal in africa. i ask unanimous consent that the texts of the letters be printed in the record.
. hing that any of us can say at this time or at any time can properly put into words the sheer pleasure that our association with george murphy has given us during his service with us in the senate. on a personal basis. quite regardless of our varying ideological positions. it has been emously satisfying to enjoy his friendship and his companionship in these busy years. for us in new jersey. george murphy has a special place in our hearts since much of his early life. including his years at the peddle school in hightstown. was spent in and near our state. we have many friends in common. from our youthful days. in the areas of both public life and athletic life in which his early prowess was so outstanding. if we were  sure that we will still be seeing a good deal of george in the future. it would be harder for us to say goodbye . with that assurance we have to console ourselves for the loss of daybyday association with a warm and friendly man and an honest and forthright colleague.
i hope that it will be of interest. i believe that it will be. i recognize that the bill which the conference committee has reported contains funds which are urgently needed by many educational programs. but i refused to sign the conference report and i intend to vote against it. that in way reflects any lack of concern on my part for approving funds for the various educational programs far egh ahead so that the school boards can plan their budgets for the coming school year. i have long urged that this be done. i think it is a very good thing and i am glad that we are getting action on the bill at this time. i wish the action were even sounder than it is. although in a number of respects it has been said by our chairman and the ranking miity member that the senate has improved the bill as it came over to us. i wish we had carried that improvement further. as i said. my major objection to the conference report could be remedied quickly to adding to it the funds to compensate school districts for the cost of educating children whose parents live in lowincome public housing. we are dealing with the question of equity here. the conference report contains. fundse at allto enable the local school districts to cover the cost of educating children living in public housing. yet there is an identifiable ecoic need for this assistance. since those living. in public housing are at or near the poverty level. i want to point out. . that last year congress authorized. a program of $300 million a year for the category c. last year. the appropriations committee recommended funds for that program and it was  funded. this -year the senate committee received the bill from the house containing funds and. properly. the senate committee proceeded to add $60 million for that particular purpose. unfortunately. the zeal of senators and the majority of the members of the conference committee exhausted itself in that action. and its resistance to opposition by the house conferees was  what i would call spirited. contrary to the usual practice. when there is a difference in the amount between .senate and house bills the difference is split. but we did  split the difference in this case. the majority just caved in. as i said. the bill contains hing for category c. i think. frankly. although i am a member of the appropriations committee and i have great respect for it. that it exceeds the proper competence of the appropriations committee to kill a program authorized by congress. i think it can adjust the funds in amount. it can adjust the schedule of appropriations particularly in relation to the ecoic needs of the country. but to take the position that the appropriations committee has the authority to say as a matter of substance to a program that congress authorized. it seems to me is something that should be protested by the senate as a wholeand i do make that protest . this is part of the function of the appropriations committee of the senate or of the house. in this matter. the house committee was more arrogant than any i have ever kn before in dealing with matters of this kind. in deciding to kill a program because they do  happen to like it even though it has been authorized by the congress as a whole.
s commitment to provide a school lunch to every needy child. if this new interpretation is adopted. as many as 15.000 needy children in new jersey will be cut from the free lunch program. new jersey has been a national leader in implementing a viable school lunch program. the state subsidizes a substantial part of this program because it recognizes the real need that exists. i urge you to permit new jerseys cities to set the poverty line for free and reduced price lunches at a level commensurate with the urban cost of living.
. on behalf of the members of the committee on the republican side i am happy to join with the chairman of the subcommittee and the full committee in accepting this amendment. speaking for myself. we have a very good school in new jersey which is one of a number we hope to have. this is a very important matter and i think we are most happy with this amendment.
s most recently expressed concern for the school children of our inner cities. i am shocked to hear that the united states department of agriculture intends to curtail severely the special summer feeding program. this will be a great loss to our cities and will lend to further intensification of our urban problems. as you k. the summer program was curtailed last year because funds for the program were impounded. the program to feed needy children did  begin until july 26. 1971. instead of the end of the school year in early june. we  learn that new jersey will  be allowed to spend any more than last years actual expenditures. in other words. new jersey is being asked to stretch money for six weeks to nine weeks of the feeding program. moreover. the situation is even more serious. the actual need for the summer feeding program in new jersey goes well beyond last years approved funds. a well run program that will reach children this year will cost between $2.5 and $3.0 millio more than double last years costs. congress is committed to seeing that all our children receive the food they need. i am sure you concur in this view and i request that you reconsider promptly the funding for the special summer feeding program. sincerely.
. like many other senators. i have received a great deal of correspondence recently on the subject of school busing. i ask unanimous consent that a statement of my position of this issue be printed in the record.
. on behalf of senators hart. mcgovern. cranston. and myself i would like to ask unanimous consent for a starprint on s. 3537. a comprehensive school lunchschool breakfast reform bill which we recently introduced. due to a clerical mistake. one vital section was omitted from the bill. i would like  to submit the proper draft of the bill. to be replaced as s. 3537.
. i submit an amendment to h.r. 14896 on vending machines to strike in section 7 all language beginning with the phrase "the first sentence" on line 6. page 16. and continuing through to the word "institutions" on line 13. on line 14. strike the word "sec." and the number "8." the effect of this amendment will be to continue the secretary of agricultures authority to regulate vending machines in school cafeterias. my amendment is cosponsored by senators aiken. bennett. tunney. burdick.
. under current law. the secretary of agriculture has authority to regulate competitive food services. the senate version of h.r. 14896 would remove this authority from the secretary and. in effect. leave the question of competitive food service up to the states and local school districts. school lunch directors are fearful they would be forced to allow vending machines in school cafeterias. certainly this would weaken their effort to provide balanced and nutritious meals for all children. the house version of h.r. 14896 would allow competitive food services to offer the sale of "nutritious food through vending machineswhere the proceeds of such sales will inure to the benefit of the schools or of organizations of students or parents approved by the schools and (where) such sales will  substantially interfere with the (school lunch) programs so authorized." unfortunately. there is workable definition of "nutritious foods" which could well mean "empty calories" and there would be substantial pressure  only to install such machines but. also. to use them to the "advantage" of fund raising organizations. in my view we should retain the existing system while continuing to improve the quality of meals offered in the national school lunch program. returning to the original language of the school lunch act does  foreclose the option in the hands of the secretary to allow certain exceptions. for example. senior high school students may desire soft drink machines in school cafeterias and if. in the secretarys opinion. there is sound reason to prohibit soft drink machines. the authority exists for him to take action. . however. i think it is best to proceed as we have in the past and safeguard as well as we can the school lunch program.
. a really gratifying aspect of the school lunch amendment before the senate today is the recognition of the school breakfast program as a genuine part of this nations commitment to needy schoolchildren. earlier this year i urged the department of agriculture to ascertain how many schools wanted to implement the breakfast program. finally. after serious inadequacies in the initial study were identified. it was found that over 20.000 schools wanted the breakfast program. this measure before us will guarantee these schools will be able to participate. and i urge the senate to adopt the committees recommendations on the breakfast program. the school breakfast program has proven its worth. school principals in my own state have written to me and told me the breakfast program improves the alertness of a child in the morning hours when attention by the student to classroom instruction is most important. and the principals also have reported that after implementing the breakfast program school attendance has improved. because children look forward to the morning meal and the comraderie that goes with it. the recognition of the breakfast program as a genuine part of the child feeding effort will make unnecessary an approach some schools in new jersey and. i am sure. elsewhere have taken in providing luncheon at an early hour to cover the absence of a good breakfast. and. i think. we will  be in a position to turn attention away from insuring participation in the breakfast program to the task of improving the content and quality of the breakfasts offered to children.
. at the present time. over 18.000 schools still do  provide lunch service to children. many of these schools are located in older sections of cities. some are parochial schools. others are in rural areas. the school lunch amendments this year proposes to authorize $40 million for cafeteria equipment which is available on a matching basis where the federal government pays 75 percent of the cost and the state or school district or individual schools pays 25 percent. the senate committee also set aside half of this $40 million for schools that  lack cafeteria equipment. this is helpful. but i believe we must go further and insure that financially hard pressed schools are given priority in participating in the school lunch program. our amendment waives the matching requirement for needy schools. this will be a strong incentive to equip the poorest schools first and it will allow parochial schools to participate in the lunch program where state law prohibits financial assistance.
i would be happy to give the reasons. as far as my experience and kledge go. we are talking about an experience that has existed. my amendment would retain the present situation and present authority of the secretary of agriculture. as far as i k that authority has never been exercised capriciously or to the disadvantage of any school or any school district. the matter of the kinds of things that are permitted has been decided by the secretary under broad guidelines. and i think well. insofar as it is possible for school children to buy things in the hall right outside that are  permitted to be bought in the cafeteria. but to permit the purchase of things that are  a part of the school lunch program by permitting them to be sold in vending machines in a school cafeteria seems to be unwise. as the senator from vermont sagely commented before. school districts in his state and school districts in my state are very happy to have it handled by the secretary of agriculture so they are immune from the kinds of pressure from profitmaking institutions that are  in the interest of the children.
i appreciate the contribution of the senator from vermont and also the contribution of the senator from kentucky. i think that is in accord with the experience over the country as a whole. i want to make one point finally. of course. we are  against vending machines. if vending machines are to be used. they can be used. under the act. for the purveying of the school lunch itself. so this is  an antivending machine amendment at all.
the senator from new jersey has desire to abolish any reasonable control. how would the senator feel about an amendment which left to the local school districts in the case of high schools that choice but took it away from the grade schools.
i shall be happy to. . the effect of the amendment as it  stands would be to restore to the secretary of agriculture. or to retain in the secretary of agriculture. authority in regard to the school lunch food and competitive items of food in all but senior high schools. it would retain. in effect. the committee language. insofar as the senior high schools are concerned. that is the substance of it.
the chairman of the committee is a most loquacious debater. he presents a situation which is a verbal monstrosity. but a very practical thing. it is perfectly possible to have a line for high school students in a mixed cafeteria. if you want to. it is  very difficult to separate high school children from other children. i do  k what the experience is in the senators state. but i do  think armed guards are needed to maintain this kind of thing. i think the senators colorful language and enthusiastic support of the committee in this regard is great. but i do  think it is terribly persuasive to those of us who are trying to solve a problem. the problem is simply that we do  want this money wasted. and. even more important. we do  want the health of children to be undermined by the kinds of things that are likely to happen. especially with smaller children. when they are given money to buy food and can be guided in their choice of nutritious food. this is the whole business. i k that the secretary has  misused or abused his authority here. it is my hope that the senate will support a continuation of the present authority. with the modification in respect of high school cafeterias which i have been happy to make at the suggestion of the senator from maryland. i ask unanimous consent to have the names of the senator from minnesota
to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate insists upon its amendment to the bill entitled "an act to amend the vocational rehabilitation act to extend and revise the authorization of grants to states for vocational rehabilitation services. to authorize grants for rehabilitation services to those with severe disabilities. and for other purposes." disagreed to by the house. agrees to the conference asked by the house on the disagreeing votes of the two houses thereon. and appoints
i would be happy to give the reasons as far as my experience and kledge go. we are talking about an experience that has existed. my amendment would retain the present situation and present authority of the secretary of agriculture. as far as i k that authority has never been exercised capriciously or to the disadvantage of any school or any school district. the matter of the kinds of things that are permitted has been decided by the secretary under broad guidelines. and i think well. insofar as it is possible for school children to buy things in the hall right outside that are  permitted to be bought in the cafeteria. but to permit the purchase of things that are  a part of the school lunch program by permitting them to be sold in vending machines in a school cafeteria seems to be unwise. as the senator from vermont sagely commented before. school districts in his state and school districts in my state are very happy to have it handled by the secretary of agriculture so they are immune from the kinds of pressure from profitmaking institutions that are  in the interest of the children.
. the school lunch and school breakfast programs are major federal efforts to provide good. nutritional meals to schoolchildren. unfortunately.  all schools  participate but there is a strong effort underway in my own state to initiate these programs in schools that need them. an article by john 0. davies. of the new jersey courier post news staff describes what new jerseys state officials are doing. i ask unanimous consent that this article be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. a significant expansion of the school lunch and school breakfast programs took place under the leadership of mr. lewis straus. his work is being continued by mr. wallace collender. the new state director for these programs.
 made clear their intent to reach every needy child under the national school lunch program. an inative demonstration program has been proposed for hudson county. n.j.. which currently provides only 8.500 school lunches daily. even though there are 92.517 public school children and 36.500 parochial school children eligible to participate in the national school lunch program. i have urged the department of agriculture to fund promptly the community nutrition agency of hudson county. i ask unanimous consent that my letter to the department of agriculture be placed in the record. i also ask unanimous consent that a letter from the community nutrition agency of hudson county also be printed in the record.
. i am introducing today legislation to continue the major improvement we made in the reducedprice lunch program last year. traditionally school lunches have been made available free to the poor and on a reduced price basis to children of people of lower income. in the past one qualified for participation in the reducedprice lunch program if the family income was more than 50 percent above the poverty level. last year that was expanded to 75 percent above the poverty level to insure that working families could participate in the school lunch program. unfortunately this new provision of the law was  implemented until rather late in the school year. but. etheless. participation has been good. in new jersey alone 67 school districts have adopted the new reduced price scale. these 67 school districts are in 19 of our 21 counties including cities such as east brunswick. woodbridge. long branch. neptune. clifton. newark. and atlantic city. other towns in new jersey include newton. berkeley heights. phillipsburg. belvidere. folsom. moorestown. berlin. haddon heights. woodbine. elk township. kingsway. point pleasant borough. stafford township. franklin township. eatontown. pleasantville. bass river. mount laurel. camden county. lindenwald. somerville. frenchtown. union township. highland park. middlesexpiscataway. woodbridge. tuckerton. clifton. salem city. and pennsville. approximately 15.000 children in new jersey have been able to participate in the reduced price lunch program because of this change in the law adopted last year. implementation of this new program is optional. some school districts and state food service directors have hesitated to initiate the program because they were unsure congress would continue it. the amendment i introduce will assure continuation of the reduced price lunch program so that its efficacy can be fully tested. i think we will see. after a reasonable time has passed. that this is an important ination of special importance to hardpressed working families. last year the chairman of the agricultural research and general legislation subcommittee. senator allen. graciously accepted this amendment. and i k this proposal has warm support on the agriculture and forestry committee. i hope the committee will see fit to continue the expanded reduced price school lunch program for working families. by mr. gravel:
. this amendment would extend for 1 year the availability of money appropriated. some $19 million in the student assistance fund. only $1 million of the $20 million appropriated will have been spent and it just makes common sense to give 1 more year for this purpose.
. i want to thank the senate agriculture and forestry committee for unanimously approving legislation i introduced to make permanent the expanded reduced price school lunch program. i am happy this proposal is part of the legislation before the senate today. the reduced price school lunch program makes available lunches to children of working families at reduced costusually between 10 and 20 cents per meal. under my proposalwhich was initiated last yearfamilies whose income is 175 percent above the poverty guideline qualify for the reduced price lunch program. in new jersey 15.000 additional children were added to the reduced price program as a result of last years legislation. participation may more than double this coming year. thirtyseven other states have begun the new reduced price lunch program and more states are expected to join this coming school year. my proposal was supported by the american school food service association which called the program a "milestone" and a "must for the school food service program." it was also endorsed by gover brendan byrne of new jersey who told me: we fully expect that most districts will initiate this reduced price provision if legislation permits. the legislation before the senate todayboth that on school lunches and on the food stamp and commodity program. continues the progress made in the past few years by the congress.
. i am pleased to join senator mcgovern in cosponsoring the amendment which would make mandatory the reduced price lunch and raise the eligibility level for it from 175 to 200 percent of the poverty income guideline. adoption of our amendment could increase participation in the reducedprice lunch by as much as 4 percent. and it would help the children who need the help the most. children are being forced to drop out of the school lunch program because their families simply do  have egh money to be able to purchase the nutritionally adequate lunch available through the school lunch program. i urge the senate to act favorably on our amendment. in order to safeguard the health of these children. since this proposal was unanimously accepted by the house. its adoption by the senate will guarantee children from lowincome families a better diet. as the original sponsor of legislation to make permanent the optional reducedprice lunchtermed a milestone by the american school food service associationi view adoption of this amendment as yet aher milestone.
. if adopted. this amendment will accomplish two closely related goals. first. it will return to the department of agriculture the authority to regulate competitive foods in the school lunchroom. and it will do. so with the admonition of congress that socalled empty calorie or junk foods should  be sold in schools participating in the national school lunch program. second. my amendment will create a new section in the national school lunch act aimed at providing assistance to schools for programs of nutrition education  to exceed $1 million annually would be authorized for this program. this amendment does  ban vending machines. it simply regulates what may be sold in them. i believe that the soda pop. candy and cake sold in some school vending machines undermine the purpose of the school lunch program. the objective of our child nutrition programs is to help provide a nutritionally adequate diet for schoolchildren and. thereby. help to safeguard their health and wellbeing. it has been proven time and again that well rished children are more alert. better behaved. and learn more in the classroom. many experts and citizens concerned about the presence of junk food in the school cafeteria have been in touch with me. and i share their belief that any assault on the quality of our school nutrition programs must be regarded most seriously. this amendment has the support of the american school food service association and the american dental association. both strong advocates of the best in nutrition for the school lunchroom. in his testimony before a senate agricultural subcommittee this spring. dr. william e. allen of the american dental association stated: we share. first of all. the desire of all americans that children be afforded diets that are high in nutritional value. the present school lunch program plays a valuable role in helping to assure this. it would be imprudent and. we think. unfair to the child to tempt him to ige the wellbalanced lunch available to him in favor of purchasing foods from vending machines that would be far less valuable in terms of his overall growth and development. secondly. we are concerned about the deleterious effect on the oral health of children that is the consequence of undue consumption of sugarrich foods. many of which are commonly sold in vending machines. the practice in my own state of new jersey is to make available only nutritious food during the hours that the school breakfast and lunch programs are operating. in other words. vending machines selling nutritious foods are turned off for those periods. for my own part. i am deeply concerned about the attitude of the department of agriculture on this matter. through its failure to act. it has condoned the erosion of its authority over the school nutrition programs. senator allen. chairman of the senate agriculture subcommittee on agricultural research and general legislation. has stated that "proper nutrition is the primary purpose" of the school lunch programs. and i agree with him. my amendment. in line with this objective. also provides cash grants  to exceed $1.000.000 annually to departments of education or comparable state agencies for the purpose of educating children on the nutritional value of foods and the importance of nutrition to good health. adoption of this amendment will go a long way to assure that the federal dollars spent in our school nutrition programs are actually providing the best possible nutrition for the children of our country. i have discussed this amendment with the floor manager of the bill and with his republican counterpart. senator dole. i think we have reached an agreement and that we can come to an immediate vote.
. i was distressed wednesday to learn that secretary of transportation william coleman had decided to allow british and french supersonic transports to use dulles and kennedy international airportsfor what he terms a 16month trial period. in my view. the secretary has failed to provide any substantial basis for allowing these planes to land at our airports. congress spoke decisively on the issue of the sst in 1971 and hing in the intervening years has convinced me that our earlier decision was wrong. the concorde/sst is sy. it pollutes the air. it wastes fuel. it is  ecoical. it depletes the ozone. in short. the concordeas presently designedis a menace. i am glad to join senator weicker in sponsoring legislation to ban the concordes. and i fully intend to support all additional legislative efforts which will accomplish this same purpose.
. the situation in the netherlands. where south moluccan terrorists are holding school children hostage. is becoming increasingly outrageous. terrorism in any form is deplorable. it is even worse when the target is school children. of whatever nationality. i have  followed in detail the cause of the moluccans. but i can say that they are hurting.  helping. their cause. my deep sympathy goes to the children. their families and friends. the incident shows the dangers of having let the virus of terrorism grow. it underscores the need for the civilized nations of the world to continue working toward bringing the problem under control. i ask unanimous consent to place into the record an editorial from todays baltimore sun on the subject.
in addition to the support of the organizations listed in our letter. i have received letters from people all over the country supporting our proposal. i have heard from people from california. nebraska. oklahoma. ohio. illis. west virginia. colorado. maryland. indiana. th dakota. iowa. kentucky. florida. new york. arizona. georgia. mississippi. virginia. wisconsin. tennessee. arkansas and missouri. and. of course. many of my own new jersey constituents have written me about it. an additional reason for inclusion of our competitive foods amendment in s. 1420 lies in the amount of plate waste in our school lunch programs. in the report accompanying the bill. the senate agriculture committee states: it is believed that the sale of nutritious foods during school hours contributes substantially to increased plate waste. low participation in the school lunch program. and an increase in the consumption of nutritious foods in schools. the committee believes that restoration to the secretary of the regulatory authority over competitive foods will help point out the role of good nutrition in health care. and help instill good future eating habits in children. an article by josephine martin. president of the american school food service association. in their june journal. focuses on the need to eliminate waste in the national school lunch program. she refers to a resolution recently approved by the asfsa board declaring a "war on waste" and outlines a number of practical measures that can be taken to eliminate such waste. including the control of sale of competitive foods in the schools. i ask unanimous consent. . that this article be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. my name is mary beth cash. i am employed by mr. steak restaurant in st. cloud. minnesota. i do want to thank you for the opportunity to speak to you this aftern. i began waitressing some six years ago. at that point i didnt have any intention of continuing waitressing. when i found out what i could do with myself and through myself how much money i could make i stayed in the business. by working 20 hours a week and making what i did i have been able to put myself through parochial high school and i put myself through four years of college. the reason i could put myself through so much education was because of the money i made through my tips. because i could sell my personality and excellent table service and get the rewards from being myself. that is what put me through the schooling that i had. before i graduated from high school i decided i wanted to try a different job. so i worked as a clerk in a store. i found that i could  make it. i could  put myself through school because i had help from my parents. from 16 on i did everything for myself. so i went back to waitressing because it was those tips that was giving me my education there are other girls like myself putriug thernselves through school and i dont want that opportunity destroyed by taking away our tips. thank you.
 pro tempore of the senate to investigate all such situations as those which  are within the jurisdiction of the committee on unamerican activities. such a joint committee should have rules and regulations to protect the character of individuals appearing before it. and could proceed as an investigating committee of a type with which we are familiar to learn the facts about the ideologies and movements active in the world and in our own country.
. it is very clear that this conference. designated as the cultural and scientific conference for world peace. to which the gentleman from new york [mr. multeri refers is obviously "canned" in the typically communist manner. i ask unanimous consent at this point in the record to insert the release of the department of state on this subject. dated march 16. 1949. which is a very eloquent statement of the american position. this statement indicates that the united states is  afraid to listen to anybody. we do  feel that we can be corrupted by ideas if the ideas are bad. the soviet union could well learn this from us. the collapse of great powers historically has been attributed to their stubborn refusal to learn this lessonthat the ultimate trust must be in the people.
can we be as specific  about states which have segregated school systems as between white and negro children. so far as this bill is concerned the money will be permitted to be used separately for white and negro schools will it .
. this amendment proposes only to restore the law to what it is today. as the law stands today. it provides that a quota immigrant visa may be afforded to a minister of religion who has a background in the ministry as well as to a professor to teach in one of our schools or colleges. as the bill is brought to us . it is simply stricken out. dropping from the quota immigrant section the word professors. i would like to refer in this respect to the argumentmade in the other body in respect to similar treatment which was given to the bill in the other body of this same character. a number of distinguished members of the other body stated the only reason they could possibly see for professors being dropped from the quota immigrant status is that some people are just concerned about letting professors to teach in our schools and colleges enter the country. this despite the fact that professors so admitted have made an enviable record. for example. and very markedly. in the field of atomic energy where we have gotten some of the most outstanding brains in the world under just such a provision. it will probably be said in opposition to this amendment that professors can come in under the quota immigrant section as amended by this bill. which is before us. which gives a 50percent preference in every quota for people of high education and unusual skill. the difficulty with that argument is twofold. first. it means that a professor whom a college or university urgently wants has to await all of the detailed procedure of a quota immigrant. and second. that he has to accept a quota immigrant status which means he has to divorce himself from the country from which he comes. and he may  want to do that.
i am sure we will hear that. but i have anticipated only one argument. and that is because of this change in the quota system where 50 percent will go to people with particular technical skill or higher education. that may be the reason for it. but. as i pointed out. the whole college system of professorships from abroad is being dealt with as we deal with other immigrants. and i decidedly do  think it is in the best interests of our country to change the law in this respect.
 of the committee is adopted. champlain college will be put out of business and terminated as a college insofar as its location in this particular place is concerned where it is occupying plattsburg barracks. with the end of this particular college year it will mean in practical effect that the program of the state of new york state associated colleges will be very materially impaired. some 700 students will  be able to pursue their education in this fashion. and that is a very serious and a very sad thing. there has been a good deal of discussion about this. one fact that i would like to clear up at once is the fact that the legislature of the state of new york has passed an enabling statute so that this property could be reconveyed to the federal government. the state legislature was hoing a commitment. a commitment that the property would be turned back any time the federal government needed it in connection with the national emergency. that action on the part of the new york legislature was therefore in order. why have i proposed this amendment. why am i here. i am here. and i think properly. because it is a question of our judgment and wise discretion that involves the question of public interest. as to whether congress wishes to eliminate this educational facility despite the fact that the united states has right to do it. the government has the right to do it under the reservation made with the state of new york. congress has always traditionally at least been willing to test its discretion. and this amendment of mine is addressed to the question of testing the discretion of congress on this vital issue. i think it is a matter of some principle too. because it may happen again. here is a state college at a time when educational facilities in the field of higher learning are extremely shorthere is a state college which will be displaced. i understand that it is possible to locate the particular air force facility sought to be located in its place insofar as the air force is concerned at aher place in plattsburg that it will cost somewhat more money. it may cost as i understand. something between $4.000.000 and $5.000.000. i think that the exigencies of the times are such that the order of events ought to be. first. to leave the college where it is. and. second. to see if it is possible to arrange for payment for the facilities or their acquisition. if that is feasible. on the part of the state of new york. and. third. that even in extemis we should  displace the college facilities but should exercise discretion and should. if necessary. even cause a little more money to be paid to have the air base where it will  displace this college.
i have already been heard on my amendment. i have desire to take the additional time of this house except to make one point clear: if we were running this as a business we would do what the gentleman from new york said. get the state of new york to reimburse the federal government for the excess cost of location of the air force facilities at aher place that would  eliminate the college. if the amendment of my distinguished colleague from georgia were adopted alone without any amendment to it the chances for champlain college are ended. if on the other hand. my amendment is adopted. the matter is left open so it can be negotiated between the federal government and the state of new york and champlain college will still exist. i think plain justice and logic require that my amendment be adopted.
 of the board of commissioners. that preparations are in progress so that local governmental officials may implement the republican partys campaign pledge. but the commissioners can deal with all district of columbia segregation. since there are still on the statute books laws enacted during the last century which impose racial segregation in the district of columbia. only the congress can remedy this and it is up to the congress to see that these laws are repealed. this my bill does. it codifies in appropriate form the necessary legislative repealers. the bill eliminates racial segregation and discrimination imposed by statute. first. in the educational facilities of the district of columbia public schools. second. among the faculty and school officers of the district of columbia public school system. third. in the school census. fourth in the columbia institution for the deaf and in the education of deaf mutes. fifth. in the national training school for girls. and sixth. in all other provisions of law inconsistent with this act. the measure is designed to take effect as of september 1. 1953. this date being selected as just prior to the commencement of the new school year. great savings will accrue in the conduct of the district of columbia government if this bill is adopted. as much of the duplication in school facilities. school officials. and other personnel inherent in the present dual educational system could be eliminated. washington. as our national capital. is the showplace of the nation and what we do here is interpreted throughout the world as indicative of our national attitude and policy. the lying communist propaganda has for a long time been seeking to use to its advantage with the colored peoples of the world statutes which i seek to repeal relating to segregation in the district of columbia. this lying propaganda has been used in korea and areas of south and southeast asia in which the soviet and its satellites are the aggressors. as an essential measure in the defense of the free world and to validate our own constitution. congress should do its best in eliminating segregation in the district of columbia.
plattsburg houses champlain college. which is of very real importance in the educational life of new york state. that has been one of the great difficulties with and arguments against this project. i think the gentleman carries great authority in this field. if the gentleman would state as a fact so that it is of record that the establishment of this plattsburg project which entails the elimination of champlain college at this point is really. in the opinion of the armed services committee. in the essential security interest of the united states. i think at least the people concerned to whom it means so much would feel. "well. we have done all we can. it is one of those things. and life is that way."
. i wish to commend the chairman of the committee for appointing a subcommittee to consider the bill for federal aid to school construction. i am strongly in favor of it. i believe it is a proper area of responsibility of the federal government. and i am glad to see the committee giving it attention. school construction is one of the major national problems we face and it is going to get worse.  better. we need to increase the rate of school construction by 50 percent from  until 1960 and federal help is vital if it is to be done. our rate of construction must go up in the nation from 50.000 to at least 75.000 classrooms a year. in new york city there is an estimated need according to the board of education for 312 new school buildings. costing $425 million alone. plus sites. modernization of other buildings. and so forth. school enrollment is estimated. to reach its postwar high in 195556 and accelerate the needs everywhere. i favor also fundamental federal aid for schools which has been considered in the congress for a long time. the need for adequate teaching staff getting fair compensation is particularly grave. these are essential national concernsthese matters of schools and educationa decent education is the right of every american child. to be in the highest sense world leadersa role destiny has chosen for ussuch an objective is a bedrock requirement for us.
i have a wire here from the superintendent of schools of the city of new york. dr. william jansen. we have over 1.300.000 school children in new york. the superintendent says: your support requested for amendment to house appropriation bill increasing the georgebarden vocational funds from $18 million to $23 million. this money is earnestly needed nationally for continuation of the present vocational program. it is signed by william jansen. superintendent of schools. . i shall support the gentlemans amendment and would urge other members from cities to also support it in view of the distinguished support which this amendment has received.
i ice at page 2. lines 22 and 23 of the bill. reference is made to grants to public and other profit organizations and agencies. have the committee deliberations disclosed anything about what the committee had in mind on the score of profit organizations and agencies. it seems to me that in this field there is a unique opportunity for encouraging the voluntary agencies to great efforts. it is a tremendously appealing and sympathetic field. i am strongly in favor of an improved and increased program of vocational rehabilitation as vital to the national interest. would the gentleman tell us what the committee has in mind by way of governmentprivate cooperation in that regard.
i would like to assure the gentleman. who is the distinguished ranking miity member of the committee on agriculture. that in my districtwhich happens to be one of the most literate in the united states including as it does columbia university. and i believe as many other educational. medical. and cultural institutions as about anybody elses district in this house and whose people are by a very high percentagehigh school and college graduatesthe farmers of america are considered to be wonderful people and very literate. and we want to do everything in our power to help them. and second. there is certainly animosity and hostility in my district. if anybody is trying to sow it. they are failing miserably. we are discussing as hoable americans a problem affecting our mutual concerns and hing more. i think it is very tragic that any other e should be injected into this debate.
. on behalf of my colleague. the senior senator from new york [mr. ivfsl. and myself. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to increase from 18 to 21 yearsin the case of children who are attending schoolthe maximum age for receiving benefits under title ii of the social security act. i wish to make a brief statement relating to the bill. the present law works a severe hardship on widowed mothers trying to provide a college education for their children by cutting off social security benefits when the dependent child reaches 18. however. if the law is amended as proposed. then some 110.000 young americans  18 through 20 years of age would receive an average payment of $50 a month until their 21st birthday. so long as they remain in school. such an extension of social security coverage will cost approximately $65 million a yearor only about 1 percent of our total social security payments annually. some of the groundwork for extending coverage in this manner was laid last year when congress enacted public law 880. which provided that both the widowed mother and her dependent child who was disabled would continue to receive benefits if the childs disability occurred before age 18. similar coverage to include mothers in the bill i am introducing would cost approximately $30 million a year. today. when the cost of a college education is soaringwhen educators estimate that at least 100.000 gifted highschool students can afford to go to collegethis bill would allow the dependent child an average of $600 a year to help defray expenses. it seems to me that at a time when our country must develop the mental as well as the physical manpower to maintain its position at home and abroad in the decades of decision ahead. we must do everything in our power to encourage as many of our youth as possible to complete their education.
. i present. for appropriate reference. and ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. a resolution adopted by the american sociological society of new york university. which is my alma mater. relating to the national science foundation and its program of research support and graduate fellowships.
subsequently said: . further in connection with the colloquy which i had earlier with my colleague. the distinguished senator from arkansas . let me say that i. too. as i have previously stated. have been in formosa within the past 2 months. i traveled there. i talked with generalissimo chiang kaishek. madame chiang. and many other officials. including the prime minister. i have seen something of the situation there. if we are to learn from what has happened in formosa. it must shake us out of a certain kind of complacencywhich is probably unique with usa complacency which causes us to feel that if we help someone else. the situation is or should be in fine shape so far as we are concerned. i am a firm believer in the foreignaid program as an essential element of our national security but that does  mean that i want to countenance any inefficiency or ineffectiveness. i just do  believe that meatax cutting will get effectiveness. i believe we have to supply the money to do the job and then see that it is done. the question is whether the situation is good. even though we do help. the situation is one which requires constant review. constant understanding. and constant servicing. the conferees on the usia appropriation are meeting this morning. that is the agency which we expect to project our point of view to the world. including the people of formosa. i think it is at least as legitimate a conclusion that we have  appropriated egh here in the senate for the job. that we have  authorized egh personnel. and that we have  done egh planning to do the job that needs to be done in the key and sensitive areas such as formosa. as it is to conclude that we have been doing too much. the great organs of public opinion seemed to be lined up behind the proposition that this is an indispensable activity. which is entitled to support from the executive and the congress. apparently it has received very much greater support from the other body. which has studied the problem just as carefully as we have. also i feel that the competition on propaganda we are getting from the communists is so strong that our own proposed effort is too limited in our own interest. i express the hope that e of my colleagues will take offense at the fact that the head of an agency puts up a spirited defense in a proper way for his agency. that is one of our great american privileges. i do  think a man should be penalized for that. certainly  when the agency under consideration is so important and vital to the interests of the united states in our search for security. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks an editorial entitled "ecoizing on usia." published in the new york times of today.
. it shall be my intention for the time it takes. and i hope it can be done in a reasonable time. to outline something which. though we have had very extensive debate already on civil rights. the proposed legislation before us. has  really been outlined in detail. and that is the question: why is part iii. which has been so much discussed. in this bill. what will it do. why is it essential to this kind of legislation. allusion has been made to the fact that last year. 1956. when the attorney general stated his views with respect to this proposed legislation. he discussed primarily the fact that a commission should be established to look into the civil rights question. and indicated that it was the commission. rather than this bill. which he hoped would look into the question of equal protection of the laws. subsequently. much was made of the fact that 1 year later the bill was before us with part iii in it. it seems to me that this is  strange at all. perhaps that is the best way to introduce the subject of what part iii is and what it is all about. first. in that intervening year the congress did hing. second. and very important. the protection of civil rights. particularly in the southern areas of the country. presented us with a problem which became more acute as time went on. it was in that year that there were outbursts of violence. bombings. and similar outbreaks. it was in that year that the attorney general had gained the experience of the hoxie and clinton cases. it was in that year that the lines along which there would be resistance to the implementation of the decisions of the supreme court. including the decision as to the desegregation of the public schools. for the first time became apparent. the attorney general. in practical effect. testified to that. as will be seen by reference to page 7 of the hearings which are before us. for the attorney general said. and i call attention to his testimony beginning at the bottom of page 7: there is. however. one type of situation in which these civil remedies might be useful in the schoolsegregation area. illustrated perhaps by a case that arose in hoxie. ark. there you will remember that the school board. in compliance with the united states supreme court ruling and without waiting for a lawsuit to be brought to compel them to do so. went ahead and desegregated the school. they were proceeding peacefully with an unsegregated school. as is the case. of course. in overwhelming areas of our country. then outside individuals came in and. as the court record shows. threatened the superintendent and the members of the school board with violence. and threatened some of the parents with violence. in case the unsegregated school proceeded. in that case the school superintendent and the members of the board filed a suit in the federal district court seeking to restrain the defendants from interfering with the operation of the school in the district on an unsegregated basis. an injunction was issued and on the appeal the department of justice came in as a friend of the court and filed a brief in support of the plaintiffs. the court of appeals upheld the district court and the school is  back on an unsegregated basis with everything proceeding peacefully. the school board in the hoxie case was courageous and forthright in taking the case into court. there may well develop other situations in which. after voluntary desegregation. the pressures placed upon the local school authorities are so great as to prevent their taking the initiative in instituting legal action. in this type of situation the department under this legislation would be authorized to take the initiative in filing a suit for an injunction against any individual seeking to interfere with the school authorities in their attempt to comply with the ruling of the supreme court.
without any question. for this reason: the fact that a school board may  want to sue is the nubbin of the whole question. a school board is composed of human beings who live in an area of the country which has certain ideas. if a school board does  act. because of its own feelings. the supreme court decision dictates that we should authorize an agency of the united states to act for it. if we are going to be sincere about it.
i will come to the question of the attorney generals being an autocrat. which has been stated in a loose way in the senate we are  talking about outraged husbands or beaten wives. we are talking about school boards. the senator may  like my answer. but it is the correct one.
it would  be the basis. the attorney general would sue in pursuance of the supreme courts mandate. which directs that there be equal opportunity for public school education for all people regardless of color. the gravamen of the action would  be that x. y. or z is  admitted into the jones school for example. the gravamen of the action would be that there exists in that community a school system which is operated contrary to the constitution. particularly the 14th amendment. as interpreted by the supreme court in brown against board of education. the attorney general would  be suing for a person. but for the authority of the united states to enforce a mandate of the supreme court which relates to the system which is in effect in a particular community.
 calls in attorney general." september 12: "whites continue their segregation fight." the story is much the same the world over. from sweden: "the wave of hateinspired actions  rolling over a number of americas southern states can only be characterized in one waythey are a shameful and deeply humiliating stain on the escutcheon of that country." from japan: "it is an abmal scene of education when children are kept away from school by armed forces under the order of a gover." from west germany: "the times- of the ku klux klan and of lynching appear to be returning." from romethe organ of the roman catholic- action movement: "the situation .does  bring ho to the greatest democracy in the world. "
. i ask unanimous consent that the name of the senator from illis may be added as a cosponsor of the bill to authorize federal assistance to the states and local communities in financing an expanded program of school construction so as to eliminate the national shortage of classrooms. introduced by me on february 3. 1958.
i also am a cosponsor of the bill. i should like to identify myself with the views of the senator from kentucky [mr. cooperi. i have the deepest of respect for the senator from connecticut. and i feel he offered the amendment only because of his profound conviction this was the only way to get an allocation for school construction. i take the other view. we have an honest difference of opinion. we have to back our judgment by our votes.
i did  k the senator was to speak on this subject this morning. a lecture which i once delivered at the harvard law school contained a reference. as the foundation for the american ethical approach to the practice. to this very fine pioneer work of which my colleague speaks.
i should like to express. on my own behalfand i think i express the views of other senators who are   in the chambergratification at the solution of the problem of the term of extension. and for the 20percent figure at which the conferees arrived. a number of senators who had amendments printed to extend the period to 5 years refrained from offering them. in confidence that the problem would be solved by the conferees. we are very gratified to learn that it was. i point out that -the conference report makes possible agreements which are absolutely essential under the reciprocal trade act. with the european countries which will be in the european common market. i express great appreciation to the distinguished senator from virginia for having led in shaping this legislation in such a satisfactory way.
i am distinctly gratified by that portion of the bill which deals with the student loan fund. and i shall support every phase of it. including the scholarship provision. the distinguished chairman of the committee is entitled to the gratitude of all the people of the country for rendering such a monumental service and drafting legislation so needed in the national defense. he has been able to reconcile a great many diverse points of view and to arrive at a sound conclusion. i had the privilege of testifying before the committee in connection with the proposal outlined in senate bill 1727. which i introduced. and which was sponsored also by the senior senator from new york . the senator from kentucky . the senator from maine . and the senator from maryland . that bill called for substantially the program  set forth in title 3 of the bill in direct loans to state agencies. in almost the same amount. we asked for $250 million. there is aher phase of that program about which i should like to ask the senator. and that is the idea of a $750 million revolving guaranty fund. to apply an fha type of guaranty to student loans. made either by state agencies. by banks and other institutions. or by educational institutions themselves. there are certain fiscal limitations. and certainly the bill before us shows that attention has been paid to the fiscal limitations. the type of approach which i have in mind is the technique which has been employed in connection with housing. and which might be employed in connection with education. in order materially to expand student loan opportunites. all of us must recognize the essentiality of the student loan approach. in order to enlarge the possibilities with relation to scholarships. matter how generous civ1085 we might wish to be in the field of scholarships. i am delighted with the bill. i believe the senator from alabama has rendered a great service to the country. the senator from new york was interested in king whether any consideration had been given to the fha type of approach in connection with the student loan program. going beyond the program in the bill.
. i am with the senator from michigan on the amendment which he has offered for school construction. i have had very profound concern about the per capita formula which is contained in his amendment. in new york it would work out very advantageously for us. i believe. however. that we could minimize the cost to the federal government by inserting a formula which is based more on inability of a state to supply its own needs. i realize that whenever one tries to get a result hence i shall support the amendment of the senator from michigan. i wish to express my appreciation to him. also. the appreciation of a great number of people in my state. i express appreciation for his giving us an opportunity. by marshaling the support which he has marshaled. to support a school construction amendment. i had planned to take an airplane at 7 oclock out of new york. i am  trying to arrange a somewhat later departure. so anxious am i to vote on his amendment. finally. i should like to say that the two things which i believe represent the clearest indices of competition between ourselves and the soviet union are housing and schools. it seems to me. therefore. that we are showing the whole free world this example of school construction which urgently needsand i believe the senator from michigan can prove this beyond peradventurefederal aid in order to do a really good job. in that respect. i should like to ask the senator a question. he has said frankly. as is the senators manner. that this is a federal aid to schools bill. is it  true. also. that in the really vital definition of the term securitythe security which comes from a satisfied and educated people. the security which comes from an adequate number of teachers. and which comes from the skills which a population learns by education. such security as the russians themselves are showing by their fantastic progress in 30odd years. largely because of educationthis is quite justifiably a national security bill.
i thank the senator from alabama. i may say that. together with my colleague from new york . the senator from kentucky . the senator from maine . and the senator from maryland . i introduced on march 27. 1957. the first studentloan act. the education loan act of 1957 . we polled 200 universities on that bill. and. uniformly. they replied. "student loans are fine. but we also need scholarships. in order to get into college at least 50 percent of the meritorious highschool graduates who are   coming to college. if members of congress really want to do what we say we want to do. we must take steps to enable at least 50 percent of the meritorious highschool students who are   going to college to enter college." so the omission of the scholarship provisions is a very serious one. and i hope we shall  give up in our efforts to obtain the enactment of such provisions. because they are very greatly needed. we must provide for the college administrator the opportunity for both student loans and scholarships. furthermore. i desire to point out that federal aid is being provided for school construction. we talk about attracting people to the teaching -profession. but we give them secondrate schools in which to teach. and we deprive the states of the resources with which to provide adequate salaries in order to encourage the teachers to remain in the teaching profession. so. . that we must go forward in making provision for scholarships and for federal aid to school construction. in addition to doing more to improve the studentaid program. the bill i introduced. s. 1727. contained provisions for what i called an fhatype educational program. it would have guaranteed the loans to be made to students by banks and savingsandloan associations throughout the nation. after all. a young american who is educated has a lifetime ahead of him. and his future constitutes just as good security as does a house on which an fha mortgage loan is placed. we should expand the program emously. even $260 million could be of real help to great numbers of students. so i hope very much that the senator from alabama. with his great interest in this field. will move forward. at the next session. in terms of the enactment of provisions for an fhatype program. as well as for enactment of the other programs. i thank the senator from alabama very much indeed.
. i present a resolution adopted by the parentteacher association marie curie. junior high school 158. of queens. bayside. n.y.. favoring the enactment of legislation to grant federal aid to education as it relates to teachers salaries. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution be printed in the record.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. the education assistance act of 1959. a bill to provide a 5year program of federal aid to states and localities for expanded school construction to eliminate the existing classroom shortage and for the purpose of increasing teachers salaries with special provision for science and mathematics teaching. the senate educational subcommittee. of which i am a member. will start hearings on federal education aid legislation on wednesday. february 4. my bill is divided into four major titles. providing authorizations over a 5year period as follows: title i: grants to be appropriated at the rate of $400 million annually to the states on a dollarfordollar basis for school construction in communities. under priorities established by state educational agencies. title h: loan funds up to an aggregate of $750 million for the purchase of school construction bonds issued by communities unable to find markets for them at reasonable interest rates. title iii: federal advances.  to exceed a total of $150 million. to back the credit of state agencies issuing bonds to finance schools for local school districts. title iv: grant expenditures to states starting at $100 million for fiscal 1960. and increasing $50 million a year to a maximum of $250 million annually. for a 5year program to supplement the salaries of qualified teachers. states may submit plans to include special salary supplementation for teachers of science and mathematics. despite more than a decade of unprecedented effort by states and localities. an acute national shortage of classrooms and qualified teachers persists. only the establishment of a major national defense emergency program of federal assistance can help solve critical problems such as these: depressingly low pay standards for teachers. their pay is 37 percent under the average income in 17 professions. and at the start teachers average pay of $2.000 a year less than the pay received by beginning engineers. a downward trend in school construction last year of almost 3.000 classrooms compared to 1957. which means our backlog of school building needs may  be wiped out until 1984. a timelag we can afford. overcrowded classrooms. particularly in major u.s. cities. where 40 percent of all elementary pupils try to learn in classes of 35 and over. compared to the optimum ratio of 25 pupils to 1 teacher. in 195758. about 3 percent of our gross national product. or $13 billion. was spent on public school education. it was less than we spent as a nation for recreation. for automobiles. or for tobacco and alcohol in 1957. and it was clearly inadequate to provide either the standard of instruction or the scope of educational opportunity needed for the fullest development of the mental resources of our youth. so essential to the promotion of human advancement. ecoic prosperity. and national security in the space age which is  upon us. my bill would anticipate grant expenditures aggregating a maximum of $2.950 million by the federal government over the entire 5year program. this amount is equivalent to 0.014 percent of our estimated gross national product for this year 1959 alone. last year. congress reacted to the public alarm at our slow progress in light of soviet russias remarkable scientific gains. and concentrated educational effort by passing the national defense education act. it fell short of our clear national need. but at least it was the start of a catchup program whose logical next step is the enactment of a temporary emergency measure. such as the education assistance act i am proposing for primary and secondary schools. by investing under 1 percent of this years proposed federal budget for each of the next 5 years. under this bill more than $10 billion in federal. state. and local expenditures for public education could be generated. we would construct new classrooms at the rate of 84.000 (at an average estimated cost of $40.000 per classroom). and thus eliminate the current backlog of 140.500 by the end of the program in 1964. under present plans. 68.440 classrooms are to be built this year. with 23 states reporting plans to build fewer classrooms than they did during 195758. however. the grand total is barely sufficient to meet the new classroom requirements of 65.300 for excess enrollment. to say hing of the 75.200 new classrooms needed to replace obsolete classrooms. the education assistance act of 1959 would supplement teachers salaries and provide onefourth of the amount required to raise their average pay 12 percent annually. the rate which should be sustained for 5 years if teaching salaries are to approach the median income in other professions. under title i of the proposed act alloting federal funds to states on a matching dollarfordollar basis. new york and texas could qualify for a maximum annual grant of $24.5 million. followed by pennsylvania. $22.7 million. california. $22.6 million. ohio. $18.6 million. michigan. $16.6 million. illis. $16.4 million. th carolina. $14.7 million. georgia. $12.2 million. alabama. $11 million. and tennessee. $10.8 million. the remaining states could qualify for varying amounts of about $10 million or less. with delaware at the bottom of the list-$619.000. the formula used in my bill is similar. but  identical to the one incorporated in the school assistance act of 1957h.r. 1. 85th congressreported by the house committee on education and labor. but defeated by a close vote in my bill would allocate $400 million in grants among the states. half on the basis of relative schoolage population and half on the basis of a need formula. and takes into account each states schoolage population. financial ability. and actual expenditures to meet school needs. however. under the new method of calculating the school effort index. states which shut down schools to avoid obeying court orders to desegregate might receive reduced allotments. in figuring the index. states are  allowed to count moneys earmarked for schoel expenditures. but only that which is actually spent. in addition. money paid in salaries to teachers who are still on the payroll. although their schools may have been closed down. can be credited as an actual expenditure on which federal aid may be based. where the school effort index falls below the national average. indicating that the state is  exerting sufficient effort. its original allotment will be lowered. and the total reduction reassigned proportionately among other states. second to other problem in severity is the shortage of qualified teachers even in states with the highest average teaching salaries. according to the national education association. although talented college graduates do enter the field in the face of beginning salaries ranked 17th from the top of a list of professional salaries. how many can be persuaded to stay if. at the end of 10 years. their pay increase averages only onethird that in the sales profession and less than half as much given accountants. this proposed legislation proposes the expenditure of $950 million to supplement teachers pay during the program. in recognition of the fact that to end halfday sessions. hire new teachers for the more than 1 million new pupils enrolling each year. and to raise salaries at least relative to those paid qualified personnel in other professions. we must increase total amounts paid teachers to $14 billion by 1965. even though states and localities exert maximum effort. it appears most unlikely that they can maintain more than the status quo without outside help. alternate methods of financing new school construction are also included in the education assistance act of 1959. title ii authorizes the commissioner of education to purchase up to a total of $750 million. over a 5year period. in community school bonds to assist localities which can obtain financing from other sources on reasonable terms. school districts with low assessed valuations. with unkn credit ratings. and those subject to sudden shifts in population or industry are most likely to benefit under this provision. to provide immediate school construction in rapidly expanding suburban areas. which are growing several times faster than the national population rate. title iii would provide $150 million to share equally with the states the cost of establishing and maintaining a reserve fund equal to 1 years payment of principal and interest on bond issues by state educational agencies to build schools. if this money is fully utilized. approximately $6 billion in such bonds could be issued. critics who would attack this bill on the grounds that it could lead to federal domination and control of public school education in this country are iging the successful record of federal educational assistance programs which have operated in the past with hidden strings attached. federal aid to land grant colleges dating back to 1862. the aid to federally impacted areas bill passed in 1950. and last years defense education act involved actual instruction of students as well as physical construction. they have  been attacked as instruments designed to snatch away control. the act i am proposing specifically states that in its administration. the federal government shall  exercise any direction. supervision. or control over the personnel. curriculum. or program of instruction in any school or school system. its purpose is  to negate the fundamental responsibility of the states and localities for education. rather. it recognizes that the national interest requires that federal assistance be extended to them in handling their urgent school problems. if we do  finance a major national program along these lines. then we are sentencing growing millions of our children to study in obsolescent. overcrowded. and sometimes unsafe classrooms. imposing such a severe educational handicap on the next generation which must meet the tremendous world and communist challenges in science. techogy. and almost every other field holds the gravest consequences for the future of our country and of the freedom we hold to be indispensable to our national and personal existence.
. i was raised in the school of irving ives. tom dewey. steingut. quinn. and other leaders in new york. which has the most advanced civilrights legislation in the united states. and it is always bipartisan. i say advisedly that this body can pass a civilrights bill without support from the democratic side. that is the reason for my speech. because i think the responsibility for bringing up the bill rests with the majority leader. and the responsibility for passing the bill is completely bipartisan. in my own time i should like to ask the majority leader. who always is so gracious and courteous to all of us. if he will answer the following question. and if he does  choose to answer it. i shall have complaint. but i should like to ask the question of him: is there in his statement the implicationi do  impute it. i only ask him. and if my question is inartistic. i hope he will correct methat the only way we can act on proposed civil rights legislation at this session will be by acting on a bill reported from the judiciary committee. or does he believe the senate will be given such an opportunity. regardless of whether such a bill is reported in the regular way from that committee.
when i said that together we could get somewhere. i meant that i shall do everything i can. in respect to the attorney general. and in respect to the president. for whose high office i have very great respect. to advance our cause. the administration has submitted a program of seven bills. it is a very important part of the bills referred to the subcommittee of the senator from missouri. one of those bills contains a provision which i think is very important. it actually recognizes the supreme courts mandate for desegregation in the schools. the bill introduced by the majority leader does  do that. i hope we may be able to amend it so that it will. the important thing i am emphasizing today is the challenge inherent in getting a bill before us. i agree that strong statements by those high in authority certainly would help us. whether they be statements from the president of the united states. the attorney general. or others in high positions. we must move to obtain such strong statements. withstanding the introduction of bills. the majority leader himself is responsible for the introduction of one bill. i have doubt that his action was a good thing. i applaud it. i only say that the important thing is the challenge inherent in bringing such proposed legislation before us for action. the calendar is working against us. i hope my views will be crystal clear on that score. without the strong right arm of the majority leader there will be civil rights legislation in this session of congress. the aid of the miity leader is also essential. and the support of a majority of the senate is necessary. the burden of my thesis is that the responsibility is a challenge to the majority. there has been a slowdown in desegregation during the past 2 years.  there are only 141 school districts in 5 states--out of a total of 2.018 biracial school districts in 11 statesthat have started the process of desegregation. however. 124 of those 141 districts are in west texas where there is only a small negro population. during the past 2 years. only 34 school districts have started desegregation. during the past 6 months only four school districts. all in virginia. have started desegregation. and one of them. warren county. has seen a total boycott of the school by the 1.050 white children. the secretary of health. education. and welfare. arthur flemming. reports that the closing of 13 public schools in arkansas and virginiain spite of the fact that the 9 schools in virginia reopened last februaryhas cost the children affected about 1.900.000 pupildays of lost schooling. this includes the days lost by those  attending school in warren county. some 1.800 of the 16.300 pupils affected received schooling at all. the 734 teachers affected either did  teach at all or were engaged in tutoring and substitute teaching workthis in a country faced with a shortage of more than 100.000 teachers. an encouraging sign is that in florida and georgia court decisions and statements by local officials give some indication that a start toward desegregation may be made this fall. also. the election of a moderate school board in little rock is a good sign of the publics temper. in this connection i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks an advertisement entitled "this is the program which will keep the schools segregated." inserted in the montgomery. ala.. advertiser of february 1. 1959. by the montgomery citizens council. i believe this advertisement was a very worrisome one. in that it called upon people to boycott other people. in order to try to avoid the desegregation decree of the supreme court.
i think the senator from florida has put his finger on just what we are seeking by this amendment i am one of the cosponsors of the amendment. the difference between the philosophy represented by the committee bill and that represented by the amendment is as great as the difference between day and night. the philosophy of the bill is that a man has served. that he wants college education. therefore. if he can find a college which will accept him. he shall have an opportunity. and be paid by the federal government. the philosophy of the amendment is that a man has served. therefore. if he wishes to obtain a college education and he can find a college to accept him. he shall have the opportunity for a loan. that is a very different philosophy from a college accepting a veteran who has served. on the basis of a grant. the amendment would require a visceral feeling on the part of the veteran that he must obtain an education. and that he is willing to undertake an obligation in order to accomplish it.
. i appreciate what the junior senator from pennsylvania has said. i speak as a friend of the bill. i voted in committee to report the bill to the senate. i expect to vote for the bill on the floor. it is my desire to make it truly representative of our best efforts and ideas. my colleague the senior senator from pennsylvania in his statement used one other point which i think it is important to stress. and that was a comparison of the system of education in the united states with the system of education in the soviet union. ours is a money ecoy. the soviet union runs a socialist ecoy. of which free education is a part. in return for free education. the young man serves on a farm. or he may serve on a labor battalion. when he finally gets a position and obtains the perquisites of the position. he gets it on the assumption that the education has been paid for by the state. we live in a money ecoy. and it seems to me that fact clinches the validity of the amendment. the fact is that when a man has had training. whether vocational or higher education. he earns more money than does a man who has  had such training. i ask why. in fairness and equity. he should  be asked to return some of the money which has enabled him to earn more money. we get. from the national education association. the fact that the starting salary of an individual who is a graduate of a college is. on the average. $5.268 a year. that is at least $1.000 more than the average annual wage that a man receives who has  had that kind of education. from the department of health. education. and welfare. we learn that the lifetime earnings a college graduate is expected to make are $268.000. on the average. whereas a high school graduate is expected to earn about $165.000. are we asking anything unreasonable when we say that. on the easiest possible terms. the man who has. by this training. been given an opportunity to earn that much more money. shall at least reimburse the taxpayer for the training afforded him. are we  being very fair and equitable to him when we say we give him this opportunity. which other young men do  have. regardless of whether he is especially meritorious or . because we have taken 2 essential years out of his life. let us remember we are  taking his lifeonly 2 years. essential as they may be to his education. we should give him recompense in terms of dollar loss. but the recompense should have some sense and some adjustment in view of the practicalities of the situation. finally. the argument was made by my senior colleague from pennsylvania that we would be preferring rich boys over poor boys. it is a fact that if a young man has the money. he can go to college. whether he gets the benefits proposed or . but if a boy is  poor. but is rich. is it better to give him a grant. does  that increase discrimination if we give to a rich boy a grant instead of giving him a loan. which would be the same opportunity afforded to the boy of modest circumstances. we face in this bill a cost of $504 million a year by 1965. the department estimates that there will be 379.000 trainees if the bill is passed. the question is. shall we lend or grant the money. i have never been distinguished as being one of the most passionate ecoizers on the floor of the senate. i have never pretended to be. i have been willing to pay my own taxes and to vote for taxes and to stand before my electorate and justify such action on the ground that the country needed to do the things which had to be done. i deeply feel that if i were responsible for an expenditure which could  intelligently. justly. or equitably be justified after getting the facts. i could be accused of having been born with a soft head and of  performing the duties which i was sent to the senate to perform. i want all men who must serve in the armed forces and who will have lost 2 years to have an opportunity to have education and training. but i am  going to be softheaded about it. if they earn more money when they get jobs after such training. they should reimburse the taxpayers. we fortify the opportunity. and make it better. stronger. and more dignified if we so provide. i deeply feel we should give an opportunity for education. as provided under this bill. to a young man. but he should undertake the basic and fundamental responsibility of repaying the loan on what are considered very reasonable terms. after he starts earning money.
i think the senator in his last words has said exactly what needs to be said. he regards this oath as  aiding the security of the united states. and may i say this so that we have the record clear. this is  the opinion of the senator from massachusetts. or the opinion of many college presidents who are academicians. this is the opinion of the secretary of health. education. and welfare. the secretary by letter of may 4. 1959. said. "i believe that the provisions should be repealed for the following reasons." and as one of the reasons he said: the inclusion of this requirement in the national defense education act singles out educators and students for special treatment without making a contribution to national security. he points out that he has full power to deny any benefit under the act to any student who is a member of any subversive organization or advocates the overthrow of the government by force. but he says this provision prevents him from carrying out the intent of the act cv- 882 because there are meritorious young men who do  want to stand accused by implication of any such philosophy. the senator from georgia asked if any young men appeared before the committee of the senator from massachusetts. i shall be glad to produce hundreds. and i think there may be thousands. of letters from young students and from professors who say this is an insult to their intelligence and to their americanism. and they do  want the education at that price. the senator from georgia may  necessarily feel that that is any reason why he should vote for this particular bill. but i think the bill has been properly reported to the senate and is properly before the senate. and i hope the senate will act favorably on it.
we will try to give the senator the law and a statement of what is sought to be accomplished. what is sought to be accomplished by the mundt amendment is. in essence. an overruling of the yates case. in short. the difference between the mundt amendment and the smith act is that the word "organization." which is contained in the smith act. was construed to mean that the defendant had to be a party to an initial establishment of an organization to overthrow the government by force. what the mundt amendment would do is to change that. the words used in the mundt amendment are "is a member of an organization." that is. as a fact. language  contained in the smith act. therefore. if the committee prevails and we have the loyalty oath provision. which my substitute amendment fully covers. and which the committee will accept. we will arrive at the situation when the smith act will cover a person who himself advocates overthrow of the government or who is an activist member of an organization. that will be covered by the words "abets. aids. advises." however. it will  cover a activist member. that was exactly the decision in the yates case. that is what is sought to be covered. in addition. by the mundt amendment. that is the situation. i agree thoroughly with the senator from rhode island that this is stretching a student requirement far beyond what it ought to be. i think we ought to have the situation very clear.
that is true. but. as i said to the senator. we stamped this program specifically as an element of the defense activity of the country. so i think we opened the door to the present proposal. let me complete my argument. the proposed substitute is  a creature of my brain. it grew out of the effort to arrive at a reasonable adjustment or accommodation between conflicting points of view. i agree with that principle. as a matter of fact. i rather felt this way in the committee. when we discussed the question. the proposed substitute is a fair accommodation of various points of view. and i believe such accommodation should be made. if we were to adopt it. it would leave the law in the following situation: the oath of allegiance would be taken. the smith act would remain on the books. the prescription with respect to the oath would stand on its bottom. as it does in the case of an oath taken in any other connection. in the defense activities of the country. as to the applicability of the smith act. the smith act will catch any student who is himself an advocate of overthrowing the government by force and violence. or an activist. who would be caught under the provision relating to aiding and abetting. it will  catch a man who is a activist member. because that situation is  specifically covered by the smith act. it may be covered by the subversive activities control act. relating to the obtaining of passports and other things. but it is . as a criminal offense. covered by the smith act. on the other hand. the amendment of the senator from south dakota would catch a activist member of such an organization. and would subject him to the felony penalty contained in the amendment. i think the real argument between the opposing sides is that the senator from south dakota is going too far in respect to college students who obtain these loans. it is for that reason. and in an effort to arrive at a proposal which would crystallize the conflicting views of senators. that i have proposed my substitute. i very much hope that it may be adopted.
i point out that the fifth point about the bill. the raising of teachers salaries. is very important. teachers place great store by it. and so do communities. under the terms of the bill. the states which put forth the best efforts in raising teachers salaries would have a more favorable matching formula with the federal government than the states which do . the aid would be based upon the capabilities of the states. predicated upon per capita income. under present circumstances. that is the best way to do something about teachers salaries in what is essentially a school construction bill.
i may say to the senator from south carolina that i am a constant student of constitutional law. and i think i am fully well up on the cases. i think. if a vote were taken in the senate. probably a majority would vote as i do. too. i do  believe i have been derelict in my homework since law school. so what i have said today is. in my judgment. and i believe in the judgment of the great majority of the people of the country. entirely abreast of constitutional law as it stands today. i respect the right of the distingiushed senator from south carolina and his colleagues to differ. of course. that is why we are hereto expose our points of view. but i can accept the statement that my point of view is rooted in inadequate kledge of constitutional law.
. one of the outstanding institutions which will benefit from the proposed legislation on college loans--and. incidentally. the present presiding officer is a great advocate of this programwhich i have introduced today would be ithaca college. a small new york state liberal arts college which has worked out and is introducing a new concept in higher education designed to meet great challenge to our educational system posed by the urgent necessity for our expanding youthful population to achieve the best and the highest kind of learning. in order to meet higher costs. rising enrollments. and the faculty shortage ithaca college is introducing a plan whereby it hopes by intensified. cohesive study during the first 3 years to offer senior courses at a higher than usual college level. and by reducing the number of course offerings to save faculty manpower and increase teachers salaries. using the teachers to maximum advantage upon subjects of highest priority. i ask unanimous consent that there may be incorporated in the record as a part of my remarks an article on this subject entitled "education in review."
poincianas. yes. that is the name. it is a memory i shall always treasure. the recollection is very deep in the hearts of all americans who served in that area of the world and who had the great privilege of having the opportunity to spend some leave in australia. i also wish to say i was much pleased to learn that my dear friend and colleague from new york actually has been to australia after the war. in an official way. to bring to australians the warm feelings and respect which we have for their country. i also admire tremendously the leadership which the leaders of australia have given in the united nations. for all those reasons and many others we bid you. mrs. buttfleld. a very warm welcome. we are indeed happy to have you here with us.
. we find that these districts exist in only 15 states. and we estimate that the same condition exists in 5 additional states for which data are  available. in 39 states that condition does  prevail. in 15 it does. and in the case of 5 we do  have data. so we put those 5 with the 15. the estimate is $43 million for each of 2 years. or a total of $86 million. that is one of the basic points in our amendment. we are shooting directly at that target. the second point is with reference to teachers salaries. the senator from kentucky and i have a deep feeling on that subject. we understand the teachers position and are extremely sympathetic toward it. and are very desirous of doing something about it. however. when we come down to the hard rock of providing federal money for teachers salaries. we run into a serious problem in doing what ought to be done. it is  like appropriating money to fill up a shortage. like the construction of classrooms. but appropriating money for a problem which will go on forever. teachers salaries are a recurring operating expense. as i say. it is  like the classroom shortage. which can be made up within a period of 5 years or so. instead. it is a recurring expense. going on year after year. then. too. if we introduce the federal government into the field of teachers salaries. we begin to see the danger of the federal government moving into the field of education in a way which is incompatible with the traditional separation of powers and the traditional control by the states of their educational systems. therefore. we have found aher way whereby we can meet some of the legitimate demands and desires of teachers for better compensation. and a situation which repels people from entering the teaching profession. we have done it by giving the federal government a greater participation and a higher share in meeting the principal and interest on the school bond issues of the states which do better than the average with respect to teachers salaries. i should like to stress that point because it is a very important and essential element of the two parts of our amendment. it is in these two respects that our amendment would meet the real difficulty in this field. the first i have already mentioned. it relates to school districts which have borrowed up to their limit and can find the necessary money elsewhere. the second is with respect to teachers salaries. there we provide for greater federal participation in the matching formula for states which do better than mal with respect to teachers salaries.
i believe it would be a great mistake to pass by this amendment without carefully discussing it. first. i think it has considerable merit to the representatives of large states such as new york. the taxpayers of the large states such as new york and the school teachers in large states such as new york in this particular caseand of course the school teachers are also taxpayersneed to find some rational ground between their two positions or interests. it is a fact. and has been stated many times. that the large states. which pay the most taxes. will pay the largest part of the cost of this bill. new york pays close to 20 percent of the tax and other income of the nation. of course. under this measure new york will  receive back. and should . anywhere nearly as much as new york will pay. but i believe there must be a certain relationship or ratio between what new york pays and what new york will receive. in order to help deal with the problems of the other states.  all the states are poor or underprivileged. yet. matter what plan is employed. every one of the states will receive large allotments under the provisions of this bill. once the concept which the senator from kentucky and i endeavored to have included. by means of our amendmentwhich. unhappily. was defeatedis left. it is necessary to rely on large numbers of citizens to contribute to meeting the bills of the states. many of which are able to pay their own bills. if they are unable to pay them. then i believe they should be helped in the national interest. but i do  believe that the speeches about the importance of improving the educational system of the nation are particularly germane in that respect. all of us can entirely agree that the educational system of the nation is most important and must be improved. but there still remains the question of whether the states and the counties can pay their own bills or whether they can. however. that is a consideration with which many who have discussed the clark amendment have yet to deal. i believe that more consideration needs to be given to the understandable tug which occurs between the taxpayer and those who will benefit from the teachersalary provisions. in addition. let us remember that this is a new program. and also that the mcnamara bill calls for only a 2year program. whereas  the measure. whether by means of the case amendment or by means of the clark amendment. will be permanent legislation. so i do  think any senator. and especially those from states such as mine. who votes in support of the case amendment will be trying to shortchange education. instead. he will be trying to be realistic about the proposition that the second question is entitled to as much weight as is the first. the second question is whether the states which have the primary responsibility can carry the burden themselves or whether it is necessary to provide federal aid to education to states which are among the largest in the nation. that question is almost selfanswering. hence. as between those two points of viewand of course senators who favor federal aid in this field will vote " in any case. on the question of agreeing to this amendmenti believe this amendment is a fair compromise. the amount this amendment calls for is close to the $500 million proposed by the committee bill. it does give a choice to the individual state as to whether the money is to be used for construction or for teachers salaries or both. i beg my colleagues to consider this alternative very seriously. i intend to support it for the reasons just stated.
. because i intend to support the amendment. i feel i should state my reasons for so doing. it is trite to say that i come from the largest state in the united states. the state which pays the most taxes. as my colleague from new york has so eloquently explained. and there naturally is a basic tug in that respect which is  at all parochial. i do  think either he or i have to be selfconscious about that. it is a question of judgment as to where the line breaks. we are  here discussing a theory. but an actuality. a school construction bill providing half a billion dollars is before us. the question is whether it shall go just a little way further in order to meet the additional need. without too materially increasing the amounts which are involved. also. let it be ed that many of us on this side of the aisle voted for the case of south dakota amendment. which fixed a figure of $15. we are  asked to fix a figure of $20. which is a compromise figure as between that which was rejected last nightand which i joined in rejecting. and quite rightly. in my opinionand that which i think the senate was unwise to reject in the amendment of the senator from south dakota . the question of big states paying large taxes which are utilized in states which do  have that kind of per capita taxpaying capability is a very old question. one which has been discussed many times. and which we all understand. the army. navy. and air force. upon which we spend some $40 billion a year. protect the 17 million people of the state of new york more than they do the 1 or 2 million people who live in many other states. and so on. ad infinitum. including the general educational and cultural level of the united states. i should like to base my position on what is. in my view. a far more important ground than that. i do  believe any education bill which is passed . and which is worthy of its salt. is anything less than or more than a national defense education bill. whether we seek to exorcise matching from our minds or . the fact is that we stand in the shadow of the greatest and grimmest struggle ever kn to man. the struggle between free institutions and enslavement. education is a critical element in that struggle. there is question whatever about that in my mind. in this struggle. as i am convinced it will last  5. 10. or 15 years. but perhaps 50 years. elementary and secondary school education will be just as critical as will be higher education. therefore. because the educational system of the country manifestly needs buttressing. and because we simply have  the time to stand around and wait until local initiative or local sacrifice may or may  bring about the desired result. we have to give some incentive to see it brought about in time. at some point where such action becomes reasonable. and i believe it becomes reasonable at this point in our progress to join in that effort. it has been properly said that the assistance to schools is composed both of school construction and of teachers salaries. we all k. also. that if we passed solely a school construction bill. we could expect one of its peripheral effects to be in many different states and communities. the paying of some of the salaries of teachers. in the pending proposal we face the issue directly. we provide a little incentive. in that we give certain consideration to the states and say. "we want you to raise the salaries of teachers. because this is a matching bill." let us  forget that. matter how low the matching goeseven down to onethirdit is still a matching bill. so hing can be done. whether it be for school construction or for teachers salaries. until there is matching. on the overall financial requirement which is here involved. i am  unmindful of the fact that we will be asked to vote some money for higher education. which is also a very critical element in this situation. i am  unmindful of the fact that we may conceivably have to vote more money for this purpose than is scheduled in the budget. however. i hope and pray we will  have to. we may have to do it. and if so. e of us will shrink from his obligation. all the obligations have to be evaluated. for that reason. because i think my state should hold to some kind of reasonable level. the extent to which it benefits other states. and because i believe we are going to have many other expenses in addition to the one arising under the bill. i voted last night against the amendment of the distinguished senator from pennsylvania. but i feel that we are  getting down to a question of principle. in the final analysis. do we or do we  want an education bill which will fill these two crying needs. i think all of us can agree that it has been demonstrated that there are crying needs. second. do we believe the expense. by . is within some reasonable compass. and that considering the financial condition and the taxing power of the united states. we can absorb it. i think we are  exactly. at that point. i preferred the amendment of the senator from south dakota . and i think we are so near that point that. for my part. i intend to vote in favor of the amendment of the senator from pennsylvania . this is a very narrow question. when we come to consider a state like mine. it is completely understandable. and i could justify completely to my constituents. including the schoolteachers of my state. a vote the other way. i respect completely the evaluation which might induce one to take either position. for myself. i have concluded that i must take the affirmative position. but i emphasize what i think is important. that all of us from the large states must reserve the right to compare what our states give with what they receive overall in all kinds of benefits. my state will be giving up tangible benefits in terms of the educational system of the country. but i emphasize again that this is augury of what i may do in the case of some other measure on aher day with respect to this or any other subject. each of these matters must stand on its own base as a question of judgment. in this case i believe the preponderance of judgment is in favor of voting for the amendment.
. i ask the indulgence of the senate. this is a body whose members are pretty rugged. i believe that if members will consult one aher quietly they will agree with me that what has just transpired is in the interest of the whole debate. and in the interest of fairness to the country. whatever may be ones views on the subject. the junior senator from new york. in support of the procedure suggested by the majority leader today. takes refuge  in the language contained in the remarks of the senator from texas on september 14. when he said: "or a motion will be made to amend some house bill which has been passed and is on the calendar." i respectfully submit. however. that when we take the entire text of the debate on september 14. most of us. at leastand it was certainly true of the senator from oregon. and after consultation with many of my colleagues. egh of them have agreed with this point of view that i dare say it was the general point of view in the senate on september 14felt that. come february 15. 1960. there would be a motion. or a series of motions dealing with the problem of bringing to the senate for debate and consideration. as the business of the senate.  a little school bill involving the transfer of some military property to some little school district down in missouri. but one or more of the major civil rights bills. i am somewhat buttressed in my position. in my judgment. at least. because my very good friend from new york had pending on the very day of september 14. 1959. his own motion to discharge the committee from the further consideration of senate bill 2391. which was one of the major civil rights bills before the senate committee at that time.  this great lawyer from the state of new york ks procedure very well. and he is well versed in the difference between orderly procedure and what i call the disorderly procedure of trying to bring through the back door and attach as a rider a civil rights proposal to some little school bill which seeks to transfer certain military property to a school district in missouri. we can argue until doomsday as to motivations and intentions of the senate on september 14. but i am willing to stand and be judged on what the record clearly indicates. namrely. that. come february 15. we would decide. by way of the offering of appropriate motions. how to bring civil rights legislation to the floor of the senate. so that that would be the major piece of business. once whatever motion was made should be adopted. the senator from new york was quite right. i believe. in filing his motion to discharge the committee. his resolution is still pending on the calendar. and i respectfully suggest that. in the interest of orderly procedure. that is the motion which the senator from new york ought to have been making today. rather than proposing that we go along with this rider approach. this sort of subterfuge procedural device. of getting civil rights legislation before the senate. what are we afraid of in a direct. open approach to the civil rights issue. we have the votes. i believe the senator from new york will agree with me that we have the votes in this body to pass what we think is fair civil rights legislation. and i think we should do it directly. forthrightly. and  by way of a rider approach in connection with a piece of legislation which is  germane in one iota to the civil rights issue. that is what i wish the senator from new york would join me in doing. i should like to join him in such an effort. because i am about to offer some motions to discharge certain committees. i think he should be calling up his own motion to discharge the committee. if he will bear with me a minute longer. i wish to tell him why i think my point of view is preferable in connection with this matter. once again i am disturbed about what the procedure proposed today is doing to committee procedures in the senate. committee procedure in the senate is pretty precious in the legislative process of the senate. it will be recalled that in 1957 i made this argument when such a proposal was before the senate. and the senate agreed to it. i believe it made a great mistake in doing so. it was proposed in the senate that we place on the senate calendar. by motion. a house bill on civil rights. without that house bill going to the senate judiciary committee. the record will show that i discussed the question in detail. and that i urged that the bill go to the senate judiciary committee. i made such a motion. and i was defeated on the motion that the bill be referred to the judiciary committee with instructions that the judiciary committee report the bill back in 1 week. which was within the rules. but which would have given us at least the benefit of committee action. it would have given us the benefit of a committee report. it would have given us the benefit of any printed proceedings the committee may have had. it would have given us the benefit of those reports and proceedings. in keeping with the committee procedures of the senate itself. matter what civil rights legislation we may enact. that civil rights legislation will be tested over and over again. in every detail. in the courts of this country. as i said in 1957 in opposition to placing that house bill on the senate calendar without referring it first to the judiciary committee for committee action. i repeat today. that such a procedure is  fair to the courts. the courts of this country will have to adjudicate case after case which will arise under any civil rights legislation we may enact. we should give the courts the benefit of committee action in the senate. we should give them the benefit of the floor leadership of a committee member who is assigned to come to the floor of the senate in connection with a civil rights bill and be the committee spokesman on the floor of the senate. if we can give the courts the benefit of such committee actionand i will comment on that problem in just a momentwe should have the benefit of a committee report. why. because when we turn ourselves into a committee of the whole on the floor of the senate. when a court comes to pass judgment on legislative intent and purpose. what is said on the floor of the senate does  carry nearly the weight. in court action subsequently in determining the meaning of legislation. as is the case when the court has before it a committee report that it can go to. and that it has the transcript of the record before the committee that it can go to. it can discuss that report and that transcript of the record. and the statements made by the spokesman for the committee on the floor of the senate. in making the legislative history on a bill. the cases are replete with rulings by our courts that the kind of legislative history i have just outlined is the kind of legislative history that is most helpful to the courts in determining legislative intent. i made that plea in 1957. namely. that we follow the procedures available to us in the senate. by sending the bill to the committee with instructions that the committee report back in 1 week. i proposed that the bill go to the judiciary committeethe final proposal was for 7 dayswith instructions to report back. i made this argument as to the desirability of making that kind of legislative history on the bill. i repeat the same argument today. certainly we can add as a rider to this little school bill involving certain military property in missouri the whole series of civil rights proposals. certainly we can rely. as the senator from new york is apparently willing to rely. upon the statement by the majority leader on september 14. that the bill could be brought up either by way of a motion to discharge the committee. or by way of amending a house bill. or by way of a bill reported from the committee. i think i am within the realm of understanding of most of my colleagues when i say that we took it for granted on september 14. 1959. that when the civil rights was brought up on the floor of the senate on february 15 it would be brought up in terms of a civil rights bill.  in terms of a procedural opportunity to add. in catchascatchcan fashion. any kind of civil rights bill we desired to add to a bill with respect to which civil rights is in sense germane. i fully appreciate the position the senator from new york can take on the language used by the leadership. i only wish to say most kindly and respectfully that if we follow the course of action he is suggesting. we will do the cause of civil rights in this country a great wrong. i believe we have an opportunity  to follow a procedure here of discharging the committee on the judiciary. similar to the situation which existed when the senator filed his resolution to discharge. which was then the pending motion during the colloquy that took place between the senator from illis and the senator from texas and the senator from new york on september 14. we can bring up that discharge resolution. i will be willing to join him in supporting that resolution. or we can go ahead with a different one and take action on a discharge motion. however. having made these references to the senator from new york. i certainly want to give him an opportunity to say whatever he wishes to say.
the senator from new york favors the decision of the supreme court. which holds that where a state maintains a public school system. then. under the rules and regulations. all children. regardless of their color. must be admitted.
. i shall vote to ratify the agreement on the importation of educational. scientific. and cultural materials. because i believe it is very important in the interests of our country that we do so. unless nationstates learn how to surmount their national boundaries in matters which are universal in their import. then i fear for the future of nationstates. disarmament is one matter. intellectual communication is aher. we will probably find that ethics and religion are yet others in which we shall somehow or other have to surmount our national boundaries if we are to survive in the category of nationhood. i believe the negotiatoprs of the agreement have fully protected the legitimate national interests about which any of us could be solicitous in a hardheaded way by the two caveats which have been included: first. as to prohibiting or limiting the importation or circulation after importation of items on grounds relating directly to national security. public order. or public morals. second. that the protocol of reservation would permit the united states to suspend. in whole or in part. any of its obligations under the agreement if. as a result of those obligations. any materials covered by the agreement are being imported in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause or threaten serious injury to domestic producers of similar or directly competitive products. it seems to me that the interests of the united states are fully protected by such hardheaded consideration. as a great leader of the free world. we say that we. by way of surmounting national boundaries. when we have to surmount them in the interest of the free world. are fully covered by this agreement. i shall vote to support the agreement.
florida is one of the states included in this list. but i should like to state for the information of my colleague that 1 out of 67 biracial school districts has been desegregated affecting. according to this information. a total of 490 negroes in that state. which is certainly a very small number. the district referred to is in miami. a metropolitan city. the table shows that. in the aggregate in the 6 states referred to. 151 out of 1.459 biracial school districts have been desegregated. involving a total of 4.142 negro pupils. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point pertinent extracts from this report. which has been updated since the time of its issuance.
i wish to finish stating the facts. i ask the senator from louisiana to remember that i am attempting to meet an obligation to my colleagues. i have stated the histoly of new yorks experience. our state under the name of the melting pot. has always worked very hard to integrate the people who have come to us. we are doing the same with our puerto rican citizens. under the law of new york. a public school diploma eliminates the necessity of a literacy test. . i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in my remarks a number of samples of the new york state regents literacy test. to show how easy they are. in order to deal with those who do  have a public school diploma. i. point out also that 75 percent is a passing mark for this test. never has there been the remotest charge of discrimination. on the contrary. every effort is made to get people in my state to vote. what we are concerned about. and what we are working on. is the denial of the right to vote to those who are qualified in a number of our states. as disclosed by the report of the federal civil rights commission.
. any doubt about the amount of public interest involved in the current civil rights debate is being dispelled. it is being recognized more and more that this is a fundamental issue for our country going directly to the vindication of the constitutional guarantees for the individual and for our future as leader of the free world toward peacea free world itself populated by those whose skins are yellow. brown. and black. it is deeply gratifying to me that young people whoconsidering the complexity of our problemwill have to resolve them finally. are expressing a vital and vigorous interest in this struggle for our nation and human dignity. yesterday. i received a petition from approximately 1.000 students at one of new yorks and the nations finest institutions of higher learningsyracuse universityforwarded to me by the syracuse students committee on civil rights action. i believe that a substantial majority in the country as well as in the congress share the petitioners expression of "support of strong civil rights legislation in this session." and urges "the congress of the united states of america to lose time in passing civil rights legislation. the gap between ideals of democracy and the workings of democracy must be bridged right ." according to many of these syracuse university students. the student committee informs me that this petition was a spontaneous demonstration and that it took only 12 hours to collect approximately 1.000 signatures among a student body which comes from every section of the united states. out of the ranks of such university student bodies may well come some freshman legislators who may fill seats in this chamber. they are  indifferent to the civil rights debate  and they will  be apathetic about this issue as voters. i believe that they are in the vanguard of an awakening national interest and i hope that other student bodies will follow the lead taken by these syracuse students in discerning and making kn their stand on civil rights.
indeed so.  let me refer to the cost resulting from the whole thicket of the new laws in this field which make the process so difficult and so expensive for the individual litigant. as to the court costs. i have obtained the cost figures from the administrative officers of the federal courts and from the federal civil rights commission. the estimate is that the cost per case is approximately $19.000. and. in terms of the school desegregation cases. the cost per pupil is approximately $1.000. however. the estimated cost in the celebrated brown case. in 1954. was somewhere between $100.000 and $200.000. the $19.000 figure is the median cost. the cost for the average case. . when we realize that since may 1954. an estimated 211 school desegregation casesschool desegregation cases alonehave been decided brought. but decidedin the state and federal courts. resulting directly or indirectly from the brown case and that in some of these cases courts have retained jurisdiction in a continuing way. because it had to be administered in a continuing way. we glean something of the ambit of the problem.
. i ask unanimous consent that the three documents to which i have referred. namely. the editorial published in the atlanta constitution. the news article from the atlanta constitution. about the ministers declaration. and the advertisement by the college students. be printed at this point in the record. in connection with my remarks.
if the senator from texas desires to be recognized inasmuch as he does  wish to be recognized at this time. i shall say that i shall detain the senate only a few minutes. we had very extended debate on this question of the socalled lausche amendment. and i shall  make any extended remarks on it. the judiciary committee has seen fit to write into the bill what is for all practical purposes the lansche amendment. in the event that upon this vote the amendment recommended by the committee is rejected. we will be back to the original language requested by the department of justice. as recommended in the administrations bill. it seems to me that this is the path that is absolutely dictated by the fact that when we adopted the lausche amendment before it resulted in the destruction of section 1 of the bill. because promptly after its adoption a motion was made to strike out the whole section. and the whole section was thereupon rejected. this section of the bill is essential. it it just about the most minimal thing we can do in respect of this whole school desegregation crisis. if we have learned anything from current events it is that if we do  permit the law to accommodate itself to the pressures which are under the surface of particular situations which deserve to have the law accommodated to them. these pressures find some other method of expression which is  lawful. we see that happening in this country. and we see it happening in other countries also. therefore it seems to me that the department of justice. having advised us in the most considered way that this is the very minimal kind of provision which ought to be adopted with respect to court orders in school segregation cases. pointing out that it is necessary in order to be able to deal with cases like those at little rock. which resulted in the calling out of federal troops and widespread anarchy. and that they are trying to tailor the remedy to the difficulty. and are trying accurately and exactly to get at the area which needs attention. it seems to me that it would be very unwise for us  to pass sweeping legislation. covering orders in a broad field. instead of confining legislation to the particular difficulties which we face. . when i served in the house of representatives a few years ago. i used the phrase with respect to the original tafthartley law that it was our responsibility to legislate  with a cutlass but with a scalpel. it seems to me that if we should adopt this committee amendment at this stage we would be flying in the face of that very elementary aspect of congressional action and legislation. i emphasize again that this is the administrations position. this is a question of law enforcement. this is the department of justices own request. as a matter of fact. the department says. "this is what we need. if you go further than that you are giving us things that we do  need and creating problems which we are  inviting." why is this necessary in situations such as little rock. it is necessary because the technical definition of contempt requires either a conspiracy between a person charged with contempt and the one who has ice of the order. or it requires direct ice of the order. so as to. for all practical purposes. have the contempt proceeding create the one charged with contempt as a party to the proceeding. when we deal with mob action. that is practically impossible. hence the department of justice felt that by invoking this kind of provision. making the violation of such orders by force or threats a crime. they would be heading off anarchial situations in school segregation cases such as the situation they faced in little rock. i realize that the senate has voted on this matter. i realize that the senate by an overwhelming vote adopted the lausche amendment. but i point out that there is a vital difference between the situation which faced us then and the situation which faces us . when the senate had adopted the lausche amendment. it did  k that the whole of the section with the lausche amendment would fall by virtue of the fact that it had adopted that amendment. this is something the senate knew only after the event. accordingly.  that we k that that is the result of the adoption of the lausche amendmentand we have had that experience beforeit seems to me we have a right to be concerned about the fact that if we should adopt the committee amendment there is the possibility that the whole section may fall by subsequent amendment. and we would repeat history. from which we should have learned in respect of the preceding experience.
may i answer the senator. i think it is a very proper question. i think the reason which can be assigned is that we are dealing here with state authorities who are tied into the fedeial system with respect to federally impacted schools. the effort is  to discourage. but to encourage. those authorities to deal with the particular federal government official who is involved in the effort to resolve this situation locally. it was feltthis was my understanding of the original provisionthat by incorporating the provision directly into the law. congress would be exercising its prerogative of making clear that if this action can be taken. this is the way to do it. thereby encouraging agreements. rather than leaving the matter completely up in the air. thus enabling a particular local school official. in a very trying situation like thisand everyone understands the tensions which are inv*olvedcan turn to a federal statute and say. "well. there is a particular provision which invites the commissioner to talk to us about the matter and try to negotiate it. therefore. i am  doing this on my own motion. i am vot running afoul of local public opinion. lhere is a statutory reason for my action."
. this is a matter of civil rights. i think it very clearly is a matter of civil rights. because the only thing that will bring into action any of this section is the closing of schools in districts or states in order to avoid school desegregation orders. that is what has happened. and that is why any part of this provision is needed. if the senator from oklahoma is correct. the entire title should be stricken out. but this title is in the bill because the secretary of health. education. and welfare faces a real problem. school districts have been closed. and schools in school districts have been closed. and there is danger that more will be closed. under these circumstances. i certainly believe that the most flexible. rather than the most limited. authority is desirable.
i should like. first. to annce that the amendment being offered is presented by me for myself. the senator from kentucky . the senator from michigan . and the senator from illis . the amendment which i shall describe in detail. gives the attorney general authority to intervene in school desegregation cases. i should like to get the yeas and nays on the amendment. i see problem in the procedure that has been here suggested
. the purport of this amendment is to allow the attorney general to intervene in school desegregation cases instituted by individuals. the analogy which i have sought to draft into law is a case where the attorney general intervenes when the constitutionality of an act of the united states is brought into question. this method of intervention. indeed. is drafted to follow section 2403 of title 28. united states code. which gives the attorney general the right to intervene in cases where the constitutionality of the statute is brought into question. though i k that my distinguished colleague from michigan will offer. as a substitute. or as an amendment. as he may deem to be wise. what has been popularly called part iand. as everybody ks. i tried to do that. myself. when we were considering the dirksen substitutei think. with all due respect and full respect for his feeling on the other side. the real nubbin of the case which has to be put before the congress is contained in the intervention amendment. if i am given the opportunity to vote. i shall support the senator from michigan. gladly. in his proposal to include part mi. however. i think. from the point of view of the judgment of the senate. we have. in a sense. passed by that point. we are  coming to the end of what has been a very long and arduous debate. i think we  face. in this intervention issue. the key question whether we will or will  do anything about school desegregation at the point where it needs help. again. i would like to put this question in focus in relation to the amendment by my colleague from new york . which has been disposed of. my colleague from new york had taken a part of the administrations package which was considered modest and mild. which was designed to help school districts which sought desegregation where the state consented or needed help. or in cases where the state had objection. where the state would say. "we are  going to do anything about it." and leave the united states on its own. then we come to the other end of the spectrum. the part iii proposition. which i think is a bill which the senate has already passed over. but which is so important it ought to be raised again. the senator from michigan will raise it. i shall support it. but. again. this is  a new concept which we shall face for the first time. or for the last time. in this debate. but the intervention procedure which i propose. confined as it is to school desegregation cases. does represent a very sharp and clear effort to deal with a specific situation which i think most urgently the senate should deal with. it will make civil rights legislation really meaningful. instead of something that is fine but hing that is going to shake the earth. and gives the senate a legislative plan for doing exactly that which is an established and traditional pattern. the attorney general of the united states has for years had the right to intervene in certain constitutional cases. and the courts have given him ice of the cases in which a u.s. statute is brought into question under the constitution. the attorney general may then choose to intervene or  to intervene. depending upon his views as to the importance of the case. i think this is the very least. if we want something that is meaningful. that ought to be done about the school desegregation cases. for reasons which i shall outline. but i emphasize that this presupposes that the congress desires to de something about the school desegregation situation. if congress wishes to avoid it completely. it seems to me this is about the clearest vote which can be cast pro oi con upon that subject. i think. also. il is a vote which would be. on the part of those who might  be as thoroughly convinced as i am. the easiest to cast. because it deals only with the question of who shall litigate. i wish to point out that this is very close to a pattern which the congress itself has adopted. because that is pretty much what we are doing with respect to voting. we are giving the attorney general the right to institute litigation in voting rights cases. in this instance we would give the attorney general the right to intervene in school desegregation cases because there is  a pattern of experience in which it appears those cases are started by individuals. the question is. can the cases be carried on. what would it cost. can they be carried on effectively. therefore. if the congress agrees to my amendment. in which i have the great ho to be joined by my colleague from kentucky [mr. cooper] and my two colleagues from the other side . the congress will be saying. "we want about the same thing done in respect to school desegregation that we did in respect to voting. we are  going to pass a part iii. which deals with all civil rights. but we are going to give to the attorney general certain limited authority in respect to the school desegregation cases. following an established pattern. a legislative scheme. which the attorney general has followed for years in respect to cases in which the constitutionality of a law of the united states is brought into question."
i wanted to apprise the senator of the parliamentary situation. which is that there is at the desk an amendment sponsored by four senators. with regard to intervention in school desegregation cases. as well as the part iii amendment.
. i think all of us should be deeply interested in a report from the superintendent of schools in the district of columbia. which was published by the antidefamation league of bnai brith. the report is from school superintendent carl f. hansen. and it shows that desegregation in the public school system in the district of columbia has resulted in better education and higher standards for all schoolchildren. rather than a debasement of standards. which is an argument constantly being used against school desegregation. in my view. the supreme court was right. we can have a country in which 10 percent of the population finds its children relegated. in major sections of the country where population is very heavy. to schools which are clearly earmarked as segregated schools. this is bound to have an effect upon their characters. upon their educational advancement. and upon their capability for giving the full benefit of their talents to the united states. we can waste this asset. this is essentially the argument of the procivilrights advocates on school desegregation. i am glad to be numbered among them. i believe that our contention is borne out by the actual experience in the district of columbia. which is far better than all the speeches in the world. i ask unanimous consent that an article entitled "schools reported better in wake of desegregation." published in the washington post of april 4. 1960. dealing with thereport of school superintendent hansen. be printed in the record at this point as part of my remarks.
yes. i am in thorough accord with the senators viewpoint. i think the europeans  are beginning to learn a great deal more about our constitutional processes than they ever knew before. the europeans realize it is  egh to get the administration back of what needs to be done. but that a pretty sharp eye must be kept on the congress. this demonstrates the importance of what we are discussing. under secretary of state dillon. motivated by secretary herters wellkn views on these subjects. has taken a very constructive line. more and more it is a line being identified with his name. all of these matters i am discussing are being called the dillon plan. very analogous to the marshall plan. this is a matter of great pride to our country. we are  committed to anything but consultation and an intent to pursue a certain policy line liberalizing world trade. giving more aid to the lessdeveloped areas. and doing a good deal more than we have been doing about their main problems with commodity prices. nevertheless. this does represent a commitment of the united states to a line of policy rather than to a specific action. if it appears that the atmosphere in the congress is favorable toward what mr. dillon is doing. then the world will be encouraged and things will move forward. if people are going to begin to be pulling mr. dillon down while he is trying to help erect a sound structure for the western industrialized community. it will speedily be perceived in the fact that european nations will back away from cooperation. i assure my colleague that i have  been undertaking a vain exercise today. or simply reporting about some nice trip i took to europe. this is very serious business. involving billions and billions of dollars and millions and millions of people. and the fate of freedom itself. let one underestimate the problem. let us understand what we are doing and how serious the matter is. i welcome my colleagues observation on that score.
. each year the american legion. as part of its americanism program. conducts a nationwide high school oratorical contest through its 50 departments. this contest is approved by the national association of secondary school principals who assist in the organization and judging of the contest. this year more than 350.000 high school students competed in 12 basic regions. the subject was a phase of the constitution of the united states chosen by the student. the winner of regional  2 contest. covering new york. new jersey. connecticut. and rhode island. is frank j. buo of binghamton. n.y. this 17yearold high school senior selected as the title of his oration. "the framing fathers and the constitution." this is a most laudable achievement and i congratulate the young man. i ask unanimous consent that this oration be printed in the record.
i should like to join in extending congratulations to the senator from minnesota. i am a cosponsor of the bill. which attempts to take sound steps in regard to these problems of the cities. counties. school districts. and local communities. earlier in the day i placed in the record a memorandum used by the gover of new york in approving a similar bill by which the state of new york assumed its share of the responsibility for such facilities in its municipalities. i join the senator from connecticut in affirming the propriety of the position taken by the senator from minnesota on the bill. and i hope the bill will be passed.
this argument did  appeal.  only to the heads of colleges. but to the senate. i may point out. what has  been brought out is that the senate voted. by a vote of 46 to 45. to amend the measure exactly as we offered. the only reason why the amendment went by the boards was. when there were further arguments. very much of the type we are hearing this aftern. the senate voted to recommit. 46 to 45. the senate thought it was a fair solution of the problem. in addition. . i should like to make these facts very clear for the record. this happened after the senate debate and after these votes. on december 12. 1959. the new york times headlined the story. "eisenhower hits student aid oath." on ember 26 the new york herald tribune headlined the story. "nixon opposes disclaimer in student loans." and the gover of my own state. gover rockefeller. took the same position on this matter last year. in december 1959. the newspaper story is headed "rockefeller urges red oath repeal."
if i may answer the question. yes. they can be wrong once in a while. they are human beings. like the senator from new hampshire. who can be wrong every once in a while also. the point is that this whole matter has been put upon the narrow basis that some highbrow. esoteric college presidents or college professors have decided they do  like this. and some fussy students have decided they will  take the money in this way. the president of the united states may be wrong. but he is a pretty good authority. he is cited as being a pretty good authority on both sides of the aisle. so is the vice president. so is the gover of my own state. i am simply buttressing the authority which has already been cited by the senator from connecticut with some authority which is entitled. certainly. to receive respectful attention from the senate. the authority could be wrong. but it is entitled to receive respectful attention from the senate.
. i am a cosponsor of the bill. along with the senator from pennsylvania and the senator from massachusetts . and i take full responsibility for the inclusion of the amendment. although i was  on the floor at the particular time when the amendment was adopted. i think my colleagues proceeded correctly. a great effort is  being made to show that we have  really accomplished anything by deleting the communist affidavit. but i believe it should be said that we have done a great deal. because we have refrained from casting suspicion on all american young people who wish to receive aid under the national defense education act. in connection with the national defense effort. as they proceed to obtain higher education. and in that connection. thousands and thousands of them were complaining about the law as it has stood on the statute books. we have  voted to remove that part of the law. and we have substituted what i believe every mal american student agrees to. perhaps we did  express it in the detail in which such matters are dealt with in other laws. including the smith act. but that is all right. the point is that one wishes to have an american student receive aid from his government while he is achieving higher education if he favors the overthrow of the government of the united states and its institutions which are dedicated to protecting him. therefore. the prouty amendment is right. although it is  essential. whereas the communist affidavit was wrong. and by adopting the prouty amendment the senate has taken a definite and practical step toward meeting the deepseated feeling and conscience of thousands of american students and of great numbers of leading educators in the united states and also the associations which represent them. i believe that the senator from pennsylvania and the senator from massachusetts have performed a useful service for the country and have rendered an accomplishment which the american students have had a right to demand. and have demanded. and i thank my colleagues for the effort they have made in that connection.
i can only hope that my dear friends and colleagues who are opposed to civil rights legislation will limit their remarks in accordance with the time limitation i have just undertaken. in that event. we would  have so many -problems. s messagea statutory base for a commission on equal job opportunity on government contracts. and federal financial and technical assistance to school districts seeking to desegregatetogether with authority to the attorney general to bring civil actions in representative school desegregation cases as the most moderate common deinator on this point in both platforms. indeed. just about what was suggested by the leadership conference on civil rights. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution of that conference may be made a part of my remarks at this point. together with a list of the conferees. representing some of the outstanding civic organizations of this country.
new york city. n.y. dear si: i hope youll forgive me for my boldness in writing to a great statesman. mr. javrrs. without any introduction. i am the luckiest japanese student (i was graduated from nara shirahuzi senior high schopl in 1958 and i am  attending nara typists and steraphers training school and osaka english conversation school. so i do  belong to zengakuren. student organization) on the earth to be able to write a great u.s. senator. mr. javits. well. i was so excited to read june 19 newspaper that you made a speech. "we support japan politically and ecoically as usual." we. the japanese people have adequate words to express our deep gratitude to you for your speech. all we can say is "thank you from the very bottom of our heart." we sincerely hope and pray that youll accept japan as your fast friend. we well k that japan can do hing without u.s. help. we are so happy that you well understand japan. we sincerely hope that the united states and japan will always be the very best of friends and close allies. when i was a little girl. i was deeply impressed by the high culture and manners of the american people. since then. i have been studying "facts about the united states." i love your country and respect you from the very bottom of my heart. it is my strong conviction that the only sure road to peace lies in understanding the ideals and ideologies. the hopes and dreams. the customs and culture of the people of other lands. someday. i hope youll visit japan during the height of the cherryblossom season. in the kansai area where i live. the first blossoms come out at the end of march. and gradually reach the height of their glory in the first week of april. when the sakura is in bloom. the entire country becomes transformed into a magical fairyland. and one can truly understand why japan has gained the floral name of "the land of the cherryblossoms." to the people of japan. the cherry symbolizes chivalry apart from the fact that it satisfies their esthetic sense. hence. it has been the inspiration and theme of thousands of poems and songs. when you visit japan. please stay at my home and enjoy japan. we. the japanese people welcome a great us. senator. mr. javts. . let me send you the most attractive japanese doll for united statesjapan friendship. please. and i hope youll like some post cards of nara and a booklet of japan i sent you. we shant ever forget your kind speech. thank you many. many times. our adorable u.s. senator. mr. javrrs "please lead japan." i k you are as busy as a bee. but please drop me a line. i am most eager to get a letter from you. i do hope youll overlook my many mistakes in english. with deepest gratitude. sincerely yours.
 has urged upon us as having been fully debated and as being the very minimal earnest in respect of civil rights upon which we should do something before we go home. it relates to the giving of some financial assistance and technical assistance to school districts wanting to desegregate. they seek to do that themselves. and ask for the assistance of the united states. i also point out that we are just at the beginning of the school season. and if we go home without doing anything about this. that horse will be out of the barn by the time we return.  i ask unanimous consent that the discharge resolution which i have just sent to the desk may be immediately considered.
. a national effort is urgently necessary to help the states meet the mounting shortage of public elementary and secondary school classrooms as well as many other educational needs that would help bring our national educational level up to par. according to the office of education. there was a shortage of 142.000 classrooms as of the fall of 1960. almost 7.000 more than the shortage in the previous year. this figure is based on reports from 50 states and the district of columbia. and shows clearly that the nation is still faced with a serious problem of providing egh facilities for its public school children. overcrowding has affected 685.000 pupils in 35 states who are on curtailed or halfday sessions. the office of education reports. it is also shocking to learn that. as of 195758. there still were 25.341 oneteacher schools in the united states. the little red schoolhouse. certainly an anachronism in this nuclear age. is still with us. the bill which i am cosponsoring with my colleague. the senator from kentucky . extends federal assistance to the states for public elementary and secondary schools in a way designed to accomplish two basic objectives: first. equalization of educational opportunity in lowincome states. and second. emergency assistance for needed school construction and incentive to improve teachers salaries in all the states. also. i shall do all i can to see that under any federal aid to education plan the supreme court decision of 1954 regarding unsegregated public schools is respected. the equalization part of this plan would make it possible for every state to provide within 4 years a minimum level of education for all public school children. it would do so by helping the lowincome states bridge the gap between a fair allocation to education of their resources and a minimum level of education. measured in annual dollar costs per pupil. the states would submit to the office of education a plan for the use of federal funds in their public school educational program. the commissioner of education would be authorized to meet and consult with state education officials. at the same time. the flatgrant part of this plan would provide assistance to all the states for needed school construction. improved teachers salaries. or other direct educational purposes consistent with the objectives of this legislation. at the rate of $20 per public school child. for each of 4 years. to accomplish its twofold purpose. federal funds would accordingly be allocated to the states on a formula reflecting both objectives. the present national average expenditure per student in the public schools is about $400. and this is a currently desirable goal for minimum educational levels. to do this. the states would receive. first. onehalf the difference between 4 percent of their total personal income and $400 per public school child. or. second. a fiat grant of $20 per public school child. whichever is larger. the formula used is essentially a way of extending federal responsibility for seeing that equal educational opportunities are available for all children in the national interest. this bill has the additional virtue of avoiding every foreseeable possibility of federal control. leaving the initiative and standards at the local level where they belong. with the sole exception of this desired expenditure per pupil goal contained in the formula. the principles employed in this bill combine the equalization experience that has been so successful in most states for intrastate purposes and the flatgrant proposal. it also includes elements of the bill adopted by the senate last year and is designed to give fair representation to the educational needs of every state. and to contribute realistically toward equal opportunity and a basic level of education for every child in the nation.
i do  see how the work of the convention can be undone by a postmortem survey. i have little doubt that on many close questions in the senate some kind of postvote survey may show some other result. the point is that the language to which i referred was the mandate of the convention. which i cited in premise of committing the party to federal aid at least to school construction. i believe. in the eyes of the country. and certainly in the eyes of the party. that mandate must stand. if people receive comfort from some postconvention survey which makes them feel that something else might have happened. i do  think that should in any way change. in terms of republican voting. the position of the convention. the official position of a party. or change. in the eyes of the country what the republican party stands for. until it is changed at least in a similar organization. i say that with all respect. of course. to my colleague. he and i differ many times. nevertheless. we have kept our heads on our shoulders.
my only point was that the senator from arizona. as well as any others polled. could have raised this issue on the floor. many times we see a question resolved here unanimously. when at a later date. if it could be changed. some would like to do so. so i think the record should be made clear. in terms of the country and the party. the partys position was that it favored at least federal aid to school construction.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the school of education of syracuse university. favoring the repeal of the loyalty oath provisions of the national defense education act.
i can agree. the hearings before the joint ecoic committee demonstrate that american business is  being priced out of the world markets. even though we are fearful of it. and have a right to be. and have much to learn about it. however. i do  believe generalizations are quite fair. if the senator will allow me to do so. although it certainly will  be ready in time for this bill. i shall make a full dress presentation to the senate on both subjects. i think the senator from vermont has perhaps prompted me to do something concerning a prevailing misconception. i am all for measures which will fortify against danger. but i do  think we ought to be any longer under illusions that all our american business is running away. that we are losing our machinery by exports. and so forth.
we in new york have a great interest in the virgin islands. many persons who live in new york came from the virgin islands. i have had an opportunity to learn much about the islands. unfortunately. i did  hear the testimony. of course. i have the greatest respect for the opinion of the distinguished senator from colorado and the opinions of other senators who have spoken about the ination. undoubtedly. from all i can learn . the ination of mr. paiewonsky to be gover of the virgin islands will be confirmed. however. i express this view: there is a great feeling among those who k much about the virgin islands that. first. it is extremely desirable that the gover be an indiges product of the islands. that is one thing. whatever else may be concerned with respect to the inee. that can be said in his favor. he has done business there. and he is actually an indiges product of the islands. the other point is that there is a considerable challenge to us to find some way in which we can bring about more and more selfdetermination on the part of the people there. and a responsibility for their own affairs. this is probably a corollary of the first point: that is. that it is desirable to have as gover someone who has been reared and who has lived in the islands. and who is acquainted with their problems in a personal sense. i express the hope that the inee. assuming his ination is confirmed by the senate. might come to us with some rather affirmative recommendations as to how selfgovernment can. in a developing way. be even more built up in the virgin islands than has already been accomplished. because i feel that this is very much the end and aim of the american attitude toward any area which is part of the great complex which we  call the united states.
i should like to ask several questions about this matter. both as a member of the subcommittee and as a senator from a state which has many parochial school pupils. first. i wish to ask a question about the procedure. does the senator from pennsylvania believe there would be any objectionif the situation should work out in that wayto having his bill or a similar bill considered even before senate consideration of the general federalaidtoeducation bill. or does the senator from pennsylvania have any particular view as to whether his bill should be considered before or after that bill. bearing in mindand of course i k the attitude of the senator from pennsylvania. and he ks minethat it is undesirable to deal with this measure in connection with the text of the major federaiaidtoeducation bill.
i do  wish to delay the senator. but i do have a few other questions which are essential to ask in this profound issue. the senator from pennsylvania used the language. "if the commissioner of education found a loan made to a private school violated the first amendment of the. constitutiom" would the senator wish to amend that language so it would read "if the commissioner of education found the application. under the statute which was then being made. to be an unconstitutional application of the statute as passed".
. one of the saddest consequences of opposition to the enforcement of the supreme courts antisegregation decisions in the public school field is to be found in prince edward county. va.. which was involved in one of the original desegregation cases before the supreme court in 1954. rather than abide by the law of the land. as laid down in the decision of brown against board of education. prince edward county chose to close down its public school system and to abandon public education. which had had such a long and proud history in the state of virginia. the recent action by the attorney general of the united states in intervening in a case brought by local negro parents for the reopening of the schools again focused attention on this area. where there is only makeshift education for most white students and e at all for the majority of negro children. this action also focused attention on the need for congressional action to give the attorney general power to initiate school desegregation caseskn as part iii of the civil rights actso that he would  have to await the filing of suit by local persons. subject to all the ecoic. social and physical pressures at the local level and who were really unable to undertake the costs of such litigation before joining the action. a recent issue of the saturday evening post contained an article setting forth the plight of the negro children of prince edward countywho are losing years of education which can never be made up. i ask unanimous consent that this article may be printed in the body of the record.
madam president. i should like to take a few minutes to discuss the apparent policy decision of president kennedy  to seek the enactment of civil rights legislation at this session. that was reported as of may 9. and in the new york times of may 10 appears the following statement by president kennedys press secretary. pierre salinger: the president has made it clear that he does  think it is necessary at this time to enact civil rights legislation. madam president. the president himself said. in answer to a question at a news conference on march 8: when i believe that we can usefully move ahead in the field of legislation. i will recommend it to the congress. madam president. what needs to be made clear is whether this policy of the administration also includes modification of rule xxii of the standing rules of the senate regarding debates and filibusters. because i have been advised by the chairman of the rules committee that there is every intentionas we were assured at the beginning of this sessionto move into the effort to amend those rules later during this session of congress. with the holding of the necessary hearings. and the expectation that action will then be taken on the floor. that is the first point i make. madam president. my second point is as follows: i believe i would be less than honest with myself and less than fair and would  be acting in pursuance of my duty here if i did  protest strongly against the apparent decision of the administration at the very most to go further than some effort to have a modification made of rule xxii of the rules of the senatethe socalled filibuster rule. i say that for the reason that the administration has shown commendable activity with respect to executive action. especially in moving into the prince edward county school cases. through the department of justice. but there is substitute for legislation.  even in the prince edward county school cases. for example. if funds and technical assistance were to be utilized for the purpose of providing some schooling for the negro children there. who  are being denied any schooling whatever. congressional action would be required. let me also point out that cases involving the prince edward county schools are pending. it was in those cases that the administration took action. through the department of justice. there would be hing in which the department of justice could move unless we provided authorityby means of the famous provision called part iii. which has been defeated in the senate before. but always has had substantial supportfor the attorney general to move in those cases. in addition. senator clark and representative celler. in pursuance of a campaign promise by the president. and with the backing of the administration. have introduced a package of six bills. one of which. for example. calls for ratification of a constitutional amendment to eliminate the literacy test. and others deal with some of the matters to which i have already referred in connection with civil rights legislation. if that is the administrations work originally. in initiating such legislation. the administration certainly should go through with it. by backing up those bills. in short. madam president. i have never made partisan issues of civil rights matters. and i hope  to do so . for i introduced. in january 1961. a civil rights legislative program which had bipartisan sponsorship and which covers these same broad areas. but i feel that every one of us who is deeply concerned with this subject must protest very strongly against the apparent attitude of the administration that it must appease senators from one section of the county in order to get the rest of its "must" legislation through. at the price of the critically important civil rights bills which deserve a place on anyones "must" list. including the administrations "must" list. in view of its campaign pledges. and also in view of the campaign pledges of those of us on the republican side. i shall do everything i can to see to it that action is had at this session on civil rights bills. and i hope the administration will yet come around to a realization of the stern necessity for taking this course of action.
i think it would be useful if we started with s. 1021. which was the fundamental bill which was before the committee. in order to see just how it proposed to allocate these funds. and to ask the senator the following question. under s. 1021. was it  our purpose to allocate a given sum which was authorized for appropriation by fixing a base amount which every state was to have per pupil of public school age. and then have an allocation formula based upon need. was it  built upon those two foundations.
in view of the fact that the socalled cooperjavits formula. which i have already had printed as an amendment. is premised upon the concept of a minimum foundation education in each state and conditions the allocations upon thgt basis. will the senator tell us how he calculates the formula used by the committee. which is before the senate in the pending bill. will in any way contribute toward a minimum educational floor in terms of the education of the individual student in the individual state. in other words. what in the senators planand i use that term only illustratively and  advisedlyis a substitute for what the senator from kentucky and i have tried to do in our foundation plan. by setting a minimum objective toward which the federal government would contribute.
that is my interpretation of the amendment. in the sense that it would be giving. as it were. a bonus to those who. withstanding the national policy. the national constitution. and the decision of the supreme court. have etheless held out against public school desegregation and especially. as i point out to my colleague. in terms of the orders of the courts. it would tolerate under the amendment. as i read it. a grant of money flowing to school districts which are in open defiance of the order of court. we ourselves have set the utmost penalties in the most considered way when we passed a bill in 1960 making the defying of orders of the court a crime. whether such order is a desegregation order or any other order. it seems to me that the senator from connecticut stated the point very well when he said it would be a backward step. it certainly would.
it is  my belief that it would be impossible to withhold. i do  believe that the bill carries that kind of mandate. the bill carries authority. i believe that authority may therefore be exercised by the executive. consonant with the laws of the united states. for myself. i have crossed the bridge. let us say. of the willingness to depend in this particular case. in respect of federal aid to schools. upon that executive authorityusing the word "authority" in its advised sensewhich the executive may or may  exercise. congress is giving the executive a clear mandate. i believe that to be entirely proper. it is a mandate which the executive. under our form of government. will  defy and will  violate. except if there were a supervening reason. i do  introduce the school desegregation question into this argument. even by my present assertion of legislative history. i merely wish to say that in my judgment. as a lawyer. the bill does  make the president of the united states distribute the money to every school district without regard to any law or fundamental executive authority of the president. it does  strip him of the basic concept of the use of the word "authorization." i do  wish to specialize it by applying it to a situation or court decree or school district. i wish to make it clear in the legislative historyand the senator who is in charge of the bill is on the floorthat there is hing in the bill which is in derogation of the fundamental authority of the president of the united states to enforce all the laws of the united states. i stand on that.
if i may reply to the senator from new hampshire. i believe my view is borne out by the fact that the author of the amendment himself. facing the very problem to which the senator from new hampshire refers. has attached his amendment on page 2. line 20. to section 103 of the bill. the precise section which strips the president of any such discretion. the author of the amendment realized the problems he was up against. here is a specific direction to the president which tells the president: szc. 103. in the administration of this title. department. agency. officer. or employee of the united states shall exercise any direction. supervision. or control over the policy determination. personnel. curriculum. program of instruction. or the administration or operation of any school or school system. that is the direction which is given the president.  we are talking about the authority of the president to enforce all the laws of the united states. it is possible. for exampleand i  state a ridiculous examplethat a school may be used as a blind for moonshine operations. i am sure one would say that the president of the united states. under the bill. must give aid to that school. withstanding that it is overtly violating the most basic law of the united states. would anyone say that aid must be given under those circumstances. of course . etheless. the mandate is clear when it comes to the specifics of education. in that respect the president must  exercise any control or direction. the proponent of the amendment. recognizing that this is the section which he must qualify if he would carry his point. attached his amendment to that section. that clearly shows the purport of the section. the effect of the amendment. and why i oppose it. and why i can go along with the senator from new hampshire in his view.
the senator is correct. the senator from new york would like to point out a very interesting thing. which is that the original administration bill sought to carry out much more nearly the plan we present than the committee plan which is before the senatefor it provided a basic $15 minimum per public school child for the larger taxpaying states. i make the point because i think it is very important that all of us understand that the bill  before the senate is essentially the concept of the committee.  essentially the administration concept. it includes the addition of a very substantial sum in the total. which is greater than the bill recommended by the administration and certainly greater than would be provided by our amendment. the administration bill when originally brought to the senateindeed. when reported by the subcommitteeinvolved a sum of $2.298 million. as a matter of fact. the amount was extremely close to our own proposal. with a difference of only $70 million odd.
i thank the senator. i reply by saying that i am a member both of the education subcommittee and of the full committee. i participated in the search. it is my deep convictioni think the senator ks i am  doctrinate about the effort. simply to cut down the money in the billthat ours is the proper approach. i really very much wish to do what my judgment as to principle tells me ought to be done. as we went through this study it became my deep conviction that it is unnecessary to spend the extra money. and that the committee formula does  hit the bullseye. it does  really do what in principle we are trying to do. my best evidence of that. aside from my honest judgment on the magnificent initiative of the senator from kentucky [mr. coopea]. is the fact that senator bob taft. who is so much revered in this chamber and who was pretty much a fatheri will  say the fatherto the idea of federal aid to education. had this very foundation concept. the foundation concept was absolutely fundamental to all that he proposed for educationit was the idea that we would try to establish a standard of basic education for every american child. and that that standard could be expressed in terms of school expenditures per pupil per year. further. it was that the federal government -ought to help bring up to that level the states which could  meet the standard from their own resources. because when a child has matured. having been educated. he is free to move anywhere in the united states. and often does. so. for example. a badly educated child from mississippiwhich happens to be the lowest state in terms of incomemight easily come to new york and be one of my constituents. i would want that child to have an optimum of education as much as i would want it for my new york child. this was senator tafts basic concept. so it has been difficult for me. as the committee has worked upon this subject and as i have discussed it and debated it with my colleagues on the committee. to become anything but more fortified in my basic view that if i am really for federal aid to educationand i amthen i ought to embrace the principle of a standard toward which we would be projecting the money of the taxpayers of the united states which is to be used for education.
both kansas and california fall in that category. first. california. on the $20 basis. would do better than it does under a formula which does  have a minimum. as ours does. second. it fares better. relatively. than does a state like my own. because it has a larger number of children in the public schools. california. based upon its public school attendance. has a public school population of 3.164.000. withstanding the fact that new york is a more populous state than california. the public school population of california exceeds that of my own state by a very substantial amountin excess of 25 percent. in fact. the pupils eligible in computing the aid to california are very much more numerous than those in new york. because in new york we send many of our children to private and parochial schools. so that on a formula for helping public schools. california. on the $20 basis. would do better than it does under a formula which does  have a minimum and which proportions aid among the states on the basis of schoolage population.
california would do better under our plan. because such a large number of its children attend public schoolsand our plan is essentially a public school planwhereas the plan of the committee proposes to distribute money on the basis of the total schoolage population.
they are  under the formulation of our amendment. we do  place them higher. on the contrary. we might place them lower for new york. if new york as it is . were in the position of  putting out as much effort as it should in terms of support of its own school system.
that is a very interesting point. the answer is yes. however. people have wondered why the committee went through all the gyrations of basing their allocation and appropriation to the statesthat is. their authorization and allocation to the stateson the aggregate school age population rather than the attendance in the public schools. when. as a matter of fact. a consideration of children who do  attend the public schools is excluded. the question is. why did the committee suddenly adopt the standard of authorization and appropriation for the total school age population without regard to the number of pupils in the public schools. which is so different from the way in which the money will be used. the answer is that in that way. more dollars will be given to each state. that is typical. in the opinion of the senator from kentucky and myself. of the manner in which the whole allocation formula was derived. if more money was needed. and there was other way to get. then all the children in the state would be used for the computation. even though that method bore relation to the way in which the law would be administered.
i am  prepared to join the senator in his constitutional law views. i think there will be aher occasion for argument on that subject. but from a practical point of view. and leaving aside the constitutional argument. that is substantially what happened. i am distressed about this situation. there is a point to the additional money in the bill. and to the fact that. for purposes of appropriation. we are counting all children.  merely public school children. i can already hear the echoes from the arguments which will be made on this floor when we reach the day we consider a bill to aid parochial and private schools in some fashion that we might consider constitutional. the echo i hear from the arguments on this floor is. "why are you doing that. you have already counted them. you have already distributed money on a capitation basis. on the strength of that count. why come forth with this proposal. forget it. we have spent the $326 million. that is gone." so it seems to me the proposal can be justified on that basis. we might as well recompute the figures on the basis of more money for each state per public school child. but if it had been done that way. the "sweetening" would have been made to look even worse than the committee could tolerate. so it had to accept the basis of the total school age population.
i can see a logical reason. however. the senator from oregon . who is handling the bill. is an excellent lawyer. he has a very fine mind. i would rather leave it to him. when his turn comes. to give his view on that point. however. speaking for myself. i saw the argument coming. "we have provided for them. let the parochial and private school children go to the public schools. there is need for considering a bill relating to parochial and private schools." that was one of the arguments i used against this way of computing the amount to be distributed.
we will  fall into the trap of putting curriculums standards in the measure. because the senator from kentucky and i are just as devoted to the idea that the federal government shall  control education as is anyone else in this chamber. but i can agree with the senators statement on the minimum foundation plan for these reasons: when the senator refers to a certain amount of money and what it will buy in new york as compared with iowa. for example. i point out that in our proposal the federal government will contribute to the $400 onethird of the difference between that amount and what the state is able to do with its own efforts. so there is a leeway in terms of costs as between the different states. ody will make the statement. i am sure. that $400 represents particularly fancy education. if the $400 will buy more education in iowa. very well. there still would be a long way to go before the frill category could be reached. if -it will buy less in new york. that is well. too. because new york can buy more for itself. as to the argument about frills in education. i do  think that argument is valid. i point out that there is difference between our amendment and the bill as it is before the senate in that regard. in the second place. expenditures under the bill. and therefore under our amendment. are confined to school construction and teachers salaries. that category can be considered as involving frills. in any concept. because those are basic elements that go into the education scheme. if efforts are made to utilize the money for purposes other than teachers salaries or school construction. the money can be cut off. and the bill requires that it be cut off. if those spending the money should be profligate in other respects. then under our amendment. and also under the billsince we are contributing only a part necessary to bring belowpar educational systems somewhat up to paritythe local taxpayers and local school authorities can be depended upon to see to it that money received for education will  be wasted in that way.
i thank my colleague. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record as a part of my argument three charts and an excerpt from a document entitled "public school financial programs of the united states. 195758 issue." by the u.s. department of health. education. and welfare. backing up my statement about the foundation programs in many of the states.
. i understand that earlier today. though i was  present. the senator from michigan annced that he would offer an amendment to attach the school construction bill to s. 2393. the impacted areas school bill. i had already annced that i would offer amendments to extend the national defense education act for 1 year. i ask unanimous consent that my amendments. which have been printed and are on the table. be printed in the record. together with an excerpt from the miity views on s. 2393.
i make this statement because i think this is a very critical subject. unless the national defense education act is extended this year. there will be loans available for the 36.000 high school seniors with superior academic background who must have a loan to enter college in the fall of 1962. with our assurance of continued federal support. the 47 language and area centers. financed up to 50 percent by the government. would face retrenchment. these centers are critically important to our position with respect to africa and asia. finally. if the ndea is  extended this year. the effectiveness of the area vocational education program will be jeopardized at a time when the labor department estimates that at least 100.000 additional technicians will be needed annually during each of the next 15 years to work with engineers and scientists. finally. i point out that the fact that the leadership of the administration on the majority side has collapsed on federal aid to education does  mean that the educational system. which is directly responsive to the defense emergency. must be hung up this year. for that reason i hope very much that senators will give the most serious thought to the proposed extension on the impacted areas bill. many senators want the impacted areas bill. i think many others want the national defense educational act extended. and this is the time to do both.
i heard with great interest the argument of the senator from texas. and i should like to state to senators why i think in this particular case. without any regard to the principle of federal aid to education. the bill is deserving of support. there are two big reasons. one is that the children who would be covered need schooling outside the mal school year. they come into work areas in the summer months when the schools are  open. hence it is an extremely expensive operation for school systems. the situation is analogous to the impacted area idea in the sense that it requires special handling because of the incidence of time when the children need the schooling. second. an odd situation exists. which hangs in the air. people move interstate for the purpose of doing a job. which. because it adds to the sum total of the national life. contributes to the national interest. it is quite difficult for states to meet the problem. unless they can really afford it. the record shows that there is some schooling in states that can afford it. such as new york. which has made efforts in that direction. colorado. and a number of other states. the important point is that these people have real situs in the state. they are  large earners. and hence their taxsupporting capability. in the absence of a situs or home. is  proportionate to the drain upon the state represented by the cost of education for them. they fall between two stools. they are  solid and fixed residents in a taxpaying capacity of a state in which the state school system is located. on the other hand. they are in a state at a time when their children ought to have schooling. and when it is in the national interest that they should. for that reason i felt that the program was  analogous to the mal federal aid to education. which is aher battle on aher question. i think the senator from texas is quite correct on that point. we should  intrude in that field. but i think there exists a special set of circumstances of the nature which i have described. which dictates the need for special legislation.
. the smithsonian institutions board of trustees is one of the most distinguished organizations in the world. and it maintains a cultural agency. it is obvious that official government action along that line must  be taken. indeed. this dispute and its resolution and the danger we ran teach us that we must do this. i hope that we will cease to be derelict in this very critical area. and get to acting.
it seems inconceivable to me that in this particular instance. when we are dealing with great and overwhelming questions. we should  give the agency at least what it asks. if senators will look at page 552 of the hearings. they will find that the agency was very modest about requesting restorations after the house had made its cuts. and that it asked. for example. for a restoration of only parts of the sums which had been cut. however. it did ask for a restoration of the whole amount. which the house had cut. with respect to the informational media guarantee fund. that is understandable when we e the disadvantage we suffer in this international field. and when we see what is done with the money. i would appreciate it if senators who are interested would turn to page 635 of the hearings. at which point the agency describes what will happen to the program if they do  get a restoration of the funds. i read from the hearings: if the reduction made by the housethe senate committee cut it in half again in terms of effective money available for the programif the reduction made by the house is  restored. it is estimated that the program level would have to be cut back to approximately $5.800.000. a reduction of $2.300.000 from the $8.100.000 level proposed. this reduction in program would be necessary because of the loss in receipts from operations which would result from a lower program level. it is estimated that in 1962 $1 in appropriation will finance $2.50 in program coverage. that is my reason for saying that what has been allowed by the senate committee will only allow the agency to maintain a $21/2 million program against the more than $8 million program which it contemplated. to say that it is reviewing its operationsand it is completely dissatisfied with them. i checked with the agency itself. or i would  have undertaken to offer the amendmentis  the answer. we would  help it to review its operations by dismembering this particular operation. the operations should be reviewed. in terms of our doing a very much bigger job in this field than we are doing. in order to compete with the russians and the chinese communists. however. it should  be almost completely dismembered. that is what we would be doing. we should learn a lesson from what we did in 1957. when we cut this agency so completely that many years were required to build it back. at a time when its efforts were critically needed. i shall conclude in a moment. to give an opportunity to the chairman of the subcommittee. to state his views on my amendment. we often hear on the floor of the senate complaints about the inadequacy of the position of the united states and what we should do about it. in this instance we have an opportunity to do something. what do we do. we cut the "emous" sum of $2 1/2 million down to $1 1/2 million. i am sure that any citizen of our country. any taxpayer. matter how careful he is about his taxes. would say. "i do  think this is the way to save money."
. 75 years ago this september a small band of east european immigrants on new york citys lower east side. concerned with the need to preserve their spiritual and cultural heritage in a new land. established an elementary school to serve the burgeoning jewish community. incidentally. that is where i was born. in the humble setting of the teeming. povertyinfested population center that was manhattans lower east side. this pioneering endeavor marked the birth of yeshiva university. the oldest and largest american university under jewish auspices. following a pattern of development similar to other privately sponsored colleges and universities founded by religious groups. yeshiva university widened the scope of its activity. broadening its programs to meet the mounting educational needs of the total community. today. the small seminary that was begun in 1886 has flowered into a major university. representing a historic expression of the jewish community in higher education. among yeshiva universitys able achievements are the establishment. for the first time under jewish auspices. of a college of medicine. graduate school of science. education. social work. and other centers of higher learning that have received wide academic acclaim. at the universitys 17 schools and divisions spread out over six teaching centers in new york city. more than 5.000 men
madam president. next week we will deal with the matter of federal aid to education. there has been more tragic failure of executive leadership or greater legislative problems in this chamber. that we have seen in a long time. than what took place here in the collapse of this great effort in behalf of federal aid to education. so vital to our defense. i am gratified by one thing. i have strongly opposed. and continue to oppose. aid to federally impacted school districts. about which so many efforts have been made here. unless it contains at least a 1year extension of the national defense education act. i have a printed amendment to s. 2393. the impacted areas school bill to that effect. i am glad to say that at long last opinion is rallying in the country to the fact that we can. that we dare . extend aid to impacted areas without attaching to such legislation. at the very least. a 1year extension of the national defense education act. including college housing loans. fellowships. and other programs directly related to the defense of the nation. i ask unanimous consent that an editorial published in the new york times today entitled "school aid debacle" be printed in the record at this point.
i am grateful to the senator from pennsylvania. i k he has supported us. he has been one of the most stalwart of those who have engaged in this effort throughout. it is gratifying to him. as i k it is to me. that this provision is in the bill. it gives us a new opportunity to do what he impliedly recommends. which is to go back to the authorities. especially the state department. to learn what has been done to implement the finding of congress. i thank the senator from pennsylvania for his interpolation. . a parliamentary inquiry.
s committee will help assure that apprenticeship programs sponsored by contractors will operate on a discriminatory basis. however. there still remains the question of whether or  the contractor will employ any apprentices at all. perhaps federal legislation is needed to require each firm that obtains a government contract to conduct an adequate training program and do its fair share to help satisfy the nations requirements for skilled manpower. both a sharp expansion of apprenticeship opportunities and adoption of fair employment practices are needed. this will help assure that members of miity groups have adequate opportunity to prepare themselves for careers in industry. i hope very much the bill will receive the deserved full support and will be passed as an expression of our national policy in connection with an area of critical need.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to extend the benefits of the national school lunch act to profit summer camps for children. it would take up the vacation period slack in the program as far as many thousands of children are concerned. just the day before yesterday senator humphrey inserted in the record an editorial praising the school lunch program. which has indeed been an excellent one. and ing that there may be some proposals soon to expand it. the bill  being introduced would expand it so that many of the same children who benefit from it during the school year would be able to continue to do so during the summer months while they attend profit summer camps. this gap in the present program was brought to my attention by the community council of greater new york. which points out that camps operated by new york city agencies alone provide for vacations for more than 100.000 children. the majority of whom come from families in the low income groups. the bill would. of course. apply throughout the nation. wherever the school lunch program is being used. certain surplus foods are  available to profit camps. but the range of such foods is much narrower than that available under the school lunch program and depends upon the size of the surplus. in some recent years. for example. distribution of dairy products. butter and cheese had to be restricted to schools. the bill would correct this discrepancy and would also make available foods. such as frozen meats and poultry and canned fruit and vegetables. which are purchased with funds appropriated for the national school lunch program and can be made available from any other outlet. i urge that the bill be given prompt consideration so that the profit summer camps may have the benefit of these foods during the coming summer. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
i think all of us understand his position and his sincerity on this question for many years. but in relation to the substance of what we are accomplishing. i say we are still playing around. the administration has asked for only two measures. they are by means earth shattering civil rights measures. both are with respect to voting. in which the path has been thoroughly blazed. at the same time the administration "sits on its hands" with reference to an order that would eliminate discrimination in housing. it does  ask the congress to do anything about segregation in the school systems. it does  even give power to the attorney general to start suits in relation to those questions. i could  agree with the senator from kentucky more. and while he and i differ as to the constitutionality of this particular approach which i am urging. etheless. be it said. so far as i am concerned. i am offering it to the senate. working for it here in the senate. and debating it today because i do  want us to play around. if we really want to get to ultimates. let us at least do something which will be tangible and effective. instead of merely giving people power to do something about something later when they start a suit or when they ratify a constitutional amendment.. if we should today pass the statutory approach which i have proposed. the house passes it. and the president signs itas he will. because the attorney general has said that the measure is constitutionalthen we would have done something. we would have outlawed the poll tax. and that would be the end of it in the five states. we would have stopped playing around. i wish the senator from kentuckyand i k completely the purity of his judgment and the sincerity of his viewshad come to the other conclusion and that he could have joined with me today in trying to do something which would have stopped the playing around even in the very limited area in which the administration is allowing us to operate today. let it never be forgotten that we can get a civil rights measure of any kind passed unless the administration in authority asks for it. this was true with the eisenhower administration. it is true with the kennedy administration. i take a very dim view of the prospects. withstanding the great fights which will be put up by my colleague senator keating on the subject of voting. by myself on the subject of education. and by others to whom were assigned various aspects of the new civil rights package which was introduced on march 13. withstanding everything we do. it will take the administration to do more. we understand that. hence my effort today at least to make what the administration is asking for. limited as it is. meaningful by making the measure a statute which could accomplish something. instead of a constitutional amendment which would go to the other body. where it has never succeeded before. then make the rounds of the states. and then come back for us to pass some kind of implementing statute. i say let us do it .
. we are today beginning a civil rights battle to vindicate the constitution. sustain and implement the 15th amendment. and secure the voting rights of thousands of americans disenfranchised by abuse of literacy tests in certain southern states. it is sad and yet symbolic that we must do so under the pall of aher sad chapter in race relations in our countr. the current campaign of the white citizens council of new orleans to cast away destitute negroes from their native states to other cities will surely go down in history as a shocking and shameful act. i have undertaken a study of the legislative means that may be necessary to deal with the extralegal aspects of this situation. but in the meantime and quite apart from the requirements of law. new yorkers have already shown that they will receive inent instruments of domestic injustice in the same way they have received the oppressed and the exploited throughout modern timesin the same way they have received refugees from czarist russia. from nazi germany. and from hungary. poland. cuba. and other places. and i have doubt that other cities of the th. within applicable law. will meet their responsibilities to these fellow human beings. too. i do harbor some doubt. however. as to whether those who are responsible for this shameless stunt truly understand the moral issue involved. a destitute person is a destitute person whether he lives in new orleans or new york. and whether he is black or white. the challenge to our society is that we must erase such human suffering.  exploit it. i believe the american people will be aroused by this heartless display of theatricalism at the expense of the indigent. it is a hoax that will fool one. it is a gimmick that may call attention to the plight of the underprivileged. but it can camouflage the ugly fact that negroes are being deprived of their rights in key areas of the south. it is in every sense a strange backdrop to the effort to enact a bill balring unreasonable literacy tests for voting. but this action by the white citizens council of new orleansand the filibuster that is advertised to begin todaycan only serve to spotlight the fact that in 16 southern counties of large negro population.  a single negro was registered to vote in 1959. that in other counties fewer than 5 percent of eligible negro citizens were registered. that there is widespread disenfranchisement of negroes through the shocking misuse of literacy tests. and that college educated negroeseven college professorshave been denied the right to register by the arbitrary action of registrars. these are the simple truths which will  be lost on the nation in this debate. i believe americans will be sickened by the spectacle of other americans playing a game of spite. and i believe they will reflect their strong feelings in the struggle that is to begin in the senate today. the chances for a successful cloture vote on a civil rights billthe first in historywill. i believe. be materially enhanced by this development.
one of the very disquieting things about a constitutional amendment in this regard. which has made people like me oppose it strongly. is the question of whether it would ever be ratified. as the senator ks. many states do  have literacy tests at all. a number of states have literacy tests somewhat higher in requirement than the one under discussion in the senate. my own state. for example. has an eighth grade literacy requirement. proponents like myself have annced that this is to be the maximum test. there is reason why any state can allow a person to vote without a literacy test if it wishes to do so. whether the person has any grade school certificate whatever. so long as he satisfies the state as to his literacy. therefore. it should  disturb materially any states literacy test. except to fix a maximum which can always be used if it is desired to invoke a basic standard for any particular applicant. but coupling states which have literacy tests with the states represented by senators in this chamber who are very vigorously and constantly opposing the particular measure before the senate. it has seemed to people like myself who have been strongly supporting this whole effort that it would be impossible to get a constitutional amendment ratified. would the senator care to comment on that statement.
the senator from oregon. who is a former law school dean. has put his finger on one of the fundamental events in the life of a nation which undermines democratic government. it is when the peoples representatives. the legislature. begin to be frustrated in terms of accomplishments that the executive power is fed and supported. and if we can have sufficient heart and courage to exercise our authority. of course. we are building up. in the most effective way. far more than many people inveigh against. this very basic and substantive power. the executive power. for the simple reason that it seems to me we do  k how to govern. therefore. we must leave it to the executive.
. col. david "mickey" marcus was thrust into greatness and immortality by the extraordinary turn of history which linked his name with israel. his biography. "cast a giant shadow." which will soon be published. provides a fitting memorial to this son of immigrant parents. who as a graduate of west point. a great soldier. a holder of the distinguished service medal. and. at the time of his death. commander of the haganah forces that broke the siege of jerusalem. epitomized so much of the american dream and the kinship between the united states and israel. in this history of both these nations he will always hold a heros place. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record a letter on this subject dated august 1. 1962. which is being sent to the members of the class of 1924. u.s. military academy. and other friends of "mickey" marcus by brig. gen. charles g. stevenson. the adjutant general of new york and vice chief of staff to the gover.
. the success of the twin russian cosmonauts should teach us that this is time to dally in developments in space. it is unnecessary to consider ourselves in a race to recognize that we can. in the national interest. be outclassed in space exploration and use. while the russians may leap ahead in a particular field. as they have with the twin cosmonauts for which they are properly to be congratulated. we can leap ahead in other fields of communications---for example telstarand i think also we have an excellent chance to leapfrog them in their own chosen fields. for the very reason of our having started later may mean that the most modem techogy will ultimately be ours. therefore because it is the best of the alternatives before us. because essential u.s. government control is inherent in the plan. because there will be an opportunity to perfect the plan of operations hereafter. and because time is of the essence in getting on with this vital national business. i shall vote for the bill.
. i had  seen the letter referred to. i see it for the first time . i took some pains yesterday to try to ascertain the reason for the defeat in the other body. i learned. from what i believe to be entirely viable and proper information. that it consisted  of one. but of two compounded parts. let us remember that the margin of defeat. considering the size of the other body. was  too great. the vote. as i recall. was 214 to 186. there was a difference of 28 votes. therefore. a change of 15 votes would make a difference in the result. i learned that many members of the house who voted against the measure did so because of the 20 percent forgiveness in the student loans. and most of the others voted on the very issue mentioned. i read the same thing into it that the senator reads into itthe socalled religious issue. it seems to me that before we give up trying. even at this session of the congress. we ought to see if we could at least win back to our side those who objected to the scholarship forgiveness loan package. that. as i see it. is what my three colleagues from the house of representatives have suggested. they urge a bill containing titles i and iii.
i am  calling up the amendment. i should like to question the senator from montana. with whom i have conferred about this proposal. and the reason for it. however. i should first like to state my point on the record. so that it may be clear that our colloquy refers to this amendment. it is my desire. by the amendment. to provide profit summer camps. which  receive limited food aid from the department of agriculture. with the full range of assistance which is given under the national school lunch act. this proposal has received strong support from religious and lay organizations alike engaged in the development of youth. i believe that every senator is familiar with the great work which is carried on by organizations such as the community council of greater new york. the boy scouts. the salvation army. 4h clubs. the herald tribune fresh air fund. and literally hundreds of other organizations across the country. in bringing children out of slums and sending them to summer camps. we all k the difficulty these organizations encounter in raising money for these camps and maintaining them. and the great humanitarian interest that is involved. which is so deserving of federal help in the form of food aidin this case for the most deserving of all. namely. children. who would then be able to receive during the summer the same foods they receive during the school year under the school lunch act. i should like to get the senators disposition on that subject.
. i wish to make a brief statement concerning an event which has just taken place. the news that the department of state has allowed a visa to be issued to sir oswald moseley. the british fascist leader. will be distressing to all americans. indeed. i am particularly distressed as a senator from new york that the invitation should have been issued to moseley by a state college in buffalo. etheless. our devotion to freedom of speech and academic freedom is so strongand the absence of fear that the words of any extremists would have really damaging influence on the overwhelming majority of americans. young or old. is so deeply ingrained in all of usthat i would have to defend the right of the college to invite moseley. in spite of the way i feel about him. there are. however. substantial questions of public order which are also involved. and these. it is hoped. will have been answered by our authorities by making the necessary survey in buffalo before moseley actually clears our borderas well as on the basis of experience with the buffalo meeting. assuming it comes off. we must remember that moseleys antisemitic diatribes in his own country have been marked by serious violence and that the united kingdom recently deported lincoln rockwell because his presence was claimed to endanger public order. section 212(a)27 of the immigration and nationality act places upon the u.s. consular authorities and the attorney general the responsibility to determine before admitting him that moseley will  "engage in activities which would be prejudicial to the public interest. or endanger the welfare. safety. or security of the united states." moseleys admission also illustrates again the injustice and discrimination of our present immigration law which bars communists automatically but bars fascists only if it can be proved that they advocate overthrow of the u.s. government. altogether this is a most unhappy development for our country. which i do  believe anyone but native fascists. of whom very unfortunately we have a few. would approve. moseleys visitand i hope it will be a short oneplaces a very heavy burden upon the law enforcement authorities at the local. state. and national level. we can only hope that the state department and the state college of buffalo really knew what they were doing and that we shall all  rue the day when our solicitude for free speech and the free institutions of our country caused us to stretch them so far in order to show that they were meant for friend and foe. citizens and visiting alien alike.
. i am very sorry that the senator from oregon is  present. because he was one of the most stalwart fighters in congress for a bill to provide aid to higher education. however. i understand he has advised the majority leader that although the bill is  satisfactory to him. he would like to see it passed. so would i. i think it is only fair to say that the bill represents our ackledgement of the bankruptcy of all our efforts to provide federal aid to education during the entire 87th congress. the bill merely provides authorization for additional loans to students and institutions of higher education in the amount of $125 million a year for each of 2 years. and very modestly increases from $250.000 to $500.000 the aggregate limits which can go to any institution. the senate bill makes some changes with respect to state allotments. so that they will  go to waste. but may be reutilized by other states. i am informed that the committee in the other body reported a similar bill this morning to the house. although it is  exactly like the senate bill. after all the work which has been done on federal aid to higher education. withstanding the great national security interest which is involved. and the disadvantage under which we labor in  giving our young people the prospect of going to college for the education to which they are entitled. we have labored long and hard to come up  with the tiniest possible mouse. we merely continue the student loan program for 2 years. as it has expired as of june 30. 1962. that is about all we do. it is true that the other body rejected. by a close vote. an agreement with our conferees. of whom i am one. in respect to federal aid to higher education. it has been considered by some in the other body that a further conference was warranted and that an effort might be made to agree. what contributed to the defeat of the conference report was a provision for a new program which would have forgiven all student loans to students of extraordinary need. it was said that the house resented that type of discrimination. and rejected the conference report for that reason. but that a new conference might have produced some other result. i prefer a new conference. i pleaded for one on the floor of the senate. but the chairman of the senate conferees. the senator from oregon . after a very careful investigation of the problem. came to the conclusionwhich i respect. whether i agree with it or that a further conference would be fruitless. that the higher education bill was dead for 1962indeed. for this congressand that we had better approve a small authorization in order to continue the national defense education act. and try again in 1963. i do  k whether i shall be here in 1963. etheless. i feel that probably. under all the circumstances. there was other decision which the senator from oregon could have reached. i felt bad about the situation. i protested. and if i had been the chairman i would have sought aher conference in an effort to reach agreement. however. i can find any really basic fault with the judgment of the senator from oregon because i k of his sympathy toward higher education. what is to be done . here we see the demise of a really urgent program upon which the conferees of both houses had agreed. they had produced what i consider to be an excellently balanced conference report which meets alike the churchschool issue. which we k is a very perplexing and deep one. and the issues in connection with the proportions to be devoted to loans and to grants for aid to the colleges. the scholarship provisions. which i had the ho to draft to the satisfaction of the conferees. the provisions in regard to the new type of loan program differ from the provisions of the national defense education act under which forgiveness is based on engaging in the teaching profession. under this measure. forgiveness is based.  on engaging in the teaching profession. butas i had preferredon scholarship. upon being in the upper 25 percent of the class. in which case 50 percent of the loan each year would be forgiven. i felt that was as close as we could go toward a scholarship program and still have a loan program. but  the entire house has come tumbling down. and in my opinion the nation is left unprepared for the emergency in higher education which it is facing and will continue to be facing in the days ahead. today. i am introducing a bill. of which i am a sponsor. which includes the provisions of the conference report which failed. except for the new forgiveness provision for the loan programfor which i use. instead. my own forgiveness provision. based on scholarship rather than on extraordinary need. other than that provision. my bill includes all the other provisions of the conference report which failed in the house of representatives.  we are coming to the end of the session-
. i also hope that other senators who find themselves in the same position in which i find myselffor i realize that my head is on the block. and i am running the risks involved. but i do so gladly and with howill take the same stand during the campaign. if people feel strongly about this matter. let us have some expression of the national will in regard to higher education. so that those who return here next january will be far more impressed with the demand of the country that a higher education bill be enacted into law. and  be destroyed by what i consider to be relatively narrow views in regard to the churchschool issue. i believe that to be a fair statement of the issue. in my judgment. we provided for loans and grants for strictly academic purposes. and they would have been related strictly to the needs of the young people. in terms of the security of the nation. and in the studentaid program we providedas is provided by the present programthat the student may attend any school he chooses. whether a private school. a public school. or a parochial school. i hope the bill i am introducing will encourage other senators to do what i am doingnamely. submit this question to the people. the final arbiter. so that senators who return in januaryand i hope to be among themwill be able to do their duty to the country. i think the nation has suffered a great deal as a result of the defeat of the higher education bill. i hope the senate will pass at least this minuscule portion of what remains to be done at this session.
. it seems to me that this is probably one of the most signal failures of the present session. the american people will want to assess the responsibility for it. i hasten to add that i found in the chairman of the senate conferees. the senator from oregon . the greatest anxiety to bring about agreement. therefore. i wish to make very clear. in discussing the question. that i do  find fault with my colleague who headed the conference. but i do think that what happened here was that the majority party itself. the democratic party. was at war within itself and that there was leadership when it might have counted for the most in terms of bringing about consummation of what the majority here had voted. the disputes which wrecked the hope for any higher education bill were the aid to private colleges and universities and the fight over scholarships. i am confident that they could have been and should have been reconciled and that the exercise of strong leadership would have brought about such a compromise. but i found it very sadly lacking in the whole situation. only to see all our hopes dashed by the adverse vote in the other body. in my opinion it is really a disgrace that neither the college academic facilities bill or even the bill to increase the funds for student loans from $90 million to $125 million authorization per annum got anywhere. i have  introduced a new bill. which is in essence the conference report upon which the senate and house agreed. it is hard to believe that neither the senate  the house. both of which passed bills for aid to higher education. so urgently needed by our colleges and universities. and which is absolutely indispensable in a cold war against the communists. should have gotten anywhere in this very. very critically important field. it seems to me that the failure was a failure of political courage on the leadership side. especially is that true when our security and progress as a nation here are so heavily dependent upon our progress in education generally. and particularly in higher education. let us remember. too. that the bills thus passed in the senate and in the house were only a minimum effort. and in view of the urgent need it will take an even greater effort than was incorporated in those bills. which roughly sought $1.25 billion in aid. as well as the increase in the college loan fund to help our colleges and universities meet their responsibilities. i am very proud to have been the sponsor of the major compromise on scholarships through the suggestion that there be a loan program with substantial forgiveness for those students in the upper 25 percent of their classes. i ice that the senator from oregon is present in the chamber. i do  k whether he was here when i began. i paid special tribute to him. certainly one in the world could say that he did  try in every way that he could to bring about agreement.
. i have  spoken about elementary and secondary education in the great detail that the subject deserves because for some reason it was almost tacitly accepted here. though i deprecate that attitude very much. too. that that kind of bill could  pass. but we had high hopes for the aid to higher education bill which have been completely dashed. that is the reason i speak so feelingly about the matter. our higher education picture is  good. there are expanding registrations. overcrowded classrooms. inadequate teaching staffs. wort or oldfashioned equipment. our higher education system in this space age should be of the very best quality of which we are capable. but we do  have it and we are  doing very much so far to get it. unless we take the steps needed to approach at least the optimum goals for higher education. we will go on wasting talent and the energy of thousands of americans like the 70.000 high school graduates who have been deprived of a college education. in my opinion. directly in the face of and contrary to the national interest. i can think of few failures in our nation in the last year quite as damaging as that one. for myself. whether or  i return to the senate next year. i shall continue to carry on the fight for federal aid to our educational system and to sound the alarm over the widening educational gap and the serious shortage of skilled manpower which is a direct consequence of our failure to enact the essential legislation. every young american who has the desire and the capacity to obtain a college degree should be given the opportunity to do so. and we shall  have met the great challenges of our age until we have made that opportunity a reality.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. the college academic facilities and student assistance act of 1963. this is essentially the same as s. 3775 which i introduced in the 87th congress. it incorporates all the provisions in the conference report agreed upon by the house and senate conferees with the exception only of the deletion of the provision for socalled reimbursable loans. this bill provides almost $2 billion over a 5year period for college construction grants and loans. loans to help needy students which incorporate a .50percent forgiveness feature for excellence in scholarship. and construction grants for public community colleges. this assistance. on. which the house and senate conferees were in agreement last year. is urgently required by needy students and overburdened colleges faced with a steadily increasing number of students applying for admission. we can put off consideration of this problem except at our own peril. statistics demonstrate that time is running out on the opportunity we have to save the nations skilled manpower. during the first 8 months of 1963. this year. the number of applications for college entrance in september will be a quarter of a million higher than those admitted in 1962. this is an increase of nearly 25 percent in this year alone. next year the increase will amount to aher 215.000 above the number in 1963. the primary reason for these increases is that there are  553.000 more young people in the high school senior age group than was the case a year ago. our colleges and universities are making almost desperate efforts to meet this approaching enrollment bulge. but they are far behind in meeting the need for classrooms. laboratories. and other necessary facilities. aher proposal in the bill provides loans for needy students with generous forgiveness features for scholarly excellence. such loans will help students meet increasingly high tuition costs and at the same time give impetus and reward for exceptional achievement in scholarship. today the higher education picture is  goodexpanding registrations. overcrowded classrooms. inadequate teaching staffs. worn out or oldfashioned equipment. our educational system in this space age should be of the very best quality we are capable of in order to meet the growing shortage of skilled manpower. we do  have the best system  and we are  doing egh to get it. unless funds for construction of academic facilities and for aid in construction of community collegeswhich are taking an increasingly important role in our education pictureunless these funds become available. there will be many young americans intellectually eligible who will be denied the opportunity to be educated at the college and university level. the responsibility is on us  to allow this circumstance to come to pass. i ask unanimous consent to have. a tabulation in regard to costs printed in the record.
. i want to join with the many friends and students of a new york city school teacher who this month brought to a close nearly a halfcentury of teaching in our city schools. on february 1. 1963. jacob deutsch. of jamaica. long island. retired after 49 years as a teacher. guidance counselor. and supervisor of new teachers. the last 32 of them at junior high school 65 on forsyth street in lower manhattan. i k the part of new york city in which mr. deutsch has served. and i k all too well the tremendous need for competent teachers and men of good will to teach our children there. a friend and adviser. a jacob deutsch who understands young people. can mean the difference between hope and despair for the student who has a will to succeed. as mr. deutsch looks back over this past half century he must feel a deep and rewarding sense of achievement. and he must feel too a sense of the futurein the kledge that his teaching and advice and guidance have reached thousands of young people who looked to him and learned from him. mr. deutschs philosophy as a man and as a teacher is best reflected in the advice he gives new teachers: for many of these children you are the replacement they seek for the lack of parental guidance and understanding at home. you are their last hope. the example you set for them. the understanding you give them. and the direction you point them will determine the usefulness they will be for themselves and society. for if you fail them. you fail our country. if dedication to the cause of public education and meaningful participation in the betterment and growth of his community give cause for pride in a mans lifework. then i k jacob deutsch must be a proud and happy man today. he deserves our heartfelt thanks and respect.
i should like to say to the chair that my recollection is that the steraphers transcript is correct. the chair has used the words "in my opinion." the chair has used the words "in the opinion of those at the desk." again. as a lawyer. i say that both versions are completely compatible. i have attended law school classes in which someone dashed in and shot the professor actuallybut to show that observers are often inaccurate. i have claim for my infallibility. i would say to the chair that i would  challenge the chairs good faith or the chairs feeling that that was his judgment for an instant. all i think. in all fairness to me. so that it should  appear that i amsomebody who is clamoring for something which is wrong or improper or which has basis in fact. is to have the record show the situation according to the steraphers transcript. that is in accordance with my recollection or. to use the chairs words. "in my opinion." in all deference and respect. there they stand. the chair has made his statement. i think it is most generous of the chair to go that far and make a statement of the fact. which the chair rarely does. and i appreciate the statement deeply. i have made mine. according to the steraphers transcript. and that is it. when i get aher opportunity a little later in the morning. i wil state as briefly and as conscientiousy as possible the point of order i was trying to make. and that will be the end of the matter. so far as i am concerned. but i do think that it could be important a couple of years ahead. when we come to the question again. that was my only reason for trying to see that the record. at least. showed whatever in my opinion it ought to show. i thank thechair.
. the time to solve the problems regarding federal aid to education which have so far blocked the progress of legislation in the congress is running out. and serious consequences to our youth on all levels of schooling may be anticipated unless programs are able to get underway this year to expand our educational facilities. raise standards of instruction and assist worthy students. the education "gap" in terms of the skilled manpower needed by our country is becoming more and more difficult to close with each year that goes by without a federal aid program. the legislation before this congress will go far toward meeting the situation created by our expanding school population and rapidly rising costs and i believe it should receive priority consideration. some of the issues and problems respecting aid to education are dealt with in a special number of the quarterly published by the carnegie corp. of new york. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record the article entitled "education and politics." published by the quarterly. january 1963.
. one of the most critical problems affecting public schools today is the alarmingly high dropout rate of students who do  intend to go on to college. any situation which finds hundreds of thousands of young people without jobs and without working skills of any kind is potentially explosive. and the increasing rate of juvenile delinquency throughout the nation is one of the alarming symptoms of this illness in our social and educational systems. present programs of federal aid to vocational education. which have been in existence for almost half a century. are hopelessly inadequate to cope with the problem and stand in need of drastic overhauling to meet the needs of today. and manpower retraining programs. important as they are. can hope to cope adequately with the unemployment problem as long as untrained and unskilled youths who drop out of school keep filling up the reservoir beneath the surface. we can retrain a youth who has had training to begin with.  can we deal with the problem by sending a relatively mi number of them into the woods for 6 months in a revival of the old ccc camps. some indication of the need for a nationwide vocational education program and the problems that are involved is provided in a special study of the problem which has just been released. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a study of vocational education in the united states entitled "the forgotten youth." prepared by the staff of the senate republican policy committee. march 4. 1963.
. i call the attention of the senate to a fine speech made by the gover of my state. gover rockefeller. at adelphi college. at garden city. long island. outlining our program for meeting the higher education challengea challenge which is also the challenge of our nation and which. i very much regret to say. we are  meeting adequately in action in the congress unless we pass the extension of the national defense education act and also pass a bill to aid higher education. such a bill failed last session because of the inability of the conferees of the house and senate to agree. in my opinion. it is one of the most urgent measures before us in the national interest. the expansion of higher education facilities is essential if we are to make it possible for every qualified young man or woman who wants a college education to receive it. shortages of all kindsphysical facilities. teaching and administrative personnel. and loan funds for studentsare depriving us of the ability and trained intelligence needed to meet the nations demands. federal assistance such as that proposed in the national education assistance act is urgently needed. and i am hopeful that this congress will adopt the legislation necessary to cope with the situation. new york state. i am proud to say. has been able to make available resources to meet some aspects of this problem and is going ahead with a highly constructive program under the leadership of gover nelson a. rockefeller. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record his remarks describing the new york state effort to meet higher education needs on the occasion of the annual spring festival. adelphi college. garden city. long island. may 2. 1963.
 of the institute of international education. which directs our foreign student program. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record mr. thurstons article entitled. "the education explosion: foreign student enrollments in the united states." which appeared in the overseas magazine. march 1963.
yes. i am fully satisfied that it would give to the attorney general authority to protect that right. if the senator will allow me to proceed. i shall tell the senator exactly what i have in mind in the presentation. we have gone to considerable effort to submit this proposed legislation to probably as distinguished a galaxy of law school professors as there is in the country. i am going to put into the record an original opinion by each of those professors. i think the senator will find that that will cast very considerable light upon detailed questions as to the application of the provisions of the bill.
i pointed putand i am  given to glossing over thingsthat even as to the attitude of the miity leader. it is a fact that although he opposes the public accommodations sectionwhich i think is very important and i shall fight very hard for itas the miity leader on the republican side. the senator from illis has supported a number of the issues. one being the very important part iii of the 1957 bill to desegregate the public school system. an issue which has  had affirmative support on the floor of the senate. and to which his weight gives great affirmative support. i am still hopeful that we might even persuade him to be for some version of a public accommodations section. all i am pointing out is that we on the republican side. first. do  deserve these speculative fears. but they exist. therefore they must be recognized by two groups in our country: first. republicans themselves. who must be more articulate on the subject. and. second. democrats. who must recognize that the effort is a bipartisan program. it is  merely a question of supporting the president. it is a program in support of basic constitutional law. public order. and public morality.
s omnibus federal aid to education bill these two sectionshigher education and vocational educationthat we give to them high priority. and that we pass them in this session. i believe there is other way. while i understand the reluctance to take that action in terms of an administrative program. i point out that exactly that has been done in the other body. exactly that has been done here. it is the way in which we can most quicklyand the country needs and urgently demands itget action on federal aid to education. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record an editorial entitled "college facilities." published in the washington post on august 7. and an article entitled "room. teacher shortages remain as enrollments grow." published in the congressional quarterly. june 28.
. on april 25 and 26 the national student federal aid to education conference took place in washington. d.c.. and was addressed by a number of distinguished cabinet officials. as well as by a member of congress. the students adopted a set of resolutions on federal aid to education. it so happens that some of the resolutions differ from my own point of view. while others are in line with my own point of view. i think that when students show the initiative to meet and to express themselves. as these students have. and are recognized by important public officials. then what they have resolved should at least be ed as a matter of public interest. whether we agree with individual parts of it or . i ask unanimous consent that the resolutions may be printed in the record. so that they may be generally kn.
. by the large number of negroes in wednesdays march. especially by the number of religious leaders. their presence was symbolic of the fact that the struggle to redeem the soul of a nation. plagued by 100 years of racial discrimination. is everybodys struggle. the march demonstrated that the first amendment right of peaceable assembly and petition for redress of grievances is a living part of our political history. this is what the negro community is seeking to invoke in demonstrations across the country. this march proved that the first amendment rights can be exercised without danger of violence and disturbance. but despite the polite and orderly be: havior of the crowd. and the moderation of the speakers. it was plainly evident that this demonstration was a symbol of the civil rights revolutiona revolution which we in congress can ige as we get down to the business of discussing meaningful civil rights legislation this year. the reverend martin luther king .summed it up when he said at the rally in the lincoln memorial: there will be neither rest  tranquillity in america until the negro is granted his citizenship rights. the words spoken by dr. king. a. iphilip randolph. roy wilkins. whitney young. walter reuther. john lewis. rabbi joachim prinz. dr. eugene carson blake. mathew ahmann. and other leaders of the march. are important to the nation and to congress. and i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record excerpts from the invocation and their speeches. as published in the new york times of thursday. august 29. 1963. and also an editorial. published this morning. comparing the bitter fruit of gover wallaces efforts to close the public school system of his state. in order to avoid desegregation. rather than allow children to return to school mally. as they should. under the traditionally american circumstances.
i invite attention to the fact that. according to the latest press information. the tuskegee high school is still closed by order of gover wallace. withstanding a court order. and withstanding the demand of the board of education. legislation may  open that school. but legislation and the effort to obtain legislation will certainly move in that direction. as one of the sections of the civil rights package of the president would give the attorney general the right to sue in school desegregation cases. if gover wallace were facing the attorney general of the united states. as he may still be facing him perhaps later today or tomorrow. we might have a very different situation. in any case. what the country is going through demands more urgent action than is  contemplated in the senate. without claiming for myself a virtue which others possess in at least as high a degree as i do. in connection with an interest in proposed civil rights legislation. i only lay before senators these new developments. which in my view dictate a reevaluation of the timetable as outlined by the majority leader.
that is exactly what has happened in the school cases. yet the president has found it necessary to recommend that power be placed in the attorney general to sue. because of the multiplicity and expense of such suits. . i think i have explained my proposal adequately. i understand there will be a motion to table. if egh senators are in the chamber. i ask for the yeas and nays on the motion to table.
i feel strongly that the consensusand the bipartisan steering committee of the new york congressional delegation tried to take an honest consensushas been considered with extreme care. it was at the request of representatives stratton and st. george that the steering committee. which represents republicans and democrats both in the house and in the senate. made this survey. analyzing the results of the survey. i assure the senator that i have quoted it correctly. as to the senators point about a referendum. i am marketing expert on milk. the senator from wisconsin is extremely competent in that field. but i have tried to educate myself as a duty to my constituents. i have millions of city constituents. and i claim good credentials for kledge of their problems. but i have studied and tried to learn about the dairy industry problems. it is true that there would be a referendum. but when we legislate we are legislating compulsion. if the legislation should pass. on a miity. therefore. we can say we should pass this legislation because the farmers will take care of themselves and will vote. if they vote for it. there will be compulsion on a miity which may be in opposition. so when we legislate a program. i think we have a duty to see that that program meets the qualifications and standards which are wished to be imposed.
i shall support the senators amendment. matter what he does about the language. i say that for this reason: all these questions can be unraveled in conference. but it is extremely important. if we are to support the senator. that we have an understanding of what he has in mind. when the senator from arkansas and his colleagues rewrite the language in conference. if the senator from arkansas has voted with the senator. then certainly they would wish to rewrite the language by dealing with the situation in a substantive way as the senate intended it. i am trying to learn the senators intention. so that we may k what he intends.
while i fully appreciate the gracious things said about me by the majority leader. as a conferee i should like to testify as a witness to the skill. forbearance. and deep devotion shown by the distinguished senior senator from oregon. my longtime friend and colleague in the conference. i am sure we would  have had a result without it. i believe the president was correct. i should like to join in designating the bill as the morsegreen bill. that is probably. for the senator. much more historically important. much as i respect the washington post. than the fact that they did or did  refer to the bills principal architect by name. as we are recounting this little history. i add that the degree to which the senator from alabama . the chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. subordinated his deep convictions on this subject in order to arrive at a resultconvictions which were superior to all others with himis something quite admirable in showing the balance. equity. and openmindedness of one man. i k that he felt quite deeply on this subject. yet when he saw that in order to obtain a result he had to subordinate his feelings. which are long standing with him. he did so. i hope the vocational education bill will come up today. i believe the two bills are parts of a scheme of legislation. and that they will go some distance toward dealing with the concrete underpinnings of which the washington post spoke. i wish a bill dealing with primary and secondary education could be enacted. i voted for it. the senator from oregon is its outstanding leader. obviously that can be done in this session of congress. we can bring the national defense education act up to date. we can do something about the impacted areas legislation. for which many districts hunger. we can do something. in the field of labor. about automation. that is what the vocational education bill is all about. we can do something about school dropouts and the terrible rate of unemployment for youth. which is twice the rate for other segments of the population and. for many negro youths. three times the rate for other elements of the population. i hope very much that there will be haggling over that subject in this body and in the other body. i shall do my. utmost. with whatever influence i have. to see that a bill is passed. a bill is far more important than any of the individual details. even the dollars involved. which i believe are quite modest. our fight is  over. i k of man with whom i would rather be joined in that effort than the senior senator from oregon. all the tributes which have been paid to him today are well deserved. it is most important that the bill bear his name. i hope the bill will be called the morsegreen bill.
 kennedys reply. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the address by the hoable clare boothe luce entitled "the new frontier of the ocean." containing these letters. which she delivered at the annual dinner of the stritch school of medicine. loyola university.
. i. too. have looked into the question which my distinguished colleague from new york has mentioned. dealing with the alleged censoring of a motion picture by usia. in eliminating what was thought might antagonize arab nations if it were shown in those nations. i am pleased to learn that the usia assures us that there is hing to the story. i am glad there is . i am very proud of the usia. i hope very much it will be keenly sensitive to this question. as it has shown in the past that it has a capacity. for discernment and respect for questions of this character as they affect our own institutions. which are so very clear upon that subject.
i am especially interested in the student grant fund. will the senator be good egh to give us some concept as to what was in the joint resolution. and the areas of difference which have been reconciled.
. subsequent to the approval of these regulations but apparently too soon thereafter to take them into consideration. the u.s. commission on civil rights published a series of reports on apprenticeship by the advisory committees to the commission in nine states. these reports are. in my judgment. of considerable importance to this rapidly developing problem. and i ask unanimous consent that the recommendations of each of the advisory committees be printed at this point in the record.
. if i may have the attention of the majority leader for a moment. i wish to discuss a matter which concerns the new york city school boycott. however. i have desire to interfere with the leaders program. if the majority leader will assure me that after the vote on the ribicoff amendment is taken. he will help me obtain an opportunity to speak for a few minutes. i shall refrain from speaking .
there are a few questions that interest me. in the first place. i approach the amendment with an open mind. though i voted "nay" on the ribicoff amendment. i wish to ask the senator whether the phrase "the number of months" that the taxpayer is a student means the number of months he attends classes or the number of months he is enrolled as a student. which would be 12 months.
does the senator have any schedule worked out. suppose the student is working as a waiter in a college dormitory. let us take that as an example. suppose he receives $20 or $25 a week. let us assume further that this student also has a considerable income. he may be a very wealthy young man. with a trust income. does  the senator feel that such a student should safeguard that income and make the credit applicable only against the income actually earned while working as a waitert
i can understand the senators point. however. would he object. if the amendment did succeed. if in conference an effort were made to fix a minimal amount of earnings that such a student should have in order to qualify. if we did  do that. this would present a very easy way for a student to get a $1.500 deduction. by getting a job for an hour or two a week in order. technically. to qualify under the amendment.
. over the years the persistent efforts of unrwa have led increasing numbers of arab refugees along the road to resettlement. its vocational training program has proved to be one of its most promising efforts and is undergoing rapid expansion. there are  about 10 training centers. most of them in jordan. and they provide instruction in a number of trades for more than 4.000 refugees. graduates of these vocational schools are needed to fill existing job vacancies in the arab countries and despite obstacles these skilled workers readily find gainful employment. the united states provides some of the funds needed for this program but unrwa is making an effort to enlist support from individuals for this eminently worthy cause. this year the united states has pledged to contribute $24.7 million toward unrwas budget of $38 million. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record some of the information about this effort which i have excerpted from a booklet issued by unrwa entitled "opportunity."
obviously. the senator heard exactly what i said. i would only express the hope that progress in public school desegregation in the states which have so stubbornly resisted it will come about as quickly and effectively as in my own state.  that we have done it wholly effectively. by any means. but honest efforts are being made to correct.  segregation. because there is e in the new york public schools. but racial imbalance. which admittedly exists because of the housing situation and the fact that negroes are heavily concentrated in harlem. the senator from th carolina heard exactly what i said. i did  speak of public school imbalance at all. i referred only to the fact that we have learned. from experience with the public school desegregation decision of the supreme court. that such decisions often can be applied only on a casebycase basis. and that is the real reason for the snails pace progress at which public school desegregation has proceeded since that 1954 decision.
said that this idea was first suggested to him in 1960 in a letter from a 7yearold school girl. lynn michaelson. of jackson heights. n.y. she wrote: why dont we have a day called indian day as a national holiday. we should have that day because we shouldnt forget the poor indian who used to live on this land. we have columbus day and washingtons birthday and even mothers day. that young lady made a fine point. we ho christopher columbus because be discovered this grand country. we ho george washington because he was the first chief of this new nation. and we ho mothers. certainly. the american indian deserves high ho for his place in this grand sequencehe was here first. he knew and loved this land centuries before the outside world knew of its existence. he hoed this land. yet the indian suffered. we can deny that. we can forget it. the indians way of life was swept away in the early days of this nations history. but still. he has endured. and from the beginning. he has contributed to this nations tradition. and to its progress in all facets of life.
assuming that the schools were of what we consider to be mal size. and that the state were a state like that from which the senator comes. where there are hundreds and perhaps even thousands of schools. my answer to the question would be "" in other words. the remedy would be directed against the focal point of the segregation. namely. the school which was segregated. the senator cited an example of one school which might be segregated and aher which might  be. i am stating that as a case which would be very clear. we could  condemn the whole program because one school might be segregated.
i shall. the factual question as to whether a whole program or activity is so shot through with discrimination as to incur the ban of the statute would itself be a question of fact with respect to which the administrator would have to make a decision in the first instance. and then a reviewing court might be called upon to act. for example. suppose the county in question was by far the largest county in a state. involving an overwhelming number of the states school districts. i have idea whether. as a fact. that is so. my guess is that it is  so in the senators state. we would have a question of fact as to whether the overwhelming weight of the activity in that state under that particular program was segregated. if it were. then i believe it would come under the ban of the statute. offhand. i can think of only one county in tennesseeshelby county. wh.ch i believe. includes the city of memphis. which would fit the description. considering the number of cities of major size in tennessee. among which memphis would be one of the largest. if  the largest. the practice of segregation in the memphis school districts lunch program would  necessarily invalidate the entire school lunch program for the state of tennessee. it might reduce it. because shelby county is a very large part of the state. but it seems to me that it would  necessarily invalidate the program. on the other hand. if we consider some state in which a county represents ninetenths of the states activities under the school lunch program. though i would  be sure about it. we might then have a different set of facts presented to an administrator. and he would have to determine whether he would have the right to condemn the entire program. the point is that the statute is curative.  punitive. in its operation. that is the essential point i am trying to make. it would  allow the administrator to condemn a whole state. and thereby attempt to cure the situation in one school or in one particular area in the state. but it would allow the administrator to determine the factual situation with respect to the entire activity. it should also be ed that the administrator would have to act affirmatively under the section of the law to which reference has been made. i am reminded of an ancilliary fact that is important. the senator is dealing with the question of school segregation in the case that he stated. there is a title in the bill relating to school desegregation. the intent of the drafters of the bill. as it was presented to me in a memorandum which has been prepared. is that in those cases the effort would first be directed toward seeking to desegregate the school system itself. such desegregation. of course. would take care of the problem of the segregated school lunch program. so. in answer to the senators question. i would  wish to be understood as setting an order of priority as to the lesser activity as against the greater activity. namely. segregation of the entire school system.
my attitude on transporting children is defined by the court decree in the new rochelle school case. which provided limits of distance and of time within which children may be transported. i do  believe. if it can be humanly avoided. in the forcible transporting of children whose parents are opposed to it. but even that may be necessary if there is school within reachfor example. in our consolidated school districts. so i believe that the fair limitation upon that bus problem. which was posed by the court in the new rochelle school case. should be the general rule in the state of new york.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a summary. prepared by jacob landers. assistant superintendent of the new york city public schools. of an objective study. dated ember 1963. conducted by the commission on school integration of the national association of intergroup relations officials.
for the record. will the senator give us the names of the particular schools in which he claims there is some desegregation and the number of pupils in the desegregated schools and in biracial school districts in south carolina.
subsequently said: earlier today. . a question arose in colloquy with the senator from south carolina . in regard to the actual. factual status of desegregation in the public schools in three statesalabama. mississippi. and south carolina. i stated that there was complete segregation in the public schools in those states. i find that insofar as alabama and south carolina are concerned. the record must be corrected. due to events which occurred subsequent to the issuance of the figures on which i based my statement: my statement was based on figures in the 1963 report of the u.s. civil rights commission. which was accurate in regard to the 196263 school year. the facts on which i based my statement are contained in table 1 on page 64 of the report of the civil rights commission. which shows that in alabama. out of 114 school districts which have both white and negro pupils. e were desegregated. the same was true for mississippi. with 150 biracial districts. and the same was true for south carolina. with 108 biracial districts. i ask unanimous consent that the en- there being objection. the table was tire table be printed at this point in the ordered to be printed in the record. as record. follows: table .-status of desegregation of school districts. 196263 1 total school total with school school districts. white and districts districts 196263 negro pupils. desegregated segregated 196263 alabama ----------------------------------------------- 114 114 0 114 arkansas ----------------------------------------------- 416 228 12 216 delaware ---------------------------------------------- 87 87 87 0 district of columbia ------------------------------------ 1 1 1 0 florida ------------------------------------------------- 67 67 10 57 georgia ------------------------------------------------ 198 182 1 81 kentucky ---------------------------------------------- 205 166 149 17 louisiana ------------------------------------------- 67 67 1 66 maryland ---------------------------------------------- 24 23 23 0 mississippi --------------------------------------------- 150 150 0 150 miissouri ------------------------------------------ 1.607 2213 2203 210 th carolina ---------------------------------------- 173 173 18 155 oklahoma ---------------------------------------------- 1.180 241 196 45 south carolina --------------------------------------- 108 108 0 108 tennessee ------------------------------------------- 154 143 26 117 texas -------------------------------------------------- 1.461 919 177 742 virginia - . . ..-------------------------------------------- 130 128 32 96 w est v irginia ------------------------------------------- 55 43 43 0 total ----------------------------------------- 6.197 3.053 979 2.074 percent ---------------------------------------- ---------------------------------- 32.1 67.9 i southern education reporting service. statistical sunmary. ember 1962. revised especially for the u.s. commission on civil rights to aug. 1. 1963. 2 estimated.
the report of the u.s. civil rights commission. up to date. is as follows: in south carolina. under court order of september 1963. charleston school district  20. including four public schools. was ordered desegregated. a single school district was desegregated. it admitted a total of 11 negro students. there are  10. it was desegregated pursuant to a court order of the u.s. district court. that desegregation was appealed and affirmed by the circuit court of appeals. therefore. it is a fact that in south carolina there is one school district. including four schools. which  is desegregated. pursuant to court order. with 10 negro pupils out of a total of 265.288 in the state as of 196263. as shown by the table i have placed in the record. i have just been informed that the senator from south carolina has. since our colloquy earlier today. corrected his remarks. so as to give the correct names of the four schools in charleston. s.c.. which have been the subject of these desegregation actions. so my remarks will  jibe with his. as to alabama. again the figure can longer be shown as zero. four school districts were ordered desegregated by the courts in september 1963. it will be recalled that as to one of them. gover wallace sent state troopers to tuskegee high school. which was the subject of a white boycott and was then closed. a huntsville school district was relatively quietly desegregated. with about 20 negroes in the school. a birmingham school district is reported to us to have a small white attendance. a mobile school district is reported to us to have a small white attendance also. this means that as of . 110 districts remain segregated. we are sure that one is desegregated. two probably are desegregated. and one of the total of 4 is closed. the number of school children to be considered there is 280.212 negro school children. out of a total of 807.287 enrolled. as for mississippi. we have checked and find that it remains a fact that school district in mississippi is desegregated. that is exactly what the table showed for 196263 and it remains the case for 196364. we understand that one school district has been ordered desegregated beginning in september 1964. by the district court. what will happen to that. we can tell.
there is surely denial that many segregated programs and activities are carried on with federal funds. there is point in arguing the case of colleges. because it has been debated and there have been many cases in the courts for several decades in which some progress has been made. the point we are trying to deal with. in cases in which progress has  been made. is in regard to hospitals. where we have to begin to proceed  on a casebycase basis. i am checking the facts as to a public school in south carolina. and will produce the information for the record. but on the matter of legislative history. it should be ed that section 601 states: sec. 601. withstanding any inconsistent provision of any other law. person in the united states shall. on the ground of race. color. or national origin. be excluded from participation in. be denied the benefits of. or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance. that. it seems to me. protects against all of the contentions. first. the qualifications relate to discrimination. and the courts will pass on the way in which that word is implemented. "discrimination" is defined in terms of race. color. or national origin. second. the application is to particular programs or activities. third. there must be actual federal fund support. fourth. the rules and regulations. as to how the ban against discrimination shall be administered. must be approved by the president and are also subject to judicial review. it seems to me that the statute spells out a workable and fair program. subject to judicial review. and that the judicial review protects in every stage  only the application of the law but even the rulemaking power
i have tried to make clear the great difference between school systems which are segregated. many under state constitutional provisions and laws mandating segregation. as in mississippi. and the school system in new york. where there is school which is 100 percent white or 100 percent negro. and where the various levels of government are dedicated toward dealing with the disadvantages in education which result from racial imbalance in certain schools. i feel so strongly on that subject that. withstanding the unhappiness of some families with the problem of transportation. i have had to say that. in aid of a plan to utilize certain schools for certain grades and other schools for other grades. i would approve of a limited amount of transportation with a limitation upon distance and a limitation upon time.
the senator from new york would  endeavor to set himself up as an expert on education. and therefore give a percentage figure for schools. i am perfectly satisfied to leave that question to dr. calvin gross. our superintendent of schools. and his very competent staff. i point out to the senator only that the educational authorities in new york believe that some material movement of those school children is necessary.
. i believe that is a fair statement. i would  favor transporting children in a very limited way unless the schools were racially imbalanced. again i point out that the question applies to a miity of new york schools. we have  more than 19 percent of such schools. i placed the figures in the recond previously. i rely upon the trained. pedagogical judgment of the school authorities for that purpose rather than my own.
it is more and less compulsory than the law requiring children to attend school at a central district. where a bus picks them up or where parents can transport them. if the parents keep them home. they are violating our laws by preventing the children from going to school. so if the princeton plan is compulsory. it is more and less compulsory than school attendance and fixing a place of attendance at a certain point in accordance with the needs of the children. i see hing wrong or abusive in that.
. i point out. first. the definition of "racial imbalance." as we in new york see it in the interest of education. namely: a racially imbalanced school is defined as one having 50 percent or more negro pupils enrolled. it seems to me that makes very clear the distinction between what we in the state of new york are doing and the provision of the bill about which the senate is struggling. obviously. a completely segregated school for negroes has white students. whereas we in new york are talking about schools which have both white students and negro students. but which in our judgment are inadvisably set up for educational purposes when 50 percent or more of the students in the school are members of one race. what is sought to be achieved is an equitable balance. the message from commissioner allen makes clear that whatever the authorities do must be "consistent with the principles of sound education." i think this is the dominant standard in the state of new york. and. in my judgment. it reflects great credit on the state of new york. i commend to the consideration of other states. the new york standard as one which properly should be set with respect to the racial population of the public schools.
there are two answers to that question. first we should do that. and more of it. we are trying to do that. the level of education for everyone should be raised. and it certainly should be raised in the schools which have suffered in the way that i have described. a great effort is being made. and should be made. in that .tegard. the senator has spoken of moving the children out of their neighborhoods. one is moving children out of their neighborhoods against their will or against the will of their parents. as yet. there is some discussion as to whether the socalled princeton plan. which would pair adjacent schools and would concentrate children attending certain grades in one school and those of the other grades in the other school. would result in any enforced transportation. that question has  yet been decided.  is it being done. the only children who are  being taken from one area of the city to aher are children who have requested it and whose parents have requested it. based upon the fact that certain schools have been found underutilized. therefore applications by parents for children to be admitted to such schools have been accepted. and the children have been admitted to public schools some distance from their homes. but i emphasize that one is being compelled to go. or carried against his will. it may happen. but it has  yet happened.
the senator is very kind. he illustrates why we are so pleased when a cabinet officer comes to the senate. because we do . have a parliamentary system under which we .7100 have access to the ministers. as is the case in some parliamentary systems. so it is rare that we get personal witness. as the senator has given. to what has been said. i am grateful to the senator. the senator ks that the department of health. education. and welfare. over which he presided so very ably and courageously. represents the stickiest problem in the field. mainly our problems have been there. but. very understandablyand i k that that is  the senators doingthe senator was bound by his responsibilities as he saw them. he performed them most faithfully and ably. i am more than happy to pay him this tribute. withstanding the fact that he did  agree with me on occasion with respect to this particular question.  of the united states. he was only a citizen without too much experience in this field. he was speaking from his heart. one thing he said that appealed to him beyond anything else in the civil rights struggle was that he could  see how we could morally. constitutionally. and ethically justify the expenditure of federal taxpayers money for the purpose of aiding a state program which was segregated. this was a cry from a mans heart. this. of all the issues. was the one which had the deepest human appeal and to which he responded. and i think that response to this issue is quite widespread. .yet it is sad to relate that the problem is current and urgent right . shocking as that may be at this late date. there are appalling examples of the continuation of this practice. it is almost beyond belief that it is possible. yet it is. for example. in the federalstate school lunch programwhich is a pretty basic programin greenwood. miss.. according to department of agriculture data. 43 percent of the average daily attendance in greenwood schools consists of negro students. yet the negro students receive only onefifth of the free lunches distributed in the greenwood district. under the impacted area public school aid program. according to the department of health. education. and welfare. only "suitable"-that is. racially desegregatedfree public education may be assisted with federal funds for children of federal military and civilian personnel who reside on federal property. but the vast bulk of federal funds for this program are paid out under public laws 874 and 815 to schools attended by the much -larger number of such children who do  reside on federal property. and from these funds payments are even  being made to segregated schools. districtbydistrict litigation. just as in the painfully slow process of private suits under the 1954 school desegregation decision. is the only remedy for the children of federal personnel residing off base. four of such suits. involving school districts in mississippi. alabama. and louisiana. have been dismissed on procedural grounds. without even a hearing on the merits.
i thoroughly agree. let those who would seek to perpetuate segregation. in the face of the clear mandate of the constitution. look to their own consciences if this kind of situation exists. let me point out to my colleagues what experience shows. when we get down to cases. even the most hardened segregationist would prefer to end segregation in order to receive federal aid than to continue segregation and lose the aid. that seems to be the general history of what occurs in this situation. we see it in the example i have given of the impacted area school aid program in regard to children of military personnel who live on federal property and must. according to the department of health. education and welfare. unlike children living off federal property. be afforded "suitable"-or unsegregated--schools. under the suitability doctrine. 15 school districts in southern areas which were segregated. with a total enrollment of 250.000 children. apparently favored federal aid to continued segregation. so in practice the possibility of withholding aid is a good and extremely effective method.
in response to the senator. let me say: first. it is  a fact that in every program which the hew said it did  have the authority to cut off funds. there was a "separate but equal" clause. such a clause appears in the morrill land grant college act and in the hillburton hospital construction act. but it does  appear. for example. in the impacted school areas acts. yet there. the department claimed that the language was so mandatory on the department that it had to give aid. that it could  refrain from giving it. that it had discretion in the matter. despite our claim that the constitution prohibited giving such aid. in my judgment. the senator was proceeding on the advice of counsel. the senator himself is an able lawyer. but he was  his own lawyeras is quite properwhen he was secretary of hew. he was proceeding under advice of counsel. counsel appeared  long ago before the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am a member. i took great issue with counsel. and therefore with the senator when he was secretary of hew. and also with the present secretary.  settling the difference. and my contention was that that should have been done because. withstanding the words of the various statutes. the constitutional mandate was supreme.
i do  believe it is necessary to defend the eisenhower administration generally. for example. the desegregation of the district of columbia was monumental in terms of a civil rights record. i am  taking the senator from connecticut to task for the way he discharged his responsibility as secretary of health. education. and welfare. i have stated that he was acting at that time under what i knew to be the advice of the legal authority of the department. i only point out. as i have pointed out many times. that other departments. similarly advised. such as the department of defense for example. did  take the same view. we used that fact as indicating the way the matter should be handled by all the departments. it was a legal argument. and i believe the courts have come out on the side that i took and that others associated with me took. the senator from michigan was just as indefatigableif i may refer to myself in those termsas i was. and we acted together in connection with pressing every governmental department on this issue. we are  dealing with the present and the future. i do  wish the senator to have any feeling that i am trying to plow up that ground. it is important because. for example. in the schools the problem is continuing. that is the point i make. i refer to the impacted school program for personnel living off the base.
i am  analyzing it at all. the figures were provided by the tax foundation. i will place the table in the rzcord. when the senator examines it. he may have some comments on it. i shall be interested to hear them. i have referred to the first reason for the effectiveness of this provision of the bill. even in its limited. lastresort form. the second is that it is apparent from the history of desegregation efforts throughout the country. that when faced with the alternatives of desegregation or the loss of heavy federal financial assistancesuch" as socalled impacted area school assistance and the airport terminal construction program. for exampleeven hardened segregationists tend to prefer desegregation. for example. where the department. of health. education. and welfare applied the "suitability" doctrine to segregated schools attended by children of federal personnel residing on base. 15 school districtswith total enrollments of approximately 250.000 children indicated that they would prefer federal aid to continued segregation. the constitutional principle often happens to be reinforced in this instance by a priority apparently built into human nature. finally. negroes longer want continued segregation as the price of federal aid. it is longer tenable to argue that we must continue to support segregated schools or negroes will  obtain any education at all. it is apparent to all that the painfully slow process of individual suits to desegregate public schools or to desegregate any other public facility in the south is hardly a satisfactory alternative to the cutoff of funds. the federal government holds the key to eliminating discriminatory practices in advance. through its financial support of the facilities involved. it should use that key and the congress. through enactment of title vi. should endorse it.
i have heard with deep satisfaction what the senator from missouri has just reported. it bears out the comments i have been making on the floor of the senate in connection with civil rights. . the outcome may be embarrassing to the democratic party. but it is also a challenge to the leadership of both parties to work more vigorously to be sure the people of the th. as well as of the south. understand the grave moral and constitutional crisis we facea crisis which has such farreaching implications to our role as a nation committed to freedom and opportunity. i am confident that the 80 percent in wisconsin is just as important as the 20 percent. for those of us who are with the 80 percent it is a lesson written large on the wall. that should teach us how important is the struggle in which we are engaged. and to realize that we must continue to throw all the ardor and dedication into this struggle.
. when i made a speech on tuesday on title vi of the bill. a question was raised by the senator from louisiana about the school districts which had desegregated rather than lose their federal impacted area funds. i have the information  from the department of health. education. and welfare. that there have been 16 such school districts. in florida. tennessee. texas. and virginia. i ask unanimous consent that a list of these districts be made a part of my remarks and printed in the record.
i will tell the senator why i do. it is. first. because people wish to demonstrate in the only way they can. withstanding that their senators are for the bill. for their support. new york is a great center of communications. and when people demonstrate in new york. they are  demonstrating for the new york senators alone. it is fair to say that they are demonstrating for the nation and the world. it happens to be that kind of city. it has a great place in our nation. and it has its characteristics. this is one of them. second. we who are so ardently for the billand we are the first to say itk that we have our own troubles in racially imbalanced schools. in trade unions. which remain obdurate in the face of a forward moving society. in excluding negroes from membership and from apprenticeship and jobs. and in other manifestations of the personal and social character of discrimination. they are protesting against it precisely because people feel free to express themselves. that is the way america should be. we are proud of it. we are doing something about it. the one thing that i have always said to my colleagues from the south is that i hope and pray for the day when they can do the same thing. when they can stand on the floor and  tell us about the tautological aspects of how all this is wrong. in terms of procedureand i do  agree--but when they can argue with us about the fact. and can demonstrate to us. that they are doing a better job in this field than we are. that is the day i look forward to. that day. unfortunately. has  yet come.
as i listened to the senator from th carolina. i did  realize that i was in the senate chamber. i thought i was where i had spent most of my lifein court--and that the senators last words would be. "your witness." it seems to me that the questions which the senator asked were pretty leading. if the senator feels free to tell us. does he define a desegregated school as one in which there are only white children. but that a negro child who sought admission to that school could  be refused.
i am trying to obtain from the senator what he himself said a while ago. he said that the school in south carolina. or at least a good many of the public schools in that state. remain segregated. and if we should try to desegregate them or allow the admission of negro pupils to schools which have been exclusively occupied by white pupils. we would have "trouble." i am trying to get from the senator how he would define one of those south carolina schools.
is it  a fact. however. that the segregation. the staterequired exclusion of the negro childas the senator from rhode island so eloquently statedfrom a school is illegal. whereas racial imbalance. which the state seeks to eliminate. is  illegal. what we are trying to do is to correct a social problem which we have. which is  a legal wrong. what the opposition is trying to do is to perpetuate a legal wrong. under the fiction that the laws of the united states do  apply in south carolina. actually. what the opposition is arguing is  only untenable. but anarchy.
i am speaking about a school which is a socalled white school. does the senator feel that the refusal to admit a negro child to such a school is conducive to the liberty of the people of the united states.
i insert this material in the record to show that the whole climate of the establishment of government in new york state. as well as in new york city. is dedicated to the proposition.  simply that there shall be segregationand we have e in our public school systembut that in the state of new york all that is humanly possible will be done to bring about the best racial balance conducive to the finest education of our children.
i am sure the senator from florida will wish to comment on these facts. and i shall be brief. what has happened in new york is that there has been a remarkable increase in attendance in the public schools of white pupilsthat is. negroes and puerto ricans. who  constitute approximately 44 percent of the total attendance of students in new york citys public schools. there are 1.037.757 pupils. of whom 440.000 are white. in the borough of manhattan alone. 77 percent of the public school pupils are white. in order to achieve substantially desegregated schools in accordance with the 14th amendment. all our schools accept children without regard to race or color. in many schools. the pattern has more and more tended toward a preponderance of negro and puerto rican children over white children. there are 860 schools in the entire public school system in new york city. due to the housing pattern. 165 schools have enrollments which are 90 percent or more white. in aher 100 schools. making a total of 265 schools out of 860. onehalf the children are whites. the difference. howeverand a basic point between ourselves and areas of the country from which come the opponents of the billis that in our city there is single school which is 100 percent white or 100percent white. eightyone percent of our schools have full racial diversity. thus there is a problem only for about 19 percent of the schools. and these are  segregated by law or by practice. on the contrary. they are completely desegregated so far as the 14th amendment is concerned. but we desire to go even further than that and give the children the advantage of mingling with children  of their own race. giving them the best opportunity for social contacts. and making possible an education under the best auspices. compare that with the fact that in 11 of the deep south states only 1 percent of negro students are attending integrated schools. and that in the 10 years since the supreme court decision those states have been proceeding at what has been flatteringly called "a snails pace." in the 17 southern and border states. according to figures from the most recent report of the u.s. civil rights commission. in 32.1 percent of all the biracial school districtsdistricts where both white and white students. even at this time. are permitted to go to school together only 8 percent of negro pupils attend school with white children. and in 3 states. namely. alabama. mississippi. and south carolina. there is less than onehalf of 1 percent admixture of white and negro children. in mississippi. complete segregation exists to this very day. it seems to me. therefore. that the difference between us is that we in new york recognize and deal with the problem. which is the problem of absorbing. in the best way for our country. our state. and our city. many negro and puerto rican children. without any social order of segregation or any effort to maintain it. either by law or practice. we feel that a federal law is necessary. because there are areas in the country in which an old. archaic. obsolescent social order of school segregation is sought to be continued by law or practice. we respectfully submit that there is all the difference between day and night in dealing with the problem within the framework of law and practice. in conformity with the constitution. matter how unsuccessful one may be. or how the problem may be proliferated or complicated. and dealing with it in aher way. thereby making a federal law necessary. that is our case. i say to my distinguished colleague from florida. who is a distinguished lawyer. that he has put the problem frankly on the table. as we have also done. i again state that that is our case.
i should like. in a little while. to come back and discuss the social order aspect of southern segregation. i say that it involves a social order built upon an unconstitutional system of laws and practices. which never should have developed. but which. etheless. persists withstanding the constitution. speaking of new york. i believe the senator misses the fundamental point in his presentation. it is that our negro and puerto rican population has shown such growth that we are bound to have schools- with greater negro and puerto rican populations and more problems in making our schools of diverse racial content as the aggregate percentage of the whites going to public schools increases in this material way. therefore. in my judgment. although the figures may seem to show that we have greater negro and puerto rican school populations in more of our schools. if we were to approach the problem as it is approached in the south. our situation would be very much worse. we keep abreast of the situation in new york because of our desire. fortified by law and practice. to observe the mandate of the constitution. if our southern friends did the same. we would   be engaged in this long debate.
i said that the senator made the point that if a southern senator should propose a plan such as the advisory committee of dr. allen proposed. the proponents of the bill would attack it. i do  think that assertion would stand up. for this reason. all that we are asking is for the federal government to participate in court proceedings seeking equal protection of the laws as decided by the supreme court. based upon the fact that it has been 10 years since the 1954 decision. with only minuscule progress in the effort to have that decision complied with. let us remember that in the school cases which have been decided since the 1954 decision. the courts have  required that children be bused from place a to place b. thus necessarily leaping over some school boundary other than one deliberately based on race or color. it is a fact that in the south. residential patterns differ from the way they apparently have developed in a city like new york. the supreme court mandate. which represents the constitutional concept. should be complied with. the supreme court has given pupil placement opportunities to southern school boards. thus seeking to take account of various other reasons than race or color for placing children in schools a. b. or c. i point out. therefore. that in our caseand i think this is very importantthere is question of school segregation at all. in other words. where under mal school districting procedures. a white child applies to a school which is heavily negro. or. what is more pertinent. a negro child applies to enter a school which is heavily white. there is barrier whatever. so far as we are concerned. in the new york city situation. we are stretching ourselves ever further to give our children an even better opportunity for education by curing.  segregation. but factual. racial imbalance.  attributable to an order of segregation. either by law or practice. this is all that is at stake. the senator has mentioned that children are being taken out of new york public schools and being sent to private schools. most private schools are  segregated in new york. my own children go to a private school which has negro children in it. my own children take negro children home with them and go to their homes in the freest possible way. in the parochial school system in new york. which has from 400.000 to 500.000 pupils. about onethird of the children in new york city schools. there is segregation. most of the children are of one faith. they are catholic. but there are negro catholics. also. with all due respect. we are trying to compare bananas with pears in the senators speech. we are dealing with the problem in new york of trying to improve the educational system even though there is hing illegal about what is happening . but from our point of view and from the point of view of many groups there. what we are trying to deal with in the bill is the illegal situation which exists elsewhere and which is contrary to the constitution. i think we have every right to deal with it in view of the fact that those states have  dealt with it. finally. the senator made two points. the first is that it has  worked in our case. i point out that we have kept abreast of the increase in population among the puerto ricans. and have done our utmost. consistent with such increases.  only to make our system work. but also to make it work better. our system already works. in the sense that it is  a segregated system. second. the senator said that there was support by the leaders of the civil rights groups. i call the attention of the senator to the frontpage story in the new york times of today headed. "rights leaders for school plansee hope of rallying all groups behind program."
yesto the local authority in one sense. to explain it further to the senator. it does  all lie with the local school board. in new york. the state commissioner of education also has some authority. and i did  wish to give an answer which would prejudice that.
i shall be glad to spell it out exactly. the city of new york. through its board of education. has full authority to determine what children shall go to what school. there may very well be suits brought in the federal courts by individuals under the equal protection clause of the 14th amendment. all that this title does is deal with suits by the attorney general. there may very well be suits in the federal courtsunder the equal protection clauseto test the legality of the activities of the board of education of the city of new york in its effort to correct racial imbalance. in those suits. there could be decrees with reference to busing. they would  be affected by anything said here. they would  be brought under this particular provision. also. it is entirely possible that the same may be true with respect to whatever authority the state commissioner of education has over the board of education of new york city. or any other city school system. in short. the question of racial imbalance is a state matter which may be cognizable by the federal courts. i can easily conceive that it could be. and it would be entirely unaffected by what may be said here. my answer is: "yes. i confidently expect that the federal courts will be asked to invoke their authority in federal suits to issue decrees with reference to racial imbalance." but. it will  be possible to invoke this statute. which we are  debating. as authority for that power.
i would say that the board of education would appear to have the power to do it under state law. but i k of law that compels it to be done. there is one other thing i should like to say to the senator. in new york. we have central school districts. at the same time. we have a school attendance law. that is. attendance of children at school is mandatory. and parents are liable if they refuse to send their children to school. transportation of children in those circumstances might be construed as mandatory busing. because there is really way for many children to get to a central school district except by buses. taking those two requirements togethermandatory school attendance and the right to consolidate local school districts into a central school districtwe have what is tantamount to a mandatory requirement for that kind of transportation.
  remotely. i think our courts and our law are such that this could very well be compelled. in the first place. i have described the situation in central school districts. second. if pupil assignments are legal under state lawand i believe there are a great many areas where there could be a separation of a child from his school by a measurable distanceit would be absolutely inherent in that situation that there should be busing. court could compel a parent to put his child on a school bus. what the court could enforce is the authority of the state law to require school attendance. the parent might prefer to get the child to the school in his own car or take him on a public bus. that would be perfectly satisfactory. ody could complain about it. so i do  think the question is one of compulsory busing. the question is one of location of the school to which the pupil is assigned. if inherent in that location would be separation by distance. i do  k of anything in our state law that would prevent appropriations for the purpose of supplying buses in order to fill the gap.
i thoroughly disagree with the senator from louisiana. i  k what he was getting at. i can tell him that new york would  be exempted at all. new york would be just as liable as louisiana. the standards are exactly the same. if we deny a negro child admission because of race to a school to which. under perfectly lawful. constitutional provisions he is assigned. we shall be subject to an order of the court. under title iv of the bill. to desegregate that school. including busing. new york will be just as much bound as louisiana. there is hing in this provision which would change that fact one whit. let us have that fiat and clear. the provision would be just as effective for new york as it would be for louisiana.
the division is  quite so sharp as all that. the senator speaks about going "a great deal further." the new york city board of education thinks it is meeting a good many of the state commissioners recommendations already in the ideas which it has put forward. i do  understand what the senator from florida means when he says "a great deal further." i do  believe there is any contemplation on the part of either the state or the city for a sensational. sudden break into expensive busing. what they have in mind is to utilize present facilities more adequately. they believe the city is meeting the state certainly halfway by the pairing idea. the state wants to start in places where it is possible. with a reduction in the amount of time spent in its socalled junior high schools. and increasing the amount of time spent in senior high schools. because senior high schools blend themselves better to improve racial balance. travel. and so forth. the idea ultimatelyand this is where the expense comes inis to have major -school complexes. such a complex would be located in one place and would include all grades from elementary school to junior high school to senior high school concentrated in a school center. but all this would be done gradually. i do  believe the authorities are sharply divided. in other words. they are all moving in the direction of doing their utmost to bring about a better racial balance in our schools. but neither the city  the state is. in my judgment. moving in a radical or precipitate way. considering the means available to them and the convenience of the parents and the children. i also feel that there is sharp difference of position or attitude between the city and the state. to the contrary. the city is very understanding. and is rather accepting the states ideas. and is moving in that direction. by means of its present plans.
the department of health. education. and welfare has need to issue new regulations on that subject. the regulations as they stand still permit support. under the hillburton act. of segregated hospitals. the second point is one of lesser degree. and is one about which i think there is really question. but i state it because i should like to submit it to the senator. there is aher group of statutes as to which hew has said it is awaiting the enactment of title vi before it acts to require that federal funds shall  be used in statesegregated programs. these include statutes which. although they do  specifically include separatebutequal language. are nevertheless considered by hew to be so specific as to require giving federal aid to states when certain conditions are met. the general counsel of hew has consistently held that even though the policy of the federal government is against the support of segregated programs. even if such programs are segregated. etheless the hew administrator has discretion because congress has allowed e. once the specified conditions are met. he must grant the money. those programs are the following. so that they may be specifically ed: the fellowship training and grant programs. and the research grant programs. under the national defense education act. the federallyimpacted area school programs. in cases in which children live off the base. as distinguished by the department of health. education. and welfare from cases in which children live on the base. and in vocational education programs. the hew has heretofore taken the position that the question of segregated vocational education must ride with the desegregation of public schools in which the vocational education was being carried on. and they are helped under the public health service act. in all these cases. hew has gone merrily on its way. withstanding everything that has been said and done in congress. and has given support to programs that may be segregated on the ground that the specific statutory conditions have been complied with and the secretary had discretion. in those cases. they have said that they are awaiting the enactment of title vi. i ask the senator whether we  have a clear understanding that if title vi shall be enacted as it is  proposed. the express and clear policy of congress against aiding discrimination will prevail. and that it is expressly intended to reach the very statutes as to which the precise conditions are set out. under which  hew believes it is required to give federal aid despite the fact that segregated programs were being carried out in the states with that federal aid.
i should like to spell out the scheme of this legislation. effort is being made to strike section 403. section 403 is the provision which allows the commissioner. upon proper application. to give technical assistance to desegregating school districts. does the senator agree that sections 404 and 405 are designed to supply personnel to be used under section 403.
so sections 405 and 403 go together. in both the commissioner can do what is called for only on the application of a school board. and section 405 obviously supplies one of the services called for by section 403. similarly. under section 404 a local school board could attempt to jump the gap by sending people for training under section 404. but individuals could  be sent for training except under arrangements with the commissioner. therefore. everything in sections 403. 404. and 405 flows directly through the commissioner. but only if the local school board animates itself and acts. under section 403 by calling for technical help from the commissioner. under section 405 by applying for inservice training grants. under section 404 by sending people to be trained where the commissioner has arranged for it.
my point is that all that sections 404 and 405 would do would be to implement the program of. and prescribe the detail for. technical assistance provided for by section 403. which the amendment would  touch. if we are to render technical assistance. we must render it through those who have certain kinds of training. that is the first point: we should implement section 403. second. hing could be done except on the volition of a school board. inservice training could take place only on application. sending people to the institute is also a volitional act if the commissioner sets up the program. but if one is sent to attend. there is program.
that is the essence of this issue. we are  going to train a bureaucracy which will enforce something on people who may  want it. we are only attempting to establish means by which. if a local school board seeks help. it can get the help it seeks. namely. technical assistance from the commissioner. or technical help. or the ability to send people to the institute that he establishes.
 so that i may propound two questions to the senator from minnesota. who is in charge of the bill. the senator understands the bill to provide that technical service or personnel trained under the bill. or otherwise. may move to a local school board unless it is "upon the application of any school board. state. municipality. school district. or other governmental unit"--i refer to page 20. lines 21 through 23"legally responsible for operating a public school or schools."
page 20. lines 21 to 23. inclusive. i am referring to the bill that is designated "printed for the use of the senate." my question to the senator from minnesota is whether or  it is a fact that under section 403 the only technical assistance that will move to local school boards will be upon the application of the school board. state. municipality. school district. or other governmental unit legally responsible for operating a public school or schools. and that such assistance will be provided only upon such request and only with respect to the school or schools under the jurisdiction of such governmental unit.
this question was thoroughly debated in the other body. those who favor the bill are trying to improve it so that it will become law. therefore. what the other body did in this case is important. an effort to strike these provisions in the other body was defeated. one thing the house did was to insert the language requiring that an applicant be a governmental unit. legally responsible for the operation of a public school or schools. we are attempting to carry out. and even improve. in the package. the result of the debate in the other body.
as has been pointed out. president eisenhower asked the congress for technical and financial assistance to desegregating school districts. he believed that it was a key to the civil rights program. and that it was the best way to facilitate the transition to desegregation. in addition. the republican national platform of 1960 stated. reaffirmed: our continuing support of the presidents proposal. to extend federal aid and technical assistance to schools which in good faith attempted to desegregate. the democratic partys 1960 platform called for the same thing. as follows: to facilitate compliance. technical and financial assistance should be given to school districts facing special problems of transition. and in the 1963 report of the civil rights commission. the commission recommends exactly this. based on its studies and surveys. the part of the commissions report dealing with education concludes with the following unanimous recommendation: that the congress authorize the u.s. commission on civil rights to provide technical and financial assistance to those school districts in all parts of the country which are attempting to meet problems resulting from school segregation or desegregation. such technical assistance should include the results of longrange research on the develop.ment of methods and techniques to meet the educational needs of all underprivileged public school pupils. in short. it seems to me that there has been widespread agreement that this is an effective and ecoical way to deal with the problem we face. in a number of respects. technical assistance is definitely the best way to proceed. it answers the argument that many school districts need a little time and facilities for training. in order to make this transition. furthermore. if there is to be technical assistance under section 403. which is  touched by this amendment. we must include the training which is contemplated under section 404. in addition. it is  sound to argue that a function should be performed. but that adequate means with which to perform it should  be provided because if sufficient funds were provided. their expenditure might be abused. after all. those who deal with the program will be adults. and if we believe that too much money is being spent or if we find that it is being used improvidently. the appropriations committee will recommend that the amount of the expenditure be reduced and the congress will vote to reduce it. after all. that is what the congress is for. on the other hand. to take the position in advance that those in charge will  be wise egh to deal with the program in an intelligent and effective way. is an argument which i can support. therefore. i hope very much the pending amendment will be rejected.
. i ask unanimous consent that there may be printed at this point in the record two resolutions on civil rights. one by the syracuse law college association and the other by the young mens and young womens hebrew association of washington heights and inwood.
. i believe this amendment can truly be called a "red herring" amendment. because it does  relate to what we are trying to correct by means of the bill. the amendment relates to racial imbalance and therefore does  relate to a civil right guaranteed by the u.s. constitution. and does  go to the point made in the decision in the case of brown against board of education. the bill would only provide federal enforcement for the constitutional right to go to any public school under mal school plansand the state courts and the federal courts have authority. when they have jurisdiction. to pass on mal school planswhich admit children. based on reasonable standards. based on neighborhood. or on whatever other basis there may be for the standard. and which require that a child can be kept out because of his color. if he falls within the mal pattern. while the courts do  deal with racial imbalance. as involving a civil right under the constitution within the decisions of the supreme court. that does  exclude the use of busingas. for example. in the new rochelle school casein cases in which there is found to be segregated exclusion within the prohibition of the brown case.
i did  mean to quote the secretary of the treasury. i am saying that we can sustain a modest imbalance for a period of time. i could  agree more with the senator with respect to the basic question of a $3 or $4 billion imbalance. he and i have both addressed ourselves to it. in view of payments for our overseas military establishment. necessary ecoic aid. defense support. or whatever it is called. when we are dealing with a problem like that in korea and in south vietnam. and considering the condition in latin america. and the fact that we will also permit some flotation of foreign securities in the u.s. market. even though it is only canadian. i believe that the roughly $25 million to $371/2 million outflow resulting from the u.s. contribution to the bank is justified on security grounds. why. because of our sensitivity with respect to our situation in latin america. and because i believe in latin america we are further ahead in terms of likelihood of success than anywhere else with the exception of what was accomplished under the marshall plan. i am of the school of thoughti could be wrongthat even if we must endure some imbalance in our international payments. we would be most unwise to curtail many of the activities that we carry on. i do  agree with the president with respect to restrictions on oversea investments. after all. much of our exports are premised on the components which are fed into the places where these investments have taken place. the senator is a very good student of these figures. so i say we get a net gain in the balance of payments in further income from foreign investments over and above the net outgo. for these reasons we could justify the expenditure of this money.
. i have two other matters to discuss. i call attention to a situation which is developing in new york relating to efforts to deal with racial imbalance in our public school system. which indicates how sharply different the situation is when the community. state. and municipal governments have an understanding of constitutional rights and equal opportunity for education. and. on the other hand. when the socalled social order is geared against it. and every step must be literally dragged out of the authorities by court action. it is for that reason that i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record various newspaper articles and editorials about the integration plan of the city of new york in its public school system. widely published this morning.
if the senator from texas will allow me to finish my thought. he might wish to comment on the entire statement. i should like to comment on an affirmative or positive e to show what the new south is capable of. sundays press contained a report that mrs. faubus. the wife of the gover of arkansas. who himself attained a certain degree of fame or oriety throughout the world as a result of the incidents which required troops to be sent to little rock during the eisenhower administration to escort little negro children to school. when the schools there were being desegregated. was hostess to an integrated meeting of white and negro leaders at the govers mansion. to brief women on the federally assisted "operation headstart." which is designed to help preschool children who expect to enter school next fall. this is the new south. the south of decency. understanding. and progress. it is especially dramatic when such action comes from a source such as this one. for the reasons that i have described
. increasing concern is being expressed throughout the nation with respect to the emphasis on research in our colleges and universities at the expense of classroom instruction. for example. according to an american association of university professors survey. the average american professor devotes from 6 to 9 hours a week to teaching. his classroom load was 12 hours weekly a decade ago. also. less time is being devoted to counseling students on curriculum. as colleges grow larger and become more impersonal. such counseling merits greater stress.  less. this becomes even more important as we seek. through legislation. and through private efforts. to bring the benefits of higher education to the disadvantaged and to miity groups who heretofore have  been able to enjoy the full benefits of such training. more and more. colleges and universities are endeavoring to lend greater prestige to teaching. my own alma mater. new york university. for instance. has an annual great teacher program. laying stress on teaching in american colleges. the new york university alumni news of april features an article by dr. floyd zulli. jr.. professor of romance languages at nyu. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record:
. yesterday marked the anniversary of a significant event in the history of our nation. and in the struggle to insure equal opportunity to all americans. it was the 11th anniversary of the landmark decision in the case of brown against board of education. an opinion which opened the school doors of the nation to negro children. abolished the doctrine of "separate but equal." and initiated a constitutional social revolution in this land. we have come a long way during those 11 years. the law has been tested and upheld from little rock to oxford. miss.. and while complete integration has  yet been achieved. considerable progress has been made. the passage. last year. of civil rights legislation designed to speed up integration by conditional federal aid to education on compliance with the law has proved effective. fortysix states have filed plans in compliance with title vi of the civil rights act of 1964 andin spite of gover wallaces wort outbursts in defiance of the lawsome progress in the process is being made throughout the south. while today only 3 percent of the negro children in the deep south are in classrooms with whites. enforcement of title vi should result in a marked increase in the next few years. in new york. we have never had segregated schools. but last year. the board of education took steps to rezone certain schools and to pair others in an effort to achieve more complete racial representation in them. i ask unanimous consent that a table showing the old and new racial composition of these schools be printed at this point in the record. and point out that this plan is  being studied with a view toward implementing it on a broader scale throughout the city. i also ask unanimous consent that an article from the new york times describing plans of the naacp legal defense fund be printed in the record. the fund. together with other civil rights advocates ackledges that there is much to be done if full equality of educational opportunity for all american children is to be achieved. and chose this 11th anniversary to annce their plans to accelerate school desegregation. the fund. which played such an important role in the brown decision is to be commended for their steadfast. brilliant. and patient efforts in this area throughout the years. i join them in the hope that on the later anniversaries of the brown decision we will celebrate greater progress and indeed elimination of segregation on the basis of race or color among children in education throughout the land.
. i submit an amendment. intended to be proposed by me. to the bill to strengthen the educational resources of our colleges and universities and to provide financial assistance for students on postsecondary and higher education. this amendment. if adopted. will expand the national defense education act. providing grants and stipends to encourage the training of students and teachers for work in international affairs. the amendment would add less than $3.5 million to the appropriation request for the national defense education act in fiscal year 1966. and would amend the national defense education act toprovide grants to colleges and universities to aid in the establishment and operation of international affairs programs to train individuals for overseas business or government work. for work in the united states in international affairs. or for teaching or research work in international affairs. provide stipends for students undertaking advanced training in order to teach international affairs in colleges. and provide grants to colleges to help in the establishment of shortterm or. regular session institutes on international affairs for high school teachers. with stipends for those participating in the program. this legislation is required to meet the growing national need for expertise in international affairs. the bill grew out of a library of congress survey of 32 u.s. universities and colleges. conducted several years ago at my request. which emphasized the need for expanding and improving programs in international affairs studies on high priority. a greater number of students. teachers. businessmen. professional people. and government officials must be better prepared to deal with the growing challenges and opportunities in the international field. the increasing responsibilities inherent in u.s. free world leadership require additional efforts to improve the quality and expand the scope of international affairs studies.
. i submit. for appropriate reference. an amendment to the higher education act . this amendment is a substitute for the administrations proposal for insurance of reducedinterest loans to college students and would give federal assistance on an evenmatching basis to state and private. profit student loan guarantee funds. would pay up to 2 percent of the interest on guaranteed student loans. would provide a onetime grant of up to $25.000 to individual states to establish a state loan guarantee program if the state does  already have one. and would provide loan forgiveness of up to 50 percent for low and moderateincome students who maintain scholarship in the upper half of their classes. the administration program. in contrast. establishes the federal government itself as the guarantor of student loans in competition with state and private. profit guarantee programs. has loan forgiveness feature and gives encouragement to states to establish their own student loanguarantee programs. both the administration and my proposals feature payment of up to 2 percent of the interest rate on guaranteed student loans. there are other differences between the two proposals. principal among them are the 6percent interest ceiling on student loans set by my amendmentunder the administration bill. the commissioner of education establishes an interest ceiling administrativelya requirement that repayments begin sooner than 6 months after the borrowers studies have been completedthe administartion provides 1 yearand a stipulation that student loans may be guaranteed for  less than 90 percent of their full amountthe administration requires a 100percent guarantee. my amendment authorizes $15 million for the first year. $20 million for the second year. and $25 million for each of the 3 consecutive years. the continuing 5percent annual rise in college costs and heavier enrollments are placing greater financial burdens on students and their families and account for the growing reliance upon lowcost loans to pay for a higher education. my amendment will more effectively meet this need than the administration proposal because it strengthens individual state and private. profit loan guarantee plans across the nation and encourages the establishment of new ones rather than setting up a federal loanguarantee system which would displace these efforts. nineteen states could today be aided by the provision in my amendment for subventions to state programs. they are colorado. connecticut. hawaii. illis. louisiana. maine. maryland. massachusetts. michigan. new hampshire. new jersey. new york. ohio. pennsylvania. rhode island. tennessee. vermont. virginia. and wyoming. other states would benefit as they qualify. state plans have already guaranteed more than $100 million in student loans this school year. further growth is anticipated. a word needs also be said of the private. profit loan guarantee programs. the principal one among these is the united student aid fund which operates in all the states except alaska. it receives its funds from private philanthropy and from the colleges attended by the students who are benefited. thus. in aiding such a profit private fund. federal dollars are in even partnership with donations from individual citizens and with the nations colleges. attesting to the popularity of this approach is the fact that while the united student aid fund guaranteed its first loan as recently as february 1. 1961. by february 1. of this year. it had endorsed 68.379 loans totaling almost $40 million with the participation of 5.522 banks and 685 colleges. loans are  being guaranteed at a rate of $30 million annually and the rate is growing. all this is done with a staff of less than 20. could the federal government match this. the fact that the appropriate house subcommittee has rejected the administrations loan guarantee proposal gives me great hope for the enactment of my plan. it merits success. one final word. my amendment does  affect the national defense education act student loan program established during the eisenhower years which is expanded and extended by s. 600. the administrations higher education bill. i will. however. at an appropriate time later propose amendments to strengthen the national defense education act loan procedures which have come under criticism. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in the record an exchange of correspondence with the chairman of the joint ecoic committee. in which i and representative curtis. as ranking miity members of the committee. called for a public hearing by the joint ecoic committee. to explore the fundamental issues raised by chairman martin. of the federal reserve. in his june 1 speech before the alumni federation of columbia university concerning u.s. ecoic policy under present ecoic conditions. this request has been refused for the moment by the chairman. representative patman. however. we shall press the request further. i believe that the senate should be informed as to what has occurred.
. i submit. as an amendment to the higher education act. s. 600. a substitute to the administrations proposal for college scholarships for students from lowincome families. my amendment wouldfirst. make available to college students from lowincome families $200 in addition to the maximum of $800 provided under the administration bill. if these students placed in the upper half of their classes academically. second. provide that 15 percent of the scholarship funds allocated to each state could go to that states college scholarship program with the federal government matching on a 5050 basis state scholarship funds spent in excess of the present effort. and third. eliminate the 21year age limit in cases concerning cold war veterans and peace corps returnees. most of those concerned have passed their 22d birthday. this amendment is designed to generate scholarship activity in the 44 states having their own scholarship programs. thus creating more student aid at less cost to the federal government. to give added incentive to lowincome students by recognizing scholarship in a practical way. and to remove the administrations age bar which penalizes cold war gis and peace corps returnees. my amendment provides a 5year program with an authorization of $60 million for the first year. $90 million for the second year and $110 million for each of the succeeding 3 years. the administration bill also calls for a 5year program but with an authorization of $70 million the first year and an open authorization for each of the succeeding 4 years. the amendment contains several features  found in the administration bill: one would make available an additional $200 for students placing in the upper half of their classes. thus making it possible for students from lowincome families to receive a total of $1.000 in scholastic opportunity grants as compared to the maximum of $800 allowed under the administration bill. aher would allow a maximum of 15 percent of the allocation of scholarship aid to colleges and universities within a state to go directly to that states own scholarship fund. the funds thus provided would match. on a 5050 basis. funds spent by the state over and above its present scholarship effort. this feature is designed to encourage the states to expand their own programs. benefiting a greater number of students at a lower cost to the federal government. while the administration bill requires colleges receiving grants for lowincome students to have governmentfinance loan and workstudy programs under the overall war on poverty. the javits amendment would permit otherwise eligible schools with private or profit programs to participate as well. excepting a few additional mi differences. the javits and the administration proposals are similar. both. for example. provide $100.000 for contracts with state and local education agencies and other public and profit institutions to encourage full use of educational talents. both assume that the individual student will work or borrow funds to fill out his education budget. and both use the number of youths under 18 from families with less than $3.000 annual income in allocating funds among the states. the subcommittee on education will shortly go into executive session to consider the higher education bill. the fact that amendments will be consideredin contrast to the situation which obtained for the elementary and secondary school billbodes well for the congress enacting legislation which will best meet the nations education crisis. a crisis manifested by increasing costs. overcrowded colleges and more limited opportunities for those from low- and moderateincome families. in my judgment. that is a proper alternative from the miity for the main aspect of the administrations higher education bill. i hope that it will have the earnest consideration of the committee which is considering the subject.
. i introduce an amendment to part d of title iv of the higher education act . presently pending before the senate education subcommittee. this amendment is designed to deal with the concerns that have been expressed with respect to the high delinquency rate in repayment of national defense education act loans and the costs to the colleges in administering these loans. the amendment is largely drawn from suggestions advanced during the recently concluded hearings and from those institutions which have had actual experience with ndea loans. briefly the amendment provides the following: first. combining to contract for collection by colleges is enhanced and encouraged by permitting the student loan fund to be used for collection costs where approved by the commissioner of education. second. student loan repayments begin 6 months rather than 1 year after the student leaves school. third. loan repayments must be made bimonthly rather than annually as  stipulated. fourth. payments of student loans must be at the rate of at least $15 monthly. fifth. penalties for delinquency are provided of  to exceed onehalf of 1 percent of any monthly overdue installment but  exceeding $1 for the first month of delinquency and $2 for each month thereafter. these changes in the law would help bring national defense education act practices in line with proven loan and collection procedures. they do  impose onerous burdens on borrowing students whose resources are necessarily limited.
i thank the senator. the provision with respect to children wishing to continue in school has been a subject on which i have worked for a very long time. i have previously offered amendments on the subject which were turned down. i k that the senator from louisiana has very much favored my proposal. and i am extremely pleased to see the provision in the bill.
. i have received from the committee for critical support. at cornell university. a statement of the committees philosophy and a statement of support for u.s. policy in vietnam. signed by 610 cornell university students. alumni. day visitors. and professors. together with a reference list and an extensive bibliography on vietnam. published by the committee. the members of the committee are to be commended for their efforts to contribute to a wider understanding of the struggle for freedom in this area of the world. it should serve to put in better focus the academic and college campus position on this critical issue. namely. that in the universities there is also a decided body of opinion backing our policy in vietnam. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the statement of the committees philosophy and the statement of support.
in the conclusion of the cab letter there is a statement as to the new york airways operation. and the subsidy program to the effect. on the basis of the current scope of operations and paragraph l(b) of order e22359. subsidy would have to be or could be paid to new york airways. i hope very much that this matter will work out for new york. it may. indeed. be some indication of how the situation will be worked out for other communities. i hope very much. too. that some of our communities will take heart from this fine effort. and that congress will consider that the program funds for helicopter subsidies were well spent. let me say that i can fail to hear about the operations in south vietnam. which so heavily involve the safety of our personnel in helicopters. without being thankful that with the strong right arms of the senator from oklahoma . the senator from colorado. [mr. allotti. the senator from washington . and other senators. we were able for such a relatively long period of time to keep the services operating. in order to learn everything that could be learned about helicopters in the course of operation. i believe that new york is certainly evidencing its good faith in this regard by endeavoring to find some way to keep these services going without a subsidy.
i would be the last person in the world to debate with my beloved colleague from maine. who has such a distinguished record in this field. and one ks it better than i. however. i should like to add one fact which i believe is pertinent. that is the kind of appropriation which deals with school districts which wished to desegregate. hence. i respectfully submit that that is what we wish to encourage rather than to discourage. i would dislike to see such school districts denied modest resources when they are seeking help in doing the thing which congress wishes them to do without litigation. for that reason i hope very much that the senate will approve the amendment. 
. i would like first to identify myself with senators who are in opposition to the amendment. i point out that the amendment was adopted in committee based on our great respect for the senator from th carolina . it was also expressed that we would all have an opportunity to look into the question. and the senator would understand if these issues were raised on the floor. king him as i do. i am sure he would be the first to encourage full and free debate on the issue. that is what i would like. too. i state this by way of addition to the statement of the senator from michigan . it has been pointed out that organized baseball has an effective and worthwhile college scholarship program. in which some 400 major league prospects are guaranteed $1.000 a semester in all. for eight semesters. to pursue a college education. it is felt by those in organized baseball. who have expressed their views that the organized baseball scholarship program would be inhibited as a result of the amendment. that is an additional fact which i think should properly appear in the consideration of the amendment.
it is felt by those who award the scholarships. namely. organized baseball. that the standard which is spoken of as matriculation. involving one who has matriculated under a 4year college degree. would operate in such a way as to inhibit the present practice with respect to awarding scholarships. it is felt that the amendment would have the effect of deferring young athletic prospects from matriculating in college.
i shall  reiterate anything said by my colleague. the senator from oregon. but i wish to make certain points briefly that i consider significant in this connection. it has been properly said that this is probably the leading proposal in education and will stand beside the morrill act and the national defense education act as the principal pillar supporting the structure of college and university training in the united states. i believe it is fair to say that congress. by passing the bill today. will be legislating for today and tomorrow. happy indeed are the legislators who can pass a measure which looks forward to tomorrow or takes care of the needs as adequately and effectively as i find this measure does. second. this is a measure in which the highest degree of partisanship within bipartisanship was exercised. the rivalry between republicans and democrats on the committee was to find which could contribute the most constructive means to achieve the goals we seek. hence. it is a legislative achievement of the first rank. as has already been said. the bill had the unanimous support of the miity members of the committee. this is consistent with the historic sponsorship and support in the congress of education legislation on a bipartisan basis. we confront a critical problem. college costs are rising 5 percent annually. 5.2 million students are  enrolled in higher education. by 1970 there will be 7 million. and by 1973 there will be 8 million. more colleges are coming into being every year. we  have about 2.300 colleges. but about 10 percent of the baccalaureategranting institutions are  accredited. indicating the critical need for title iii of this bill which seeks to develop colleges which have  reached an adequate stage of attainment in terms of the education they can offer young people. the bill recognizes the population explosion in the united states. it also recognizes the kledge explosion which has made college libraries inadequate. which requires more trained teachers. which requires teachers with advanced degrees to a greater degree than ever. which requires special help to developing institutions. which requires more complex and advanced laboratory equipment. new concepts of teaching. and continuing college level education for those who have completed their schooling and have embarked upon life careers: all ofkthis is covered by the bill. thenand this point elways arises in matters of this character. and i say it advisedly. considering its objectivesthe bill is  costly. on the contrary. failure to enact the bill will be far more costly to the people of the united states and especially to the future of the united states. the bill is distinguished. in my judgment. by its loan features. in which it has made a very impressive breakthrough. we k that a college graduate earns upward of $100.000 more during his lifetime than the individual who lacks this training. this is shown by many surveys. those with advanced degrees earn still more. a recent survey by the college placement council. for example. shows that the monthly starting pay for the holder of a bachelors degree in chemistry is $593. with a masters degree his monthly salary is $703. and with a doctors degree his monthly starting salary would be $998. we are doing something to contribute greatly to4he ecoic strength as well as to the scientific vitality of the country. i said a moment ago that one of the most outstanding aspects of the whole measure is in the loan title. in the bill we are authoring a new program which. in my judgment. is the most imaginative kind of program since the national defense education act provisions. under part b of title iv. an insured interest loan program is provided. under which the student may borrow from banks and other federal loan funds up to $1.000 annually to finance his studies. this introduces private enterprise into the effort in a most effective way. and utilizes all of its resources. at the same time it gives that degree of government assistance which makes feasible the entry of private enterprise into the bill. as i have said. under the bill the student could borrow from banks and other federal loan funds up to $1.000 annually to finance his study. the loan is to be guaranteed by state or private profit loan guarantee funds. or by the federal government when private funds are  available. the student is  obliged to commence repayment until 9 months after he has -completed his studies. in that respect it is like the .national defense education act loan program. in addition. provision is made for federal payment of the interest on his loan during his college years and a subvention of up to 3 percent annually thereafter. so that the effective interest the student pays on his loan is  greater than what he would pay under a national defense education act loan direct from the university or college. by doing this. we release hundreds of millions of dollars in credit. which will service the needs for loans of hundreds of thousands of students. this is quite remarkable. in view of the relatively small amount of appropriations required for this purpose. we authorize only $17.500.000 in appropriations through fiscal 1968 to assist in establishing or strengthening the state and private profit student loan programs. let us understand that. as is true of fhaand fha has. indeed. operated at a profitwe have every right to look to this guaranteed loan plan to cost us very little. ninteen states already have active student loan insurance programs and three more have plans which will be operative shortly. i am proud to say that includes the state of new york. which i and the present occupant of the chair represent. the united student aid fund. the nations largest profit student loan guaranty organization. is operating in cooperation with 685 colleges and 5.522 banks in 49 statesin all but one state. it is guaranteeing loans at the rate of $30 million annually. and the rate is growing every year as more and more young people seek to advance themselves through a college education. in short. this is an extraordinarily gifted program. requiring relatively little in order to carry it through. and it will have emous repercussions on the opportunity afforded to our youth of the country who are entitled to a college education to attain it. the authorization for advances to states and profit private funds and the authorization to insure up to $700 million annually for fiscal year 1966 and more thereafter is sufficient to cover all projected needs. even if students seek to borrow the full amount authorized. which is unlikely. experience has shown that young people do  tend to overborrow for their education. indeed. the experience of the united student aid fund. the largest private profit loan program in the nation. reveals a delinquency rate of only about 1 percent. incidentally. that is one of the big commendations for the private enterprise program. because the national defense education act experience shows a delinquency of up to 16 percent. with private enterprise administering the loan program. it is much more likely to be lower in cost than when the federal government administers it. i am sure that will be the actuarial record which we shall see as a result of this historymaking program of guaranteed private loans for college education. aher point which i believe to be worthy of e is the scholarship portion of the bill. let us  be deceived by the word "scholarship." this is a scholarship for needy students. the scholarships would range from $200 to $800 a year. with a special provisio which i am proud to be the author. incidentallyadding $200 to that scholarship. making a maximum of a thousand dollars. to students from lowincome families. who place in the upper half of their classes. this is the first time that we have recognized scholastic excellence while the student is going to college. in connection with scholarships we have generally recognized the students preceding record. here is a provision by which we give a bonus to the student who maintains a high level of scholarship while he is attending college. senator morse has spoken of the amendment. of which i am proud to have been the author. providing for 15 percent of the allocation of scholarship aid to colleges and universities within a state to go directly to the states own scholarship fund on an evenmatching basis. to be used for needy but meritorious students. this offers a kind of "carrot" to the state to increase its scholarship fund for needy students. there are many other amendments which are worthy of e. i shall mention only a few. i am proud that the miity has been responsible for so many. they are all detailed in the additional views. carried in the committee report. i hope they will have the attention of every senator. i should like to point to a provision sponsored by the senator from new jersey . as well as by the senator from texas . mak-. ing more flexible the use of funds for construction grants to public community colleges and public technical institutes under the higher education facilities act. this has helped in materially im-" proving the amounts which will effectively be madeavailable for this kind of help. i should also like to take special e of the provision. in title ii to. help improve library services. there -are great deficiencies in the library services. even in such big and relatively wealthy states as my own state of new york. there are many institutions with inadequate libraries in the 134 4year institutions with libraries in the state of new york. withstanding. despite the great munificence of alumni. it is almost impossible to obtain from private sources necessary contributions to support the libraries. the great incentive which will be given by the aid contained in this bill will be of extraordinary help in that regard. and is- one of the most commendable aspects of this very commendable measure. the senator from vermont is in the chamber. and i should like to say a word especially about him. as he is the ranking miity member on the education subcommittee and led the miity side on the key work of the subcommittee in this field. a little research demonstrates that senator prouty represents the same state that was represented by senator justin s. morrill. of vermont. the author of the pioneering morrill act of 1862. which allotted substantial land grants to the states for the establishment of agricultural and mechanical colleges. it is therefore entirely in this great tradition that senator prouty was responsible for so many constructive amendments to the bill. among them extending national defense education act loan forgiveness to teachers in poverty impacted areas. broadening the higher education facilities act to include arts and humanities. broadening the title v fellowship program to include public school teachers. adding industrial arts to title ex of tie national defense education act. and adding ecoics to titles iii and ix of the national defense education act. to name a few. those are some of the emovs contributions the senator from vert has made. _i. i should like also to e the extraordinarily fine contribution made by the senator from colorado . a new senator. who has already proved his great worth. especially in the area of library services. in which he rendered extraordinary service in his amendment postponing the cutoff of the national defense education act institutes for school libraries. for example. and in many other respects improved the bill. finally. 
. i call up my amendment  429. the purpose of this amendment is to bring the interest rate on loans for academic facilities under title iii of the higher education facilities actpublic law 88204in line with that which  obtains under the parallel program of college housing loans. as you k. in the housing act of 1965public law 89117we reduced the rate on college housing loans from 37/8 to 3 percent. it is even more important that the rate on loans for classrooms. libraries. and laboratories be similarly reduced. academic facilities are  selfliquidating as are dormitories and dining halls for which board and room charges are made. to liquidate a classroom loan the repayment must come from operating funds. tuition increases. or special fees. and thus. ultimately from the students themselves. this makes it mandatory that the interest rate be as low as possible. the first 7 months of operation under title iii of the academic facilities program. during which loans in the amount of $107 million were made to 133 institutions. indicated that the great majority of the loans went to private institutions and that our public institutions found it of little value because of the relatively high interest rate. some states have passed enabling legislation to permit their state institutions to borrow under the program but have been hampered in developing ecoically feasible loans because of the interest rate. in some cases there are combined projects in which the lower floors are financed under the academic facilities program at 37/ percent and the upper flors for dormitory purposes are financed under the college housing program. at 3 percent. obviously. the same rate should apply to both parts of the facility. the difference between 3 and 37/ percent. small as it may appear to be. can easily make the difference between an ecoically feasible loan and one which can be a heavy burden on a hardpressed college or university. for example. on a loan of $800.000. which is the average size of a classroom loan. the annual repayments of principal and interest over a 30year period amount to $40.816 at 3 percent. whereas at 3/8 percent they amount to $45.568. you can well imagine that most of our colleges and universities have many places where they could use $4.752 annually. or $142.560 over the 30year period. rather than to expend it in interest payments. if the academic facilities loan program under title iii is to be of maximum usefulness which we intended it to be. and as the college housing program has been over the years. these loans should carry the same interest rate. the bill as it came from the house of representative s does  have a similar provision. thb only purpose of my amendment is to equalize the 3percent interest rate  provided for college housing loans. to wit. on dormitories. with the interest rate on college classrooms. i anything. the case is stronger for college classrooms than it is for dormitories. the amendment will  be locked into the bill. i just want to get it before the conference.
 eisenhower and to wish for itas i am sure will all americans--.a future of prosperity. success. and eminence in the field of higher education. in this connection. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an associated press news story of the groundbreaking which appeared in todays baltimore sun. and an explanation of the colleges purpose as contained in the booklet. "a college of special promise."
. the conference report on the higher education act of 1965 should be most gratifying for senate republicans who. in the historic tradition of republican support of higher education dating back to the morrill act and the national defense education act. supported the measure solidly when it passed the senate last month. the miity has a right to take understandable pride in the fact that the bill. as finally approved. includes some 24 major provisions sponsored by senate republicans in addition to many mi and technical amendments. included among these major senate provisions proposed by members of the republican miity are the following: additional national defense education act loan forgiveness for those who teach in povertyimpacted areas. recognition of outstanding students by making available an additional $200 scholarship per annum grant for those students ranking in the upper half of their class. postponement of the cutoff of the institutes for school librarians established by the national defense education act to permit a phaseout rather than a sudden disruption. broadening the scope of the higher education facilities act to include arts and humanities. reduction to 3 percent of the maximum interest rates for construction loans under title iii of the higher education facilities act. authorization for a college to transfer 25 percent of its scholarship fund to its national defense education act student loan fund. broadening of the title vi equipment grant provisions to include the arts and humanities. in addition to other areas of instruction. enhancement of the role of state and private. profit institutions in guaranteeing lowcost student loans. increase in the authorization for fiscal year 1966 of the higher education facilities act of 1963. broadening of the title v fellowship program to include public school teachers. several sections streamlining and reforming national defense education act loan procedures. making more flexible the use of funds for construction grants to public community colleges and public technical institutes under the higher education facilities act of 1963. addition of "industrial arts" of title xi of the national defense education act. authorization of payment in kind by colleges under the workstudy program. addition of "ecoics" to titles iii and xi of the national defense education act. addition of "civics" to title xi of the national defense education act. emphasis on high quality substantive courses in the title v teacher fellowship program rather than on the socalled educational method courses. broadening of title ii so that institutions with modest resources can obtain maximum library assistance without a matching requirement and requiring institutions with resources to match federal funds. training of college administrators for developing institutions. barring of title i extension course funds from use for sectarian instruction. religious worship. or divinity school courses. moderately decreasing federal matching contribution under title i to encourage greater college participation in accord with recommendations of landgrant colleges.
the senator from iowa is a thoughtful man. i believe one of the proudest things about the american citizen is his feeling for civil liberty. i have heard it expressed in colleges time and time again. and also here. i agree with the senator that the students will demonstrate overwhelming support for the basic policy of the nation. i might point out to the senator. as to the 10.000 or 12.000 that demonstrated in new york city. that when one considers the size of our population and the size of the student population. that is  a great number.
. the practice. and i think the senate ought to understand it. is that the bill passed by the house has come over here. the senator from texas. who has been certainly the great developer and protagonist of this idea.  asks the senate to concur in the house amendment. with amendments. the further amendments he has proposed. aside from technicalities. would allow the gi who did  complete his high school education to complete it under the bill. the bill also. of course. would allow him to complete his college education. the gi who is  getting out of the service needs that kind of assistance.
senator dominick. who is the ranking miity member on the subcommittee. should have all of the time. i would. however. like the senator from texas to understand that i tried to clear it for him with the miity members of the subcommittee. my understanding is that this bill came from the house with an amendment which the senator will explain. second. he is dealing with the matter of the inclusion of high school education. as the bill  only provides for college education. third. he gives the senate his assurance that this amendment. if sent back to the house. will be accepted in the house.
 as to the great need to help the needy children of the world. but i believe that we should spare hing in taking care of our own. i therefore join with the senator from wisconsin in his bill to make the school milk program permanent. and also to gradually increase funds available under the program over the next several years. also. i wish to add my active support to the bill of the senator from vermont [mr. a=kn] which would provide that milk and dairy products in the store of the commodity credit corporacxii- 212part 3 tion may be used in profit school lunch programs without regard to priorities set up in other laws. due to certain of these priorities. when the surpluses of the ccc have been low. the secretary of agriculture has in the past determined that stocks on hand should be sold domestically or exported before used for the school lunch program this nation can afford to play with the nutritional development of our children merely to balance the administrations budget. i feel certain. as i have said before. that my constituents would rather increase their taxes than restrict either the school milk or the school lunch program.
. i should like to make clear that althougl we are in a grave situation internationally. we are also a very powerful nation. i consider that what the senator from oregon is asking us to do. in which i join himis as essential to the national security as any appropriation for any war of defense in which we are engaged anywhere in the world. we are able to do it. the national planning association. the ced. and other objective organizations have made that clear. however the senator from oregon and i may differ. whether it be on vietnam or any other subject. one thing we are together. that is that in this field of education we can do what needs to be done and we dare  do otherwise. first and foremost. i join with my colleague and the other colleagues who have or will speak on the subject. second. i wish to say. as the ranking miity member on the committee. i shall do everything i can to see that we accomplish these objectives. as a senator from the largest taxpaying state in the nation. let me say that i shall lend my voice and my vote to footing the bill. last year. in enacting the elementary and secondary education act. the higher education act. and other legislation expanding educational opportunities. this congress rightfully earned the sobriquet of the "education congress." this year. unless we successfully repel the assaults on this carefully erected structure of education laws by the administrations budget and legislative proposals. that crown will become very much tarnished. and the nations children will be the losers. the administration. for example. is advocating extensive reductions in the amounts authorized in the higher education act of 1965cuts. for instance. of more than half in grants to states for community service and continuing educationtitle i. library assistancetitle ii. fellowships for teacherstitle v. and financial assistance for the improvement of undergraduate instructiontitle vi. in a shortsighted effort to shift the national defense education act student loan program to the newly authorized loan guarantee program. the administrationas i detailed in my remarks in this chamber on february 23has met the opposition of both college educators and the bankers. yet. opposed by the two major groups who would be responsible for the programs success. the administration persists in its proposals to shift from the colleges to the banks some $200 million in loans for needy college students.
i merely wish to join the senator in condemning these tests. i have been out to vietnam myself. and i have seen the tests in operation in my state. i think the theory that the educated.. young man should  run the same risks as the chap who. for ecoic reasons or otherwise. can go to school and must work at a gas station. for example. is completely outside the spirit of the selective service system. and does violence to the traditions of our country. i hope very much we will end it as promptly as possible. i like the idea of a commission. but i think. that the main thing the senator pointed out. and which i wish to annce my complete concurrence. is that we could junk this testing. which is inimical. in my judgment. to the morale of the young people and the tradition of our nation.
. i submit an amendment intended to be proposed by me. to h.r. 10721. the bill to amend the federal employees compensation act. the amendment would amend the section of h.r. 10721 defining an "educational institution" for purposes of benefits to surviving children between the ages of 18 and 22. similar benefits were provided by amendments to the social security act last year. which defined an "educational institution" as any school which meets certain specific criteria. h.r. 10721. on the other hand. provides discretion to the secretary to define the term "educational institution." the amendment i submit would incorporate the definition used in the social security act amendments last year. but would still permit the secretary to include other types of schools within the scope of the term "educational institution." i ask unanimous consent that the amendment be printed in the record.
there should longer be any doubt that reform of our draft laws is required. it is widely recognized that these laws discriminate against young men who are unable to afford or are unable to cope with a fulltime college education. and that they fail to make the best possible use of our national resources. the deficiences and inequities of the present system have been well and thoroughly explained by spokesmen for a group of 30 of my colleagues in the house. in six separate. but coordinated statements. republican members of the house cited examples of the discriminatory features of the draft. inefficient administration. and outmoded procedures which cause delays in processing. since this subject has been explored and studied and debated for years. i have chosen to introduce a joint resolution calling on the president to recommend. as soon as possible. legislation establishing the requirement of universal national service for all young men. it is  going to be easy to draft legislation to make this system work. there is a wide gulf between the concept of universal national service and the nuts and bolts of legislation that have to be designed to make it fair to the individuals concerned and fair to the nation as well. but it can be done. the president as commander in chief of the armed forces and as chief executive of the nation. has the resources and the manpower to draft such legislation in the shortest possible time. he also is in the best position to judge. after consultation with members of his cabinet. the manpower needs of the nation. two weeks ago. secretary mcnamara proposed establishment of some form of national service for our young people. and his statement was greeted with enthusiasm throughout the country. but the reaction from the administration was disappointing. to say the least. it is time the administration abandoned reliance on the crazy quilt of deferment regulations and fragmented administration under selective service and came to congress with a new system which would assure all young men of the opportunity and the privilege of serving the nation. privilege is the working word. and i am convinced that the vast majority of americans agree that it is a fundamental privilege and responsibility of a citizen to serve the national interest in a form best suited to the individuals capability. skills. and training. under the present system. the deferment preference for the college student over the gas station attendantwithout a definite criterion of national serviceis definitely discriminatory. there is widespread protest that the college student is preferred over the gas station attendant. this is  the american way. that is why secretary mcnamaras proposal for some form of national service for our young people was greeted with such enthusiasm in this country. it is for this reason that i oppose the use of class standings and deferment tests for college students. and why i am n favor of national service for all who can possibly qualify. under current procedure. married men and fathers are called after bachelors. within the latter category. we defer to the nationally hoed pursuit of higher education. for purposes of efficiency and discipline. the defense department places limits on physical and criminal record acceptability. i concur in the wisdom of all this policy as far as it goes. as one might expect. there areand i suppose always will besome who will marry. go to college. and even. i suppose. commit crimes primarily to evade the draft. we are  informed that some americans have gone to canada to escape their u.s. military obligation. but. if this priority system is unfair to those who are  married. or fathers. or who can afford to go to college. we certainly can repudiate marriage. parenthood. or education. we can only extend our concept of service to remove these inequities and hopefully achieve a more equitable distribution of the privilege of national service. this resolution would call for legislation that would allow the deferment of college and graduate students. without examination of class standing. the difference would be that these young men would k that such a deferment was really just a "deferment" and that they would have to serve their country in an approved manner once they graduated or completed work on a postgraduate degree. under the present system. these deferments many times become the means through which young men bypass their military obligation. especially if they are married while in school or immediately after leaving school. further. this resolution gives the president. after consultation with the national service board. the determination of what federal. state. or local agencies should be designated as being in the national service. i suggest that the following should be considered: the peace corps. vista. the domestic peace corps. the public health service. the agency for international development. spcialized and specifically designated community social welfare agencies. and certain designated areas of science and techogy. this. of course. would be in addition to traditional service in the armed forces. which must have priority when necessitated by manpower requirements. service in the military activities. of course. should be open to all those who are qualified. to make such a system work in the most equitable manner and for the greatest benefit to the nation. i have suggested the establishment of a national service board to replace the present selective service system. this new board would be equipped with automated data processing equipment to eliminate many of the administrative bottlenecks inherent in the selective service system. it would have direct access to all federal agencies to be in a position to gage national manpower needs. and would establish direct links with the states to determine their needs and the needs of their municipalities. finally. this resolution would set the stageby anncing the policy of congressfor the establishment of programs to help many young men   eligible for military or military national service because of mental or physical deficiencies. under the present system. more than 50 percent of all young men examined are unable to meet these requirements. in 1965. for example. 50.5 percent294.134--of the 581.716 young men examined were found unqualified for service. it is estimated. however. that a large percentage of these men would be able to qualify with a minimum of tutoring in certain subjects. or a minimum of medical care. the house last august approved such a program of rehabilitation to allow many more men to serve. but the appropriation was cut in this body. i voted for the nelson amendment to restore the cut. but the attempt was defeated 67 to 27. it is my hope that passage of a resolution such as the one introduced today would set the stage for reintroduction of similar legislation. i feel that the national service concept will be of great assistance in meeting the needs of the nation in its humanitarian programs at home and abroad. as well as meeting the need to maintain our military strength. i also feel that. if properly drafted. such legislation would eliminate many of the inequities in the present system. traditionally. the concept of compulsory service has been limited to the bearing of arms in defense of freedom. as a practical matter. all of us simply can serve in a military capacity  is it necessarily desirable that we do so. but. it has long been my conviction that almost every american has both the capacity and desire for meaningful national service. what is needed is to identify the national interest. show how it is to be served. and finally provide the opportunity for such service. it is my hope that a welldrafted program of universal national servicesuch as this resolution calls on the president to producewould accomplish this. that it would enable our young men to make better use of their talents for the benefit of their country in a more equitable way. and that the entire nation would be the beneficiary. i hope very much that we may have legislation considered on the action level rather than with a new commission. and that these principles incorporated in this senseofcongress resolution may form a request to the president to submit to us necessary legislation to implement the concept of national service for all young americans. i ask unanimous consent that the joint resolution be printed in the record.
 of the africa service institute and director of the urban league of new york. delivered an incisive commencement address at manhattan college in new york. the theme of his address was "the barriers that have separated man from man." he es that the barriers of time and distance have virtually disappeared. and that the barrier of colonialism is also rapidly vanishing as more and more nations emerge as independent states. he rightly called to our attention to a third barrier that  only stands but is growing higherthe separation of rich and poor states. i ask unanimous consent to have dr. meladys remarks inserted in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent to place in the record the commencement address of philip johnson at mount holyoke college in massachusetts. mr. johnson is one of this countrys leading architects and while his provocative statement talks of the growing environmental decay in our society. he has also set out some of the goals toward which we must work if ours is ever to rank with the great cultural societies of history.
in a gesture typical of his naturehas requested that all congratulatory expressions on their anniversary be given to this college which is so close to his and mamies hearts. rather than to themselves. those who wish to express their admiration and appreciation for all the general has done for them may send gifts directly to eisenhower college. i am doing so myself and i hope others will also. all gifts will be permanently recorded at the new college. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a press release of the "eisenhower golden wedding anniversary committee." led by bob hope and the hoable robert b. anderson. which explains the event.
. i still hopeand i think we are entitled to thisto learn from the administration what it wants. i think this business of telling us that they do  want any legislation. but telling us at the same time that this would be better than that. really leaves congress in a position in which it must deal with the presidency in this matter. with executive authority. it is a very difficult and trying position. to my mind. it is what is causing us most of this difficulty on the floor.
a completely unacceptable discount. they are  selling. if they were selling them. there would be some money. but they are  selling. and they should . the other reason for putting it up was this: mally. colleges might  wish to reach for money at the rate of almost 5 percent. but . with money so expensive and tight. they are today in the position where they have to. we might as well be frank about it: this will cause student payments in the dormitories to rise somewhat. this money is more expensive than the other money. but i would rather give the student a dormitory. so that he can attend. even though he has to pay a few dollars more. than deny him the opportunity of going to college at all because 2 years hence a dormitory is  available.
i would  consider mi estimate to be reliable except to point out from the information i have been abli to obtain. that a material number o college students stand the likelihood o being denied admittance to college be ginning in september 1967. because ther will be dormitory housing availabl for them. i think the experience of in dividual members indicates that this i the case on many college campuses. think it would be fair to say that thi would involve many thousands of stu dents as soon as the bulge starts. whic] will be in september 1967. because we ar moving up at the rate of about a half a million students a year.
on what page is that. - senator. s mr.tower. on page 279. i he was speaking for most of the major s organizations and institutions of.higher - learning. he said in part: 1 last years freshmen class was 17.7 percent e greater than the year before. and the freshaan class in the fall of 1964 17 percent eater than that of 1963. thus. we can project what it is going to )e this fall. what it is going to be next all. and the fall after that. this is a remendous growth rate in our college iopulation.
. i stoutly and strongly deny that these are onerous or illegal guidelines. the only way i can see in the bill of testing out that question is by challenging the cut. which. ostensibly from reading the report. was prompted by objections to the guidelines. therefore. although i am  excited about the $927.000 involved. either way. it is the only way i can test out this rather drastic statement in the appropriations committee report on this very serious subject. the guidelines do  represent any onerous. unlawful. contravening of the legislative intent of congress. for this reason: the committee quotes me in colloquy with the senator from west virginia in which the then senator humphrey also participated. senator humphrey is longer a senator and therefore  able to debate on the floor. that leaves just me. my answer to a question from the senator from west virginia is said to be the justification for this intention of congress which is contravened by the regulations. therefore. i rise to say that that is  my intention at all. that my intention is  contravened by the regulations. on the contrary. that the regulations. in my judgment. as well as that of the department. do carry out our intention. our intention was to bring about a situation wherein school districts which did . in good faith. seek to desegregate. would get federal help. it is just that simple. we have a right to adopt all reasonable regulations toward that end. the colloquy. contained verbatim in the committee report in which i am quoted. dealt with the matter of busing children. against their will. to enforce desegregation. i saidand i said quite properlythat we were  trying in the civil rights act of 1964 to force busing or to effect racial balance. i stand by that. the guidelines. however. are  affirmative in their character. they are  telling the people what they have got to do. they are negative. in that they prevent the granting of federal money to schools unless they make a good faith effort to desegregate in accordance with the law. here are the guidelines as to what we call a good faith effort and i think that is perfectly proper and perfectly legitimate. the department defended this strongly. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the memorandum of the department on that subject addressed to school superintendents and chief state school officers. dated april 9.
madam president. i thank the senator from oregon for making the correction. i wish to point out that the senator from kentucky has been a strong advocate of this type program. and as a member of this committee for a long time. has worked for years for programs to assist the states and local school districts in their efforts to improve the quality of education. therefore. of all the states this bill is designed to help. it should be clear that it will certainly be helpful to kentucky. madam president. i ask unanimous consent that a statement by the senator from kentucky in support of the bill may be printed at this point in the record.
permit me aher observation with respect to the nursing shortage. too often. we speak only in terms of recruiting women into the profession. however. there is a place for men and they can be attracted to the field. for example. while only 1 percent of all persons entering into nursing training programs are men. on a national basis. the rockland community college of suffern. n.y.. which conducts an associate degree program in nursing. boasts of 15 percent men students. i hope that more men will consider entering this important service. the opportunity grants for nursing education contained in my amendment. section 8. of the bill is patterned after the educational opportunity grant program contained in title iv. part a. of the higher education act of 1965 as is the provision designed to encourage recruitment of young people into the nursing profession. both of these provisions will be especially useful in helping young people from lowerincome and from miity groups. for example. although 11 percent of the population. negroes comprise less than 5 percent of the nursing profession. nursing offers an excellent opportunity for these young people to expand their horizons and to fill a national need. a final word. i am aware that my amendment. as approved by the committee. does  meet all needs. as originally introduced. it included an increase in funds for nursing school construction grants and teaching improvement grants. the scholarship provision. while having all the virtues of the educational opportunity grant program of the higher education act. also has its defects. but all in all. section 8 of h.r. 13196 is a significant and vital step forward in meeting a pressing national need. let us take that step .
first. . i should like to express to the senator from ohio our thanks for allowing us to proceed with this matter when he was entitled to the floor. i told him i would take only a minute. this i intend to do. it is true that without any regard to the merits we must drop the section providing for direct loans for u.s. medical school students studying abroad. i agree with that. however. the bill is a landmark. because. for the first time. it recognizes where our country stands with respect to the need of international affairs education so we can carry out our emous responsibilities as a firstrate power. the bill contains amendments which i had the ho to sponsor. first. it provides for what we may call a reverse fulbright program. so that we can. to a limited extent. help students in those underdeveloped countries where we do  have surplus local funds who wish to study here. including those whom their governments wish to aid to study in the united states. by use of their local currencies. which can then be exchanged. they can pay for their expenses over here. hence. it does  hurt us at all. and will help some thousands of foreign students as part of this socalled reverse fulbright program. second. there was an amendment adopted to title xi of the national defense education act to include in the bill provision for institutes for high school teachers on international affairs. so that our teachers. even at the high school level. may be able to get some concept of international relations and our role in the world. finally. there was included guaranteed loans for american students abroad from private sources following the pattern of the domestic program established under title iv of the higher education act. so it is an excellent bill. what we have had to drop is regrettable. but by means decisive. and i hope the senate will accept the house bill. as amended.
. i join with other senators this morning in paying tribute to the distinguished former senator from illis. paul douglas. on the occasion of his 75th birthday. during his outstanding career as a member of this body. he often provided guidance and leadership to those of us particularly interested in human rights. his role in molding and gathering support for civil rights legislation is well kn. during the years when fighting for that cause was a lonely struggle. paul douglas continued to work diligently. protesting every effort to sidetrack the bills and leading the move to change rule xxii. it is fitting that he played such an important role in the passage of the landmark laws which are  on our books. his scholarship and practical wisdom were demonstrated time and time again on the joint ecoic committee. on which i had the ho to serve with him. i was particularly pleased. therefore. when he recently accepted a teaching post at the new school in new york. i k other citizens of my state share my pride in having him as a parttime new yorker. to paraphrase his successor. senator charles percy. i hope each of us will be as fine and distinguished a senator as paul douglas.
. i should like to join the senator from west virginia in expressing appreciation to the clerk of the committee. mr. herman downey. i have  had a little experience with and appreciate the tremendous amount of expertise and tradition which he brings to the work of the subcommittee. and i wish to pay my tribute to him. as other senators have. in respect to his constructive activities. which facilitates so markedly the work of the subcommittee. before the senator from west virginia leaves the floor. i would like. if i may. to clarify one thing which i think should be clarified. with respect to the paragraph which appears at the bottom of page 11 of the report. dealing with the support of activities under the elementary secondary education act. for which the committee recommendation is $1.696.707.000. which is contained in this bill. and which. incidentally. is a material increase over the amount of the bill provided by the other body. it reads as follows: the committee recommends that funds herein provided for the office of education shall be used for bussing of public school students or for any other activities calculated to eliminate racial imbalance in the public schools. i wish to represent to the senate that the senator from west virginia felt extremely strongly about this matter. and that what was accomplished with respect to the appropriations for elementary and secondary education would. in my opinion. probably have been impossible if an effort had  been made. in the utmost good faith. to meet the very sincere convictions of the senator from west virginia. however. as we discussed the matter in the committee. his views upon this subject were very sharply confined to the matter of pressing this idea of eliminating racial imbalance as the prime reason for the busing. he did . as i understood his feeling. intend to reach busing which was incident to the development of such things as educational parks. which was indeed one of the matters very close to my heart. or did he intend to restrict dealing with the problems of overcrowding or obsolescent facilities. where an incident would involve the busing of children to aher place with the use of some part of this appropriation. his intention as i understand it was to zero in specifically on that particular type of busing which was calculated to bring about a correction of racial imbalance. i ask the senator whether that is his specific intent. because i think. in all deference to his sincere convictions which caused us to include this statement. we still wish to be precise about his meaning.
. i wish to point out that one of the grave defaults. i think. in meeting the responsibilities which are so pressingly urgent today. is the failure to deal more effectively with this problem of elementary and secondary education. we have increased the total appropriation over that of 1967 by some $250 million. but considering the need which we find in the ghettos and the slums. what we are doing is really completely inadequate for the purpose. and. indeed. we are appropriating but 50 percent of the authorization. the distinguished senator from oregon is the chairman of the education subcommittee. upon which i have the ho to serve as well. i am sure he will pay his respects to this situation. as indeed he should. and i wish to join him in so doing. i k of problem greater than *the educational problem in the slums and ghettos dealing as it does with children and youth. there has been much talk about 11month schools. about using school premises the year around. i can testify. as a former slum child myself. that this would be emously helpful. especially in these areas. i had a colleague in the house years ago. who came from pennsylvania. he always used to say. "where are we going to get the money." i disagree thoroughly with those who think that this problem takes brains. genius. great skill. and dedication. but money. it doestake money. and the money largely has got to come from the federal government in as sensitive and difficult a field as the educational field. i pay tribute to my dear friend. the senior senator from rhode island for the monumental job he did in the committee to get a little more money for the teachers corps. one of the most inventive ideas we have had in this educational field. enlisting the ideas and the enthusiasm of youths. i was able to lift the appropriations up one rung of the ladder. however. it was only because of the fine intuitive spirit of my good friend. the senior senator from rhode island. that the appropriations got lifted to where they are in the pending bill. the amount is only about half of the authorization. it is still very inadequate. but i pay tribute to the senator from rhode island for what he did.
. recently there took place at the new york university law school a meeting of leading businessmen and industrialists of the american hemisphere. sponsored by cicyp. the interamerican council of commerce and production. leading officials of the organization of american states. the interamerican development bank. and the interamerican committee for the alliance for progress were also present at this conference. which applied itself to the task of speeding latin american ecoic development through integration. with particular emphasis on financing by the private sectors of both th and south america. recognizing the importance of closer cooperation between the private sectors and the interamerican public agencies. the group agreed on the following steps: first. formation of a joint committee to study ways of improving latin capital markets. with a view to increasing the rate of capital formation to about 25 percent of the gross regional product. second. expanded and accelerated preparation of ecoic data on the private sectors activities in national and regional development efforts. third. establishment. by the public agencies and cicyp. of a working group to study the feasibility of a multinational private finance company to operate in agriculture. fourth. development of a mechanism for coordinating public and private contributions to ecoic and social programs. further. the oas has  formed a business advisory council to consult with the private sectors on oas activities. i ask unanimous consent that an editorial from the journal of commerce relating to this important meeting. be included in the record.
. there are some profound questions which arise from the bill. they may lead to my proposing amendments. i would  wish senators to believe that this is a nice. simple appropriation bill that we are going to pass quietly and let it go at that. i say that for the benefit of senators who may be thinking of doing other things today that i intend to take any idinate length of time. but i do feel that these issues have to be raised. first. i should like to raise what i consider to be the simpler of two issues. the provision of the bill which occurs on page 17. lines 10 and 11: appropriations in this act shall  be used for the assignment or transportation of students to public schools in the district of columbia in order to overcome racial imbalance. i invite the attention of the senator from west virginia. the manager of the bill. to the colloquy that occurred with respect to very much the same matter when the senate was considering the appropriation for the department of health. education. and welfare. it occurs at page 21001 of the record of august 2. 1967. at that time. i asked the senator from west virginia the meaning of roughly a similar clause in aher bill. and he made an explanation. i .merely desire to be certain that the legislative record is the same with respect to the pending bill. i quote from the senators statement: i do  object. of course. to the busing of students to relieve overcrowding in the public school system. i do object to deliberate. planned busing of public school students calculated to eliminate racial imbalance in public schools. would the senator from west virginia object to including that whole colloquy in the debate on the pending bill. so that the senate may clearly understand that the fundamental point made is. as the senator from west virginia himself puts it. "deliberate. planned busing of public school students calculated to eliminate racial imbalance in public schools." and therefore would  apply to busing designed to eliminate overcrowding. which i understand is the problem in the district of columbia schools. or perhaps to deal with other problems of school administration which are  "deliberate. planned busing of public school students calculated to eliminate racial imbalance in public schools".
i hope the senator will forgive me for again making the request. he and i came pretty well togetherand i think it is very much in accord with the policy which he has in mindon this categorism. which i quote: i do object to deliberate. planned busing of public school students calculated to eliminate racial imbalance in public schools. may we adopt thatbecause it seems to be a very clear statement of policyas the policy to be attached to the meaning of the words as they apply in this act.
may i read it again. so we can agree upon what will be the language with reference to the bill:. i do object to deliberate. planned busing of public school students calculated to overcome racial imbalance in public schools. i substituted the word "overcome" for the word "eliminate."
 i am a cosponsor of the mansfield resolution. i have participated a great deal in the vietnam debate. i thought it was proper for me  to speak too much today because this is senator mansfields day in a very real way. however. i can help but say to the senator. while he is  a sponsor of the resolution and i am. that i became a sponsor for precisely the same reason that he did . that reason is that i. too. feel we have to take our chances. but we must be heard. perhaps we will learn something as a nation. i do  think that the popular idea is true that if the united states is defeated in the security council or the general assembly we are going to get sore and pull out of the united nations. we think the case is just. and to the extent negotiations should be had. that is why i joined with the senator from montana . i thank the senator for making the splendid point that he made. i am most grateful to the senator for permitting me the opportunity to inject this thought.
i shall tell the senator. but first i wanted to be specific. the other question i wish to ask is this: does the proposal refer to voluntary transportation of students who seek to move from school to school. or only to involuntary movement.
 i do  get any particular joy out of this. but under the senators analogy. the money the senator from illis is talking about could be used to transport 2 percent to aher school. if that 2 percent sought transportation out of a 98percent negro school. then they would  be seeking to try to overcome racial imbalance. because the school would be more racially imbalanced than it was before. and a tautological school administrator could use this money for that purpose. we want to understand this clearly. because i think we all understand what we are doing. the important thing is that this is a prohibition against people who want to be bused as well as against people who do  want to. we are preventing them from being bused even if they do  want to. and we are also preventing them if they want to. this is the essence of my argument. i will make my other arguments later.
 of the physicians for automotive safety has said that in the area of school transportation.  a single state is doing all that safety authorities believe must be done to protect human life on the highway. he also observed that kn safety measures that can be taken to safeguard young people in school vehicles are largely being iged at the local level. the american academy of pediatrics also is concerned and has called for strict standards of safety on school buses. i ask that an article from the july 2 new york times detailing the academys concern be included at this point in my remarks.
i am very grateful to my good friend from oregon. i did  want to be praising it too much. of course. but i am pleased that my colleague has said what he has. to go on . it is understood that in all the compromises we made. great care was taken to protect the handicapped children. in every case. their rights were carved out with a very high sense of priority so that i think anyone interested in the blind. the deaf. and other handicapped children will find that those ideas of priority were well preserved. also. we have undertaken a couple of interesting studies. one would give attention to the safety of the operation of school buses. we do this without in any way interfering with the jurisdiction of the commerce committee or the department of transportation. we must remember that 17 million children are transported in more than 200.000 school buses each and every day. this study should prove very useful and it has the endorsement of education authorities. the work we have done on the adult education program i believe is creditable. i wish to speak on the bilingual education program which was. generally speaking. authored by the senator from texas and cosponsored by my colleague from new york . and by myself. as well as other senators who had a deep interest in spanishspeaking and other bilingual children. it was quite a struggle. the house resisted it. but. they finally accepted the provision. i am very glad to be able to say that such a creative program which has been carved out of the federal aid to education will have a marked impact in terms of englishspeaking children who have the least opportunity because of their origin and their home circumstances. my colleague spoke of the measure which the senator from th carolina and the senator from kentucky sponsored. giving the right to test in the courts the constitutionality of aid to public school children. i must assure my colleagues that we bled and died for that one. as i said this morning. we were within a hairs breadth of breaking up the conference on that. if it had  been for the spirit of sacrifice on the part of the senator from oregon . there were many points of view on the other side. in fairness to my colleagues. let me say that their objections were jurisdictional more than substantial. they felt they would have all kinds of trouble if they defied the jurisdiction of the house judiciary committee by dealing with matters of which the judiciary committee is seized. by virtue of the fact that we passed such a bill. s. 3. which has gone over to the other body. so that again. most reluctantly. on motion of the senator from oregon . and after much soul searching. we receded. i repeat. the senator from oregon is the greatest maverick in this chamber. but any time he handles a bill he is the greatest cooperator. the greatest catalyst. the greatest healer of hurt feelings. the greater "putter together" of anyone i k. i want to pay him the highest tribute. when he takes over a job and accepts the responsibility . i ask unanimous consent that. at the appropriate place in the record. a statement by senator prouty may be made a part of the record.
s message on education. as i see it. is long and eloquent. but short on program. for example. he has  budgeted $33 million of the $300 million congress appropriated in 1967 for the construction of undergraduate facilities. a cut of almost 90 percent.
 of the american institute of chemical engineers. made a very provocative address at the recent annual meeting of the institute concerning the shortage of engineering and technical college graduates in the united states. much is heard about the brain drain of scientific and technical personnel from the countries of western europe to the united states. as mr. burtis points out. the influx of foreign scientific and technical personnel falls far short of meeting the requirements of american industry for trained personnel. the total number of immigrants plus the total number of graduates from our engineering and technical institutes does  come close to fulfilling the approximately 75.000 job openings which are created each year. this is a serious problem which must be met if this nation is to retain its present rate of ecoic growth and i therefore commend mr. burtis address to the attention of senators. i ask unanimous consent that the text of mr. burtis address be printed in the record.
. former senator harry p. cain has taken an active role in the rejuvenation and relocation of florida memorial college. a predominantly negro institution in dade county. fla. formerly located in st. augustine. the college recently was moved to miami. and with its program of expansion will eventually accommodate 2.000 students. this expansion has been greatly contributed to by former senator cains devoted attention. more than $8 million has been raised in pledges and cash. some of it at a testimonial dinner in ho of senator cain which was held in miami on december 11. i invite attention to the extraordinary testimonial dinner at which the gover of maryland. hon. spiro t. agnew. was the guest speaker. i might say. in a personal reference. that a testimonial dinner was given for me that same night. december 11. and when the gover of maryland put the question to me. i urged him to keep the florida memorial college engagement. his remarks are so illuminating on the question of our countrys situation with respect to higher education. the work of the state of maryland. and what needs to be done about this critically important question that i ask unanimous consent that his address on that occasion be printed in the record.
s bill which was in s. 2700. and it is something which i shall pursue again this year. this has to do with the provision for assisting in the construction of college housing. which i authored in the senate. through an interest subsidy for private bonds. i very much hope that the senate committee will retain this important feature of s. 2700. while we  have a full bag of creative legislative proposals before us. i wish to emphasize the need for adequately funding these and our existing urban programs. in the long run it is money.  good ideas on paper. that gets things done. and we must pursue efforts for funding throughout this second session and through the summer months when the congress will be anxious to adjourn and will want to compromise the matter.
. i shall be with the senator from connecticut with respect to his amendment. for the reasons stated by the senator from michigan. i should like to ask the senator from connecticut two questions. first. is it a fact that the words of the amendment would exclude from its operationso that those bonds would be subject -to the -tax exemption privilegesbonds issued by a state dormitory authority for dormitories on college campuses.
. in 2 weeks there will begin the "teachersinpolitics weekend" sponsored by the national education association and its constituent state associations. the purpose of this effort is to encourage full participation by teachers in government and public affairs. as was pointed out by : teacher participation in the countrys political affairs is an important project in the creation of a more responsible citizenry and a better government. that teachers should be active participants on the political scene is underlined by the presence on this side of the senate aisle of a number of our distinguished colleagues who were once members of the teaching fraternity. namely. the senator from south dakota . the senator from oregon . the senator from texas . and the senator from south carolina . the commemoration of "teachersinpolitics weekend" emphasizes the theme that teachers should  only teach the elements of good government but should also practice them by their participation in public life.
. i move that the conferees be instructed to insist upon the senate amendment adding $90.950 million for school assistance to federally impacted areas under public law 874. and $75 million for summer job programs. and $25 million for the headstart program.
i merely wish to say briefly. . that it is such a creative program because it does operate with practically impact on the budget. we struggled. if the senator will recall. with an amendment of mine to increase the amount of college housing. and found it extremely trying because of the budgetary impact. and i was almost forced to this alternative as a means of escaping the budgetary impact. i express my appreciation to the senator from alabama and to the committee for having  embraced it and included it in the bill.
. the point of my speaking  is that as this matter goes into conference again these facts should be borne in mind. i would say to the conferees i hope that in the very least some result can be accomplished. and i feel it my duty to oppose any conference report that does  accomplish that. the least that should be accomplished is that some result should be obtained from these two items or. at the least. the house should vote on it. members of the house of representatives should be required to record themselves on these two items. as they took care of themselves -and i use that expression advisedlyto the tune of $90 million for impacted area aid. doing better than they did in 1967 withstanding the big ecoy wave. in every major city in the country. including new york. there have been material cutdowns in summer employment. they have come about through the length of time the young people are to be employed. they have come about through reduction in the payment per hour. it just happened in the city of new york. the most we were trying to accomplish by the $75 million was at least to bring ourselves abreast of the same program we had in 1967. with such additions as time allows us. in some respects. we have been frustrated in this. the least we can doand we saw the success of it last yearis to give the municipalities a chance to give their young people some employment. incidentally. this involves in every case a material contribution by the municipality itself. the purpose of my speaking  is really to address myself to the conferees. and point out the grave seriousness of the situation and the fact that the other body is also faced with three situations. it resolved one. entirely to please itselfto wit. the matter of the impacted school areas and. i will say also. to please many senators. but that is a fact. it is taken care of better than in 1967. but. again. i fear that we will again facei hope and pray that we do . because the facts certainly demand that we should - a deadlocked situation on the other two items. i urge the confereesi k the conferees willto take seriously the actions of the senate and the conference action on the appropriations committee. and consider the seriousness of what is involved and to insist upon it being given at least equal treatment in terms of consideration with what has been done in the impacted school area field and. at the very least. to be sure that members must record themselves on so critical a matter which. in my judgment. will. if  worked out in conference. with some allowance for summer jobs. and headstart. have most serious repercussions in the summer of 1968. i speak at this time because i do  want it to be said that we did  understand our duty here. and that what had to be said was  said in respect of the context of the bill. it is one of the most shortsighted performances i have seen in a long time. i do  exculpate the administration here. which has monkeyed around with a lot of the figures on the subjectwhich one great newspaper in new york saw through and exploded editoriallyand which has  sent up any budget request for this particular item but which has tried to cut and trim on various programs trying to piece together the appearance of-
. i do  wish in any way to duplicate what the senator from oregon has said. in the senate we generally identify members as having particular experience or competence in particular fields. i have had a close relationship. as senators well k. with american business and american production all my life. including my public life. therefore. i point out the intimate link between what we are seeking to accomplish by this bill in terms of higher education facilities. student loans. and the many other provisions which we are making. and the demands of the american ecoic machine. that is the essence of this bill. that is why the 4year program is so essential. because just as in business. there must be an opportunity to look forward and to plan creatively for the future. so. too. in education. we must do the same thing. or we can possibly accommodate the tremendously expanding student body. any more than we can accommodate the tremendously expanding ecoy. without advance planning. the advance funding provisions which are in this whole bill reflect the same idea. senators may say. does that  commit us to certain levels of expenditure for higher education. it does. but we can hpve the fruit without the tree. it is absolutely indispensable. i predict that if we do  pass this bill and make it law in its essential provisions. then we will have a brain drain in the united statesperhaps a brain disaster  just a brain drainthat we will  be training our young people to accept the responsibilities which the american industrial machine requires and which is the essence of american strength. american strength is  built upon some abstract concept of our people being strong. willing. effective. and intelligent. it is built on just such institutions as these and very heavily premised upon these institutions. so what we are doing. and what senator morse is doing is striking out boldly with what is essential to the american destiny and. for all practical purposes. giving us an opportunity to double the student body to meet the educational needs of the nation. that requirement is proportioned directly to the demands of the american system. it is more. it can be less. i repeat. we will have a lot worse brain drain than is being complained about in europe  unless we do it on the order of this magnitude. i am  talking about individual details. we might change or modify it. but i am talking about the general thrust of the bill. i heard with the greatest interest senator morses remarks on the foreign service corps. i do think we should let that be fought out by senator dominick. as it is his bill. and the foreign relations committee. which has certain jurisdictional objections to it. but i hope very much. and i join senator morse in this. that even on that provision we will  go out empty handed. the university and college population is admeasured to the general ecoy of the country. which still employs 90 percent of the workers. the colleges and universities prepare individuals both for the government and for private enterprise. and each system is independent of the otherand maintaining that relationship of 9010 is critically importantwe still have 10 percent of our employees at the government level.  only federal. but local and state. there a degree of competence is required which takes special training. so i agree with senator morse. we should let the parties in interest fight out whether there should or should  be a foreign service corps. but i do hope that a substitute will be offered for what is proposed if the preponderant view seems to be against a foreign service corps. there should be a representation of high competence in the federal government as well as competence for the generality of the system under which we live. finally. i would like to raise two rather specialized points. one is to call attention with some pride to the subject which is described on page 30 of the committee report. dealing with our effort to finance the construction of academic facilities which are so essential to underlie an expanded college education. this is without appropriating direct money for grants or for loans. because under the rather peculiar system of bookkeeping in which we engage. any appropriations for loans. though they will be repaid. have a large budgetary and inflationary impact. as do appropriations for grants. it does  help us in that regard that they will be repaid and will ultimately enrich the federal treasury. this approach. of which i am very proud to be the author. seeks to take advantage of the unique capacity of the united states as a market for securities only by underwriting an interest rate. rather than providing for direct loans and grants. in considering the demand for facilities. which will amount to from $1.5 billion to $2.2 billion a year for each year in the foreseeable future. so it can be seen that federal participation in an intelligent way becomes critically essential. we have had excellent experience with respect to the guarantees of interest rates with respect to many. many institutions which have been built under that concept. i refer to the college housing program. of which i was also the author. i may say that it was forced upon me by necessity. sometimes we get the best ideas that way. the universities and colleges in new york were absolutely strangling for lack of money for college housing. and we could  get the needed money. we had to find some other way. there is a market for this type of security. provided there is undue burden on the carrying charge on the institution itself. so the provision in the bill is modest. it means the beginning only. it makes possible $300 million for the first year for that kind of loan. and underwrites the difference in interest. roughly somewhere between 2 and 3 percent. by providing $6.750.000 authorization for the first year. then. for the second year. it accumulates the same $6.750.000 in underwriting and $300 million on loans already made. it adds to that aher $6.750.000 in round figures. again providing aher $300 million in loans for the second year. that will result in $600 million worth of construction of college facilities. with a budgetary impact aggregating something in the area of $20 million. when we bear in mind that in this fiscal year we have cut the appropriations for college facilities programs by as much as 90 percent. it can be appreciated how critically essential is this new technique of financing which i have described. this technique is in its infancy. i believe it can be applied  only in the college field. where we have  applied it to college housing and where i hope will be applied to teaching facilities. but it can also be applied to the hospital field. where there is a need of $1 billion a year for reation and new hospitalsthat is also within the jurisdiction of our committee. the money can be readily raised. provided the maintenance cost is  an overwhelming burden on the hospitals which have to incur these responsibilities. i wish to emphasize that we can do the job without direct loans or direct grant funds. these are institutions which can borrow. they are  creditworthy. or they do  have the alumni which will support them. or they have constitutional inhibitions. if they are public institutions. many states prevent borrowing of this character. but there is also this borrowing capability. and there is a need for the amounts authorized. and a good deal more. it represents an intelligent breakthrough in the budgetary and appropriations jam in which we find ourselves as a result of the stresses which we have been under financially. i hope very much that the senate will act with a reasonable degree of celerity upon this matter. i believe senator morse has brought to the floor. with the aid and cooperation of the republican membersand i have the ho to be the ranking miity member of the full committeein a completely bipartisan way. and with very creditable contribution from both sides of the aisle. a landmark and an historic higher education bill. i join with senator morse in paying tribute to the other senators who have participated in the creativity reflected by this bill: to the senator from vermont . who is the ranking miity member of the education subcommittee. to the senator from colorado [mr. dommcxl and the senator from california . who have both made creative contributions to the bill. and. on the democratic side. to the senator from texas . the senator from pennsylvania . the senator from wisconsin . the senator from west virginia . the senator from new jersey . and other senators who have contributed.
. i join the senator from oregon in the comments he has made. i ask the senator from illis to confirm the fact that he made a slight change in his amendment to the effect that the school authorities who are required to certify be required to certify that they are doing everything. they can to bring about enforcement. it being recognizedand this is substantivethat other agencies of government. including the courts. are required to cooperate if compulsory school attendance laws are truly to be enforced. it seems to me that to have that clearly shown as the legislative intentin other words. what we call in the financial business "on a best efforts basis"is what the senator has in mind. at least our school authorities. then. will be certifying that they are doing everything they can to bring about enforcement of all the compulsory school attendance laws.
. i shall detain the senate only momentarily. i. too. am ready for a third reading. i stated a while ago that i would move an amendment to the school lunch program. and i did  indicate clearly whether it would be in the course of the consideration of the pending bill or the following bill. the next bill to be considered. the vocational educational bill. deals also with the problem of elementary and secondary education and makes certain changes in that law. as the school lunch program obviously applies  to higher education. but to elementary and secondary education. i shall move the amendment on my own behalf and on the behalf of other senators to the vocational education bill that will be considered later.
. we again take considerable satisfaction from the constructive and creative amendments which the miity has caused to be included in the bill. and which make it truly a bipartisan bill in every sense of the word. we are particularly proud. for example. of the program for cooperative vocational education and the program in vocational education to deal with school dropouts for which the senator from california has been responsible. we are very proud of the consumer education program in respect of homemaking education and the inclusion of guidance and counselling in state programs. we are also very proud of the preschool and early education programs for handicapped children authored by the gentleman from vermont and the several excellent amendments by the gentleman from arizona . this brings to mind a very important point. because many of us in the committee were very concerned about the utilization of the vocational education program in a very important way. for training. but there has been criticism of the use of the funds with an undue emphasis at the high school and junior high school level upon homemaking activities. i thought. and i think other members of the committee thought. there was some justification for those criticisms. we believe in calling attention to it. because. after all. that this is a state operated program. though the federal government is responsible for a substantial part of the resources that go into it. we thought by appointing state advisory councils and giving our own views as to areas of vocational education which needed to be emphasizedfor example. the report underlines the need for education in various types of health activity. especially in fields like practical nursing. which lend themselves very specially to the vocational education fielda great improvement can be made in the utilization of these resources. we have also pointed out the strengths of vocational education in the field of office services. for example. where they are indispensable with the very large increase in service occupations in the united states. indeed. with the tremendous shift from what are called bluecollar to whitecollar jobs. the nature of vocational education becomes critically important whether in public or public schools. finally. i call attention to the discussion we had on the higher education bill and the urgent need for special training of a vocational education character demanded by the progress and greater technical organization of the american industrial machine. this is really an indispensable law. it is just a question of how well it is run. in the exercise of our legislative oversight function. which in this case is very close. it will give us some examples of what we worry about and what we are seeking to correct and also seeking to emphasize in respect to the vocational education program. i join with senator morse in recommending it to the senate. to help members of the senate with respect to their plans henceforth today. i wish to state that i k of two amendments to be offered to the bill. one is by the senator from illis [mr. dirksenj. of the same kind which the senator from oregon accepted to the bill-
then i would succeed that. if the leadership desires to keep the senate in session that long. with an amendment which i shall offer in my own behalf and on behalf of senators brooke. clark. and hart. to deal with the school lunch program.
. when i arose to speak i mentioned that the miity. which was unanimous in reporting the bill. took great pride in a number of creative recommendations contained in the bill. i named specifically the senator from california and the particular amendments he offered with regard to cooperative education and school dropouts. i associate myself with what i consider to be the view of the manager of the bill. the chairman of our subcommittee. in commending the senator for his very creative and very fine program which. i agree thoroughly. will be very useful and important. especially when zeroed in on what particularly ails us with respect to our youth today.
there is argument about the figure.. i wish to point out to the senator that the report states that of 50 million public elementary and secondary schoolchildren. only about 18 million participated in the national school lunch program. that is one out of three children. that is pretty much in agreement. of the 50 million schoolchildren. fewer than 2 million. which is under 4 percent. are able to get free or reduced price school lunches. that seems to me to be in accord with the figures cited in the house of representatives. the remaining figure is in complete agreement with representative perkins figures. this report claims 4.5 million needy children are  receiving free or reducedprice lunches. that is the figure that representative perkins cited. it is the figure which the committee cited. so the argument is  that we are callous. inhuman. insensitive. and are  doing anything in this field. surely we are doing a great deal in this field. but we have just learned that a great deal more needs to be done. especially in extremely necessitous cases. i would be the last person in the world to say anything other than that the senators heart is as good as mine or as good as that of any other senator. but our committee has heard evidence that some children. because of the lack of the few pennies which may be required to buy a lunch. will have to sit and watch other children eat their lunches. while those without money have e. that is the kind of heartrending situation that other senators and i feel it is our duty to try to meet. and that is why i have offered the amendment.
i think i do. let me tell the senator what i k about it. as i understand it. the federal government gives both food and money. and the amount is on the average of $35 a year for each child. the states and localities make their contributions monthly out of the charges which they collect for the school lunches. they make their individual contributions to the total program from what they are able to collect from the children themselves who pay for their school lunches. for the children who. have the 20 to 35 cents to pay for their lunches. the program works well. the difficulty is that there is a tremendous vacuum in the program. the reason i speak of the figures is that. apparently. there is a vacuum to the extent that about 4.500.000 children who most need the program are  able to benefit from it. so the purpose of the amendment is to bring a great proportion of those children into the program. the amendmentand the senator from louisiana [mr. ellenderi is much more aware of it than i am only would provide additional money-$100 million a yearbut would also provide for a mandatory state contribution. which ultimately will be 10 percent over a period of 5 years. the state contribution will start at 2 percent and will rise to 10 percent: that will also tend to increase the size of the program and to make more free meals possible as against the present plan by which there is a big inducement on the part of the state or locality to get a little something out of that child in order to meet the federal contribution to the program.
in just a moment. one other piece of evidence. we had the testimony of the american school food service association. an association which is in close touch with this whole field. the figures of the association agree exactly with the figures i have used. . i ask unanimous consent that the whole letter. together with the table the association furnished to the clark subcommittee. may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
may i finish. the second point i should like to make in reply is this: there is a very interesting jurisdictional situation here. the two bills which have been passed in the other body  rest in the committee on agriculture and forestry. if this amendment is adopted by the senate. it will go to conference. and the other body will  be in the position in which we have locked in this particular amendment. because it is  a housepassed bill upon which we are puttting this amendment. this is a senate bill. hence. this particular measure. if we do adopt the amendment. will go to a completely open conference. therefore. any adjustment can be made by the conferees--of any kind or characterdepending on what results from whatever is done by the appropriations process and in the conference on that bill. the reason why i am offering this amendment and pressing it is precisely that we are at the end of the session and that we need this kind of opportunity if we really are going to work out the matter. otherwise. we are locked into the appropriations conference with whatever limitations there are in the senate and the house bill. which may  be limitations of money. with which we can deal. and we have opportunity except this one in order to free our hands to give an adequate sum of money this year to the school lunch program. king senator morse as i do. i do  even have to ask himi k that he will be in the closest consultation with the committee on agriculture and forestry and with its chairman in connection with whatever takes place in the conference. but it is a way of getting the matter before the house and the senate. with complete flexibility. because it even could be dropped in conference. if senator morse. as our leader. felt that it should be. i will say that right . myselfeven if it carries. but by carrying it. we give ourselves an opportunity to work out the situation in a legislative way. as a counterpart to whatever might happen in the appropriations committee. it is because i realize how close we are to the end of the session. and because i k how necessitous the situation is. that i cause this amendment to be offered. there is question about the fact that it stands up substantively this year. because it is admitted that approximately $225 million was turned back to the treasury
. what the senator has omitted to state is that the unused balance carried forwardand it is exactly the same table that the senator has been reading fromis a consistent $300 million. so an adequate reserve is constantly maintained by the agriculture department to take care of contingencies of commodity programs in perishable products. and as i have pointed out very clearly. if there is money. then there is money on the school lunch aspect. i find it difficult to see how the senator can argue at one and the same time that he is going to try to provide in the appropriations bill more money out of section 32 funds for school lunches. and that there is grave danger of imperiling the section 32 funds.
the senator is correct. it is fair to say that it is the judgment of the secretary of agriculture. as stated in his letter. that only $50 million could be effectively and efficiently spent in fiscal year 1969. he lays that also on the following facts which i will read to the senate: these estimates reflect the fact that the new school year will begin in little more than a month. state school lunch agencies will have to gear up in that short period to handle an increase in program activity. local school districts will need to make necessary arrangements to initiate new programs or to expand existing ones. it will be well into the school year. probably december. before the expanded program as a practical matter can be put into full operation. it seems to me. therefore. that the need is as the senator has stated. the justification is. in my judgment. that we would assist representative perkins who has led the house into taking the action it took. the figures the senator has given are correct. however. we are  faced with something we always face in the appropriations committee in reality. so that there are situations where the need can be very great. but we can just feed so much down the pipeline within a given time. apparently. from the letter of the secretary of agriculture. we must accept his evaluation that all we can efficiently and effectively feed into the pipeline for 1969 is $50 million.
. we face a certain moral issue in respect to this matter. every senator must decide it for himself. that moral issue in this case includes the matter of whether there are any commitments of the kind to which the senator from florida referred. i state for the record--because i expect to live here for a long time. as i have alreadythat there was commitment on my part.  even a discussion on my part concerning making this accord to whatever the committee on agriculture and forestry was to do. there was an offer by me. and the offer was to do exactly on the vocational education bill what the committee on agriculture and forestry has reported. i am  bound by that offer. the offer was  accepted. i did  undertake any agreement to await the action of the committee on agriculture and forestry. they said that we would see what they do on wednesday morning. they could  make a deal on monday. and all bets were off. as they say. i have done my best. in deference to the views of my colleagues who disagree with me. they are going along with me because i am taking the responsibility. i ought to be listened to. i have modified the amendment to the rockbottom basis that is needed. the senate can vote on whether they want the amount to be $50 million for 1969. $75 million for 1970. and $100 million for 1971. the amendment may be defeated. but the senators should understand the amendment. i am delighted that the senator from louisiana will offer his substitute amendment and the senate will then have a full opportunity to do what is desired. if the substitute amendment is agreed to. i will cooperate as fully as i can as a member of the committee and of the senate.
. these amendments would do the following: one would correct an oversight which omits schools for the handicapped in puerto rico under public law 89313 and would include them in the law. the other amendment would permit payment under part dexemplary program projects of the vocational education act for making advance installment payments with provision for readjustment if there is any over or underpayment. it is just a matter of facilitating the matter. a similar provision is included in part especial emphasis programsof the bill.
. while i and many of my colleagues would have hoped for a good deal more. i feel that this conference report reflects a very material gain for us in our efforts to feed the hungry of this nation. depending on how the figures are calculated. the conferees have come out with an increase of $45 or $50 million in new funds to feed needy persons. i believe that the amount which the conferees reported over and above the senatepassed appropriation is properly calculated at $45 million. and we had thought that $50 million would be forthcoming. i think it is most regrettable that the last $5 million could  be gained. but i recognize that there has been a substantial increase. it is my understanding from members of the committee staff. and i believe this to be senator hollands understanding as well. that this extra $45 million is solely for use in connection with needy personsthat it is  to be dispersed. for example. throughout the regular school lunch program where it might go to subsidize costs for children who can afford to pay. second. by way of legislative history. i understand further that this $45 million does  include the cost of surplus foods that might be used in connection with the school lunch or other programs. which the secretary has the general authority to acquire and make available with section 32 funds. the $45 million is to be supplemented with these surplus commodities. i wish to make clear that i feel that the conferees have in substance fulfilled our expectations on this matter. and that i will consent to an agreement by the senate conferees on the vocational education bill to drop from that bill the $50 million for fiscal 1969 for the school lunch program added by my amendment on the floor. i do  feel that the $50 million added to that bill for school lunch for fiscal year 1970 is encompassed by what the conferees on the agriculture appropriations have done. so i believe i remain free to treat that as a separate matter. moreover. i will pursue in the conference on the vocational education bill the effort to pass the measure to strengthen the school lunch act. namely. that portion of my amendment which incorporated the provisions of h.r. 17873. that agriculture committee reported the bill. and i believe we should move forward on it as soon as possible. let me also say that the reinsertion into the agriculture appropriation bill of the language on section 32 funds which the senate. pursuant to my amendment. had agreed to strike. should in way be taken by the secretary of agriculture to indicate that that language limits his discretion in the use of those funds. the deletion and subsequent reinsertion of that language neutralize each other as far as legislative history is concerned. and we return to the status quo ante. i still firmly believe that the secretary is free to use those funds to feed the needy throughout this country. and i will continue to press this view.
. i wish to comment upon the very eloquent address of the senator from ohio because it so typifies the argument. there is real difference between the senator from ohio and me. interestingly egh. although there may seem to be. the only difference is how do we best get to that point. there we do have a real difference between us. i say that we best get to that point by arming the college administrators with authority to correct the situation. the senator from ohio says that we would best do it by a mandate on the part of the u.s. government. i say that it the wrong way to deal with the problem because we do  have egh policemen or soldiers or the will to use them to control the youth of america if they become rebellious. is it the purpose of government to encourage insurrection and rebellion. or is it the purpose of government to find intelligent ways to deal with the matter and avoid it.
we are mad. we are angry. we are striking back. that is  the way for this great deliberative body to react to a given situation. we k the best means to discipline the college campus which will prevent students from interfering with their professors or their colleagues. we k that students can do that just by being boisterous. i have lived in college dormitories and i k that just playing the radio long egh can prevent everyone in the dormitory from studying. are we going to legislate that way. or are we going to do other things which will be disruptive to study. because we are angry. we are mad. and we are striking back. that is  the way to legislate. out of resentment. thus. i hope that my amendment will carry.
. there is a very essential difference. i think. between this amendment and the amendment which was defeated. which does make it a middle ground and a sort of compromise position. i think the senate should understand that. because this does indicate a clear directive to the institutions concerned that they shallthe wording of the amendment is that they shalldeny the student any further payment. and so forth. it seems to me. therefore. that whereas my amendment would have left the question open as to what the federal establishment could do if a university or college failed to act. i do  think it would be open under this provision. i think the federal establishment would have a right at least to call a university or a college on the carpet and say: "you made a determination to such and such an effect in this case which negatived the denial of benefits. the law says that you shall deny them. what is your basis for this. is it  right that you shall deny them when the facts in our judgment show that a sufficient case was made." i believe. therefore. that this would add an additional element. i had hoped that the senate could have faced this particular compromise. even in lieu of my own amendment. however. i see harm in that. i am proud to have done what i did. i think it is right. i join the senator in his amendment. however. i point out to the senate that there is a substantive difference. and so that the legislative record is clear. the authorities charged with the handling of these student affairs and other matters would have a right to call to account any college or university which after hearing and consideration failed to act in a situation in which the federal government felt it should have acted.
therefore. . i think all of us would be interested in the report of a very distinguished commission headed by archibald cox. who is very well kn. and the former solicitor general of the united states. reporting on the causes of the student uprising at columbia. pointing out what ought to be done in the reform of the university government and also speaking very strongly and decisively against student disruptionthe goal of the revolutionaries who sought to radicalize the columbia campus. i think it is of great importance that we understand the issues. because these are our young people. our own children. who are in question and who represent a leadership potential for our country. thus. i ask unanimous consent that a new york times editorial of october 7 on the subject together with the text of the report observations be printed at this point in the record.
. i should like to add one other point about the first question the senator from new jersey asked. and that is that i would doubt very much that the court would give ex post facto effect to a statute of this kind. which represents a civil disability. really. of which there has been previous ice. if any student were convicted before this limitation on expenditure provision is passed. he would have had concept that this would be one of the disabilities involved. i think that bears upon the argument that it really can. under any sensible approach to this idea. have ex post facto application. either as to the institution itself and what it is permitted to do with the student. or as to the basic cause for which the student becomes disqualified.
i would like to confirm what the senator has said. i point out to the senate that even though the senate provision is mandatory. there is a provision as to who exercises the mandatory power. perhaps. though. the amendment we are discussing  is even silent on that subject unless one assumes. and ody has mentioned it. that we are talking about the u.s. government. that is  necessarily so. or perhaps they may assume that we are talking about the disburser of the funds. that is again  necessarily so. i would assume that the disburser of the funds could create an agency at the university or college itself without running afoul of at least the text here incorporated. for all of those reasons. i feel. as i have stated. that the best exercise of our responsibilty is to live with this provision. whatever it may mean. for the next 9 months rather than try to contradict or otherwise change the rather excellent provision which we have already incorporated in the higher education act.
. i point out to my friend from rhode island. because i am really speaking to himwe can get a quorum call and all that. but i think i can present the case to himin an important and interesting new financing technique. of which college housing is but one aspect. we made use of the same technique for the college teaching facilities. which we just put into the higher education bill and. although i was stymied by the conference. the senate adopted the principle on a multibillion dollar hospital building program. and. though i was initially unsuccessful. the conferees admitted that they will take it next year if i am lucky egh to be back. and assuming our situation remains roughly the same. the reason why this financing technique is so giftedand i received it. incidentally. from the best financing people in this countryis because it avoids a budgetary impact by bringing money out of the private sector. and enables us to do things which otherwise were being done by direct government loans. except that. because of our budget situation. we can make the loans available. therefore. we were faced by the choice that either we forgo it altogether. or we find some other way.
. the home of william rogers. the secretary of state. is in maryland. but as a lawyer he is closely identified with new york. where he was born and where he has practiced law for many years. i wish to congratulate the new secretary of state and the nation on his confirmation. he is a seasoned and able lawyerone of new yorks most eminentwith broad experience in domestic and foreign affairs and a cool mind. he is an able administrator. he ks how to learn and handle a brief. and to this highest cabinet office he brings objectivity and strong intellectual resources. i believe he will make a really distinguished secretary of state.
. i introduce. for myself and the distinguished senator from vermont (mr. poury). the gifted and talented children educational assistance act. this legislation is designed to focus federal resources on the improvement of educational opportunities for gifted and talented children. additional congressional authorizations are required. gifted and talented children are defined as "those having outstanding intellectual ability or creative talent. the development of which requires programs or services beyond the level of those ordinarily provided in regular school programs." this measure is being introduced today in the house by representatives john n.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. the adult education amendments of 1969. this bill is designed to provide an opportunity to "catch up" for the estimated 56 million adult americans who have  had the opportunity to obtain an education as far as the 12th grade. this proposal has the support of the national association for public school adult education and the national council of state directors of adult education. this measure would expand present law toinclude secondarylevel training so that adults might obtain the junior and senior high school training they have previously missed since present law covers only adult education through the eighth grade. lower the eligibility age from 18 to 16 so as to encompass school dropouts. a group estimated at up to 1 million young people annually. establish state adult education advisory councils to aid in the development and evaluation of programs at the local level. such as is  being done under title i of the elementary and secondary education act and the vocational education act. it would authorize an expenditure of $300 million for fiscal year 1970. $350 million for fiscal year 1971. and $400 million for each of the 3 succeeding fiscal years. at this rate of authorization. illiteracy in the united states could be wiped out in 15 years. this bill is a step forward as the first federal commitment toward meeting the needs of the millions of our adults who were unable to complete their education through the high school level. it would also make available further educational opportunities for many of the 1.26 million adults who have participated in the adult basic education program made possible under the terms of the adult education act of 1966. many of these americans. having advanced as far as the eighth grade. are  deprived of more education because they are unable to continue their education. today fewer than 10 states presently provide any funds for high school education for adults. under present circumstances. securing a high school education represents little more than a remote possibility for 56 million educationally disenfranchised american adults. the bill i propose would  only provide this high school training but would also give these adults an opportunity subsequently to undertake college or postsecondary vocational or technical studies. in todays complex society. a "basic" education for an adult is more than acquiring literacy. it should be at least the equivalent of going through high school. yet we face the paradox that in this nation which has prided itself on our philosophy of educational opportunity for all. some 56 million americans are short of this goal. achieving it is  that difficult because. in many instances. a high degree of motivation or the effective use of programed instruction and educational techogy leads an adult to earn 2 or 3 years of high school credits in but 1 year. a recent survey revealed that in 1967 all but 5.4 percent of a sample group then taking adult education courses had annual incomes of under $6.000 and more than half had annual earnings of less than $3.000. and almost half of those in adult education courses were either family heads or the principal wage earner in a family. significantly. too. almost half the students were between 25 and 44 years of age. a crucial time of career development. the return to the ecoy by giving these individuals the educational opportunity they missed in their earlier years will more than repay the average annual cost of $120 for adult education at the high school level and $200 for basic adult education. while we seek to help make available the best possible education for our young people to help them meet the responsibilities of citizenship and the challenges of a career. we have fallen short in our responsibility toward those who for some reason fell by the wayside and were unable even to obtain the minimum of a high school education. this measure seeks to correct that oversight.
. i submit for myself and my colleague from new york a joint resolution designating the week of october 1925 as national play schools week. today. play is considered an essential and powerful force in the lives of children. it is a force which helps children to learn while they are developing emotional and social maturity. as a study published in the new york times of september 10. 1967. observed: with the sharpening of psychological insight. we have learned that play is the first important step in education. character development and social adjustment. for more than five decades.. play schools throughout our nation have enabled thousands of american youngsters to become better citizens through healthy and constructive play activities. national play schools week recognizes both the importance of play in promoting this development and the role of the play school in furthering it.
 of the university of california observed several years ago: i find that the three major administrative problems on a campus are sex for the students. athletics for the alumni and parking for the faculty. as reports of student unrest and violence mountmost recently at columbia universitythis observation would seem to have been made a century ago rather than a few years ago. the reaction of college administrations to this student unrest has varied from tightfisted firmness to the other extreme of abject surrender of responsibility. occupying a constructive mainstream. which recognizes both need for reform. order on campus. and academic freedom. is the declaration on campus unrest adopted last month by the board of directors of the american council on education. the organization representing the vast majority of the accredited colleges and universities in the united states. this is a sensible approach. firm in its recognition of the rights of students. those who would voice protest and those who would pursue their studies without interruption. i ask unanimous consent that the declaration on campus unrest of ace be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. illustrative of the breakdown which can occur when a college administration iges the principles set forth in the american council on educations declaration on campus unrest is the situation which developed at cornell university as described by columnists rowland evans and robert ak in the washington post this morning. i ask unanimous consent that this article also be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
they do. however. may i point out that we do have many acts on the books which are called youth offender statutes. youthful offenders. depending upon age. are treated differently. for example. often the record is capable of being cleared so that something does  remain with a very young person throughout his life. and often there are youth courts which sit in camera so as to avoid the worst overtones of public kledge of a particular act. the second aspect is the disposition to prosecute. there. too. as the senator ks. a prosecutor has very great power. it is he who decides what case to prosecute and what case to pros or dismiss. this is where the intelligence and the wisdom of university administrators come into play. heretofore. as we have seen. matter how bad the disruption. it was immediately followed by a plea for amnesty. this does  mean that there should be room for amnesty or discretion in withholding prosecution. however. it does mean that this very important decision must remain discretionary. we must judge every case on its merits. there may be some cases in which judgment should be tempered with mercy. however. that is  universally true. and one does  bargain for amnesty at the mouth of a gun. it is critically important at this time. i think. when the universities are beginning to learn how to deal with the matter better. that we should  enact a punitive federal law which might give the majority of students reason to rally behind the miity. i believe that most college students would resent such action.
. so that the record may be complete. i ask manimous consent that the questions asked by me and the answers given by dr. allen. contained in the record under the heading "busing of school children." on pages 26 to 28. be printed at this point in the record.
. the new york times sunday magazine of april 27. 1969. contains a most incisive and provocative article about the present student generation and the discontent which has come to characterize so many of our college and university campuses. the author of the article. dr. kenneth keniston. an associate professor of psychology at yale university. is the author of "the uncommitted" and "young radicals." and he is widely regaided as one of the most objective and thoughtful analysts of this "new generation" of americans and of the processes of change and turmoil which have marked their lives. dr. keniston in this article and in his previous writings repeatedly cites the need to view campus turmoil in some broader context. he has pointed out that the existing value structure of our society has seemed outdated and irrelevant to the lives of many young people and to the realities of the decisions which they face. the result has been. to quote dr. keniston. a "mood." rather than an ideology. of young people searching for new goals and new values: ... students . . . are searching for a new vision. a new set of values. a new set of targets appropriate to the postindustrial eraa myth. an ideology or a set of goals that will concern itself with the quality of life and answer the question. "beyond freedom and affluence. what." i commend this important statement by this thoughtful scholar to the attention of senators and ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. on april 17. 1969. 150 alumni and students of abraham lincoln high school. in new york city. opened a show of their work at the architectural league of new york in ho of an extraordinary high school teacher. leon friend. the news release of the architectural league concerning that show is a genuine tribute to the impact of this fine and gifted teacher. i ask unanimous consent that the news release be printed in the record.
 of the freedoms foundation. i am proud to annce that the work of a 19yearold new yorker was selected as the prizewinning entry. he was awarded a $100 savings bond. the essay makes painfully and graphically clear the ravages of hunger that afflict our cities. in view of the urgent need for the nation to give greater priority to the problems of the poor. i ask unanimous consent to have this essay by gordon .w. platt. jr.. of syracuse. a student at syracuse university. and the mutual broadcasting corp. news release. printed in the record.
. i pay tribute today to leon herman. who died suddenly on may 31 of this year. in his long years of service to this country. he distinguished himself as both a scholar and an american dedicated to the understanding of other peoples. in 1961. mr. herman traveled with me to the soviet union and was a major factor in writing the subsequent study of the joint ecoic committee on soviet ecoic power. his understanding of the technical side of soviet ecoic policies and the language. culture. and institutions of that country were invaluable to me in the course of the trip. recently. he conducted a similar study on mainland china which was invaluable to the committee. the studies which resulted from the soviet trip and the other studies of the joint ecoic committee bore the unmistakable imprint of leon hermans thought. eschewing the rhetoric of the cold war. he put into clear perspective the ecoic realities of the soviet union. he understood. long before many. the advantages of eastwest trade. his last work. a supplement to senator magnusons eastwest trade relations act of 1969 reveals the precision of thought and the high intellectual standards which were his trademark. yet mr. hermans contributions were  solely scholarly. he was profoundly devoted to the betterment of mankind and to achieving of peaceful relations among nations. the members of this body and other government officials benefited greatly from his kledge as the senior specialist in soviet ecoics in the legislative reference service of the library of congress. in our untiring efforts to preserve the slender thread of peace. his contributions were inestimable. as an adjunct professor at the american university school of international service and a frequent lecturer. he imparted his kledge to a generation in whose hands our future lies. the loss of leon herman is untimely and sad. i share with his wife. children. and numerous friendssome part of the warm recollection and benefit of his life.
 of the city college of the city of new york. whom i had the ho of introducing to the committee. testified that there are 20.000 students at ccny. that 12.000 of them are fulltime students. and that there are 600 faculty members. yet. his estimate of the membership of the groups that fomented and planned the unrest and disorder at ccny. which was very real and very dangerous and very demanding. constituted some 205. divided. to be exact. into five extremist organizations. what i think people such as myself. on the investigations subcommittee. would like to do is to dig beyond the present stage of the hearings in order to try to find out what the basis for this college disruption movement is and what we can do about it in a broader way than would be indicated by this bill. i believe the senator from arkansas
. i introduce. for myself and senators prouty. bellmon. dominick. murphy and schweiker. the insured student loan emergency amendments of 1969. this is an administration bill. as a result of soaring interest rates and the tight money market. an estimated onethird of the students seeking guaranteed loans in order to enter college this fall are being rejected. this measure seeks to forestall the crisis which these young people are facing as they make plans to return to college in a month or two. because of the emergency situation. i intend to work for senate action prior to the congressional recess. hearings are already under way in the house. this measure would permit the secretary of health. education. and welfare. after consultation with the secretary of the treasury. to prescribe an incentive allowance to be paid by the government to eligible lenders whenever the statutory interest limitation of 7 percentor current ecoic conditionsdeter eligible lenders from making student loans. this federal incentive payment may  exceed 3 percent per annum and rates may differ geographically. the amount of the incentive allowance is a percentage of the principal balance of all outstanding student loans disbursed by the lender on or after july 1. 1969. there is additional cost to the student. the estimated federal cost for fiscal year 1970 is between $5 million and $7 million. however. . additional appropriations would  be required because of the availability of carryover funds from fiscal year 1969. last year alone more than 730.000 students obtained some $670 million in guaranteed loans and. as tuition costs and college enrollment increase. many more young people are expected to apply for the fall semester. the cost of attending college is  the second largest expenditure that a family can undertakegreater than the cost of a car which formerly held second place. unlike the cost of a homethe largest expenditurewhich can be spread over a long period of time. it falls due in a period of only 4 or 5 years. thus. it is quite often necessary for this money to be borrowed. and. considering that college graduates earn at least $150.000 more during their lifetime than graduates. this loan is a wise investment in the future. the law sets a 7percent interest limit on guaranteed student loans. this rate is  competitive with other personal loans in the financial marketplace. many lenders have informed the u.s. office of education that their activity at the 7 percent rate must either be halted entirely or restricted to children of favored customers. the incentive grant approach which i propose has a number of advantages. as monetary conditions improve. the inceitive payment may be adjusted accordingly. thus avoiding both the student and the government being committed to artifically high interest rates. this plan will provide the immediate improvement required to get guaranteed loans flowing once more. it reflects current money market conditions. it is easier to revise downward than fixed interest rates. it avoids conflict with state usury laws and the fixed ceilings established by law inf some state guarantee programs. as is the case in new york state. it is simple to administer. it is the least expensive solution to a nettling problem for. as money market conditions improve. the federal government is  committed to payment of idinately high interest costs over a number of years. and. finally. costs are  increased to the student borrower. most of whom come from lowand moderateincome families. i ask unanimous consent that a briefing memorandum furnished me by the department of health. education. and welfare. be included as a part of my remarks.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at the next printing. the names of the senator from arizona and the senator from south carolina be added as cosponsors of s. 2721 to amend the higher education act of 1965 to authorize federal incentive payments to lenders with respect to insured student loans when necessary. in the light of ecoic conditions. in order to assure that students will have reasonable access to such loans for financing their education.
may i answer that argument by pointing out that the tfx was hing the russians had to react to. whereas this is. this goes to the heart of the strategic struggle between the russians and ourselves. second. congress scrapped the tfx. if my memory serves me.  less than $3 to $5 billion later. that is what we were discussing just before. as the senator from arkansas pointed out. . one of the central arguments against the decision to deploy the abm is precisely because it can be interpreted as an attempt to regain a first strike capability for the united states. this only increases the likelihood of a soviet reaction. and threatens to make impossible any real agreement to contain the nuclear arms race at roughly present levels and weapons systems in the impending salt negotiations. in short. let us take counsel of the portentousness of this decision. let us  fail to learn from the bitter lesson of the gulf of tonkin resolution which should have taught us by  that these decisions do  involve merely routine resolutions. the repercussions could involve thousands upon thousands of lives and. indeedfi the fate of mankind.
. certainly. sooner or later. the majority leader will make a statement on the program for today and next week. i would like to call attention to the fact that the committee on labor and public welfare has just reported a bill which deals with the ability of 200.000 college students to get student loans. and if we do  deal with that measure before we have a recess. very likely a large number of them may be denied the opportunity to spend the next year in college. i k the exigencies we are all under. and i only state it to submit it to the majority and miity leaders. i would hope they might find some way of accommodating the serious situation. thirty members of the senate are cosponsors of that bill. i may add that the measure takes money. because the money has been appropriated. it is just a matter of using it for this particular purpose.
. if i may have the attention of senators i think i can explain the situation to their satisfaction. there are two schools of thought with respect to the amendment. the first school of thought deals with the fiscal questions involved. which the senator from illis and the senator from delaware have covered adequately. there are three increases in authorizations. the proponents of these amendments have put them up on the ground that it is necessary to balance the bill. in other words. what is being done in the bill as originally introduced is something for the alleged middleincome students who get the benefit of guaranteed student loans at the banks and. therefore. we must balance the bill by making provision for needy students by upping the ceiling on those particular authorizations. that is one school of thought. there is the ecoy school of thought which says. "do  do it because it violates the spending ceiling." and so forth. that would  deter me from supporting the increases because i think national priorities need to be reallocated and we must do more for education. and we are going to do less for defense. and that is fine. however. that is neither here  there. we must get a bill through  instead of in a month or 6 weeks. in my opinion. we have in the senate many opportunities to amend bills and increase ceilings. i do  see that we gain anything by keeping these increased authorizations in the bill. we jeopardize the bill because the other body will undoubtedly strike this down or get so angry as to act on it at all. i am convinced we are being handicapped in getting a bill passed in the house. where there is only today and tomorrow to go before the recess which ends after labor day next month. on balance. balancing my feelings on higher education against the urgency of the bill. i am going to vote for the amendment based on the urgency of the bill. it is as simple as that. why. i do  believe this discriminates against needy students. in the first place. needy students get loans from banks. too. there is  egh other money to go around and there will  be even if this provision is kept in the bill. these provisions have to be implemented by appropriations and we k they will  be because of the arguments made by the senator from delaware and the senator from illis . and if they are. it will be 2 or 3 months from . in addition. this bill involves a large number of people. this year there are expected to be 920.000 guaranteed student loans to the tune of about $800 million. the best estimate of anyone is that this bill alone will make it possible to get loans for at least 150.000 students and possibly more than 200.000 students. therefore. there is the ability to expend money toward higher authorizations for students in these programs through this bill as against the fact that we would be putting something on the bill which will hamper its passage.
. last friday. in a timely and eloquent statement. the members of the u.s. commission on civil rights urged a more active commitment to the goal of public school desegregation. pointing out that the commission had  commented on the revised guidelines annced on july 3. the members  characterize that change in policy as "a major retreat in the struggle to achieve meaningful school desegregation." their conclusion is based on a thorough and welldocumented study of the status of school desegregation programs which was also released with the statement. the study shows a dismal picture of delay with permanent harm done to the thousands of children involved. the statement also calls for senate rejection of the whitten amendments. designed to reinstate freedom of choice plans and thereby to impede meaningful desegregation. i agree with the commissions position. and urge the support of my colleagues on the appropriations committee for striking the whitten amendments. i ask unanimous consent that the statement by the civil rights commission. together with the additional statement of vicechairmandesignate horn be printed at this point in the record.
then. . i ask unanimous consent that my time be extended to accommodate the following two matters. and i ask the senator from massachusetts and the senator from west virginia of the majority leadership to give me their attention: first. to accommodate what the senator from georgia tells me is a routine matter of adjusting a senate bill to a house bill. and then the conference report on the insured student loan bill. which will be brought up by the senator from rhode island and myself. and then that i may proceed for the 20 minutes which was previously provided for me. i might explain that this was simply to accommodate other senators.
 said: this week focuses public attention on the need for skilled. responsible drivers. and on the importance of effective inspection and reliable repair services for these vehicles. and finally. it reminds each of us that it is the duty of every motorist to cooperate with school bus drivers to make our highways as safe as possible for the one out of every four american pupils who ride buses to and from school every day. i am  suggesting that school bus transportation is unsafe. it is . school bus drivers have by and large a good safety record. however. the increasing accident rate and the fact that each year more and more children travel on school buses makes it imperative that the safety record of school buses be as near perfect as humanly possibleindeed. the safest form of transportation in the nation. the lives of our children are at stake.
stwo of them democrats. two of them of his own republican partywho held our nations highest office during senator dirksens long tenure as senate miity leader. he was a man of extraordinary characteran unforgettable and majestic voice. a ringing and literary oratorical style. when he spoke. we all listenedevery senator. every member of the senators staffs. the entire senate gallery. we listened.  because we might agree with him or even could be persuaded by him on the particular issue to which he was addressing himself. but to learn and to be impressed and refreshed and often amusedby his sparkling wit and style. finally. it must be said that everett dirksen had a quality which is most unusual among politicians and public servants. a quality which we. who served with himand the press and the public. generallywill sorely miss. he had a sense of humor about himself and therefore a sense of perspective. what newspaperman will forget everett dirksen going up to the press gallery after the tuesday republican caucus. tucking his feet under him. a feat he seemed to perform effortlessly. and then giving forth. as he put it. with wisdom and information. whatever he would like to plant with the press that day. he had a dramatic feeling for the long corridor of history and for the broad currents of political philosophy. he used humoroften selfdeprecatinglyas a reminded to himself and to his colleagues that matter how serious ones purpose. one is still a man entirely capable of erring. everett mckinley dirksen had a deep and abiding love for this nationfor its history and its promise. for its strengths and its weaknesses. to his wife. louella. his daughter and soninlaw. i would say: i had real affection for everett and i miss him sorelythat is the ultimate test. i feel so. too. does the nation and the world
.. i have reviewed the remarks of senator baker concerning certain civil rights decisions in which judge haynsworth has participated. and i find hing in those remarks which would contradict the analysis i submitted to the senate last friday. ember 14. and which appears in page 34275. senator baker cites 15 casesthe same 15 cases cited on pages 17 and 18 of the judiciary committee report. senate executive report  9112. and the same 15 cases discussed yesterday on the senate floor by senator baker in a previous statement by him. these cases are: mccoy v. greensboro city board of education. 283 f. 2d 677 (4th cir. 1960). cummings v. city of charleston. 288 f. 2d 817 (4th cir. 1961). wheeler v. durham city board of education. 309 f. 2d 630 (4th cir. 1961). brooks v. county school board of arlington. 324 f. 2d 303 (4th cir. 1963). wheeler v. durham city board of education. 346 f. 2d 768 (4th cir. 1965) . felder v. harnett county board of education. 349 f. 2d 366 (4th cir. 1965). wanner v. county school board of arlington county. 357 f. 2d 452 (4th cir. 1966). franklin v. county school board of giles county. 360 f. 2d 325 (4th cir. 1966). smith v. hampton training schools for nurses. 360 f. 2d 577 (4th cir. 1966. wheeler v. durham city board of education. 363 f. 2d 738 (4th cir. 1966). chambers v. hendersonville city board of education. 364 f. 2d 189 (4th cir. 1966) . cypress v. newport news general and sectarian hospital association. 375 f. 2d 648 (4th cir. 1967) . wall v. stanly county board of education. 378 f. 2d 275 (4th cir. 1967). wooten v. moore. 400 f. 2d 239 (4th cir. 1968). and felder v. harnett county board of education. of these 15 cases cited by senator baker. 13 were decided unanimously by the court of appealsall except the second felder case and the chambers case. those 13 cases. in my judgment. show judge haynsworths conclusions.  his ideas. he wrote opinions in them. and the cases raised difficult or el questions about which any of the fourth circuit judges could find anything to disagree. the 14th case is the second felder case. 409 f.2d 1070. the only real issue in that case. however. was whether to award counsel fees because of a "frivolous appeal" and it was judge cravens opinion. with which judge haynsworth joined. which denied counsel fees. judges sobeloff and winter dissented and would have found the appeal frivolous. thus. judge haynsworths stand in this case could hardly be defined as siding with the black plaintiffs. as he decided against them on such a central point. in the 15th of the cases cited by senator baker. chambers v. hendersonville city board of education. 364 f.2d 189 (4th cir. 1966). senator baker refers to judge haynsworth as casting the "swing" vote in that he joined judges sobeloff and bell while two other judges dissented. my own reading of the case. however. convinces me that the majority opinion. in which judge haynsworth joined. was "amended" to absorb the views of the dissenters and make the decision substantially unanimous. the dissentersjudges bryan and boreman--complained that the court was ordering the school board to rehire teachers without regard to their ability to meet minimum qualiflcations. in the words of the dissenters. appearing in 364 f.2d at 194whatever constitutional guidelines are recognized the bald facts here plainly reveal that at least 15 of the 16 unretained teachers were  kept because of their own preference. their physical incapacity or their failure to meet minimum criteria. obviously in an effort to meet this point after becoming aware of the dissenters views. the majority opinion contains. at the end. a foote. 364 f.2d at 193 n. 3. as follows: while all of the improperly discharged teachers are entitled to reemployment. we do  think any practical benefit would be derived by requiring the board to offer reemployment to a teacher who failed to meet definite. objective minimum standards. putting the footed majority opinion together with the objections of the dissenters. i fail to see how judge haynsworth was really a "swing" vote to all. we have here what amounts to aher unanimous decision. in sum. of the 15 cases cited by the committee report and repeated by senator baker.  one reflects judge haynsworths views in his own words. 14 of the 15 were clearcut cases. and the 15th. the felder case. was one in which judge haynsworth opposed the award of counsel fees to the black plaintiff. in addition to citing these 15 cases. senator baker has suggested that i did  mention "several decisions in which judge haynsworth held for plaintiffs claiming deprivation of their constitutional rights." the first such case. senator baker argues. is hawkins v. th carolina dental society. 355 f. 2d 718 (4th cir. 1966). i believe the senator is in error. as i mentioned that case in my analysis. appearing on page 34276 of the congressional record of ember 14. 1969. and pointed out that the case was clearcut. as the state dental society in that case had. in effect. been given the states licensing power. the next case which senator baker says i overlooked was coppedge v. franklin county board of education. 394 f. 2d 410 (4th cir. 1968). in point of fact. i did mention that case. also on page 34276. and pointed out that judge haynsworth did in fact find "freedom of choice" in that case. but only after ku klux klan bombings of those who chose to exercise their "freedom." and i remarked that. short of a bombing. judge haynsworth seems to adhere. to this day. to his preference for socalled "freedom of choice" plans.  overruled by the supreme court. senator baker does. however. correctly e that i overlooked one decision. the second half of the very same case. coppedge v. franklin county board of education. 404 f. 2d 1177 (4th cir. 1968). my oversight was a result of the fact that the case bears the same title as the one discussed above. which i did mention. but the second coppedge case does . in any event. appear to me to support any argument that judge haynsworth was "pro" civil rights. in this instance. judge haynsworth held. writing for an unanimous court. that coppedge was entitled to attorneys fees because the school board had taken a frivolous appeal. the school board contended that compliance with the courts order would present "insurmountable administrative problems." 404 f. 2d at 1179. the basis for award of counsel fees. as the court put it. was. "the school board carried on with its appeal withstanding the fact that. meanwhile. it had fully complied with the district courts order." 404 f. 2d at 1179. what could be more of an openandshut case of frivolous appeal than urging a court of appeals to reverse on the ground that the district courts order could  be complied with. while all the while the order had already been complied with. i see hing in that decision to suggest that judge haynsworth was sensitive to civil rights. but i have never suggested that he was blind as a judge. in sum. i stand by my original analysis. judge haynsworths decisions in those instances cited which were  open and shut. and particularly in those in which he expressed his own views in his own words. are outside the context of our time in history on this most important civil rights question. i find hing in the cases cited by senator baker or the committee report to shake me in that conclusion. i ask unanimous consent that i may speak out of order for 10 minutes.
. i have analyzed the opinions on previous occasions. it is  an analysis. in this instance. requiring endless research. because judge haynsworth has written in his own words civil rights opinions in only 17 civil rights cases. these are: dillard v. school board of charlottesville. 308 f. 2d 920 (4th cir. 1962). cert. denied. 374 u.s. 827 (1963) . bell v. school board of powhatan county. 321 f. 2d 494 (4th cir. 1963) . simkins v. moses h. cone memorial hospital. 323 f. 2d 959 (4th cir. 1963). cert. denied. 376 u.s. 938 (1964). griffin v. board of supervisors of prince edward county. 322 f. 2d 332 (4th cir. 1963). reversed. 377 u.s. 218 (1964). pettaway v. county school bcard. 332 f. 2d 457 (4th cir. 1964). eaton v. grubbs. 329 f. 2d 710 (4th cir. 1964) . bradley v.school board of richmond. va.. 345 f. 2d 310 and gilliam v. school board o hopewell. va.. 345 f. 2d 325 (4th cir. 1965). both vacated sub . bradley v. school board. 382 u.s. 103 (1965). nesbit v. statesville city board of education. 345 f. 2d 333 (4th cir. 1965) . bowditch v. buncombe county board of education. 345 f. 2d 329 (4th cir. 1965). brown v. county school board. 346 f. 2d 22 (4th cir. 1965). hawkings v. th carolina dental society. 355 f. 2d 718 (4th cir. 1966). bowman v. county school board o1 charles county. va.. 382 f. 2d 326 (4th cir. 1967). green v. county school board of new kent county. 382 f. 2d 338 (4th cir. 1967). reversed. 391 u.s. 430 (1967). brewer v. school board o the city of folk. 397 f. 2d 37 (4th cir. 1968). coppedge v. franklin county board of education. 394 f. 2d 410 (4th cir. 1968). coppedge v. franklin county board of education. 404 f. 2d 1177 (4th cir. 1968). i summarize them as follows: of the 17 cases in which judge haynsworth wrote opinions in his own words. he wrote in opposition to desegregation 13 times. and went with the prevailing constitutional view in the remaining four cases only when there was really way to decide on any other basis. indeed. it is significant to me that in 1964. 10 years after the decision on school desegregation by the supreme court. in an openandshut case. the socalled eaton case. 1964. where judge haynsworth ruled against the segregated hospital. he ruled and said that he was only doing this.  because he agreedhe disagreedbut. he said he was doing it because this was so clearcut a case following supreme court precedent that he simply could  shut his eyes to it. that shows sincerity and bears out what the senator from new jersey arguedthat within the philosophic framework from which judge haynsworth came. this was logical and sincere. but that does  mean we have to vote to put him on the supreme court. i find. running through all of the decisions. a record of consistent. unsympathetic response on this issue. the real. fundamental question is: is this a proper ground for decision. i respectfully submit that it is. i do  believe that all we are entitled to k is name. rank. and serial number when one is being inated for the supreme court. or only that he is a judge. with hing against his character. giving him the benefit of the doubt on the conflictofinterest issue. and that being a judge for some time. therefore. he can go on being a judge. i do  believe that needs to be or should be the basis of our opinion. i point out that senators like the senator from south carolina and the senator from th carolina
. this session of congress has produced comprehensive and impressive measures to significantly advance efforts to control the pollution of our resources and environment. with the passage of h.r. 4148the water quality improvement act of 1969the approval of an $800 million appropriation for construction grants for waste treatment works. and the approval of more than $86 million for pollution control operations and research. congress has affirmatively assumed reponsibility for progress in pollution control. the executive branch  will be called upon to maximize the effectiveness of these funds. making every effort to finance only the most modem. efficient equipment. i invite attention to a new water purification process developed by two new york university civil engineers. dr. matthew m. zuckerman and dr. alan h. moloff. this zuckermanmoloffzmprocess employs a chemical rather than biological approach to the treatment of water. effectively hydrolizing and removing all waste molecules from water. these researchers have shown that such a process can be significantly less expensive than the ordinary tertiary treatment processes. and the resulting water is as pure as new york city drinking water. if  purer. an article written by kristen anundsen and published in the new york university alumni news. october 1969. describes this process in some detail. aher article. published in the new york times of tuesday. december 9. explains how the process is presently being applied in new rochelle. n.y.. as a pilot project. i ask unanimous consent that the articles be printed in the record.
that letter is expressly architected to have produced the provision which went into the appropriation bill last year. and that is why i say i have complaints about that type of approach here. i said that before. and i repeat it. then it will give our people an opportunity to negotiate a provision of the type of that of last year. or i would lend myself gladly to writing it into this bill. second. i have a number of telegrams which have been produced by the amendment proposed. one is from frederic w. ness. president of the association of american colleges: hon. j. k. javrrs: on behalf of an organization of nine hundred colleges and universities located in every state i urge you to communicate to every senator during debate today our opposition to section 407 of h.r. 13111. institutions of higher education are proving that they can handle their internal affairs successfully. section 407 could well prove to be counterproductive to their efforts and play into the hands of the more radical student disrupters.
in april of this year. the american council on education. with a committee of the most distinguished presidents of universities in the united states. without exception. issued a declaration on this very subject. a key statement in that declaration is as follows: governmental attempts to deal with these problemsto wit. college campus disruptionthrough special punitive legislation will almost certainly be counterproductive. . i ask unanimous consent that the entire statement. "a declaration on campus unrest." be printed at this point in the record.
. i introduce for appropriate reference the higher education project development act of 1970. the purpose of this measure is to provide colleges and universities with an opportunity for ination and to improve their management and academic procedures. this bill would stimulate and assist higher educational institutions in the development of new and improved methods of instruction and institutional management and development of model programs and projects. an advisory council is also established composed of school administrators. faculty. students. trustees and alumni as well as representatives of the general public. the bill authorizes $30 million for the next fiscal year for grants to colleges and universities. as well as groups of schools. and to state higher education agencies on a matching ratio of 75 percent federal funds to 25 percent furnished by the recipient. except in cases of hardship where. if the commissioner so determines. the federal share may be as much as 100 percent. onefourth of the appropriated funds are to be used for junior and community colleges. with college costs and enrollments mounting each yeartuition has doubled in the past decadeand existing resources bending under the strain. it becomes increasingly necessary to utilize new means for educating a greater number of students at reasonable cost while at the same time strengthening the quality of education. federal program is  available to help colleges and universities assess new methods. restructure institutionally and improve their management and academic procedures. this bill would meet that need. our colleges and universities have been hard put to meet the responsibilities of this era in which a little more than half of all high school graduates seek a higher educationas opposed to some 15 percent a generation agoin which their costs are climbing faster than the cost of living. and in which the rapid rush of new "ages"-the electronic age. the computer age. the space age. the urban agedemand continuing revision of curriculums and complex and expensive equipment. colleges and universities have felt the brunt of criticismsome of it selfcriticismfor unecoic and inefficient institutional and financial management and for failure to keep their academic activities abreast of the times. if college costs continue to rise. we may soon find that only the very rich. who can afford to pay. or the very poor. who receive direct assistance. can get a higher education. thus presenting a highereducation crisis similar to the housing crisis in which it is the middleincome family that is being squeezed out. the bill seeks to find the means to reverse this trend. the congressional commitment to foster ination in elementary and secondary education has been evidenced by the enactment of title di of the elementary and secondary education act of 1965. we should  undertake a similar effort for higher education. the bill endeavors to do just that. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
. i shall  detain the senate very long. i annce at this time that the senator from colorado . a member of the committee. will also address himself to this subject. i think that the chairman of our subcommittee. who has done a magnificent job in the subcommittee hearings and in the consideration of the tremendous number of amendments of great complexity which were heard with respect to this bill. should receive our congratulations for bringing the bill to the floor in its present shape. which i think is very eligible for enactment by the senate substantially as it comes before us. the bill is in a very real way the product of the members of the subcommittee. both majority and miity. i should like to point out that 30 major provisions of the bill were moved by the miity. and it therefore represents. to a real extent. all our ideas. while i understand there will be a major debate on some of the amendments which we will considerand it is perfectly proper that there bewhich deal essentially with civil rights questions. i am rather heartened by the understanding that on the substantive aspect of the bill. in terms of the educational coverage of the bill. there is rather general agreement. there will be amendments. but on the whole the basic framework of the bill which we have submitted to the senate seems to have received a good reception from senators generally. on the general proposition of aid to .education. which was debated for so long in previous years. there seems to be the generally prevailing view that we should go forward. as we have. with all the added experience and resources which have been made available by virtue of this activity for such a long period of time. there are certain very distinct aspects of this measure which i do think require rather special attention. because they do represent inations of a very material kind. first. i think it is very important to k that we have tried to take account of the expanding concepts of the lowincome factor which affect the essential plan of title i of the elementary and secondary education actthat is. programs and projects to meet the special educational needs of educationally deprived children. and the lowincome factor is increased to $4.000 from $3.000 after a period of years. the delay in the change having been forced upon us more by the realities of financing than by the realities of living standards and living costs. so. we have deferred for a period of years. but etheless laid the foundation so that it can be pursued after that time in an effort to increase the lowincome factor from $3.000 to $4.000 as the basis of eligibility for this kind of federal aid to education. aher area in which i think we do extremely well is to recognize that there are still added problems of density of impact. and so we acted as we did on the first amendment with respect to aher amendment. which i am very pleased to say was submitted by the senator from california . a member of the miity. the first one having been submitted by the senator from minnesota . a member of the majority. to make special provision for school districts which were very heavily impacted. unusually heavily impacted with disadvantaged children in adding a new part c to title i of the elementary and secondary education act. i think that is a very signally fine amendment. other provisions which we have included. which i again consider to be extremely desirable. are provisions to free funds in respect of title iii of esea. supplementary education centers and services. so that the federal commissioner of education should have greater flexibility for their use in many areas where the national prospective is extremely valuable and important for the kind of vehicle which we have in mind. aher amendment which deserves to have the attention of the senate deals with the whole problem of areas impacted by federal activity. for a very long time we have overlooked the effect of federal lowrent housing projects which has very materially impacted many school districts which find it very difficult to carry that load. just as much so as in the case of federal installations of a military or similar character. we realize the practical difficulties of the impacted area aid bill is very deeply embedded in the educational financing of many communities. so we have done our utmost to take cognizance for the first time of this long standing. and for the purposes ofthe pending bill. new concept of impacted areas. we have frozen it at the level of 1970 so that presently impacted district will get any less. without regard to the provisions of this new provision. than it did in 1970. there are other aspects of the bill which deserve special attention from us.
i stated it in terms solely as an allegation which i heard made. at very high levels. because that is all i can say with certainty. i did  receive. or seek. any confirmation while i was there. perhaps as time goes on we may learn some more about it here in the senate. certainly it is  the fault of president nixon. certainly he gets full credit for initiating a real drive to equip and train the forces of south vietnam. this allegation relates firstly to the time in 1965 when the south vietnamese were in very bad shape and one can appreciate that it might well have happened at that time. whether the same attitude prevailed at the houlu and manila conferences of 1966. i can say. but i was told that it did. and over the objections of the vietnamese. i can only say that i can give any other substantiation except that i was told that.
. my first impression of this matter is favorable but it is only my first impression. this is a matter upon which there was testimony. it may very well be in order. it was included in the elementary and secondary school bill 4 years ago and could properly be considered. but. i need to check on the matter further with the department. to give me the opportunity to do that. i would greatly appreciate it. as i do  wish to oppose something i k very little about. if the amendment could be momentarily laid aside with the opportunity to come back and call it up in a short time.
. this table shows. for whatever it is worth. and i think it is very important. that in a state like mississippi. negroes attend schoolsalthough the population of mississippi is almost 50 percent negroin the miity schools where the miity represents 0 to 49 percent of the school population to the extent of 6.7 percent of its students. whereas in new yorkand i am  proud of the fact. but it is their figurethe same is 32.3 percent of the students. that is. roughly speaking. 3 times as good. at the other end of the scalethat is attending schoolslet us take the schools where the miity is 99 to 100 percent. allowing for few children of a different race. it mentions 92.4 percent of black children attending that kind of school. in new york. 21.3 percent attend that kind of school. the figures are roughly comparable in other states. i hasten to state-
. i think the senator raises a very pertinent point. it is a sense of congress resolution. it may have the force of law because the courts. in making the presumption that they do with respect to these cases in states where state action has brought about separate school systems. are also following. one might say. a policy. the courts could take the senators line. and reject this provision. and say. "it is hing but a statement of policy. of the sense of congress. it is  binding upon us as the law. we still indulge in this presumption because that is the law."
there are a number of additional considerations  relevant to de jure segregation which are  introduced into this equation. therefore. it seems to me that the idea that we will suddenly strip both the issue of de jure segregation and the issue of de facto segregation of any concept of origin or cause in the eyes of both the hew and the courts is untenable. it becomes even more untenable though it has been picked up time and again by members on both sides of the aislethan it was before. it is a fact that in given cases. the court has engaged in a presumption. with regard to de jure segregation. that if there has been a segregated school system based upon governmental action. that continues. and that there must be proof that it is being desegregated or that it has been desegregated. it seems to me. therefore. that in the case of de facto segregation. you would also have similar presumptions with respect to patterns of housing. with respect. as i have said. to the organization of given departments of education. with respect to the pedagogical and educational practices of given school districts which affect the question of origin or cause of such segregation. so i believe that there is much more reason for dealing with this subject and striking out this particular part of the stennis amendment . so long as we are engaged in perfecting it. than there was before. much has been made here of the fact that we wish to apply in an evenhanded way. all across the country. the same law. but i respectfully submit that  that we have made a new law. for the very reasons that the senator from tennessee argued that this was a statement of policy and. therefore. could conceivably be rejected by the administration or be rejected by the courts. precisely because it is a statement of policy of the united states. it seems that the good faith of the united states is at stake. or it is being accepted rather than rejected by governmental agencies and courts. certainly. that is true of a governmental agency like the department of health. education. and welfare which is required to make orders. rules and regulations. and guidelines. in respect of this particular matter. . . i point out again. by way of supporting the argument that there has been considerable expansion. by adoption of this amendment. of the responsibility of the united states and the policy of the united states. that title vi. section 601. of the civil rights act of 1964 does  in any way refer to de jure or de facto segregation. the same is true of the amendments to the elementary and secondary education act of 1965. adopted in 1967. that they do  deal with de facto or de jure segregation.
there is intention to change the existing situation. that is my stated purpose. the only presumption to which i referred was the very presunption which is  quite common in the courts and which is contained in the green case. i mention that case because it happens to be a case decided on may 27. 1968. i would like to read two sentences from that decision: in the context of the stateimposed segregation pattern of long standing. the fact that in 1965 the board opened the doors of the former "white" school to negro children and of the "negro" school to white children merely begins.  ends. our inquiry whether the board has taken steps adequate to abolish its dual. segregated system. all i say is that is what is being done in the courts . i do  want to change that.
that is correct. it has been argued here that the 10 biggest cities are interested in this situation. and one else. why is that argued. it is argued because residential patterns in those cities. which have had very materially increased black populations. have shown a very much more severe impact of de facto segregation on racial imbalance in late years. as contrasted with 1954. but that is a special order of proof. which has a very different reason. and does  bear upon the fact that we still have. taking them by states. the main burden of segregated school patterns in the states which had stateimposed segregation. in short. it is too soon. that is really the whole point. it is too soon. and it defies the very test senator stennis himself used to take off that situation the presumption which the courts have made and which i read from the green case. that where you have had state imposed segregation by law. the prefebruary 18. 1970 coil sumption is that that pattern continues unless some other proof is shown. . what i believe the stennis amendment will do. even if shorn of the words i seek to strike. is that it will cause the de facto situation in the south to be treated exactly like the de facto situation in the th.
. we are still debating this very critically important education bill. though. naturally. we got into a rather different subject that it is  related to education. of course. it is. very directly. but it differs from the general thrust of the other aspects of the bill. and we may have forgotten that the bill is still before us. there are still a number of amendments to be considered which relate to the effort to establish unitary rather than dual school systems in this country. the senate has  very materially expanded that concept. i have argued very often and with great feeling that it will result in slowing down integration in the south. and  necessarily speeding it up in the th. much as i would like to speed it up. it is always interesting to get the view of a distinguished commentator. so i shall ask. while we are still debating the question. so that senators may have an opportunity to think about it. that there may be included in the record an article which appeared in this mornings new york times. by tom wicker. entitled "in the nation: the death of integration." i shall  comment. the words of mr. wicker are too eloquent to require comment. i just beg every senator. whatever side of the issue he may be on. to read it. and then ponder anew. before he votes. as so many have. in my judgment. without really wrapping themselves around the total consequences. on the rest of these amendments. i ask unanimous consent that mr. wickers piece may be made a part of my remarks.
. i address myself to the amendment introduced by the senator from th carolina. it seems to me that the very critical part of this effort is to interdict even the courts from ordering any kind of busing or changing busing. i would like to call very strongly to the attention of the senator the sweeping character of the amendment which  only inhibits the guidelines of the hew and the power to withhold money. which is all the stennis amendment did. but also inhibits the courts. it reads: court . . . shall have jurisdiction ... to assign children to public schools to transport any child from one place to aher or from one school to aher. or from one school district to aher school district to alter the racial composition of the student body at any public school. that means  only that the amendment would deprive the court of the power to order busing. but also deprive the court of the power even to change busing where busing is an element of segregation. i assume that we have the power to do this. and i rather believe that we do by law have the power to deprive the court of this amount of jurisdiction. i think it is most unwise. because we would be striking a blow at precisely what we do  wish to strike a blow againstthe efforts being made to correct de jure segregation. in addition. i think the amendment is very clearly open to the charge that a real effort is being made to abate enforcement of the courts decree in the south or anywhere else. wherever it may be. relating to de jure segregation. i point out that this would apply wherever the courts act. if they believe they can extend their jurisdiction to de facto situations. it would apply as well to those situations. in this connection. i read with the greatest of interest the decision in the case of green against the school board of virginia. that was a very landmark decision in 1947. it dealt with the question of busing. it was very interesting to me that a part of the busing situation which we have  looked at is referred to in this particular decision. i read an excerpt from the decision: the record indicates that 21 school buses. 11 serving the watkins school und 10 serving the new kent schoolthe watkins school was a black school. and the new kent school was a white school. i continue to read: travel overlapping routes throughout the county to transport pupils to and from the two schools. that is a very key point. one of the ways in which the humane counties respond to the situation is to furnish buses. the only choice a child has is to walk to school or ride. if he can find a means of transportation. or  to go to school at all if he is black. one of the ways in which segregation was perpetuated in humane counties in the case of black children was to transport them very long distances to a black school.
the memorandum states: however. this restriction has  heretofore prevented the federal government from dealing with racial imbalance which is deemed illegal. discriminatory. or unconstitutional. that is. school segregation that has been brought about deliberately. either by formal law or custom or by the acts of local authorities. in this case. title vi. which prohibits racial discrimination in federally assisted programs. imposes upon the school district the obligation to take steps. including busing if necessary. to correct that deliberate or illegal segregation. further on this subject. we go to the way in which it is worked. there have been many statements here about the horrendous results which have resulted from the actions of hew. again. i would like to read from the memorandum: to date. most desegregation plans accepted by hew under title vi have involved little or additional bussing in the affected school districts. of approximately 300 voluntary desegregation plans negotiated for implementation in september 1969. less than 10 involved additional bussing. it seems to me that that very materially diminishes the impact. which has been claimed here. with respect to busing and the alleged improvident use of that kind of remedy for de jure segregation. and i emphasize that is what we are talking aboutde jure segregation.
. i would like to point out that in aher memorandum directed specifically to the various amendments of the senator from th carolina . hew points out that in negotiating for compliance. and this relates to violations in respect of de jure segregationthat is where you have dual school systemsunder title vi of the civil rights act. hew may recommend and local school districts may adopt desegregation plans to reschedule. reroute. or reunify the preexisting busing system. particularly if the system is being used to maintain segregation. that would be prohibited by the ervin amendment. they say this is the only way de jure segregation can be corrected. it seems to me under these circumstances this would be a very improvident amendment to agree to. it would abort the effort to correct  only segregation of schools which are in the twilight zone but segregation which is directly contrary to law and even to a court decree. by what is frequently the only method by which it can be corrected. to wit. some change in the busing system. the hew points out that in very rare cases has this been invoked. but etheless that it is very important and they point out that in only 10 cases out of 300 was additional busing required. it seems to me under these circumstances we would be destroying a major and massive activity in a most improvident way by agreeing to the amendment which goes to the very jurisdiction of the courts themselves insofar as the authority to issue a decree to cure admittedly illegal segregation in the public schools is concerned. whatever may be the procedure ultimately adopted to deal with the amendment i hope very much the senate rejects the amendment. i reserve the remainder of my time.
. i have three examples of things which have actually been done to frustrate the discrimination. this is aher way of dealing with the problem. in some school districts. separate buses have been operated by racefor example. one bus for all the white children and one bus for all the black children. in some school districts buses have been operated in such a manner as to transport children. black and white. to the nearest school which has a majority of his race. here is the last example. it has been established that a school had been deliberately located in a district by the school board for the purpose of segregation. this is an affirmative action preventing action by the school board itself. it is binding on the local school board and the court. that is a very sharp case in point. talk about federal control of education. which has been one of the sacred cows. we are circumscribing the power and authority of every school board.
and what about the pedagogy. we have in new yorkand i am sure other senators have the same situation in their statesthe socalled 600 schools. they are schools for especially difficult children. they may have to leapfrog a school to get there. i certainly would  want to put a child that i k would be an absolute disaster to a school into the school because of the amendment. state law would  deal with it. perhaps the school board itself has decided that in the best interest of the child that is how it should be handled. it may be that a court in order to bring about a constitutional mandate has intervened. it is a very unusual way of bringing about compliance with the law. there are some schools in which there are certain grades. it would kk out or reduce that option as far as the courts are concerned. i think it is a question that we must wrestle with. i k that there is very deep feeling about the neighborhood schools. the question is how can we best encourage this. can we best encourage it in this way which. it seems to me. gives an emous advantage. instead of obtaining highly dubious results. if we get them at all. of course. there are other considerations. there is the consideration of how we run our courts and how we use our money which. i am sure everyone will agree. results in giving the advantage in the overwhelming majority of cases to the neighborhood schools.
i think it does. and we are all men and we k very well that school buses are designed and the whole tendency of the school boards is that they are intended to patronize the neighborhood school. we do  have to use a law for that. what we have to do is to be careful and  compel them by whatever measures we adopt to unduly disrupt the neighborhood school. they want them. they are elected people. they are  going to be defeated. so. it is patterned for a purpose. and the purpose is to skin the decrees in aher way than the previous amendment. that is what it comes down to. i hope very much that senators are sophisticated egh to see through the facade. i am  finding fault. i think the senator should dress up his amendment in the best way he can in an effort to get it agreed to. it seems to me so obvious that under the guise and color of our feeling for neighborhood schools. again we are going to be asked to disapprove an effort to desegregate schools which had been segregated for a long time. i do  think it is wise or provident for us to become a party to the effort. we k these things. we could bring up any number of a large variety of issues. we could follow our sentiments and say that. whether legal or illegal. hing that is porraphic should be distributed in the united states. we are told that everyone could vote for it. that it was a worthy objective. but. would a senator be worthy of his name if he did  inquire what this was all about. what it was confined to. whether it included certain classifications. perhaps some people might think that shakespeare or chaucer are porraphic. they have a right to their opinion. i have served in the house of representatives and i have served in the senate. in the other body. that is a very popular thing. the theory has been that member can vote against it. i voted against it. and so did the majority. we are  children. and the people did  send us here to be children. this is aher way of starting on the road back in an effort to deal with unlawful segregation in public schools. i hope that we will  be taken in by it.
i think the senate ought to understand what we mean. and that to achieve racial balance is an affirmative act. to attempt to mix the school population. affirmative acts are  dealt with. are neither required  prohibited. by the constitution. it is the negative act which is involved. and the negative act would be a change in the racial composition. how are you going to desegregate a segregated school if you do  change its racial composition. that is exactly what the senator from th carolina is after. so we had better understand each other. he does  want any government agency. to wit. hew expressly or impliedly. to require by withholding funds or otherwise any changes in a de jure situation. that is what it is all about. we are either for that or against that. but we kid ourselves if we believe that it means something other. why he changed the words is because he wanted to change them. he wants to accomplish aher. different. broader. purpose. in my judgment. it is the very purpose that we dealt with before. we do  want to abet. abort. or regress de jure segregation policies. what we want to do is bring about greater fairness in the country by going after segregation wherever it is. in whatever form. i am for that. the senate has decided it. but let us  assume that these words do  mean what the senator from th carolina wants them to mean. he wants a change. he left out the word "court." and. as i explained before. all that means is that hew will  deal with these questions itself. it will have to wait for a court to pass on it. which will only mean a delay in the money leaving hew. because hew may  lend any money to a segregated school district. if it may  in any way help desegregate that district. that means it must. according to law. sit with its arms folded until the court acts. that is what i said before.
. this is. really. a sequel to the work which was done yesterday. i would be remiss in my duty to the senate if i did  say againas a number of senators said yesterdaythat the bill of the senator from georgia . of which a good deal is incorporated in s. 2548. is itself a massive and major improvement in respect to the school lunch program.
the senator is exactly right. that is contained in the report. and will figure in the discussion of the next amendment which i have. i also e with great approval the following committee actions. the requirement for the development of uniform standards and procedures in respect to school allocations. which was also dealt with by the mcgovern amendment yesterday. funds for training and education. prohibiting overt identification of childrenwho are associated with the program. recognition of the fact that lowincome individuals are available who can be trained to administer and supervise programs. i am pleased that the committee directs attention to the fact that that should be done even if  exactly as i proposed in my own lunch bill s. therefore. i certainly think that e of us can complain on the one side. on the part of those of us proposing amendments to the bill. that they were  considered and. on the other side. as sometimes happens. there can be complaint that what we had in mind was  fully submitted to and exposed to the committee on agriculture and forestry. for approval or disapproval. this has shown. in my judgment. the very best of the senate. what does remain. however. are honest differences of opinion with respect to what should be done. my amendment. which i feel is key. relates to the desirability of a national standardthat is. a national minimum standard. i hasten to point out that the committee itself provided a sort of coinpromise on this subject. what it did was to provide that determinations should be made public. the bill provides. on page 21. line 14: such determinations shall be made by local school authorities in accordance with a publicly annced policy and plan applied equitably on the basis of criteria which. as a minimum. shall include the level of family income. including welfare grants. the number in the family unit. and the number of children in the family unit attending school or service institutions.
. i would like to indicate for the record what we are doing. in new york. the proportion of children getting free or reducedprice meals comes very close to the optimum figure for the nation. it is estimated that in the nation 15 percent of the children in schools in densely populated areas should be eligible for free or reduced price meals. new york attained 13 percent in the last school year. also. new york serves thousands of children more than the number of children who get the benefits of title i of the elementary and secondary education act. we serve 417.000 free lunches against 405.000 of the children who benefit from the elementary and secondary education act. and serve free lunches to 85 percent of those eligible under afdc. in new york city. very few schools lack food service. we do  do as well in buffalo. however. and that is one of the reasons for my very great interest in using food purveyors because the situation can be materially improved in that regard. in addition. i am pleased to say that new york contributes more at the state level than would be required by the bill-$19 million moreand new york city contributes $10 million locally for free and reducedprice meals. i say that about new york because we must first look at ourselves in the mirror before we try to bring about higher standards for all.
the question of private schools has been put up to me. also. and to senator mcgovern and the other members of the bipartisan coalition which sponsored this amendment. we are rather of a mind to amend our proposal to deal with the profit private school question. and i am at liberty to do it. because the yeas and nays have  been ordered. but i did want the senators advice on the matter. to be very frank with the senator. i am cognizant of the fact that this affects a good many religious schools. and we certainly want them to have the benefit of school lunches. however. i am also cognizant of the fact that it would affect contrived private schools to avoid desegregation. but of course there are other ways of reaching the latter. because we wish to be as collaborative as we can about what we can agree on. if the senator feelsand i again presume the senators good will in all of this. because he is the man who has brought about such great changes himself in this billthat on the private school question it would be better to accommodate themand i would greatly appreciate his opinion on that pointhaving consulted with the senator from south dakota . i would be prepared to modify my amendment in order to accommodate the profit private school problem.
 i propose to add a proviso. as follows: provided. that e of the requirements of this section shall apply to profit private schools which participate in the school lunch program under the provisions of section 10 until such time as the secretary certifies that sufficient funds from sources other than childrens payments are available to enable such schools to meet these requirements.
i think that our objectiveif that provision looks all right to the staffwould be to limit our desire to the public school systems. there you have taxing authorities and a different situation from the financial pressure upon the private profit schools. that issue. of course. i am prepared to debate with the senator. but at least it will narrow the issue to that point. the senator need be under pressure about it. i will be speaking again. the senator may look it over at his leisure. i would understand that concession is involved in respect of the amendment. inasmuch as i think we a have common purpose. the idea would be to get the best expertise on how to deal with the private school problem.
. i ask unanimous consent at this time to modify my amendment. the modification i proposed before omitted some key words. as modified. my amendment would read: provided. that e of the requirements of this section in respect to the amount for "reduced cost" meals and to eligibility for meals without cost shall apply to profit private schools which participate in the school lunch program under the provisions of section 10 until such time as the secretary certifies that sufficient funds from sources other than childrens payments are available to enable such schools to meet these requirements.
. sufficient time has elapsed since the enactment in october of last year of the emergency insured student loan act to measure its effectiveness. it will be recalled that this legislation was necessary to meet the needs of thousands of young people who were experiencing great difficulties in obtaining guaranteed student loans to pursue their study careers in colleges and in postsecondary vocational institutions because of the money market crisis induced by high interest rates. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record two reports on the record of what has occurred. the first is an article written by the distinguished ecoist sylvia porter with respect to the national scene. the second is a letter to me from elwood d. hollister. jr.. the able executive director of the new york higher education assistance corporation. on the success of efforts in new york.
. this amendment relates to college disruption. the amendment i have proposed would substitute for the language used in section 407 the language used in the last approved hew appropriation bill. the 1969 appropriation. section 411. the difference between the language which is here contained and the language i have offered in the amendment is that this particular provision. 407. relates to precisely the same acts. force. or threat of force. or seizure of property. in respect to college disruptions as does my amendment and the language in the 1969 appropriations bill. but the language before us does  say who finds whether force has been used. hence. it leaves it to hew. as a practical effect. we have testimony where. if my amendment leaves it to the court and if there is a conviction. that is it. that ends it. the matter is automatically determined on the facts. the commissioner of education. mr. allen. has testified to the following effect. i read from page 2111 of his testimony on the appropriations bill: administratively. it is extremely difficult for us to do sothat means. to play the role of policeman to educational institutions. continuing reading: it would be extremely difficult to catalog the 1.500.000 college students who receive benefits.  can we lay down a uniform code of conduct that would be desirable or acceptable for all students in the country. thus. instead of leaving the question of administration. definition. and identification to hew. my amendment would simply adopt the language used before which has workedand incidentally. 350 students. he testified. have been denied aid by use of that amendmentand have a court make the finding. that is it. hing more to it than that. i point out. for the information of the senate. that there is a somewhat different provision in the higher education bill. section 504. one could argue that they should be uniform. but we went through this last year and the senate decided it wanted a direct provision in the appropriation bill to which i have referred. so. i have offered it as an amendment. there is reason to bruit this thing around again. we simply have to decide that something should go in here and put something in which is administratively feasible.
. i ask unanimous consent that the remarks i made on march 2 at the annual alumni dinner of the amos tuck graduate school of business administration of dartmouth college concerning the ecoic policy of the united states be the press conference preceding this address. i also urged the administration to review its policy regarding wage and price guidelines.
. i. too. wish to congratulate the senator from kentucky on the fine analysis he has made of the situation and especially as he touched the one chord that i think needs to be touched in this voting rights bill. i refer to the fact that whatever may have been our desires on school desegregation. on equal opportunity in employment. places of public accommodation. and so forth. as these debates have gone on through the years one thing everyone seems to have agreed upon. including those from states where segregation was a matter of law for so long. is that voting would be the key to enfranchisement of the negro in the south. we accepted that and there was real cooperation in the effort to proceed with that kind of opportunity. that seemed to be unchallenged. i hope very much this will be remembered in the course of this debate. as the senator from kentucky very clearly implied. i also hope that a fundamental proposition will be understood that when there is projected forward an effort to cure a situation there has to be provided an opportunity to see that the problem is really cured and dealt with until we are convinced the problem has been met. therefore. i think the substitute offered by the senator from pennsylvania really meets the problem because it does  take for granted the fact that although the situation has improved. the problem is at an end. we have too much evidence to the contrary. i hope very much the fine statement of the senator from kentucky will enable us to act relatively soon and affirmatively on this excellent substitute introduced by the distinguished miity leader.
. i would like to respond to that statement. if i may. by saying i do  believe anything in katzenbach against morgan set aside any provision of any law. all it did was to sustain the action of the senate in respect to the particular provision which would qualify spanishspeaking people who had gone to school under the american flag. i find hing except in a foote of this law attributing some purpose to the new york state legislature in 1922. which came out of the debate in the state legislature. by somebody who was arguing the case. which might have intimated a shadow of prejudice at that time. if the states which are being reached by the voting rights act of 1965 had discriminated in 1922even assuming new york had. which is a broad assumptionthey would  be under the voting rights act of 1965 at all. because the trigger operates on a 5year basis.  on a basis of 43 years. so i repeat that this amendment is irrelevant to the issue which is sought to be met by the voting rights act of 1965. and as i can see relevancy. and factual basis having been laid. except the idea that we want to make everybody the same whether there is any cause or . i am  persuaded. and i do  think this case in any way sustains the point of view that the amendment should be adopted.
. i take this occasion to observe an important date in the history of new york state. the 175th anniversary of the chartering of union college in schenectady. on february 25. 1795. the board of regents of the university of the state of new york issued its first collegiate charter to union college. creating an institution that is junior in new york state only to columbia. for nearly two centuries. union has served the community. the state. and the nation as an inator among colleges. the faculty and administration early recognized the importance of science and techogy to our enterprising american society. as early as 1809. its students were taught the basics of chemistry. during the 1820s. the college offered a degree in scientific studies. and in 1845. union became the first college of art in the country to offer training in engineering. in the early years of the present century. when the "electrical wizard" charles p. steinmetz was a member of the faculty. union led in developing the new field of electrical engineering. more recently. the colleges summer programs in science education provided the model for the allimportant national science foundation institutes that today train high school science teachers in every state. even . unions programs are providing inative leadership for our nation in fields ranging from aid to underdeveloped nations to new programs for reaching the educationally and socially disadvantaged. vita. the volunteers for international technical assistance. founded on the union campus just 10 years ago. has responded to more than 14.000 requests for technical advice from more than 60 developing countries. just last year. the office of ecoic opportunity commissioned vita to adapt its methods of aiding developing countries to the use of our own antipoverty program. last summer. union combined with nearby skidmore college and rensselaer polytechnic institute to launch an academic opportunities program. the program enrolled ecoically disadvantaged students of strong motivation whose academic records did  qualify them for college enrollment through regular channels. these students received a summer session of intensive training in college work. coupled with close individual attention. then they were enrolled in the regular freshman class last fall. thus union. founded in the early years of the american nation. has long reflected the ideals and aspirations of our own union. i k my fellow senators join me in offering congratulations on his anniversary and will wish for the college continued centuries of distinction and achievement.
. for almost a month . we have been discussing. and with some emotion. the extension and application of certain laws passed during the early 1960s to extend equal treatment to all americans regardless of color. last month we debated the continued application of school desegregation guidelines first established to implement the 1964 act. it was an extremely emotional debate in which the th was charged with enacting regional legislation designed to punish one segment of the country. today. we hear the same argument with regard to the extension of voting rights legislation enacted in 1965. i think it would be well at this time to look back a few years at the conditions which produced this kind of legislation and to consider whether the voting rights act of 1965 was indeed designed to punish one segment of the country. or whether it was absolutely necessary to insure equality of treatment which had been denied to black americans for decades. surely. if we review conditions and statistics prevailing in 1964. we can see why these laws came to be enacted. let us consider the conditions of the black voter in the south in 1964the conditions which brought about the passage of the 1965 act. throughout the south. literacy tests and other devices were employed discriminatorily in order to keep the negro from voting. so. too. were many other forms of intimidation. including violence. in mississippi. 6.4 percent of eligible black voters were registered. in georgia. 25 percent. in louisiana 30.5 percent. remember these figures. this law didnt spring full bloom from the minds of thern congressmen as some mad design to punish the south. these were the conditions which existed. and which absolutely had to be remedied. and the law has worked. in the 5 years since the passage of the act. more than 800.000 black americans have been registered in the six affected states. dozens of blacks have been elected to state and local office. finally. many formerly disenfranchised black americans are beginning to feel and act like citizensa right which had been theirs by virtue of the constitution. for a century. but which had been denied. and so  that registration and voter participation has increased because of the act. because of federal registrars and poll watchers. because of suspension of the literacy tests. and because of federal surveillance of state election laws. it is suggested that we abandon these tools and relegate the whole problem to a period of "benign neglect." we have seen in lamar. s.c.. the new climate which is capable of being produced when the federal government gives the smallest indication of slackening in its determination to proceed on school desegrega iori. and i. for one. am  prepared to see this happen in the field of voter protection. we need this law for at least aher 5 years. the black voter needs this protection and he should be able to count on the federal government to provide it. it is interesting to e that even after the passage of the 1965 act. the affected states used every possible means to evade it by changing state and local laws. elective offices were changed to appointed ones. voter districts were changed and atlarge elections were ordered. deadlines for fling of candidates papers were changed. every possible obstacle was thrown in the path of the black voter. it is only section 5 of the 1965 act which saved them. we can afford to abandon it. the house committee report. for example. states thatthese measures have taken the form of switching to atlarge elections where negro voting strength is concentrated in particular election districts and facilitating the consolidation of predominantly negro and predominantly white counties. other changes in rules or practices affecting voting have included increasing filing fees in elections where negro candidates were running. abolishing or making appointive office sought by negro candidates. extending the term of office of incumbent white officials. and withholding information about qualifying for office from negro candidates. this pattern of obstruction has continued. resulting in the attorney generals disapproval. only 10 months ago. of three amendments to the mississippi statute which would: first. provide for the atlarge election of members of the county boards of supervisors at the option of incumbent boards. second. increase the requirements which must be met to qualify as an independent candidate. and third. require the appointment rather than the election of certain officials. in june of last year. the attorney general had to object to the implementation of two similar statutes in louisiana. this is  the time to slacken upon the law lest we encourage the kind of men who hand out ax handles as a persistent and flagrant testimony to their determination to resist the law. in 1964 the dual school system prevailed in the south in spite of a supreme court decision of 10 years standing mandating a unitary system. the law was igedeven flauntedand an entire generation of negro youngsters was deprived of a quality integrated education. so we passed the 1964 act saying. in effect. the federal government would  stand for this condition any longer. we cut off federal money from any district which continued to segregate. and we vigorously pursued court action to integrate the schools. within 5 years. more than a million black children in the south were admitted to school with whites. by september of this year. compliance would have been complete. but for a few months. we hesitated. the guidelines were modified. enforcement was slowed. government officials with dedication to this cause were dismissed. and last month. the senate adopted two amendments which appear to encourage delay. we see  what has happened in response to this weakening of our resolve. the many thousands of state and local officials who. in good faith. complied with the law.  find themselves undercut. and. most important. we have encouraged. by our indecision. the very worst. the violent element in our nationthose dedicated to resistance. even if it means violence. the true extent of the damage was shown last week in lamar. s.c.. when a band of lawless and vicious hooligans stoned school busses filled with black children attempting to attend an integrated school and actually overturned those buses after the children had escaped into school. this morning. in lamar. the national guard is on alert because the schools have reopened and armed troops may be necessary to protect children from the violence of a lawless mob. is it  sickening. is it  shocking that after some years of relatively peaceful compliance with the law. and indeed on the very brink of full compliance. the conditions of 1957 can occur again. lamar. s.c.. has shown us vividly the price of vacillation. i urge my colleagues  to abandon the cause of voting rights . the time is crucial. a failure by the congress and all the progress of the last 6 years in voting rights can be destroyed. let us continue to enforce the law which has brought about so much progress. so much hope. and rekindled in so many americans. the belief that we really can provide equal justice under law for all. this can best be done by passing the scotthart amendment.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an address which i delivered to a conference on international affairs entitled: "china in perspective" sponsored by the university of illis extension in international affairs. bradley university. illis central college and the world affairs council of central illis at the hotel pere marquette. peoria. ill.. on march 14. 1970. 1
. to deal with de facto segregation by law. senator stennis is absolutely correct: we have the right. the courts may declare it unconstitutional. that is possible. they may declare that education is a matter for the states. that it is beyond our reach in terms of the application of federal law. and that all we can do is condition the use of money on whatever our ideas are. but we can actually direct state school systems as to how they shall organize and operate. that may very well be. but even in conditioning the use of money. we could deal with de facto segregation. and say. "e of this money can be used. or it can be used only under given conditions. when. as a matter of fact. there is a preponderant pattern of one race or the other in given school systems." we could set a percentagewhich is what we tried to do in new york. by the wayand certain guidelines with which we had a great deal of trouble when dr. allen.  the commissioner of education. was our education commissioner in new york. so we could set percentages. but if you get into that. then you have to go a lot further than anybody around here seems to be willing to go. for one. you are face to face with the busing issue. there is simply way to desegregate areas where you have a heavy concentration. for example. of black population in the core cities except by busing. and you have to face that head on. you have to face a definition of what is a segregated school system de facto. and there you come into the issue of percentages. you have to face the issue which the senator from colorado and the senator from kentucky have always sought to lead us onthe issue of the quality of education. is it really a fact that this type of segregation does what the supreme court found de jure segregation did in the brown caseto wit. depreciate the quality of education of the individual. or at least have that capability. all this is a far more complex question than the senate has yet been willing to deal wtih. i will say. as an ardent advocate of desegregation. that i would be very pleased if the senate really came to grips with that as a matter of law and tried to decide what is and what is  good educational policy in terms of federal money. where you have school systems which have concentrations of population in a given area so that the concentration reflects itself in the school population in individual school districts. i doubt very much that the advocates of the stennis amendment want to get into that. because it would lead right into all the things to which they have been opposed. so. really. when senator stennis proposed his amendment. he was proposing a compromise. he was proposing a policy declaration because. obviously. those of that point of view were unwilling to get into a statutory declaration which would have to be infinitely more specific and have to face the stern realities which you have to face if you are going to deal with what is called de facto segregation. i respectfully submit that in working out a policy declaration. the conferees have preserved far more than they have given up. as i see it. the only thing they have really given up from the original stennis amendment is the failure of the original stennis amendment to recognize that it was a policy which was  adjusted to the size of the law. that the policy went beyond the law. what the compromise did was to say that the policy will go the extent of the law. and if the law grows. it will go that far. too. but it will  go beyond the law. i can see how. in logic. one can fault that kind of compromise. where we are dealing with law. we have right to make policy. except based upon the law we have a right to apply. we are  a legislature of unlimited powers. we have a very sharp circumscription of our powers according to the constitution. so it seems to me that we followed out the logic of the stennis amendment in the compromise we made. and i feel that we gave up. in terms of what the senate wanted by a majority vote. a lot less than we got. i feel that the conferees have brought home the essential thrust of the stennis amendment. insofar as it has any. right to go. which is to the extent that we have any powerto wit. the law. the federal law. whether it is made in court or made here in statute. i was very much a party to this effort. which went on for days. as the senate ks. and was very hard fought. in closing. i would like to testify to my feelingand i make myself the example athat i really felt deeply impressed in conscience with the obligation of being a conferee on an amendment which i was against. strongly against. and. it seems to me. made me even more vigilant than i otherwise would have been and less disposed than i otherwise would have been to give up anything on it. i felt the duty to stick by it far more tenaciously than one does mally in a conference. whether on my own amendment or anybody elses. because i understood the background and the quality of the obligation we had undertaken as trustees. i deeply believe. in all conscience. that we brought back to the senate the essential thrust. as senator pell put it. of the stennis amendment.
 the senator is  saying that at all. on the contrary. i am doing everything humanly possible. and many others are. who are operating in this field. i said on the floor that when my state passed a law which inhibited local school boards from ordering busing to correct racial imbalance. unless it was an elected school board. that i am opposed to it and i would join with the others in efforts to undo it. i am pleased with the efforts made under mr. james e. allen. jr.. when he was our commissioner. i am pleased with the efforts of the courts which have issued decrees in the situation and i shall help to support them in every way i can. all i say is. right . it is beyond the reach of federal law or the authority of the states. but i welcome it. in the absence of it. i do  see how we can make a policy which goes further than this authority to decide cases bearing on state or federal law.
i consider it a de jure school system. but i do  think that is what the senator means. i think what he means is. where there is a heavy concentration of black students in an individual school. what do i consider to be the origin of that condition. is that right.
if the senator will just give me the opportunity. i will reply. new york has a de jure school system. it does  have a freedom of choice or pupil placement plan. wherever there is a concentration of black students. it is the result of residential patterns which is called alternatively by the people who argue as the senator from south carolina does. de facto segregation or racial imbalance. depending upon what law he is writing. in my judgment. the only law passed by new york that has any effect upon this matter is the law with relation to busing. the busing of students for whatever reason. the legislature of the state of new york has held that busing may be ordered to correct racial imbalance only by an elected school board and  by an appointed school board. i have said that i consider that to be a very. unwise distinction. i believe that that law is wrong. that school districts should be permitted to order busing for educational reasons. however that may have been constituted by election or appointment. that is the whole situation. as i understand it. for new york.
. we have heard a great deal of argument about the conference report on the socalled stennis amendment. what we have failed to hear is argument which is directed to the compromise made by the conferees. from listening to senators who argue against what we have done. one would think that we were back in the argument on the amendment when it was voted by the senate in the first place. but we are well over that particular bridge. we  have the senate version of the stennis amendment. the conferees were sent to do their utmost to retain it. i respectfully submit that we have retained it in large part and in substance. and that we have brought back a very creditable version of the senates purpose. yet to hear the proponents of the stennis amendment. one would think that what we should have accomplished was to adopt the stennis amendment all over again. that is all they argue for. but we can argue against it. we were the conferees. and that is water over the dam. we must then debate two questions: first. does the amendment essentially accomplish what was the will of the senate. as close as it can be brought back here. second. can we do any better. third. if we did take the whole issue back to conference. what would we lose in the process. the last is the extremely important point. i should like to point out to senators who are deeply concerned with the fact that this is an education bill of great importance to the states and communities that we compromised the duration of the bill from 4 years to 3. the house insisted on 2 years. so the duration could easily be cut back again to 2 years. we will  get anything on the stennis amendment unless we give in aher direction. and that might make senators far more unhappy. also. the cost was cut from $35 billion to $24 billion by other changes made. there is lots of latitude to cut the amount far below that. if the house conferees were to have their way. a very important issue which is involved is the issue of comparability of services by schools which get the benefit of funds to buttress the education of children from poor families. this definition ended up satisfactory to the senates intention. which was that comparability should be brought about as soon as possible in order to raise the level of schools heavily impacted with children of poor families. there. too. the house was stubborn. i can assure the senate that if we take it back. we will do nearly as well. also. with respect to the consolidation idea. that is the idea of consolidating various titles of aid in the elementary and secondary education field. with grants to the states to be made in a lump sum. the house insisted on a massive consolidation which. in our judgment. completely blotted it out. as to the essential purpose of aid to children of poor families. we were able. by hard bargainingwe took a case in respect of this compromise on the conference reportto work out a modest consolidation and we consolidated only four titles into two titles in the bill. one of these we considered important and the other we did  consider of vital importance. counseling. which is title vi of the national defense education act. was consolidated into title iii of the elementary and secondary education act. which is supplementary education centers. the senate bill had previously consolidated section 12 of the arts and humanities act and title iii of the national defense education act. both provisions dealing with equipment. if we take the matter back. we will have a new struggle on the question of consolidation. also the question of loans forgiveness on loans to college students would be again under consideration. this is a grave problem for us. that is the way to cover the field in the biggest way. depending on government appropriations. we limited the number of students who can enjoy the benefits markedly. in order to do that. we had to insist that a good deal of the loans on forgiveness had to be surrendered. the house took the opposite position. there were smaller numbers who would be benefited by student loans but broader forgiveness was in there because it depended on government appropriations. we did well on that in sustaining the senates position. we will materially limit the opportunity for student loans. if we go back to that particular arrangement. yet that is exactly what is likely to be done. so. there are powerful reasons why four members of the conference committee. who had voted for the stennis amendment. signed the -conference report because they realized in an education bill that the questions which relate to education should preponderate. and they did. i can assure the senate. as the senior conferee on the republican side. that we can bring back a conference report this way. the chair has already ruled in respect of the motion to recommit by the senator from connecticut that the instructions therein containednamely. to negotiate to retain more of the stennis amendmentis something which we can be instructed on. the whole conference report would be open and every question would be newly at issue. the senate is taking its chances on what we can bring back. whether we can bring back anything which will be different or allegedly better than the stennis amendment. as to the stennis amendment itself. i really think that the proponents of that amendment are going to the well once too often. i think we have kept our pledge. i remind the senate that i was probably the most single ardent opponent of the stennis amendment. nevertheless. as the ranking miity member of the conference. i made a pledge that i would fight for the amendment as if it were my own. and i did. and i believe we have kept the pledge. there is  only confusion in what has come out of the conference. but what has come out of the conference is much better than what went to conference. it is much more meaningful. it gives more support to the position sought to be put forward by the senator from mississippi and his colleagues. it is a fact that we are makers of law. and policy must necessarily be connected with laweither law  or in the future. and in seeking the uniform application of the lawas we are  passing a law. but are dealing only with a policy declarationthe most we can do is to see that the present law is uniformly applied and that as a law it will be uniformly applied. all of these things are done. and i. as a lawyer. have stated so. the senator from mississippi read my statement. and i stand by it. the fundamental objective of the situation sought to be accomplished by the stennis amendment is that all would be treated the same. that has  been accomplished. and that has  been challenged. i respectfully submit that the statement of the senator from rhode island
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to amend the education professions development act to permit states to use grant program funds for retraining experienced educational personnel to meet critical shortages. this legislation was suggested to me by the new york state department of education and follows the suggestion contained in the report submitted by the u.s. office of education last month entitled "attracting and qualifying teachers to meet critical teacher shortages." that report states: the states are currently prevented from using state grants program funds for retraining experienced educational personnel to meet critical shortages. this restriction should be lifted. if a state has a surplus of secondary school social studies teachers. for example. and desires to retrain them to meet an immediate critical need in junior high school science and mathematics. it should have the freedom to do so. such a change would be entirely in keeping with the intent of part b2 of epda. to meet critical shortages as determined by the states.
. we must learn from a terrible tragedy. this situation could  go either way. there are some 7 million college students in this country. one direction would be for an emous section of the college community to get very angry. this would serve only to cause more tragedy and reduce the effectiveness. justice. and wellbeing of our country in which we commonly reside and the country we commonly seek to enjoy. the other way would be to pause at the abyss and say that this terrible tragedy will teach us  that we have to have a dialog and hear each other. we have to be civil. for our part. as responsibly as we can. we must address ourselves to the deep currents of feeling which say there is much need for great and justifiable change in this country and our operations abroad. especially in the vietnam war. we must be willing to listen. be unafraid of change. and if we feel it desirable. fight for it with vigor. it is also important that we give them the feeling that we are willing to fight for necessary changes with vigor. there are many measures pending in congress which will go a long way toward making them feel we are responsive. including electoral reform. the 18yearold vote. and congressional reform. also. whatever one may have thought of the two supreme court inations. most felt the senate was trying to exercise its judgment. right or wrong. and that we were looking after the best interests of our nation as best we could. i do  advise members to go to campuses where they will be shouted down or treated uncivilly. although a little of that we will have to take. but there are many campuses where one can get a reasonable hearing. the word goes out that we are sitting here in our ivory tower. in washington. but the word should also go out that we are willing to listen and we would like to express what we think. if we make an attempt to explain ourselves. we will be listened to. i would like to give senators a brief example of what i mean.  long ago i made a speech on a college campus. someone asked me about the volunteer army. i knew the audience was for a volunteer army.
. yesterday. two students from the school of engineering and science of new york university presented to me off the floor of the senate a petition containing approximately 350 signatures constituting onehalf of the faculty and onethird of the student body of the school of engineering and science. protesting the expansion of the vietnam war into cambodia. and the bombing of th vietnam. for i am informed that the petition was signed by the dean. john k. ragazzini. the associate dean. emanuel a. salma. the provost. mr. w. f. hyde. the two assistant deans and the heads of various departments. all signatures were obtained in a period of 5 hours when the petition was circulating. this was the first time that the school of engineering and science had ever circulated such a petition for presentation to their elected representatives. in addition. the dean arranged for the school to send two student representatives to washington to present the petition to the congress. i would like to tell the students and faculty of the school of engineering and science of new york university how much their efforts in expressing themselves this way are appreciated and how meaningful is the method they have chosen. this petition shows that students and faculties have  given up on our representative system and still feel it is worthwhile to petition their government. this is most admirable. we in the senate must  let that effort be in vain and must listen and give serious consideration to the views expressed in the petition. i ask unanimous consent that a letter of transmittal and the text of the petition together with selected signatures of faculty members be printed in the record.
. i am pleased to join with my distinguished colleague from california . who is ranking miity member of the subcommittee on employment. manpower. and poverty. in this crucial amendment to the manpower training act of 1969. of which i am the principal sponsor in the senate. this amendment would direct the states and the cities. as they assume greater responsibility for manpower programs. to pay particular attention to the needs of those whose ability to engage in employment is impaired by a socalled language barrier. in my own city of new york. a 1967 study indicated that more than 10 percent of students in grades 1 to 12 were classified by the school system as "englishspeaking." i think that these statisticswhich are repeated throughout the nationindicate the great need for a special sensitivity to such needs as manpower programs are developed on the local level. i commend the senator from california for taking the initiative on this matter. as he has in the field of education so often in the past.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at the next printing. the name of the senator from texas be added as a cosponsor of s. 3707 to amend title v of the higher education act of 1965relating to education professions developmentto authorize training programs for teachers in order that they may teach other grades or subjects in which there is a teacher shortage.
s objectives on public school desegregation and with his historic message. however. i feel a deep responsibility as to the means of achieving these objectives. and hope to be able to work them out with the administration and the majority in congress.
. i wish to annce. for the information of the senate. that on tomorrow. or whenever it can be reached. i will offer an amendment to the appropriation bill to add $150 million to implement the desegregation of public school systems along the lines of the debate of yesterday which :failed and was aborted by a point of order in respect of the same measure. i have consulted upon this amendment -with various interested parties. including the administration. however. the amendment will  be printed and available to senators tonight. i serve this ice for the record.
. it is the intention of the administration to spend this money under those authorizations and with fidelity to those authorizations. aher question which troubled members and which was debated here related to the exact concept which was embodied in proviso (a) contained in my amendment at page 2. line 8. that proviso reads as follows: (a) to assist a local educational agency which engages. or has unlawfully engaged. in the gift. lease or sale of real or personal property or services to a public elementary or secondary school or school system practicing discrimination on the basis of race. color. or national origin that particular section was the subject of an amendment which was approved in the senate and was the subject of an effort to amend the amendment which failed in the senate. the words here set forth are exactly as they emerged from the give and take of debate and as they were left by the votes before the mondale amendment was made obsolete by the fact that the basic provision of the bill to which it was addressed was itself stricken out on a point of order. so that we have simply taken what the senate did as to that provisowhat the senate actually legislated. as it were. to the extent that it did have rollcall votes. however. concern was expressed over it. before it was refinedand this was a very excellent suggestion of the senator from tennessee -to include the words on line 9. page 2 of my amendment. "or has unlawfully engaged in the gift. lease or sale of property." in other words. whatever retroactivity there was. was based upon the fact that it was unlawful. let us remember that this whole question is one of discretion in terms of the use of this money by the secretary of health. education. and welfare. in other words. even if this proviso were  in the law. the secretary of health. education. and welfare. himself. could determine that he would  afford whatever assistance he could afford under this appropriation to school districts which had engaged in that practice. he did  need the proviso to do it. but with the proviso. this is an instruction to him to proceed in that way. it is very important. therefore. as to the intention of the administration in that regard. because to those who have concerns about this particular part of the amendment. the fact that the administration had a given intention with respect to it anyhow. so that it becomes really a tautological question as to whether or  it is incorporated is very important. so i will read a letter from the administration. delivered to me yesterday. which bears on its intention. anyhow. without regard to the inclusion or lack of inclusion of the proviso with respect to this particular matter. the letter is addressed to me. signed by the under secretary of health. education. and welfare john g. veneman. and reads as follows: it is available to every senator.
it is right here. it is s. 3883. it was introduced as recently as may 26. 1970. that is why i say what i do about the time factor. i would like to point out that the administration in respect of the hearings on the supplemental at page 741 of the testimony presented "basic policies for administering the emergency school systems appropriations of $150 million  under preliminary consideration by the hew." it is that memorandum which spelled out what was intended to be done with the money. i have already explained the authorizing of the authorities respecting authorization. and it was made very clear by the testimony that this would be used essentially in respect of districts which were under order to desegregate or had very recently desegregated pursuant to order. there was relevance between this and the matter of racial imbalance or racial isolationism.
  yet. in both illegal and de facto segregation in school districts all over the united states. the purpose of this particular $150 million is to zero in on de jure segregation problems of school districts which have de jure school desegration situations and which have been ordered to desegregate. or which have recently desegregated pursuant to order or agreement of government departments. it is a rather different situation. that would be included in the larger bill. but the larger bill would go to a broader area and in a different direction. in addition to which. i do  k what is going to happen to it. the case i make before the senate is that the president asks us to appropriate 10 percent of what he thinks the whole program requires. for its general purpose or its general thrust. but asks for authority so we can get to working on the problem as quickly as possible and. second. the experience that it will give in a very practical way.
. in the first place. every lawyer finds authority where he can. years ago. when i was very active in the practice of law. i used to have a client who made many millions of dollars. although he was hardly literate. he had a great expression. his expression was. "theres always a right way to do right." so every lawyer. naturally. will seek authority where he can find it. and the fellows who drafted the law or wrote the decisions may never have dreamed that the authority would be extended to the given purpose for which it was properly invoked. but we do  go that far here. the fact is that one of the aims of the ecoic oportunity act is to afford better educational opportunity. that the whole point about desegregation is that it is supposed to offer better educational opportunity in the ecoic opportunity act. for example. section 221(a). refers to authority to grant financial assistance in order to attain an adequate education. in addition. the utilization of this particular authority is locked in by the words of the amendment which limit it to assistance for a given purpose and by the representation of the administration as to precisely the way in which the authority admittedly existing in title iib of the ecoic opportunity act. if usedand they must use it only that waywill contribute to the desegregation of local school districts. i specified those. and i will repeat them: (1) mi remodeling of school facilities to improve the quality of physical plant. (2) parent or community organizations to assist in developing community support for educational change. (3) administrative costs incident to reorganization of school systems. (4) remedial materials. special personnel and health and nutrition services for disadvantaged children. (5) paraprofessional assistance for classroom teachers.
. i think that senators are entitled to k what we mean by a local education agency. i think they are entitled to k what this proviso means. i could give the senators my view of it. i think that the local education agency referred to in the amendment means the one who did what the amendment hopes it would  dotransfer property for services in order to aid an unlawful process. if that is a small school board. then that small school board would be unable to get part of these funds. if it is the whole state then the inhibition would go to the state. if it were a county school agency. then it would go to the county. as to what is a local school agency depends on the state. as the senator from mississippi pointed out. the way in which the state is organized. and the state has that duty. determines that question. and that is the way it is applied. that would be the application of this proviso. i think senators are entitled to my views on the ex post facto matter. i believe. with the senator from tennessee . who unfortunately is  in the chamber at the present time. but who made a good point. that it is ex post facto unless it is unlawful. but if it is unlawful then it is  ex post facto. because if it is wrong when committed. that wrong continues. that is basic hornbook law. i agree with the senator from th carolina. whether sustained on a point of order i would  want to do anything that was ex post facto so that the inent person who did something when it was lawful would find himself trapped. i think the intercession of the senator from tennessee cures that defect.
 for taking this printingshecnametheseator from nestep. it should mean a much tougher. betprinting. the name of the senator from ter coordinated. more effective federal polindiana .be added as a co- icy in dealing with polluters. furthermore. sponsor of s. 4104. the school breakfast epa. which is similar to proposals that have act of 1970. been made in congress. is a logical founda-
. i shall address myself to amendment 38. which was reported in disagreement and which relates to emergency school assistance. in which we carried $150 million here. as i understand it . that amount was cut by 50 percent in conference. or to $75 million. and the other body has  concurred in that amendment so that it remains but for us to concur and the $75 million will be appropriated. is that correct.
i would like to state to the manager of the bill that we thought the $150 million could be extremely well used in respect of the desegregation effort. we were deeply concerned that the limitations should remain in the bill. as they are such as to prevent a defeat of the very effort which the $75 million or $150 million originally was designed to promote. to wit. desegregation. those who would attempt to avoid the effect of desegregation by unlawfully utilizing public property by transferring it to private segregated schools. are discouraged from doing so by the first limitation. the other limitations prevent the use of federal funds to supplant available federal funding and assure that the financial assistance provided is available in all sections of the country where similar problems have created similar needs. i consider the precedent of the retention of the limitations in the amendment of such overriding importance that i am even willing to accept the disappointment of the 50percent cut provided that the limitations are included. i would be the first to affirm. because i have been a member of the committee on appropriations and served with the senator from washington on conference committees. the tremendous effort which i k it took to get even the $75 million. the chairman did extremely well under the circumstances. but. . the real danger we face. aside from a lagging desegregation policy anywhere in the countryand i emphasize that because it needs to be emphasizedis that we are seeking to bring about a better educational system through exercising the spectre of segregation wherever it may be present. one of the fine points brought out in debate was the fact that socalled de facto segregation and racial imbalance are exactly the same thing. i hope very much. as this educational process goes on. people will understand that socalled racial imbalance is just as capable of depriving children of a sufficient education as socalled de jure segregation. the only question is. can we reach racial imbalance. and if we can. what can we do about it intelligently. we all agree we would prefer  to bus our children over long distances. but i deeply believe. if you want to give children the best in education. they are entitled to an education which is integrated. while we may  prefer busing. we k often there is other wayjust as we discovered with the little red school houseto provide a decent education without the use of busing. so i think it should be ed very specifically that a real achievement is incorporated in this conference report in these terms. i am the first to affirm that i hope very much this legislation will be used with intelligence to deal with situations in the th. and west. as well as in the south. but there are two caveats: first. that should  divert our attention from areas where there is unlawful segregation which has already been identified by the courts and hew. this appropriation will  substitute for fair law enforcement in many areas of the south. and second. we should  be scared away by the catch words of "neighborhood schools" and "forced busing" from giving the children. who can represent themselves and for whom we are speaking. the very optimum we humanly can in education. i am a member of the select committee on equal educational opportunity which the senator from minnesota heads and a member of the education subcommittee. chaired by the senator from rhode island . we will be coming in with a substantial bill. the administration has asked for $1.5 billion. this is a beginning. i say to the administration that the easiest way to kill a program which has much promise around here. is to ruin it when you start. or waste money in respect to it. or engage in experiments which are footless. just because you do  k what to do with the money. ody is asking the administration to spend money. if they do  want to spend it. that is all right. but if they do. they should bear in mind they have to spend it intelligently and effectively. everything they do about the expenditure of this $75 million will have a direct and decisive effect on our chances for getting the whole program enacted into law. i think this is critically important. and i hope the administration will take it very much to heart. i e with great regret that the socalled whitten amendments. which also relate to desegregation problems in the schools. are carried over in the conference report. we all knew. and we knew it when we debated the question. that they are of legal effect. unlike the socalled jonas amendment. which fortunately is left out of the bill. but the whitten amendments are still an albatross around the neck of this measure. i k the other body insisted on them because they did go back in disagreement. to the great credit of a number of senate conferees. they signed the conference report--and that includes the distinguished chairman. the senator from washington -with the exception of amendment  39. which related to the socalled whitten amendments. this effort to act as king canute to stem the tide of our doing our utmost to remove the color factor from the education of children of the united states is doomed to failure. it is vestigial. it is archaic. it is bound to go. the tenacity with which it hangs on in amendments like these is really appalling in this country. yet the very same people who advocate this kind of amendment are the people who talk about neighborhood schools and being against busing. when the worst expressions of segregation came under the heading of busing. and black children were bused 20. 30. and 40 miles a day. right past the doors of white schools which were their neighborhood schools. in the name of segregation. i sympathize with the senator from washington . i k how he feels. we live in a working world. there is a heavy responsibility borne by the other body for its persistence including this kind of amendment. it is amazing to me to see it. since it does . in my view. represent the prevailing view in the country. we can only hope to continue the fight and to urge our brethren in the other body to be more decisive and vigorous in their opposition to such amendments. it is unfortunate that we are at the point of having or  having a massive bill for education which is absolutely essential to the school districts of our country. at the price accepting an amendment like this. which is  going to turn the world over. i agree-
 for signature into law provides $43 million for grant construction assistance. typical of these developing institutions are the 68 private and 43 public higher education institutions with a predominantly negro student body. the median family income of the students attending these institutions is $3.900. the national median is $7.974. in 1968 and 1969. predominantly white colleges received $96 million in grants from private philanthropy of which $11 million was for building and equipment. this is contrasted with the $4.6 million given to predominantly black schools of which some $150.000 was for construction and equipment. the office of education indicates that there are some 400 developing institutions in the nation. included among those which are located in new york state are the college of st. rose in albany. keuka college in keuka park. manhattan college in the bronx in new york city. and trocaire college in buffalo.
but the senator has been working admirably for years trying to stop the buyers and the pushers in the national and international trade. here is a chance to do something in an impressive way. i think the country is ready to tackle it at the users end. which has such a proliferating effect on this country. public school children are involved.
. i think this is a worthy idea. it follows very much along the lines we have pursued in the hunger situation and the school desegregation situation. i think it can be very useful. especially in view of the interest of the young in the problems involving the environment. it would give them a focal point for new ideas.
. i submit for appropriate reference on amendment to s. 3636. the higher education opportunity act of 1970. the administrations higher education bill which i originally introduced on march 25th. this amendment is designed to meet the problem of discrimination against particular categories of students in the granting of guaranteed student loans. the discrimination takes such forms as a requirement that the student or his family maintain an account or business relationship with the lender. refusal to make loans to students during their freshman year of study and discrimination because of race or sex. these problems were documented in the survey of lender practices relating to the guaranteed student loan program conducted in accord with subsection 6 (a) of the emergency insured student loan act of 1969. it is estimated that some 100.000 to 150.000 students could benefit from this proposal. my amendment would require that as a condition precedent to the use of the secondary market and warehouse mechanisms provided in s. 3636. lenders must contract that they will  discriminate against particular classes or categories of students. including a requirement that the student or his family maintain a business relationship with the lender. the practice of refusing to make a loan to freshmen students. and discrimination on the basis of sex. color. creed. or national origin. the survey revealed. for example. that: in the judgment of financial aid officers interviewed. discretionary practices that prevent the largest number of students from receiving loans related to account relationships and year in school. a similar conclusion was reached in a sampling of student loan applicants. the survey also found that: an analysis of demographic characteristics of respondents who did  get loans indicated. for example. that the proportion of females and whites  receiving loans was significantly higher than could be explained by chance occurrence. my amendment seeks to meet these shortcomings. in the current school year. an estimated 1.087.000 young americans will. borrow in the area of $1 billion to further their educations. and these figures. it is anticipated. will grow in the future. my amendment will foster that healthy growth.
i thank my colleague. one of the joys of serving here is that we take turns in being in what the senator calls a subordinate capacity. i have sat at the senators feet in connection with congressional reorganization. congressional ethics. and foreign policy matters for years. i think it is one of the most creative aspects of our working life. which is dedicated to the public interest as we see it. that we learn how to be. at one and the same time. acolytes and evangelists. i thank the senator very much for his remarks. 
. recently. i received a letter from dr. louis dascoll. principal of eastchester high school in eastchester. n.y.. enclosing a petition signed by members of the student body of his school. these young people have been considering the language of the pledge of allegiance and have offered a suggested change in the wording. they asked that i introduce legislation substituting the word "seeking" for the word "with" in the final phrase so that it reads "seeking liberty and justice for all." i have also received from dr. james allen. formerly u.s. commissioner of education. a proposed redraft of the pledge which he composed at the invitation of the editors of look magazine. dr. allen would add only three words to the existing text. i would hope that members will have an opportunity to review both proposals during the recess. and ask unanimous consent that dr. dascolis letter. dr. allens proposal. and a story which appeared in the new york times of december 10 concerning this matter be printed in the record at this point.
. as the 91st congress draws to a close. having already expressed my tribute to the chairman of our committee. senator yarborough. i feel special mention must be made of the senator from rhode island.  pell. a treatment which we feel has made for the enactment of constructive measures. and we look forward to a continuing fine relationship with him and his staff. much difficult work lies ahead. as in the administrations emergency school aid program and higher education. and senator pells hand at the helm will be most helpful in the new congress.
 nixon. in endorsing the week early in 1969. said: this week focuses public attention on the need for skilled. responsible drivers. and on the importance of effective inspection and reliable repair services for these vehicles. and finally. it reminds each of us that it is the duty of every motorist to cooperate with school bus drivers to make our highways as safe as possible for the one out of every four american pupils who ride buses to and from school each day. i am  suggesting that school bus transportation is unsafe. it is . school bus drivers have by and large a good safety record. however. the increasing accident rate and the fact that each year more and more children travel on school buses makes it imperative that the safety record of school buses be as near perfect as humanly possibleindeed. the safest form of transportation in the nation.
. while i am very sympathetic with the mondale bill. i can best serve the purpose of getting a bill passed by being the main sponsor of the administrations bill and endeavoring to find a way out of the differences that face us. the dilemma is  as complex as it sounds. the mondale bill seeks to zero in on stable quality integrated schools. the administration bill seeks to zero in on the elimination or reduction of miity group isolation. essentially the racial concept. the administration bill gives practically all the money to that purpose. the mondale bill gives about 40 to 45 percent to the purpose of a stable integrated school. which may be inapplicable in certain areas where the composition of a school district does  permit of that kind of application.
 nixon in his .february 22 message on higher education. that "qualified student who wants to go to college should be barred by lack of money".  only must the federal government enlarge its efforts. but the states must also do so. this bill seeks to encourage the states to do just that. by mr. hartke:
. to bequeath to the future an objective study of todays world is a legacy more valuable than any wealth could purchase. to give to the leaders of tomorrows world an oral history by the leaders and witnesses of history in the making. provides for the student of contemporary history a unique opportunity to learn firsthand about the people and events which have shaped the course of the world. allan nevins. historian and biographer. recipient of two pulitzer prizes. and creator of the columbia university oral history research program. has made possible this legacy. all the more valuable because his reflection of our history enables us to be wiser about the world we will shape for the future. mr. nevins prolific pen has been stilled. but his works will long be with us. guiding us to a better world. i ask unanimous consent that an editorial which appeared in the new york times on march 6. 1971. and an obituary appearing the same day. be printed in the record.
 nixon has proclaimed the week of march 7 as save your vision week. the first such observance was held 44 years ago for the purpose of making americans more aware of the important role vision plays in our lives. and how we can better preserve our eyesight. blindness is a great tragedy. but it becomes even a greater tragedy when it is unnecessaryand most blindness is unnecessary. for example the harmful effects of glaucoma. one of the leading causes of blindness. can be avoided if discovered early egh. yet. an estimated 1.000.000 americans suffer from this disease and are  aware of it. for many of them. the disease will  be recognized until it is too late. there are many vision problems less severe than blindness that also take a high toll on society. poor vision is often the cause of learning difficulties among school children. and possible consequent antisocial behavior. vision problems are a factor in loss of industrial safety and productivity. among the aged. vision problems are almost universal and are a significant factor in mobility problems that confront them. this observance should encourage doctors in the field of eye care to renew their efforts to provide the best possible eye care to the 50 percent of americas people who have vision problems. in this regard i am pleased to e that new york state will soon open the doors of a new college of optometry to be operated under the auspices of the state university of new york. the college was created by an act of the new york state legislature that was signed into law by gover rockefeller during the closing hours of the 1970 legislative session. this school will be the 12th such school in the nation. and the first school of optometry to be located in new york state since the columbia optometry school closed many years ago. we would be well advised if we all took the simple measures necessary to preserve and protect our vision. matter what field of endeavor we are engaged in. good eyesight can help us to live fuller and more rewarding lives.
. i submit for appropriate reference an amendment to s. 1123. the higher education opportunity act of 1971. the administrations higher education bill which was introduced on march 4th by the distinguished senator from vermont and of which i was a cosponsor. this amendment is designed to meet the problem of discrimination against particular categories of students in the granting of guaranteed student loans and is similar to one i introduced last year. the discrimination takes such forms as a requirement that the student or his family maintain an account or business relationship with the lender. refusal to make loans to students during their freshman year of study and discrimination because of race or sex. these problems were documented in the survey of lender practices relating to the guaranteed student loan program conducted in accord with subsection 6(a) of the emergency insured student loan act of 1969. it is estimated that some 100.000 to 150.000 students could benefit from this proposal. my amendment would require that as a condition precedent to the use of the secondary market and warehouse -mechanisms provided in s. 1123. lenders must contract that they will  discriminate against particular classes or categories of students. including a requirement that the student or his family maintain a business relationship with the lender. the practice of refusing to make a loan to freshmen students. and discrimination on the basis of sex. color. creed. or national origin. the survey revealed. for example. that: in the judgment of financial aid officers interviewed. discretionary practices that prevent the largest number of students from receiving loans related to account relationships and year in school. a similar conclusion was reached in a sampling of student loan applicants. the survey also found that: an analysis of demographic characteristics of respondents who did  get loans indicated. for example. that the proportion of females and whites  receiving loans was significantly higher than could be explained by chance occurrence. my amendment seeks to meet these shortcomings. in the current school year. an estimated 1.087.000 young americans will borrow in the area of $1 billion to further their educations. and these figures. it is anticipated. will grow in the future. my amendment will foster that healthy growth.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to amend the education opportunity grant program of the higher education act in two respectsfirst. extend to parttime students eligibility for education opportunity grants so that those many young people attending college at least half time might have an opportunity to obtain. on a prorated basis. the same assistance in obtaining a higher education as that afforded to fulltime students. education opportunity grants are the funds up to $1.000 annually provided needy fulltime students to attend college. parttime students form a substantial portion of the student body in this nation today. comprising 1.03 million of the 2.2 million attending junior and community colleges and 1.65 million of the 6.35 million attending 4year institutions. if it were  for the opportunities of parttime study. many of these young people would be unable to obtain a higher education. due to the fact that family personal circumstances oblige them to work while pursuing their studies. i have an especial personal sympathy for young people who find themselves so constrained because as a student i also found it necessary to work part time while undertaking my law studies at new york university. second. increasing the maximum amount authorized for an education opportunity grant from $1.000 to $1.200 annually during the second. third. and fourth years for any recipient who ranks in the upper half of his class. this is similar to a provision recognizing academic achievement which was part of the original higher education act in 1965. but which was repealed when educational opportunity grants were increased from $800 to $1.000. i feel that it is most important that the ecoic status of the individuals family  be the sole determinant of assistance during his college career but that an opportunity be afforded to recognize academic achievement also. this is a key element of federal studentaid programs. both state and private. finally. i am pleased to e that the higher education associations. in testimony yesterday before the senate education subcommittee. voiced support to extend the education opportunity grant program to parttime students. as i have proposed. joining in the testimony were the american association of junior colleges. the american association of state colleges and universities. the american council on education. the association of american colleges. the association of american universities. the national association of state universities and land grant colleges and the national council of independent colleges and universities. by mr. moss:
. us. commissioner of education sidney p. marland. jr.. has made an outstanding contribution in his annual report. the first commissioners annual report submitted in accordance with public law 91230 enacted last year. the first chapter of this report. "the state of education." personally penned by dr. marland. reflects upon the present state of education in the nation. including a statement of philosophy and needs. he sees the federal role as one of increasing the effectiveness and the human and financial resources of our schools. colleges. and universities. including greatly increased technical assistance to state and local school systems to insure the delivery of new and better ways to teach and to learn. dr. marland stresses that the office of education should provide national leadership. that it be a responsible and willing companion to the states and to the communities in serving the educational needs of our nation. i ask unanimous consent that the first chapter of the commissioners report be included as a part of my remarks and urge my colleagues to read the entire report.
if i may finish: there could be an educational district in which there were 15.000 or more black children. even if they constituted more than 50 percent of the total number of children in average daily attendance in that school district. it seems to me that that covers exactly the point which the senator had in mind.
i am reading this letter for the first time to the senate. . i would like first to thank you for your very constructive role in bringing about the understanding out of which came the emergency school aid legislation  being debated. this legislation would provide funds urgently needed to assist school districts. both th and south. in carrying out desegregation plans and providing quality integrated education. while i k we both share the view that the same desegregation policies should be evenhandedly applied in all sections of the country. it is important to emphasize that the pending bill and the ribicoff amendment pursue widely different approaches. the bill provides affirmative support for desegregation. the amendment would attach a new sanction to schools which fail to meet a specific timetable in desegregating. the pending bill has been the subject of extensive hearings in both houses of the congress. has had very careful consideration. and embodies the accommodation of many views. the amendment has been the subject of testimony only by its sponsor and has had comparable consideration. as you so effectively stated on the senate floor yesterday aftern. moreover. adoption of this amendment could well undermine the compromise achieved on the bill itself. this would be a tragic result for the many school districts throughout the nation which are depending on passage of the bill for muchneeded assistance for their desegregation efforts. there is. in any case. ample time to give proper consideration to the ribicoff measure if it is  precipitously adopted at this point on the senate floor. by its own terms the ribicoff amendments federal fund cutoff provisions would  become effective until therefore. while i can appreciate the concern which underlie the ribicoff amendment and while we in the administration have less a desire to achieve evenhanded desegregation policies in all parts of the country. i believe that it would be a serious mistake under the present circumstances for the senate to combine a twoyear. $1.5 billion emergency program with a tenyear. $20 billion longrange program. we greatly appreciate the efforts to this end that you have already made and hope that your colleagues will join you in this position. with kindest regards. sincerely.
. is it a fact that a quorum call was put in and because of the objections to terminating that quorum call. the elapse of time as a result substituted the business of the emergency school aid act for the business of the hart resolution.
. first i should like to join in all the very proper praise which the senator from rhode island has just given to the staff and to the other members who facilitated this debate. that includes the senator from th carolina . although he had grave doubts about the bill. and also the senator from mississippi and the senator from connecticut . and other senators who acted in the matter. i also want to join the senator from rhode island in my deep appreciation to the senator from minnesota . who showed really gifted initiative in the stable quality integrated school concept and many other concepts. yet who was  unbending or stiffnecked but. rather. sought to accomplish the result. i think that the role of the secretary of hew. elliot richardson. who personally participated in our efforts to come to a negotiation on this measure and the commissioner of education of the united states. sidney marland. was very significant. i am so pleased that the senator found the assistance of roy millenson of the miity staff of the committee to be valuable. as well as that of . he held the bill together. the senator from rhode island is a man of character. he said what he did or did  k about the bill. and the senate relied upon his character in voting as it did. i think the senator showed traditional humility. the senator is a very dear friend. i k him very well and have very deep appreciation for him. he deprecates his own contribution. without the senator from rhode island the bill could  have passed the senate. for whatever i had to do with bringing the bill before the senate. i am grateful. however. without the senator from rhode island the bill could  have passed the senate. i am very grateful to him. i hope that this will be an initial effort in opening the door to a new chapter in education. in an area which bears the most scars and an area which in the past has reflected so many deficiencies.
. monday night i had the privilege of addressing the student body of wooster college in wooster. ohio. on the subject of our involvement in vietnam and the upcoming senate vote on extension of the selective service act. i ask unanimous consent that the text of my speech be printed in the record.
. to make it clear. we emphasize that we reserve the right of opposition to the continuing resolution for this purpose after august 6 in the absence of the passage of a bill by the other body. we feel that to continue the emergency school assistance program by means of a continuing resolution thereafter would only be one way of blocking action on an essential piece of legislation with $1.5 billion waiting to be used for these vital purposes nationwide. we wish to serve unequivocal ice that we shall  be disposed favorably to a continuance beyond the august 6 date for the reasons stated and we go along with the continuance at this time precisely for the reasons i have set forth and which are set forth in the respective letters of the secretary of health. education. and welfare. and the chairman of the legislative committee of the leadership conference on civil rights.
ial and congressional elections next year. scholastic magazines. inc.. conducted a series of four polls of high school student opinion on current issues. the questions ranged from international and national issues to less lofty questions such as dress codes. the responses should give heart to those who may be concerned with the thinking of our youth. their course may  be exactly as we would chart it. but it is a steady and safe one. one which has direction and forward movement. i ask unanimous consent that the study be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a description of how the student assistance program proposed by s. 659 would operate. expressly adapted to the needs of children of middleincome as well as lowerincome families.
. . a few observations on what i consider to be some of the real highlights of the bill. the bill also makes it possible for halftime students to participate for the first time in all student assistance programs on a prorated basis. as a student who attended law school in the afterns and evenings and worked the rest of the time. i am in a unique positionas are other members of this bodyto appreciate what this means. also to have had the privilege of joining in proposing it as a member of the committee. parttime students form a substantial portion of the student body in our nation. some 1.03 million of the 2.2 million attending junior and community colleges and 1.65 million of the 6.35 million attending 4year institutions. if it were  for the opportunities of parttime study. many of these young people would be unable to obtain a higher education due to the fact that family or personal circumstances oblige them to work while pursuing their studies. i have an especial personal sympathy for young people who find themselves so constrained because as a student i also found it necessary to work parttime while undertaking my law studies at new york university. a circumstance which i am sure was shared by many members of this body. the bill also takes e of the special role of the states in assisting students to attain a higher education. again i refer to something which makes me especially proud of my own state of new york which provides student incentive grants of an unusual kind. approached only by the state of california. i felt deeply hoed to have this provision accepted by the committee. i refer particularly to the new subpart 3 of title ivd of the higher education act which provides grants to the states for state scholarship incentives. this provision. which i authored with excellent technical assistance from the state university of new york and the new york department of education. provides student incentive grants to the states on a 5050 matching basis to assist young people from families of substantial need to obtain a postsecondary education. it is designed to encourage the states to expand tleir present programs of grant assistance to students. and complements existing and proposed federal studentaid programs. as states would receive funds only when they expand current efforts. federal funds would supplement.  supplant. existing programs at a time when some 8 million of our young people are enrolled at the nations colleges and universities and higher education has an annual budget of $26 billionand both figures are steadily growingit is vital that ination. reform. and educational excellence be nurtured if postsecondary schooling is to be able to meet the challenge of this new age. . cxvii1846part 22 the bill contains. in title iii. provision for a national foundation for postsecondary education along the lines of the proposal which i had earlier introduced on behalf of the administration. the foundation has as a principal purpose the fostering of ination. enabling institutions to undertake efforts which they heretofore have  been able to venture into because of the narrow confines of existing programs and their own tight budgets. the foundation. for example. will have authority to make grants for programs based on developing costeffective methods of instruction and operation. introducing reforms in the structure of the academic professions. new combinations of academic and experimental learning. and the creation of programs tailored to individual needs. in an era where enrollments have tripled since 1955. higher education budgets have doubled since 1960 and annual expenditures per student have been rising three times as fast as the cost of living. ination must be the key if our colleges and universities are to be able to offer quality higher education to the growing numbers of our people of all ages and from all walks of life desirous and capable of achieving it. new models of teaching and learning must be developed. we need to encourage experimentation. we need probings into new kinds of education. we need to determine in a more finite way how long it should really take to receive a post secondary education. all the shibboleths of the number of years required to be a doctor. lawyer. accountant. or the fact that we get 3 or 4 months off during the summer. must be reexamined in the light of the tremendous breakout of the educational system in terms of higher education for all who seek it. it will be ed that increasingly reference is made to "postsecondary education" rather than merely to "higher education". education after high school for many means an academic or professional future. for others it means schooling in the occupations. a significant number of our young people do  seek to pursue their education after high school in purely academic fields but rather seek occupational. or career. training. some 2 million americans are  enrolled full time in postsecondary vocational or technical training coursesthis is contrasted with 150.000 such students in this category as recently as 1964. this pheinal growth is perhaps one of the most significant developments in american education today. half of all jobs opening up in the 1970s will require training beyond high school but less than a 4year degree. the u.s. office of education has estimated that as many as 25 million americans  need some form of occupational training. less than half this number are  receiving such training. yet. despite persistent national requirements in the occupational field. the federal government spends $4 in remedial manpower programs for every dollar it invests in vocational education as a source of prevention of unemployment and welfare. and invests only a dollar in vocationaltechnical education for every $14 spent on the nations colleges and universities. i would like to point out that community colleges. in a provision authored by the chairman of the committee. the senator from new jersey . received special attention in title i of the bill. and quite properly expanded the horizons to include occupational education. in my own state of new york. for instance. new curricula at community colleges have included aircraftoperations techogy. correction administration. physical. and occupational therapy. and environmental health techogy. this bill offers opportunities for the academic student to attend the eligible institution of his choice. whether a public community college. a proprietary school or a profit private institution which offers the specialized training which he seeks. a bureau of occupational and adult education is also established within the u.s. office of education to give especial attention to these needs.
. i adopt completely what senator pell has said. when the student has been vested with an entitlement by the fact that he is the one admitted as an eligible student by his institution. then everything that senator pell has said springs into being. the last point is thisand  i speak as a lawyer. there can be debt without a debtor and a creditor. the creditor. once he gets the entitlement. is the student. but the limit of the debtors liability is the allocated or apportioned part of the appropriation. thus. the appropriations committee is secure in the fact that. unlike other federal appropriationsand i gather that is the thrust of the senators requestwhere there exists either a legal obligation. such as interest on the debt. where the government has contracted to pay interest and if congress does  appropriate. it has the power to refuse to give the money but it is in default. or in certain twilight zone situations. such as the public housing situation. where there is always the statement that the full faith and credit of the united states has been pledged and that we are deeply and morally in default if we do  appropriate. this creates yet aher special category in which there is a responsibility which can be enforced once the united states has actually credited it by an appropriation to which that particular student has become entitled because he is the one picked by his institution. other than that. we do  automatically create.  do we have a full faith and credit pledge that we will appropriate. the full amount. that is the situation.
i should like to speak to that. the entitlement gives a vested right to the individual student that if there is money. he will get as much of cxvii- 1912part 23 it as is his share. that is why it is called an entitlement. the word entitlement applies to the student.  to the united states. that is the distinction. the word entitlement applies to the student and  to the united states. the student gets an entitlement in the sense that he has a vested right when he is the one chosen by his institution. but. what is the extent of his vested right. is the next question. the extent is the amount available. that depends on the appropriation. but the word entitlement is a proper word as it applies to the student.
my answer to that. speaking for myself. and the senator from rhode island will hear me. is that. on the part of the united states. the answer to that would be yes. on the part of the student. however. it is that particular student who will be able to collect the money. if there is money availableto wit. by the appropriation.
the senator is correct. but the federal government has liability beyond what it appropriates. the only thing we have is the fact that within the year in which that appropriation first occurred. a particular student could have the right to collect up to the extent of his entitlement. if the appropriation made it possible. i do  think there is an analogy with the department of defense because there is. here. a named student whom the institution verifies as eligible to be the recipient of as much as is available from appropriations up to the amount of his entitlement. that is the difference between this and the department of defense situation. that particular student continues to have that right throughout the fiscal year. but that does  impose any new additional obligation on the united states or in respect of appropriations. whatever the appropriations committee will appropriate. it will appropriate.
. if i might address both senators in this manner. let us pierce the legality question momentarily. what we are trying to do is to try to make it possible for young people who would  otherwise be able to do so. to get a college education because they rate an opportunity for it. we have to give the young person who is going to do that some assurance consistent with the appropriations process. we have tried to do this. we have tried to give him the confidence that if he gets admitted into an eligible school he can. by and large probably have many of his needs met. but we knew that these questions demonstrated more pressure in this method than in the mal appropriations. of course it will. there will be a lot of individuals involved. but this is  unusual. we are  giving the members of the committee a legal obligation of any new character. we are setting up 1 million young people. and they and their parents are going to be hot on the trail of the committee members to see that these appropriations are entitled. and what is wrong with that.
. once again i find it necessary to direct the attention of my colleagues to that portion of the continuing resolution which appropriates funds for the continuing operation of the emergency school assistance program. the last time that this body considered a similar resolution. on june 29. i expressed reservations about a continuation of esap. principally because of my fears that a reopening of the pipeline to districts which had received esap funds last year. mostly in the south. would reduce the chances of expedient house action on the $1.5 billion nationwide emergency school aid and quality integrated education act. at that time. i was reassured by a letter from the secretary of health. education. and welfare that the money appropriated would be used in a limited number of districts where an imminent emergency stemming from the supreme court decision in swann against charlottemecklenburg board of education existed. i ask unanimous consent that this letter again be printed in the record.
. although i would have hoped that the other body would have acted more quickly on its version of the emergency school aid act. i am heartened that the general education subcommittee of the house. chaired by mr. pucin ki. reported a bill to the full committee last week. and that action by the entire house of representatives can  be anticipated shortly after the recess. comment on this resolution would  be necessary at all. were it  for what may be an indication of a change in policy by the administration in recent weeks on school desegregation and the impact of such a change both on esap and the pending $1.5 billion bill. following the secretarys letter. the department of health. education. and welfare issued new regulations for the administration of esap under the continuing resolution. by and large. the new regulations represented a considerable refinement and improvement over those previously in effect. they did. however. provide for a broadening of the eligibility criteria which had been indicated in the secretarys letter. i ask unanimous consent that section 181.3(a) of the amended regulations be printed at this point in the record.
. thus.  only districts affected by the swann case. but those which had received funds last year and were undertaking new desegregation could become eligible for funding. it seemed to me that this additional eligibility category discriminated against thern school districts in the process of voluntary desegregation. but i was constrained  to object because i was assured by the administration that it was unlikely any funds would remain for third priority districts. and. in any event. i was confident that under the other amended regulations. the program would be administered wisely and efficiently. subsequently. in an exchange of correspondence. with the assistant secretary of health. education. and welfare for legislation. concluded on july 29. 1971. i learned that the administration interpreted the continuing resolution presently before us to provide $65.1 million for esap activities through october 15. over 85 percent of the entire appropriation for the last fiscal year. this broadened my fears that moneys appropriated would  be concentrated in the school districts facing the greatest emergencies. but dispersed in much the same manner as last years appropriation. i ask unanimous consent that the correspondence be printed in the record.
. doubts were further compounded by a memorandum written on july 30. 1971. by the associate commissioner of education for equal educational opportunity to state education officials and school superintendents. this memorandum asserted that transportation costs would be given a "very low funding priority" by esap administrators. i ask unanimous consent that this memorandum be printed at this point in the record.
 has seen fit to send this communication. the emergency school aid act which he originally sent to the congress made clear provision for the funding of transportation services in order to facilitate desegregation. i am most concerned that in refunding esap today. we will  be meeting the needs of americas schoolchildren under the administrations new ground rules. and that we will give the impression of acquiescence in this most unfortunate change of policy. nevertheless. at this late hour. i can in good conscience attempt to obstruct a measure so important to the entire functioning of government as this continuing resolution.
i thank the presiding officer. in the emergency school aid and quality integrated education act. $1.5 billion was authorized by the senate in a bill which is  in the other body. a bill is progressing through the other body. it is this bill. that is. the new bill. with respect to which the president has expressed himself on the busing issue. in this particular case i do  agree with the president. i believe busing is often absolutely an essential and integral element of the intention to desegregate schools and to provide quality education. i think the recent decision of the supreme court in the case of swann against charlottemecklenburg makes clear that unless we are going to help busing we can be sincere about our desire to achieve school desegregation. and the whole red herring of busing simply brought us to the fact that 40 percent of the children in this country are bused and that the little red schoolhouse was  by any means an ideal place in educational terms. it was  suited to give children the best education possible in this modern day. i can understand the presidents feeling about involuntary busing. and obviously it is only going to be had. and only should be had. in response to court decree or the judgment of the local educational agencies that it is really in the highest interest of the education of the children. but. . the important point i wish to make  is this: the fact that the continuing resolution will extend a rather substantial amount of money for this purpose in the days ahead should in way slow up the enactment of the emergency school aid and quality integrated education act. this is in the interest of everybody in the country. those who are. in a sense. being made to desegregate. and those who are seeking an end to racial isolation as it affects education and educational opportunity. i hope very much this caveat. as we lawyers put it. may be clear in the record in my joining in what the senator from louisiana has said we must do in order to function. there would be good. at such a late time in the session. in trying to introduce amendments which will muck up the works: i wish to make clear that we will continue. by every means we have at hand. to press for the enactment of the emergency school aid and quality integrated education act. and that the superficial idea that "they are getting the money. that will take the heat off for the enactment of the emergency school aid act" demeans the whole proposition. whereas this is an effort to get started with the necessary process and paying some amount to get it off the ground. the emergency school aid act. in the terms and definitions and in the amount provided. is the definitive way to proceed. in justice to the schoolchildren and parents. with that reservation. i shall. of course. favor passage of the continuing resolution.
. i believe that  having cast this program in terms of scholarships in existing institutions. so that. unlike the socalled freedom academy. we longer have the concern about some institutional ideological character to the program. for myself. i believe that senator dominick has surmounted the most potent argument of the opposition to the freedom academy. i should also like to point out that. as is the case with other members of the appropriations committeewhen i was a member of iti have gone through a terrible trial in trying to get appropriations for the international education program of the united states. which for years has gone unfunded. as the international education act of 1966. every once in a whole we try to take a poke at it with a small amount of money. but we really have  done anything about it. with the united states role in the world what it is. i believe we have to be more creative than we are  about the few institutions. such as the woodrow wilson school and others at the various universities. which deal with this problem. more in the nature of presenting the problem to ushouse and senateso that we may creatively act on it. because i think senator dominick has presented to us a concrete proposal in an area in which action is needed. i would join senator pell in his willingness to take this title to conference.
. the reason for the extension for 1 year is in view of the need to obtain a comprehensive review of the vocational education reform bill. vocational education act of i appreciate. as does the senator from rhode island. the desirability of the program. i will join with him in agreeing to take the amendment to conference.
. as ranking miity member of the committee. i would be remiss if appreciation were  expressed to the majority staff for their cooperation and hard work on the complex 260page text before us. particularly steve wexler. counsel of the education subcommittee. and richard smith. associate counsel of the subcommittee and roy millenson. miity staffthese gentlemen are master legislative craftsmen. i should also wish to express appreciation to steve rand. legislative assistant for education to the ranking member of the education subcommittee. senator prouty. who was most helpful in finding solutions to particularly nettling difficulties which beset the subcommittee during its deliberations. his predecessor in the education post. judith miller. is  in the office of the assistant secretary of hew for legislationto her also goes our thanks. next. i should particularly like to e the efforts of others of the executive department staff whose technical skills and patience were most helpful. namely. chris cross. deputy assistant secretary of hew. charles saunders.  deputy comnmissioner of education. mrs. john frohlicher. a gifted attorney in the office of education. richard hastings. whose aid in obtaining statistics and other data was invaluable. and their associates. finally. i wish to mention the miity staff. roy millenson. miity staff director. and paul haklisch. a summer intern who is a student at williams college and a resident of rye. n.y.. who devoted many hours to the tedious labors of helping prepare the lengthy section of the report devoted to changes in the law. aher intern. dr. elisabeth hansot. an assistant professor of political science at columbia university. was very helpful. especially in the preparation of the legislation and report dealing with the national institute of education.
. this year for the first time i sponsored an essay contest held at the new york state seventh annual teen age republican (tar) school of politics on august 1620. 1971. at siena college. albany. n.y. this will be a yearly event from  on. the title of the essay was "attracting my peers to politcal involvement." over 150 high school aged new yorkers attended the school and were eligible to participate in the contest. the winning essay was written by andrew scott waterman. of 712 genesee street. olean. n.y. i ask unanimous consent that the essay be printed in the record.
s upcoming visit to the peoples republic of china. again. in an era of policy transition. perhaps too much emphasis was placed by the administration on the policies of the past. rather than on the hopes of the future for better relations between the united states and china. i think we need to follow much of the peterson commission report in that regard. i close as follows: we are facing a very grave crisis in our time. this crisis shows a very grave fissure in the outlook of some toward our relationships with the world. it could teach us a great deal or could hurt us in a way that presently is beyond comprehension. i myself feel. and i believe a majority of the senate feels. that this vote will. like an apocalptic vision. be the occasion for enabling us to do a better job in restructuring our future developmental and security assistance programs which remain an important part of our nations foreign policy. our nations relations with the rest of the worldfactors which form an integral part of our national security and ecoic wellbeing.
. i should like to make a comment. that i heard the senator say. with great interest. that he felt we should deal with the dock strike. that it represents an infinitely greater priority for the country. and that we should  be debating the pending eeoc bill. i rise only for the purpose of expressing my own disagreement with that. i believe that under the twotrack system which the leadership has inaugurated. we can deal with the immediate emergencyto wit. the dock strike. and we can also deal with the eeoc bill. my own deeply held view is that though it is less sensational in terms of its  being a burning fire day. right this morning. it could be a burning fire tomorrow. and has been before. so deep is the feeling of millions of americans about the denial of opportunity in the most basic of all opportunities to any americanto wit. a job. that is a commitment to housing. that is a commitment to education and to dignity. which we  learn is more important than anything else to the poor and to the miities who feel themselves oppressed. thus. i k that the senator and i have had our disagreements. it does  change in any way our regard for each other. but i think that the record should clearly show that we who are contending for the eeoc bill give extremely high priority to that bill for deep. social. and ecoic reasons in the country. we see hing whatever mutually exclusive between the consideration of an emergency measure or a major strike which is a serious disadvantage to the national interest and a particular part of the country. and are pursuing a basic reform so critical to the future health. in a social and ecoic sense. of the united states
. we are engaged in a debate which the country should understand clearly rather than abstractly. with the light laying on of hands which seems to be going on around here ever since yesterday. the question is whether the amendment proposed by the leaders. which is a compromise on the whole issue of busing. and i believe a fair and hoable compromise. should be approved in order to demonstrate that it is fair and hoable. as i am kn to be an ardent advocate of desegregation of the schools. and i am proud of that distinction. let me say what i think we are giving up if this amendment is adopted and why. therefore. i favor it. we are giving up. first. the authority to order the use of federal funds for busing withstanding the desires of any local educational agency. we are giving up. second. and this is critically important. as i shall demonstrate in a minute. the definition of the words "significantly impinging on the educational process" which are mentioned in swann versus charlottemecklenburg. because those words could be construed differently from the way we are construing them in this amendment. we are construing them as affecting  only the transporting of children. but the time or distance involved in travel. and the maintenance of quality education for those already receiving it. as well as for those for whom it will be established. the way the substitute reads. we will give the courts the requirement to test out busing in terms of the places to which the children are going in the educational process. and those children with whom they are to learn. finally. and of critical importance. we are giving up. as i said yesterdayand this is the doubt i have on constitutional grounds but probably the courts will never catch up with it as it goes on for just 16 monthswe are giving up a stay of orders which affect more than one local educational agency. for anyone who believes in desegregation of the american public school system. these are critically important factors. with all respect far more important than almost anything else affecting this matter. yet. for the country it is a trauma. as depicted by other representatives. although i must say frankly that i do  see it nearly so seriously in my state as they do. although we have problems on school desegregation even there. incidently. this idea of de jure segregation existing only in the south has been completely exploded. as the courts have handed down decrees pending in detroit. mich.. in denver. colo.. and other cities. and hew has commenced title ii proceedings in boston. mass.. and in other places. i lay aside the idea of the senator from connecticut . of giving metropolitan areas a long period of time. or giving them a set pattern in which to desegregate years hence because. with all respect. i do  think that it helps me in this particular controversy. i am sure that the matter will be brought up as a definitive proposal. as he has done before. although the senate did  go along with it. but we can decide and argue that later on. right . the issue is those who would eliminate busing by a condign cutoff. which is in essence contended for here by the senators from alabama. th carolina. michigan and others. or those who would try to find a practical way in which to serve both purposes. that is. to deal with the main complaints of the american middleclass parents. and the need to ho the constitution. after all these years since 1954th. south. east. west. it seems to me from those points of view where i started first with what it costs us--to wit. people who believe in desegregationthis compromise which has been suggested. if anything. is weighted on the side of the opponents of busing and. for this reason. the big complainers are the middleclass families and the local educational agencies in the suburbs. they have an absolute right. through the local educational agency. to reject the busing concept at the behest of any federal official. unless required by the constitution. unless their local agency seeks to go ahead with it under this amendment. and hopefully the courts will be guided in construing constitutional remedies by the standards suggested in this amendment. so it seems to me that looks after more than adequately that point of view. that attitude. for those who complain that areas heavily impacted with blacks and other miities do  want to bus themselves. either the local agency representatives of that temper and character in that particular area can. for practical purposes. refuse to do it on educational grounds. that is the essence of this amendment and we have applied the rules of the swann case. which are intelligent and equitable. and construed them in the broadest possible way on both sides of the equation. for me. i would mally be against this. but i am  against it. i support it. because i believe that the other issues which are contained in the higher education bill and in desegregation in trying to give our children a decent education. this is a major factor in their development. that the heat should be taken out of the issue. that this is the greater good. even though i think much of it is for practical purposes being given up. much of the essence of it is being given up by people like myself who believe in desegregation and that busing is essential to it.
. it seems to me that the argument made by the distinguished senator from virginia. rather than refuting. confirms everything i have said. if it is a fact that the laws in our states have brought about or been conducive to segregation. then that is de jure segregation. the courts more and more are finding that. they have  extended their findings to michigan. to new york. to denver. and it will extend its findings further. i am glad that the courts are growing more sophisticated about what de jure segregation is. and that you can gerrymander school districts and engage in other practices which are just as much de jure segregation as the blatant maintenance of a dual school system as it was practiced in the south. what is endemic in this argumentand i have great respect for the senator from virginia. with whom i have joined in many thingsis the idea that desegregation is  essential to a quality education. we contend that it is. and we contend that the proof sustains that. certainly the overwhelming body of evfdenceand that is what we have to rely onfrom every part of the country. before the select committee on equal educational opportunity. sustains the proposition that to this day. the best. most effective. greatest volume of quality education can only come about by the desegregation process. the fact is that the south has massively desegregated. i say. "bravo." but does that  prove the point that that is what this educational process lacks. the pride that southern senators take in the fact that there has been desegregation is only an endorsement by them of its contribution- to quality education. so i believe we are on the same wavelength. even though we may differ as to remedy. all i argue is that the combination of the scottmansfield amendment and the swann decision takes all desegregation. wherever it is. and puts it within reasonable. tolerable. and acceptable limits to parents. all those parents whose children are affected by segregation. and of all races.  being vote comptometers here. which is the pride of a senator. we must appraise the situation. whatever may be the heat in many sections of the country. and decide what is in the best longrange interests of the united states. i believe that the greatest contribution to domestic tranquility we can make will be in the way in which we hammer out and fashion a way to desegregate without running afoul of the abrasive elements which have resulted in the present deep feelings with respect to busing. i believe we will accomplish that if we agree to this amendment.
. i have listened with great interest to this colloquy. the point that has been left out completely is the fact that this applies  to states but to local school officials. and most states are divided into localities. the reason for the provision is onehalf as the senator from minnesota explained. in the affirmativethat is. to enable the school district. whatever their states may feel. to obtain help to desegregate pursuant to court order. the other half is that here is the department of health. education. and welfare exercising its power to cut off funding. they may be able to cut off funding if a local school district did  request what hew thought it should request according to a mandate for desegregation. this would clarify that matter and enable the school district to make up its own mind. because the law will allow it  to request such funds.
beyond that. i am interested in the argument that all the senator from th carolina is trying to do is to give us who are contending for the bill the opportunity to have unitary school systems. the complete fallacy in that argument. and what makes this amendment completely unconstitutional. is the fact that the courts are dealing with segregation which has existed. they are  dealing with the creation of new unitary school systems. they are dealing with repairing the evils of the past. and those evils are performed  only in the south. but also in the th and in the west. the court decided in the green case in 1968 that in order to effectuate the 14th amendment and deal with previous evils it had to move affirmatively. and it had to order a segment of students to schools because that was the only way to redeem the sins of the past.
. i have stated this to the senator from connecticut heretofore. i believe that it is an interesting concept. but i do  believe it should be put on this bill. which already has many things to break its back in terms of money. in terms of plans. and we will have to see where we are going to go. the ribicoff plan. which is a totally new approach. should be a separate bill. as i stated. i am  trying to overween the senator from connecticut or to talk him out of the proposal. i am  talking about that. if it still remains open. i would lend myself. and even join the senator. in trying to use this as some basis for a totally new approach--one may be deservedto the whole question of dealing with racial imbalance and integration. we are trying to do it in new york. as the senator ks. our state has been a leader.  only in dealing with desegregation in a constitutional sense. but also in dealing with problems of racial imbalance as they impinge on education. i would lend myself to reworking the ribicoff plan as a separate bill with the idea that we are embarking on a totally new plan. i repeat that i am  trying to influence the senator to withdraw his amendment but i would pledge myself to work with the matter and to bring out a bill which would be credible. and which i would like very much to support. however. this would take us upon a totally new path in this highly troublesome matter. standing here and . to put it on this bill. i can in good conscience go along with the proposal. for the record. i would like to indicate some of the specific problems raised for me by the ribicoff amendment: first. the smsa was conceived as a statistical unit unrelated to the purposes of education. it often bears little realistic relation to the practicalities of student assignment. for example. bedfordstuyvesant and montauk point. second. in granting the secretary of hew discretion to exempt some parts of an smsa from participation in a plan. the amendment provides standards relating either to time or distance of travelmontauk point and harlem are within the same smsaor other educational considerations. third. provides for a blunderbuss dispersal of miity group students. in some metropolitan areas. it would result in reasonably integrated schools. in other areas it would leave one miity student in every classroom.  only would this create unnecessary expense. it would also undermine a sense of identity and community  inconsistent with integration. but inconsistent with overly wide dispersal. examples of such counterproductive results could be found in such major cities as seattle and minneapolis. as of 1968. -the smsa of seattle had 6.6 percent miity group students. minneapolis. 3.5 percent. under the ribicoff formula. miity students in these cities would be so widely dispersed as to be wholly isolated from one aher. fourth. although the amendment gives lipservicepages 1112to the ion that transportation burdens should fall equally on majority and miity children. there are few incentives provided to result in many suburban children choosing to attend school in the citiesthe magnet school rationale presented is expensive. and in any event. will only involve small numbers of children. and fifth. the committee bill gives equal representation on parent committees to miity and miity parents. reflecting a belief in pluralism within our schools. by giving miity parents only a proportionate voice. the ribicoff amendment dilutes the effectiveness of their participation in assuring pluralistic curricula. et cetra.
there is need for that. . if one can divine the will of the senateand i believe we can. from the votes which have been takenthe will of the senate appears to be that there shall  be an elimination. an absolute bar. to busing as a means for effecting desegregation. but that it shall be limited. and that the rules of limitation shall be essentially those laid down in the swann case. with the additional interpretation of the swann case. which the senate would then take as its own. that the impingement upon the educational process test should be applicable  only to the child bused but should be applicable as well to the school to which that child was bused. that the aspect of the voluntary application for federal resources on the part of local school authorities is an additional aspect of limitation on busing. it seems to me that this represents the will of the senate. the way the senate has defined its position in the very serious debate and a considerablie number of votes. hopefully. after the votes today. we shall be able to go to conference and carry out the concept for which the senate has voted. i reserve the remainder of my time.
the entire language is. i wish to read into the record the provisions of the civil rights act of 1964. section 407(a). which states: provided. that hing herein shall empower any official or court of the united states to issue any order seeking to achieve a racial balance in any school by requiring the transportation of pupils or students from one school to aher or one school district to aher in order to achieve such racial balance or otherwise enlarge the existing powers of the court to insure compliance with constitutional standards.
. i oppose this amendment. i hope very much that the senate will  adopt it. it is simply aher way to reargue what senator griffin has already outlinedthe freedom of choice proposition which came before us in the first amendment we voted on this morning. in that amendment. senator ervin put forward the converse of the propositionto wit. that child shall be denied entry to the school nearest his home. he puts forward the other side of the proposition. that the child may choose or that the parents may choose any public school to which he chooses to go. the courts have already dealt with that and the senate has dealt with it very specifically. saying that this does inhibit the process of what is required in order to deal with a condition in which segregation has existed and exists  in terms of a dual school system. and that we do  wish to place this straitjacket upon what may be done about it. that is what we have decided in the total complex of what we have done. including the limitations on busing. therefore. it presents precisely the same question. except that in this case the name tag upon which to ride is called "freedom of choice" instead of "the neighborhood school." which was the name tag on the first amendment. if anything. the first one was more attractive. because it had a more attractive name tag. this one has been outworn and made obsolescent for some years by our own attitude and the actions of the courts. therefore. it seems to me that. as the senate so decisively turned down the first amendment on which we voted this morning. this presents substantively the same proposition. and the senate ought to deal similarly with it.
. it is interesting to me that the senator from georgiaand we discussed this and i will state to the senate what i think could be done in this matter with fairness--has  simply attached a report requirement to section 702 of this bill without rewriting and restating the report exactly as he wants it made. he is  asking the department to report in respect of everything it is doing. its policy and its progress on the particular section of the law to which the senator refers. it is already in the law in the socalled stennis amendment. but the senator from georgia is putting in the mouth of the department exactly the way he wants the report prepared to prove whatever particular thesis he has in mind. and that i object to because it is loaded and i will demonstrate to the senate that it is. section 702 of the bill is the stennis amendment. i have sought reporting provisions myself in many cases before. the senator simply takes and tacks on a section to section 702. and states that in 4 monthsand he has it in his amendment beginning on page 1. line 3. to page 2. line 7the department of hew and the attorney general shall submit in writing to congress the state of various conditions which are referred to in section 702. to be equally applied throughout the united states. but the senator from georgia is  content with that. he goes on to dictate to them what they are to report. he states he wants a summary: comparing the progress and extent of desegregation in 11 states comprising the southern region of the united states with the progress and extent of desegregation in other regional sections of the country and with that in the country as a whole. this measure may  be a fair way to report but he dictates that he wants it that way. why. the reason appears above on page 2. at lines 7 and 8. where it is stated that he wants. a report "without regard to the origin or cause of such segregation and desegregation." therefore. it is possible. if the department allows itself to be told what to report by his amendment. tha the department can take account of the fact that in the south they had dual school systems for decades. obviously. desegregation in the south would involve infinitely more pupils than desegregation somewhere else. by writing the ground rules of the report the senator makes it mean what he wants it to mean. and  necessarily a true picture of the facts. that is one objection that is fundamental.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record at the close of these remarks my press conference statement. and a press release issued by the university of michigan opposing the secretary of the navys discriminatory policy and setting forth the views of ross j. wilhelm. a michigan business ecoist and professor at the university of michigan graduate school of business administration.
this exactly bears out what i said a minute ago. that the reason for rejecting the griffin motion is as much within the purview of the senator from tennessee. taking his position. as within my purview. in short. it is my judgmentand i will analyze it in great detail only that the provisions which the conferees have brought back are unconstitutional but that it does . in its own terms. say what the senator from rhode island. who speaks for the managersclaims it says. with regard to applicability to the particular case raised by the senator from tennessee. but. again. that is neither here  there in terms of the griffin motion which does us both "in." as it were. if passed. that was the basic point i was trying to make. the senator may disagree with me thoroughly on constitutionality. he may disagree with me thoroughly on construction of the language. i have pointed out the grave difficulty. withstanding what i consider to be the tremendous appeal of the educational provisions of voting yea on the conference report. lest one is willing to subscribe to the very interpretation the senator from rhode island has described. i k that he will understand i am perfectly free to argue that this language means something different from what the senator from rhode island interpreted it to mean. but he is right about the fact that the application of the provision to school desegregation is the managers interpretation. expressed  only on the floor of the house but also on the floor of the senate.  that a majority of the conferees have brought in the conference report.
 dwight d. eisenhower. after whom the school was named and for whom the school stands as a living memorial. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the address delivered by gen. lauris stad. chairman of the board of owenscorning fiberglass corp.. at the first commencement of eisenhower college.
. the last congress. through title iii of public law 91230. of which i was the author. expanded the adult education act to include secondary level education for adults who have  completed high school and increased authorizations to reflect the expanded scope of this new high school equivalency program. some 56 million adult americans are short of the goal of a minimum high school education and less than a dozen states provide funds for high school education of adultsthe need for federal stimulation is pressing. i am. therefore. particularly pleased to e that the committee has provided $75 million for adult education. an increase of $23.7 million over the budget estimate. this is identical with the house allowance. while this figure still falls short of the authorization of $225 million and the amount necessary for all needed high school equivalency programs. it nevertheless is a welcome improvement over the funding included in the budget and i should like to commend the committee for its inclusion.
that is true. however. even for the school lunch program. the student pays something. i think it is in that respect in a somewhat twilight zone. the government entity pays compensation to the family for maintaining that child instead of the child going to a day care center. i think it is straining the question somewhat. because of the small numbers involved. to say that this is any kind of a profitmaking operation.
. the amount of the increase was attributable. 95 percent. to population growth and less than 1 percent to desegregation. these are  my figures. these are their figures. one percent of the increase is under $2 million. and yet that is the figure related to all pupils transported at public expense. so the civil rights commission makes the following comment on these facts which i think are critically important for the senate: figures from dot indicate that in 1954 the total operational cost for busing. excluding capital outlay. was approximately $329.000.000. in 197172. the estimate is approximately $1.700.000.000. the increase over this 18 year period is $1.481.000.000. busing for the purpose of desegregation was  a significant expense until the 196869 school year. in that year. the total expenditure for operating buses was $901.000.000. the 197172 figure of $1.700.000.000 supplied by dot includes capital expenditure. the increase from $901.000.000 to $1.700000.000 between the years 196869 to 197172 is. therefore. $799.000.000. if the dot percentages are correct. then 1 % of the increase over a period of three school years amounts to approximately or less than $8.000.000. if we accept secretary richardsons estimate that approximately 4% of all children being bused are bused for purposes of desegregation. it would  appear to be unreasonable to calculate 4% of the 197172 figure of $1.700.000.000 which includes capital outlay for all busing.  just the outlay for new buses for desegregration purposes. four percent of the 197172 figure amounts to $68.000.000. these are extremely reliable statistics.
when we see what it would mean to turn the clock back and reopen all these decrees. it is absolutely appalling. let us read back and remember the case we made against the iniquities of the dual school systems throughout the south. and then let us stand back with admiration and see what has happened. mind you. the people who are  here for this antibusing bill were. by and large. the same people who told us that you would have a revolution in the south if you had desegregation.
. with the permission of the senator from coloradoi am sorry he has left the chamberi asked him if i might put in the record. after his observations. a report called the armor report relating to the use of busing in public school desegregation. and insert my remarks respecting an answer to the armor report by prof. thomas pettigrew of the department of social relations of harvard university. in which professor pettigrew concludes that the report is  to be taken for the proposition that was alleged by the senator from colorado and others who have referred to it. for the many reasons which he set forth in a very eloquent study and letter to me and to senator mondale. as. respectively. ranking member and chairman of the senate select committee on equal education opportunity. i am  going to insert all the data. because senator dominick did  insert his. but i believe that anyone who reads the reports should immediately be referred to professor pettigrews study. as they were referred by senator dominick to the socalled armor study.
. on monday. march 19. 1973. i had the great ho of delivering an address before the new school of social research of the center for new york city affairs. the center for new york city affairs. which is directed by dean henry cohen and governed by a very distinguished board of directors. grew out of a rescue mission in the 1930s. when 167 european scholars. imperiled by totalitarian governments. were brought here by the universityinexile program. the new school sees adult education as its basic goal and provides a wide range of courses in the areas of education. the arts. and other areas. it is currently conducting a 2year program leading to a master of arts degree in manpower development. approximately 80 graduate students are  enrolled in this course. which will be so crucial to the future success of manpower policy. the subcommittee on employment. manpower. and poverty of the senate committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. is  considering comprehensive manpower legislation and my address sets forth in some detail my views with respect thereto. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record at this time a copy of my prepared remarks for that occasion together with a description of the 2year program in manpower development which i mentioned.
. i have served for 5 years as a member of the national advisory board of the latin american teaching fellowshipslateprogram of the fletcher school of law and diplomacy. tufts university. i have watched this program develop from a very modest beginning to a point today where it has 95 teaching fellows in latin america. what has been the key to its success. the central theme has always been that latf is responsive to educational needs that are definedand largely financedby the latin americans themselves. a number of my constituents have participated in the latf program. they have informed me of their good experience with the latf program. i have been informed that both aid and the ford foundation are going to make some modest administrative support available to the latf program. i welcome this continued support of this fine program. i ask unanimous consent that a brochure on the program be printed in the record.
. willowbrook state school should conjure up images of learning set in an atmosphere of pastoral serenity. however. the investigative reporting by geraldo rivera on wabctv in new york focused public attention on the unusually tragic conditions which existed at the willowbrook state school for the mentally retarded. we were all shocked and troubled and at the request of gover rockefeller. i asked the federal government to do everything in its power to assist the state of new york in improving the situation at willowbrook and any other new york state institutions with similar difficulties. a special action federal team was formed. investigated and offered assistance. however. the experience has convinced me that legislation at the federal level. setting strict standards for quality care and treatment of the mentally retarded. is needed to assure elimination of many of the abuses uncovered. i introduced the "bill of rights for the mentally retarded" to overcome the dehumanizing conditions. the handicapped subcommittee of the committee on labor and public welfareof which i am ranking miity memberhas completed hearings on the measure and i believe it can be enacted into law this year. wabctvthe abcowned television station in new yorkawardwinming presentation. "willowbrook: the last great disgrace." written and narrated by geraldo rivera. which in great measure contributed to the executive and congressional response. recently won the highly coveted peabody award. all new yorkers should be proud of geraldo rivera and wabctv for receiving the peabody award which hos the most distinguished and meritorious public service broadcast. i ask unanimous consent that the recent release describing abcs peabody award accomplishmentswhich include  only the cited local investigative reporting program. but also its accomplishments in childrens programing and olympic coveragebe printed in the record:
 eisenhower saw eisenhower college. an institution of higher learning. as a proper memorial. at the groundbreaking ceremony in september of 1965. he said: this is an ho that will be prized by me every day of my life. for i can think of greater monument to any man than a college bearing his name. an institution which will be a vital. vigorous champion of freedom through proper education. this bill would help translate the will into the deed. the dream into reality. i urge its approval.
. i introduce for myself and for senators cranston. hathaway. kennedy. and randolph. all members of the subcommittee on education. the adult education amendments of 1973. a similar bill is being introduced today in the house by a bipartisan group of members led by representative lloyd meeds of washington. the bill would amend the adult education act toextend the authorizations of existing programs for 5 years tlough fiscal year provide that up to 25 percent of funds may be used for high school equivalency programs for adults so as better to reach the some 64 million adult americans with less than a high school education. give new emphasis to programs for adults in institutions and to adult programs in community schools. provide for state advisory councils which may be established in each state to counsel with both state and federal authorities on adult education programs. more than 22 million americans have less than an elementary school education and some 64 million age 16 and over have less than a high school education. these are the forgotten millions of american education. this represents a tremendous lag which. in our highly techogical age. could represent a major handicap to the nations progress. for. while we seek to help make available the best possible education for our young people to meet the responsibilities of citizenship and the challenges of a career. we have fallen short in our responsibility toward those adults who for some reason fell by the wayside and were unable to obtain the minimum of a high school education. as was pointed out in "work in america." the report of the hew special task forcewe have largely neglected the educational needs of older workers. although there has been a federal adult education statute on the books. education is thought of as elementary. secondary and postsecondary. adult education must participate as a fullfledged partner in the american education effort. in todays increasingly complex society. a basic education for an adult is more than acquiring literaryit should be at least the equivalent of going thiough high school. for 1971. the latest figures available. the mean annual income for an individual with less than 8 years of elementary school was $5.950. for 1 to 3 years of high school. $8.966. for 4 years of high school. $10.751. and for 4 or more years of college. $16.698. a high degree of motivation and the effective use of education techogyplus the necessary availability of the meansmake it possible for an adult to earn 2 or 3 years of high school credit in but 1 year. and that education is in new concepts of science and of social studies. making his learning relevant to the individuals ambitions and to his life at this time. this measure has the support of the national association for public continuing and adult educationnapcaean affiliate of the national education association. i ask unanimous consent that there be included as part of my remarks some statistics from napaes 1973 almanac indicating the statebystate need for adult education programs as well as the text of the bill:
s commission on school finance as contained in its final report last year. "schools. people. and moneythe need for educational reform." the legislation would provide federal financial assistance to the states to assist and encourage them in assuming an increasing proportion of local expenditures for elementary and secondary education. according to the most recent statistics197273--states contribute on the average of 41 percent of local education expenditures. the federal government contributes an average of 7.7 percent and the remainder comes from local sources. however. this is only an averagestate contributions range from 6.1 percent in new hampshire. to 89 percent in alaska. the new york state contribution is 41.4 percent. i ask unanimous consent that there be included as part of my remarks a chart showing the percentage of state contributions to local education expenditures. under my bill. states would match federal funds based on their contribution to local education expenditures. as the rate of their contribution increases. the percentage of federal matching would also increase. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at the end of my remarks a chart indicating the bills provisions in this regard.
. i urge passage of the bill  before the senate. s. 1875. the rehabilitation act of 1972. of which i am a cosponsor. this expansion and extension of the 53yearold federal vocational rehabilitation program has traveled over a rocky road. vetoed last year and this year. the measure reported by the committee and  brought before the senate is the result of a compromise reached with the administration and enjoys the administrations support. this is most heartening and assures. i feel. the prospect of a future of orderly growth for the vocational rehabilitation programwhich has so well proved its worth over more than a half century. when the vocational rehabilitation bill was before the senate last year. there was particular contention and debate regarding a proposed new allocation formula. the bill  before us avoids this controversy. after carefully examining a wide variety of suggested approaches to formula reform. it was concluded that a feasible solution could  be enacted at this particular juncture when we are endeavoring to secure as soon as possiblein order to provide appropriation authoritya vocational rehabilitation bill which can be enacted into law. thus. the committee has preserved the same allotment formula as  exists in law. with three exceptions: one. allotments are based on actual appropriations instead of being based on the authorization figure. following the practice in other grantinaid programs. a change which has been urged by the administration. two. the minimum allotment for a state has been increased from $1 million to $2 million. with modifications to prevent any state from receiving less funds should appropriations be insufficient. and. third. puerto rico has been added to the definition of state. however. it would  be responsible to abandon the effort of formula reform. therefore. the committee included as section 407 a provision requiring the secretary of hew to conduct a study. and submit recommendations by june 30. 1974. on distribution to the states of vocational rehabilitation program funds which would take into consideration such factors as the needs of individuals requiring vocational rehabilitation services. the financial capability of the various states to render vocational rehabilitation assistanceincluding consideration of such factors as per capita income. per capita costs of services. state tax rates. ability and willingness to matchand the continuing demand for services in the states so that state would be faced with a diminution of federal grant assistance. the study and recommendations would include all aspects of the distribution of federal grantinaid vocational rehabilitation state program funds to the states. including allocation formulas. and federal and state share and matching requirements. this. it seems to me. is a practical approach to a nettling problem. this measure contains most of the program provisions of the previous bills. authorizations are lowered to meet administration objections. in essence. the bill before us is a workable compromise. will advance the program and merits senate approval.
. the senator from ohio is a member of the committee and a man for whom i have very high regard. he made the point about the conference with the house. that the house would  go to conference because we had youth differential provision. and they had a strong provision that is very similar to that proposed in the dominicktaft substitute. however. that is  the case this year. the house passed a bill with a student provision  so far from ours that we can and should  negotiate. the house provision is in strong opposition to the buckley amendment. the house provides a new plan respecting certification by the secretary of labor. it does  have the baseyear concept. it exempts every employer of four or less students from the precertification requirement. it only applies to those employees with over four. what they have done is  by any means the youth differential. it is considerably different. they do  totally disregard the certification process. they do  bring in the 18 and 19yearolds on a fulltime basis with a youth differential. so we are doing this year what we were  able to do last year. and we may never do it if we accept the amendment. of the junior senator from new york. that is an additional and a very strong reason why the amendment should be rejected.
. we appreciate the situation. based on the presentation of both senators from hawaii. and i am much impressed with the presentation of senator fonf on this issue. we realize its seriousness. as the senator has said. there is a provision in the house bill. so that the matter will be in conference. in addition. of course. agriculture. in terms of youth employmentthat is. field agricultureis dealt with as one of the areas in which there can be student involvement. i can assure the senator of the most earnest and thorough attention to his position and the most earnest and intensive effort to see what properly can be done to assist in this situation.
. i share the concern of the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee on education. senator pell. with respect to the burgeoning crisis in the guaranteed student loan program. a program where a 40percent falloff is already evident. while the subcommittees june 22d hearings indicated that there will be an increase from present levels as the opening of the school year approaches. the fact remains that many students from families of moderate income will be unable to obtain the funds which they had anticipated receiving in order to attend the college or vocational institution of their choice. the existence of a crisis in guaranteed student loans is pointed up particularly by the excellent staff report of the house committee on education and labor following visits to seven regional offices of the office of education from july 16th to the 23d. as the report indicates. students in the middleincome brackets are particularly adversely affected. the very students to whom the program is primarily directed. it is these students who are  usually eligible for other assistance programs and who must turn to guaranteed student loans in order to obtain a postsecondary education. the reasons for the crisis are. of course. complex. including factors attributable to changes made in the law last year. the changing nature of the money market. and administrative difficulties. i ask unanimous consent that the house staff report be made a part of my remarks in the record.
. i recently testified before the senate appropriations committee and focused upon the urgent need for increased health program appropriations. including biomedical and behavioral research. although there has been a spectacular explosion of kledge about the diseases that afflict mankind. i believe such advances in kledge. though striking. will be found to be small in relation to the discoveries yet to be made. i testified that the potential for future progress requires that we insure the flow of the brightest and most talented young people into research and teaching. on july 26. the national student lobby and the graduate student government at the state university of new york at buffalo testified on the need for increased funding for biomedical and behavioral research training grants and fellowshipswhich as i said. "insures the flow of the brightest and most talented young people into research and teaching." their testimony was brief. and while i do  concur in all of it. it is impressive and should be called to the attention of my colleagues. it also documents the need for the national research service award bill i authored with senator kennedys. 2071and  title i of the "national biomedical research fellowship. traineeship and training act"--h.r. 7724recently ordered reported by the labor and public welfare committeeand which will be before the senate when we return in september. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the testimony of the national student lobby and the graduate student government at the state university of new york at buffalo before the senate appropriations committee be printed in the record.
senator cotton. i wish i could say that you are wrong. but you are right. that is what i tried to point out. we are in a difficult situation for the reasons the senator has very properly statedto wit. that is the best we can do unless we eliminate the hold harmless provisions. that would be a question of equity. the difficulty there is thatand i would be foolish to argue for it. but as a purist. that is what we should dois that the school districts have just commenced the school year. they have already had their first quarter allocation on the basis of the 100 percent state hold harmless provision.  they are up to their second quarter. and hew is  letting them k what that will be receiving either by states or school districts. until they see what we do on this continuing resolution. we can overturn the whole applecart and say that we are  going to follow the rule book absolutely and strictly. when onequarter of the school year is over and there are threequarters to go. we can well do it. the best we can do is to work out some compromise. all i am pleading for with the senate is that this compromise. which was worked out in the house. appeals to this one senator. and i hope to many others. as a reasonable compromise. considering the dilema in which we find ourselveshing more.
 the legislation is on the books. but it is really until the appropriations committee says the time has come to wipe out these inequities and we are going back to the law as it isto wit. that the money shall go where the children are. but all we are doing  is to find some way to get through the school year when people had certain ideas about what they would get without causing too much pain and anguish. so it is a transmittal position. really. that we are working on. to get the school districts through until the time when the authorizing law can again be applied. there does  seem to be anything wrong with the law in its substantive aspects. it is the adjectiveto use a lawyers wordaspect. to wit. where the money goes to the district on a formula basis. which represents the greatest problem. and that is what has got us into this rigid state .
it could. senator cotton. if it appropriated the money which was required to meet the test of the esea. as long as it is underfundedand it iswe get into this rigidity because of the difficulty that the individual school districts find themselves very unhappy about when they lose as much as they do by the shifts in population. senators do  like to stand by and see their individual school districts precipitously reduced. in other words. with complete funding. if it were fully funded. to eliminate the hold harmless provisions. we could get equity. but in the absence of that. we get into conflicts.
. i gather that the senate is ready to vote. i wanted to be sure. if there are additional members in the chamber. that we understood the situation clearly. one. this is a vote up or down on the first amendment of the committee as reported in the continuing resolution. that amendment would strike out a provision inserted by the house which gives an 85 percent hold harmless at the 1973 level to individual school districts under title i of the elementary and secondary education act. that differs from existing law and from the continuing resolution provision which gives 100 percent hold harmless to the states at the 1972 level. therefore. those who wish to vote with the house provision will be required to vote "nay" as that turns down the committee amendment and results in leaving the house provision. the main argument for our side of the case is that there is an inequity. it continues. we are using the 1960 census instead of the 1970 census. many school districts are  entitled to what they are getting under the state 100 percent hold harmless and the others who gain children are paying that price. so we are trying at least to moderate that inequity by reducing the state 100 percent to a local 85 percent. we are  waiting for the hew appropriation bill because the hew bill may take some time to go through and it may be vetoed. in the meantime. the continuing resolution carries us until adjournment of this session. which might very well be the end of ember or decemberone ks. finally. the school districts have had their first quarter allocations and  they are waiting for their second quarter allocations. we feel. in all justice. that the second quarter should give some greater element of equity to the school districts which are hurt by the hold harmless formula than they would otherwise get under the 100 percent state hold harmless formula. i would simply like to close by stating what has been stated here time and time again that there is inequity. and there will be inequity in the 85 percent just as there is in the 100 percent. but we are trying to moderate the inequitythat is what the house did in the transition perioduntil we can get back again to using the most current census and compensating each school district according to where the children are. in the meantime. people have made their budgets and plans. and so forth. so that i do  feel we can go whole hog on the substantive basis prescribed by the authorizing law. we who are being hurt are trying to come forward with a somewhat fairer compromise.
. i am ready to vote. however. i might say that the figures which we have are different. it would be 29 states and 21 states. twentynine states should vote  i might point out that second quarter allocations have been made to these school districts. they are all waiting to see what we will do in this continuing resolution.
. in the spirit in which we discussed the amendment respecting school aid under the esea. i would like to raise aher subject with my colleagues in which the senator from maryland and i are both interested. which comes out of the legislative responsibility of the committee on labor and public welfare. i refer to the national institute of education. it will be ed that the senate committee made a most unusual cut in terms of amount in the appropriation for this particular institute over that made by the house. the house allowance was $142 million. the senate cut it to $75 million. and the decrease was about 50 percent. that is $67 million. such a very drastic cut needs to be justified. whether or  the managers want amendments. it is still a very steep cut. i feel a special responsibility. and so do my colleagues on the education subcommittee. because this was part of a higher education bill. and we placed a lot of faith in the capability of the national institute of education to bring about research and demonstrations in the field. much better methods and procedures for the dollars we spend for education.  only through the federal agencies. which the senator from new hampshire and the senator from washington are so familiar with. but through state and local agencies. the house was very strongly for this proposition. indeed. it was the house concept which we incorporated in the bill. which we approved after a very. very difficult conference. the rationale which is given by the senate appropriations committee is the following. and i am reading  from page 80 of the committee report: in establishing nie. the congress has provided a framework for leadership in educational research and experimentation. to date. however. nie has done little to assert its role of leadership. the committee is discouraged by what appears to be a total lack of understanding of purpose on the part of this agency. persistent questioning by the committee as to nies long and shortrange goals prompted little more than vague. often obscure. references to educational exploration. the committee is certainly mindful of the fact that research efforts of any kind can  be related to a timetable. however. research must be undertaken with a purpose in mind. the committee finds it sadly ironic that amidst a lackluster operation. two potentially successful projectsthe mountainplains education and ecoic development program and the district of columbia school projectare being given shortshrift. the committee believes that both projects should be continued and must be supported at an adequate level of funding. the committee feels strongly that in order to succeed. nie must first determine its proper role within the educational system. in the future. the committee would expect to receive a more cohesive. better defined plan of operations for the institute. this matter of education is a very sympathetic one to many members in this body. the senator from maryland
. i wish to make clear the reasons for my objection to the request of the senator from alabama. i believe that the constitutional amendment route is entirely open to any member of the senate. on busing or anything else. that is the genius of our country. i have often argued to wild young radicals that if they persuade egh people. they can change the constitutional structure of this country. there is hing to stop them. provided they can persuade egh people. so i have objection to the route being pursued by the senator. but i believe that a matter so portentous as this should go to a committee for consideration. so i shall. at the appropriate time. under the rules of the senate. seek to have this proposed constitutional amendment sent to the judiciary committee. where it mally goes for consideration. unless the senate wishes to make disposition of it to aher committee or something like that. in essence. this proposal also poses a very serious problem under the constitution. because efforts have been made to eliminate busingi am leaving all the handles on the wordfor school desegregation purposes by law. the right to have a segregated school education in the public schools of america is a constitutional right. it is  a right conferred by law. but by the constitution. and the courts. therefore. under the constitution. as independent agents. have the right to determine how that shall be realized. and they have determined that busing is one way in which it can and should be realized. therefore. as i agree with the courts in that. i think what the senate has doneand i would like to repeat that. because it has been so sound to mehas been the soundest way to resolve the controversy. the senate has had its own control on financing. on how federal money will be used for that purpose. therefore. in using that method. the senate. in the very bill. the higher education bill. which contains the current effort to deal with the busing problem. has determined. in its version. that where busing was essential for desegregation of public schools at a given place. where it did  impinge upon the health of the student and where it did  materially and adversely affect the educational opportunity of the student. which included both the school whence he came and the school to which he went. then it would allow all federal money to be used for busing. i wish to affirm that that seems to be a fair. reasonable. and intelligent course. proceeding in a proper way. because it concerns the proper use of federal money.
in answer to the questions. may i say that i base my argument upon the fact that we will inevitably be making certain regulations respecting national priorities. indeed. the president has the power to do that under this bill. and if the president chooses to exercise that power in respect of school busing. i must take that risk. because we are giving him that authority. but for us to do it is our picking the priority. i thoroughly respect the sincerity of senator helms. indeed. i have probably been as ardent an advocate of equal opportunity in education and civil rights generally as any member of the senate. and i have always respected the sincerity of our colleagues from the part of the country where this has been part of the social order. i have  used that phrase in years. which shows how the issue has gradually been refined. and much of it has been settled. it was a very much used phrase when the venerated and distinguished senator russell of georgia was carrying the laboring oar for this point of view.  can do it. we will have to live with that. but let us  direct it. which is the purpose of this amendment. that is the answer to the senators question. it is based upon the tranquillity which  exists in the field which at one point in our history. in the middle sixties. threatened revolution in this country. and i do  want to stir it up again.
. new york state education commissioner ewald b. nyquist. in a landmark decision last monday. directed the new york city board of education immediately to place all handicapped children in appropriate school classes. this decision gives emphasis and force to new yorks education law which. as commisioner nyquist states. "clearly expresses the public policy of this state that all handicapped children be provided with adequate educational services." i ask unanimous consent that the nyquist decision be printed in the record.
. gifted and talented children are the most neglected miity in american education today. the odds are 1 in 20 that such a child will be recognized readily and will be extended the special educational opportunities commensurate with his needs. the congress is  preparing to face up to this issue. the comprehensive education bill. s. 1539. reported from subcommittee on december 19. contains provisions for the gifted and talented which are patterned after s. 874 which i introduced last year together with a bipartisan group of 18 cosponsors and which was cosponsored in the house by representative dominick daniels. of new jersey. a member of the committee on education and labor. section 405 of s. 1539 authorizes grants to state and local educational agencies for educational programs for gifted and talented children through the high school level. establishes an administrative unit within the office of education to administer and coordinate gifted and talented education programs. establishes a national clearinghouse on gifted and talented children and establishes research and demonstration projects for the education of gifted and talented children within the recently created national institute of education. section 507 of s. 1539 defines gifted and talented children as thosewho. in accordance with objective criteria established by the commissioner by regulation. have outstanding intellectual ability or creative talent. the development of which requires special educational activities or services  ordinarily provided by local educational agencies. two articles recently on the subject of the gifted and talented have come to my attention. "gifted children in a bind." by verna tomasson. which appeared in the december 24. 1973 issue of the nation. and "the other miity" by dr. harold c. lyon. jr.. which appeared in the january 1974 issue of learning. i ask unanimous consent that these articles be printed as part of my remarks.
. mr. william f. driver. a retired high school teacher of new york city. recently wrote to me enclosing some material he had prepared back in 1942 about trade unions. the material prepared by mr. driver was remarkably prescient. i seek unanimous consent that mr. drivers material on trade unions prepared for his class in 1942 be printed in the record.
. as new yorks senator and as a member of the subcommittee on education. i take an especial pride in inviting to the attention of my colleagues the article in the current issue of american education. the monthly publication of the u.s. office of education. which singles out the sinclairville elementary school as having an exemplaly right to read program. sinclairville. a small community in the beautiful farm country of western new york state. is  a principal population center although its proximity to the state university college at fredonia has been a factor in its success. the school having been able to draw upon the talents of dr. john e. connelly. a professor of education at fredonia.  is it located in an academic center. yet its right to read program has such a proven success that the u.s. office of education has devoted 6 pages of its monthly publication to the sinclairville experience. i was also pleased to e the important role of community participation and understanding in contributing to the accomplishments of sinclairvilles right to read program. the children have considerably benefitted from this important link between the school and the home. sinclairville may be small but its schools have made it large in the eyes of the nation and my state. i ask unanimous consent that the article from the april issue of american education. "delivering on the right to read." be printed in the record as part of my remarks.
. i think that the effort to maintain standby authority is  only a worthwhile fight. but also that it is absolutely essential in the interests of our nation that it be made. while i respect the sincerity of those who are opposed to us. i hope they will respect our sincerity. whether or  our battle is successful will depend very much on whether the people are as aroused as we are. i am delighted that senator case and i have contributed the bipartisan nature to this particular effort. and the kind of support and eloquence of the argument. and the urgency of the moment. i believe. give us a very good chance to succeed. so i join my colleagues in my commitment and deep conviction that this is the right thing to do. we see on many sides the power in congress to assert itself.  to be dead on its feet. and i believe that america gives us a pretty reasonable chance to succeed when we do right. i had a very old friend in california who never went to school but who headed an emous corporation. he was a great success. he used to say. "there is always a right way to do right." and that is what we are doing.
. i send to the desk for appropriate reference a bill to amend part d of title ixgraduate programsof the higher education act of 1965. in order to permit the department of health. education. and welfare to continue supporting the training of disadvantaged students for the legal profession as previously assisted through the office of ecoic opportunity. this is an administration proposal. part d currently requires that each student receive a minimum of $2.800 for each academic year of study. it also requires that at least $4.200 be paid to the institution for each disadvantaged student who receives a stipend and studies there for a profession. under the authority proposed by this bill. the secretary would determine the stipend levels for law students from disadvantaged backgrouhds. the bill would  provide for institutional allowances for this program. but would authorize the secretary to make grants to or enter into contracts with public and profit private agencies and organizations to assist the training of disadvantaged students for the legal profession. by so doing. it would permit hew to operate the legal education opportunity program in the same manner as it has been run for oeo. without these revisions. the number of disadvantaged students  studying with federal assistance in the legal education opportunity program would be reduced from over 200 to 31. the bill provides that funds already appropriated for fiscal year 1974 shall be available for the activities authorized by the proposed amendments to part d. thus. additional authorization is required. by mr. dole:
it does for the state of rhode island what it will do to the other 49 states. hopefully it will mean that the state of rhode island. in advance of its school year in which funds are going to be used. will have a complete grasp and kledge of what federal aid it will receive.
 and i would like to join in that statement of the point at issue. the question is. should the senate go beyond the general guidelines and should it add what i consider to be a highly specific direction which would limit the flexibility of the use of busing in respect of desegregation in the respect which the senator states. i believe that we should leave that question. case by case. to the courts and that that is the best way for the student and the educational system. senator beall believesand he will correct me if i am wrongthat this belongs as one of the ordered guidelines. even though it is more specific than the guidelines we have established heretofore. the senate will be voting on that. and i hope the senate will agree with me that the matter should be left to the courts. on a casebycase basis. and will reject the amendment
. this amendment. like the last one. is opposed by the administration. i would like to read to the senate the reasons for that opposition: the administration opposes this amendment. it is inconsistent with the administrations basic postsecondary education policy of shifting financial support from institutional aid to direct student assistance. thus allowing the student flexibility and choice as to the institution he attends. in addition. the effect of the amendment would be to remove the requirement that institutions increase the number of veterans in attendance in order to be eligible for veterans costofinstruction payments. for myself. and speaking solely for myself. i do  oppose the amendment. i give this ice of the administrations opposition so that any senator may. if he chooses. oppose it. i believe in this particular case. dealing with institutions which represent parts of the vci program. socalled. that the amendment does straighten out an inequity based upon practical experience with the operation of the law as it exists today. therefore i would hope. speaking as one senator. that the senate might accept this amendment.
i am agreeable to this amendment. certainly. i want to see the public elements of education considered. however. i can refrain from spreading on the record one thing that does trouble me. so that it may appear on the record and that we are  heedless of it. and that is that there have been many charges over the years that there were created public education facilities in various jurisdictions which were created simply for the purpose of avoiding the desegregation decisions of the u.s. supreme court. they were called "academies" or by other fancy names. i would like it very clear as a matter of legislative record that when we speak of public school participants. we are speaking of those which are lawful under the courts and the laws of the united states. and  those in some twilight zone or subject to some litigation. that can be left in the good judgment of the people who will be organizing the conference. but i thought it needed to be said because of the practical situation we have found to exist from time to time. i have objection to the adoption of the amendment. but i did wish to put that caveat in the record.
along came a letter to me dated may 22. 1974. about this matter that i raised for nyu. my own alma mater. which took the old viewthat is. the view before this memorandumand the letter stated that they simply were  going to do it. howard h. callaway. secretary of the army said: our policy thus prohibits the payment of tuition or provision of tuition assistance for matriculation of students at these schools. except in programs to procure officers in the health professions. that was exactly what they had been doing before this program came down. so although the department ostensibly changed its policy. at least to be selective. where one could  get those courses in other institutions. or something like that. the letter of may 22 was simply a regression right back to the old policy. i ask unanimous consent that that letter may be made a part of the record.
. i respect senator goldwaters disagreement. but i do think the issue is one of academic freedom. i do  think it is an issue of freedom of that character for the individual university. it is tied to a matter which is  a matter of law. therefore. it is quite appropriate. whatever may be the result. to at least have the senate vote it up or down and at least let the congress give its view of what the policy shall be. in a considered way. that is my purpose. that is my purpose. whatever we decide we will decide. but when one weighs separate issues of the strong feeling which the senator has. and which others have. that the colleges ought to have rotcand. as i say. i favor rotc in the colleges and universities myself. and always have taken that position. and i do i believe that one must balance that with the issue of the freedom of the individual university or college to determine its own policy in what it considers to be the highest interests of the academic community which it represents. it is that proposition which i am seeking to preserve and for which i contend. i do  believe that it is desirable to decide that issue except upon the considered judgment of congress itself and. hence. the amendment and the vote which we will take tomorrow.
. this is the season for school commencement addresses. all in this body are privileged to give them. all of us have had the opportunity to hear them. the recent commencement address of national humanities endowment chairman dr. ronald berman at the george washington university stands high above the average. i understand that dr. berman received a standing ovation. the first such recognition at george washington since 1964. i ask unanimous consent that dr. bermans speech be printed in the record as part of my remarks.
. it is apparent today that many of our close to 7 million veterans ftom the vietnam conflict are beset with problems that demand our urgent attention. i am concerned about the fact that the educational benefits given to the vietnam veteran under the gi bill are  only low. but that under the present system of distribution. many veterans are precluded from going to college. thus. underutilization of their educational opportunities has resulted. particularly in new york state. where the rate of use is only 36 percent. i wholeheartedly support s. 2784. which i feel will. if enacted. go a long way toward aiding the veteran in his pursuit of higher education. of particular importance is the fact that this bill would enable veterans in states with highcost public education. such as new york. to use effectively the gi benefits.  only would this be accomplished by an 18.2percent increase in the monthly educational assistance allowance. but also by providing partial tuition assistance. this tuition assistance will be in the form of the veterans administration paying 80 percent of the schools yearly tuition charges up to $1.000. excluding the first $100 paid by the veteran.  only does s. 2784 provide for an increase in educational benefits to all veterans. but ackledges the problems that exist for certain groups of our nations veterans. an example of this. that will be of particular importance in cities like new york. are provisions using community organizations with special expertise to communicate with and provide services to those who may be disadvantaged due to linguistic factors. this will greatly aid tle large number of spanishspeaking veterans. enabling them fully to benelit from the gi bill provisions. in new york city alone there are 350.000 vietnam veterans who. like other veterans. deserve and need the increased education benefits. which will in some way help them in the lonely and difficult task of readjusting to civilian life after having participated in a tragic war. when they were called upon. these men answered the call and performed admirably. we must  lot them down when they need our aid.
it already puts congress in a confrontation with the courts. but i am  going to argue about that. that is water over the dam. we have agreed. what this really does is to seek to restore the house reopener provision and the house provision respecting the termination of remedies and. according to the mover of this particular amendment. the limitation on the expenditure of funds. let me deal with the last first. because that seems to be a factor. and it should  be. we agreed in the conference on a prohibition against the use of appropriated funds for busingthe socalled ashbrook amendment. we agreed to that. the only qualification we put on it was that money which came out of impact aid could be used for this purpose. that was recognized by representative ashbrook. himself. as something which was legitimately necessary.  to those of us who are concerned about these socalled antibusing provisions but to impacted school districts which simply would have to utilize some of those funds for the particular purpose of busing. if they were compelled to do it. based upon all the other provisions of this and other law. so i think it is fair to say that the limitation against the use of appropriated funds for busing remains substantially intact as it passed the house. . the house has been successful. in my judgment. to an overwhelming extent. so much so as to deeply concern people like myself as to whether the whole effort is justified. the essential thrust of what the house wanted is in the bill. the only exception being those elements which have the potential for catastrophic social instability which have been somewhat modified even changed.  even withdrawn. but somewhat modifiedto wit. the reopener clause and the clause on limitation of orders. the fundamental thrust of what the house wanted. the use of money for busing. the order of priority in respect of remedies. the fact that racial balance shall  be confused with desegregation according to the constitution. the allowability of assignment to neighborhood schools. and freedom to draw district linesall this has been completely reserved without any change in respect of this measure.
. i have had the pleasure of serving as a member of the national advisory board of the latin american teaching fellowships. latf. program of the fletcher school of law and diplomacy. tufts university. for the past 6 years. tufts university has developed a unique and effective educational exchange program in the western hemisphere. tufts university. using the formula developed by its latf program. has sent more ph. ds and mbas to latin america than any other 10 universities combined. the key to the success of the latf program is that the participantsdrawn from throughout the nationare completely selfsupporting. two hundred and twentyfive individuals have participated in the latf program since it was launched 9 years ago.
. yesterday we approved the conference report on h.r. 12628. the vietnamera veterans readjustment assistance act of 1974. the conference bill is a reasonable compromise in view of the house reluctance to approve a partial tuition assistance plan. it will significantly improve benefits to the over 7 million vietnam era veterans. in particular. i e that the increased monthly educational benefits provided in this measure bring them more closely to parity with those educational benefits provided veterans of the world war ii and korean conflict eras. a provision increasing the number of months of entitlement from 36 to 45 months is much more in keeping with the time realities involved. and will permit many more veterans to complete their education. underutilization of educational opportunities by the younger veteran has. in large part. been caused by our failure to keep the benefits available to them anywhere near the level necessitated by the exploding costs of education. for example. in new york state. only 36 percent of the veterans eligible for assistance apply and use their benefits. the result is a vicious cyclethe educational benefits have been so low that the veteran can afford to use them. and he can afford to use them because his lack of education limits his earnings potential. the improved benefits provided in this measure are a much needed first step in breaking this tragic cycle. i am very disappointed that the partial tuition assistance plan. a feature of the senate bill. was dropped by the conference. such a tuition payment plan was provided world war ii and korean veterans. and enable many veterans to stay in school who otherwise would have been unable to continue their education. today. a similar program is necessary to ameliorate the differences in educational costs incurred by veterans residing in different states with different systems and costs of public education. veterans in states with high tuition public educationlike new york state. which has the second largest veterans population in the nationshould . because of geographical location. be "frozet" of educational opportunity they have earned with great personal sacrifice. for this reason i have joined with 25 senators in writing to senator hartke. chairman of the senate veterans affairs committee. urging prompt and serious consideration of tuition assistance for the vietnam era veteran. i ask unanimous consent that the letter be printed in the record.
 ford on august 21. contains provisions which i authored for special programs for these youngsters. this measure will serve to complement that act and help to bring to fruition the promise it holds. the term "exceptional children" includes  only those youngsters suffering a handicap but also those who are gifted and talented. there are an estimated 9 million of these exceptional children and youth whose intellectual. physical. social. or emotional abilities or disabilities require special education assistance. observance of exceptional childrens month will focus attention on these needs. this measure has the active support of the council for exceptional childrencecthe 60.000member organization representing teachers and others concerned with handicapped and with gifted and talented children. cec had by resolution endorsed the idea of an exceptional childrens month at their annual convention. it is estimated that only some 40 percent of the nations handicapped children receive the special educational attention they require. and the gifted and talented are also overlookedmore than onethird of school dropouts.. for example. are considered to be in that category. these exceptional children. of whom there are an estimated 9 million. come from all walks of american life. suburbs and ghetto. th and south.
but also. he certainly is entitled to at least equal treatment with harry truman and jack kennedy. e of us. i think. would wish to controvert that. i feel that this is the very minimum of fairness. and i hope that senator scott will amend his amendment that way. i should like to add one other point: a great deal of money has been poured into this college by the friends of dwight eisenhower. at least equal to what the federal government has done. on all those grounds. i think this is eminently justified.
i do  think it implies that presumption. i was of that school at one time myself. what it does imply is the fact that what you want is to pinpoint massing at a given point. which is the military doctrine of great advantage. a massive capital for a particular breakthrough. in this case housing. i do  see that that invalidates the theory that we have been discussing. sure. he is an advocate of that theory. and i was. as i say. at a given time. but i do  think that that concedes that there is a dearth of capital for this purpose. that is. government lending in order to meet this budget.
. the guaranteed student loan program has been the subject of attention because of its mounting costs in interest payments and defaults by students and because of administrative problems. a number of journalists have closely followed these developments. and have raised public awareness of these real and mounting problems. last fall. the washington post ran a very informative and balanced series of articles by mr. eric wentworth. a leading reporter covering education. this series. entitled "the kledge hustlers." was based on sound journalistic research. cited a number of real abuses. and fairly portrayed the current efforts to solve the problems. this was a good example of the press informing the public of a major problem which affects millions of current and potential students who need a federal loan program to help them pay for their own education. yet. the same newspaper had. on april 27. devoted a full page to an article on student loans which said virtually hing about the positive accomplishments of the program and efforts currently underway to address the important problems facing the guaranteed student loan program. hence the record needs to be made complete which i do herewith. since enactment in 1965. the program has assisted more than 41/2 million students to borrow from private. government sources approximately $8 billion to pay the costs of postsecondary education. the vast majority of these students could never have obtained financial credit without the government guarantee on the loan. the program is also an example of federalstate cooperation. as states like new york operate their own programs with the assistance of reinsurance and interest subsidy by the federal government. both hew and the congress have been addressing the growing problems of defaults and alleged frauds in the program. i have cosponsored. with senators beall. schweiker. and stafford. a bill. s. 1229. prepared by hew to remedy some of these problems. the education subcommittee of the labor and public welfare committee is  carefully reviewing this program. as the authorization expires in slightly more than a year. u.s. commissioner of education terrel h. bell. the official responsible for the program. has testified before the education subcommittee and has been striving to overcome these problems. he has given them highest priority. and should be given the opportunity to resolve these difficulties without being subjected to only half the story being in the press. dr. bell has written to the washington post to present in detail the more balanced factors of program accomplishments and administrative remedies already underway. he was also candid in presenting the problems of the loan program. the post has published this letter on may 10. showing their willingness to show both views. i think commissioner bell is correct to point out that there are two sides of the story on student loans. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of commissioner bells letter be printed in the record.
. hicksville junior high school. located in central nassau county in hicksville. n.y.. is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year. a special week of activities. both school and community. is planned for the week of june 2. 1975. the junior high school building originally served the small farming community of hicksville as a juniorsenior high school. there was an addition to the building in 1929 to meet an increase in student population. after world war ii the community population skyrocketed. a large wing and extended facilities were added and the building became a junior high school only. in the 1960s a temporary wing was added to the junior high school. it is. in terms of student population. the largest junior high school in one building in the state of new york. located on jerusalem avenue just south of old country road. its beautiful architecture which combines colonial and gothic design dating back to the 1920s is in stark contrast to the severe suburban styles representative of the 1950s and 1960s. t"he murals on the walls of the auditorium were painted during the late years of the great depression by an artist with the work projects administration. these colorful paintings depict an insight into hicksvilles colonial history. the communitys able farming era. early industry and a reminder of the areas role as a cradle of aviation. the grounds of the hicksville junior high school are rich indeed in history. located on the south side of the building are memorial stones dedicated to the hicksville boys who have served in both world wars. the bell tower is devoted to the memory of three hicksville boys who lost their lives in france during world war i. the hicksville centennial celebration in 1936 and the weeklong area tercentennial celebrated in 1948 were held at the junior high school. the students of hicksville junior high school can look with pride at the past accomplishments of students who have gone before them and accept the challenge to try to better the already glorious history of the hicksville junior high school.
. a most interesting article "head head start" by maya pines. appeared in the new york times magazine section. on sunday. october 26. 1975. it reflects some current thought about early childhood education. and should provoke serious consid-. eration among my colleagues in the senate. my compliments go forth to the brookline. mass.. citizenry and its school superintendent. dr. robert sperber. for instituting such a far reaching experimental program. the brookline early education projectcalled beepoperates on the theory that most critical learning time is the age 8 to 18 months. and the program is directed to this group. as a comprehensive program. it attempts to deal with all aspects of early childhood development. working in conjunction with the parents who are intimately and totally involved in the project. it should be ed the parents are recruited on a voluntary basis. and that the program only works with their cooperation and support. while the beep project has  been in operation long egh to be fully evaluated. it has shown positive preliminary results. both in the early detection of physical handicaps and other disabilities. and with the educational and social gains of its participants. beep could be a model on which other programs could be copied. it is aher example of early preventative action being more ecoical in the long run than remedial patchwork measures. applied too long after damage has been done. questions have been raised about the need and value of a comprehensive child and -family services program. experimental projects such as beep. go far in answering many of these questions. and are to be commended for increasing our kledge of early childhood development. i ask unanimous consent that the article by maya pines. "head head start." along with a column by william raspberry in the washington post. about this article. be printed in the record.
. today. the senate must determine if the nation will be provided with adequate federal funding for vitally needed health care. social services. and labor programs. i feel i must vote to override this unfortunate veto and to continue these human services. h.r. 8069 as already passed by the congress represents more than an adequate level for the programs operated by the departments of labor. and health. education. and welfare. i feel it is congressional intent  to abandon federal responsibility and we can really shift the burden of support to our already overspent state and local governments. however. there is one senateadded provision of h.r. 8069 which causes me great concern. the socalled antibusing amendment. i vigorously opposed this and similar amendments when they were proposed in the senate. i believe that the existing legislation in the education amendments of 1974 (public law 93380) provide the correct priority of remedies for dealing with school desegregation problems. subpart 4. title h a of this law states seven potential remedies for eliminating school segregation in priority order and places restrictions on all federal courts. agencies. and departments in implementing these remedies. i ask unanimous consent that this subpart 4 be printed in its entirety at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill. the student consumer information act of 1976. this new act would provide all appropriate information about student aid programs seeking to advance their education. currently. a student wishing to k more about available assistance is faced with a jumble of information sources which sometimes overlap. sometimes contradict. and sometimes omit vital facts. it is the purpose of this bill to enable students to be informed and intelligent consumers of educational services. i strongly believe that students and prospective students can make intelligent choices about financing their education only if they have sufficient information. for many young people. education after high school represents the largest expenditure they have ever made. with the information provided through the mechanism of this bill. a prospective student becomes a well informed "comparison shopper" in the educational marketplace. the bill would achieve these goals by providing educational institutions with financial and administrative assistance in providing prospective applicants and current students with complete and accurate information on available student aid. my bill would provide funds to schools based on the number of students participating in federal aid programs. it would also mandate that the u.s. office of education provide technical assistance to schools. including a uniform statement of student rights and responsibilities regarding student aid. complete disclosure and understanding of students rights and responsibilities in participating under federal aid programs should result in reduction of the abuses which are damaging these programs.
. over 50 years ago. junior achievement. the nations oldest youth ecoic education program. was founded to teach high school students the principles of the private enterprise system by helping them establish and run their own miniature businesses. this year over 192.000 achievers are active in 7.500 junior achievement companies across the country. these "miniature companies" are scaled down. but detailed operations which closely simulate the functions of a modern corporation. by performing such corporate duties as electing officers. selling stock. keeping books. and publishing an annual report. the student is provided an opportunity to create. experience. and participate in a miniature private enterprise system. to this end. i commend junior achievement for encouraging and cultivating the business leaders of tomorrow. while junior achievement looks to the future. they have  forgotten the labors of the business leaders of yesterday and today. last year. junior achievement asked the board of editors of fortune magazine to undertake a selection of business leaderssome from the past and some from recent years. the 1975 inees included outstanding men such as j. c. penney. henry ford. and j. p. morgan. pioneers in their respective fields. who provided direction and inspiration which encouraged the development of the free enterprise system. the 1976 inductees. presented in the current issue of fortune. were hoed at the second annual national business hall of fame awards banquet in dallas. tex.. on january 30. 1976. george moore. formerly chairman of the first national city bank of new york and one of those inated to the business hall of fame. offered some inspirational remarks on the future of the private enterprise system. i ask unanimous consent that the text of his remarks be printed in the record.
i think the observation perhaps needs to be qualified. yesterday we did adopt an amendment which sought to reach governments which aid or abet terrorist individuals or groups. and i would consider the plo and its individual terrorists an individual or group. but the existence of the plo is  threatened even by yesterdays amendment. threatened as an organization moreover. the indiges lebanese people and government were more at the mercy of the plo than harboring it as willings hosts. but the very existence of israel is definitely  only threatened but put in complete jeopardy by this amendment. because the senator is absolutely right. an organized government has way to defend itself. as is shown by the fact that even through what we k to be the utmost vigilance on the part of the people and government of israel. there has been constant infiltration by arab terrorists and commitment of unbelievable. horrifying acts of terrorwhich my colleague never even mentioned. let us  forget the 24 children gunned down on the floor of a public school which i visited myself in maalot in 1974. but the latest is directly connected with the raid on leba which the mover of the amendment has referred to. and that was the killing by a bomb in zion square in jerusalem for which the plo did  have to be found out. it advertised that it was to be given the "credit" for this terrible atrocity. as it had respecting earlier ones. . that we will see through what this really means in israels case and that we will resoundingly defeat this amendment.
. opponents of school desegregation frequently claim that urban desegregation plans damage the educational process. a 1972 public opinion survey found that millions of americans believed that the courts had ordered busing in spite of evidence that it would hurt childrens education. in fact. the supreme court had explicitly ruled. in its first busing decision. that courts must  "significantly impinge on the educational process" in accomplishing desegregation. in a society where the schools have often been the key to social mobility. we must closely consider any policy that damages education. time after time some members of the house and senate have claimed that education was suffering because of court orders. there have been scores of studies of the educational impact of desegregation in the past two decades. although most of this research may be seriously flawed by a variety of methodological weaknesses and there has been serious national assessment of the impact of desegregation since 1966. a few things can be said with confidence about the educational effects: first. there is a consensus among virtually all the researchers that desegregation does  harm the education of either blacks or whites. even during the turbulent transitional period. second. the first phase of desegregation (usually the only phase measured) most often produces gains for miity students. gains which appear to be related to enrollment within a classroom which contains higher proportions of children from middle class homes. third. the research shows likelihood that school desegregation will prove to be an educational panacea. eliminating the difference in achievement scores between miity and white children. schools can overcome all of the socioecoic and educational differences of childrens home background. school desegregation should  be basically considered as an educational but as a constitutional reform. though it can establish the preconditions for educational change if local school officials wish to use the opportunity. the role of the courts is one of dismantling unconstitutional de jure segregation of public education. the available evidence suggests that they are accomplishing this goal without impairing the educational process. though school integration has  ended educational differences it is interesting to e that its effects are usually substantially more positive than compensatory programs. if school desegregation can usually produce some positive shortrun effects. even in a climate of racial polarization and resistance by local school officials and national leaders. surely its longterm potential. with positive leadership. is much greater. congress should finance national research to find out how to make the process of adjustment work more effectively. the two best recent summaries of the research literature on desegregation and academic achievement were published last year by prof. nancy st. john of the university of massachusetts and meyer weinberg. editor of integrated education. both have long and distinguished records of research in the field. although these two scholars disagree about policy recommendations. their analyses of the research literature have major sinilarities. i ask unanimous consent that these two articles be printed in the record.
. the national attack on school desegregation often sinks to the level of meaningless generalizations and global cliches. often it can be reduced to one sentence summaries: "busing has failed." "lets put the money into education." "the courts must stop running the schools." "educational standards are falling." one feature in common is that there is clear vision of the alternatives to desegregation and conception of the movement from segregation to true integration as a long and extremely complex process of institutional change. the important changes that happen with desegregation take place with individual teachers and students over a period of years. these are changes that are seldom studied by social scientists but are continually cited by teachers who have experienced the transformation of a school. unfortunately. only a few teachers have written about their experiences. in trying to understand the meaning of segregation and integration. we could learn much from teachers. todays first excerpt is from barry silverstein and ronald krates 1975 book. "children of the dark ghetto." both of them taught in the elementary schools of central harlem. their description of the social forces in a ghetto school should give pause to those who think that an increment of federal funds will solve the problems. perhaps it will also stimulate thought about the wisdom of sharply cutting title i payments to the new york schools in 1974 and about the citys grave problems in implementing further educational cutbacks . the second selection comes from margaret andersons eloquent book. "the children of the south." a teacher at the clinton. tenn.. high school in 1956. when the city became the symbol of southern resistance when its school was dynamited. ms. anderson stayed in the school and sensitively observed the very important changes that were slowly emerging. a final selection. from ina schlesinger and michael damores study of desegregation in white plains. n.y.. discusses the challenge of moving from physical desegregation to effectively integrated classrooms. perhaps these reports from the classroom may give members of the senate a more accurate view of both the nature of ghetto education and the challenge of achieving integration. we owe it to the teachers and to the children who depend on our public schools to stop oversimplifying these issues and stirring fears. successful integration is a slow. arduous. and extraordinarily important task. the americans who are working to make it succeed deserve our thanks and the help of the federal government. desegregation has  come easily in any of our important institutions and e are more consequential than our schools. i ask unanimous consent that these excerpts be printed in the record.
. the list of major american cities where there has been active and constructive leadership at the local level in devising and implementing a citywide desegregation plan is very short. the largest is minneapolis. where the task was undertaken under the leadership of superintendent john davis. the result has been an unusually intelligent. thoughtful. and creative approach to school desegregation bringing with it new educational options for children and their families. minneapolis has  solved all of its problemsschool system will until other social and ecoic injustices are repairedbut it is working on them peacefully and with imagination and determination. minneapolis has only about a fifth of miity children. but this is approximately the number the boston schools had in the mid1960s when that citys politics first became almost completely dominated by the desegregation issue. minneapolis great advantages were that it had educational leadership that treated desegregation as the educational challenge and opportunity it is and that most of the state and local political leaders refused to abandon their support for desegregation. the gover. state school officials. the citys congressman. don fraser. and others held to their principles when the conflict became most intense. good public leadership and the good sense of the local voters kept the school board in the hands of those who wanted desegregation to work well.  the forces that often waste years of effort and hundreds of thousands of dollars in useless appeals trying to reverse the constitution. minneapolis plan is  perfect and the city has confronted difficult problems of building new educational approaches more responsive to diverse demands of different groups of parents. the city does. however. provide a fine example of educational leadership and commitment of school officials to building genuinely integrated schools. todays inserts are a number of articles from the minneapolis tribune and one from the milwaukee journal describing the desegregation process as it unfolded in minneapolis. i ask unanimous consent that this material be printed in the record.
. school desegregation is an issue that can make a community nationally famous for a few days. can fuel a few years of local political strifeand. once the shouting stops is generally accepted and iged. education writers on newspapers in a number of cities which desegregated some time ago have sent in recent reports. in a surprising number of cases they really had  written anything about it for a long time because one had mentioned the issue at a school board meeting. the fact that this bitterly contentious issue does settle down into a routine fact of life is. of course. one of the most important stories of all. it is easy for a television film crew or a newspaper writer to cover dramatic public conflict. it is much more difficult to follow and explain gradual changes in individual schools over years of quiet desegregation. yet that is where the real story is. todays insertions are recent articles from seven papers reporting what has happened after years of desegregation in six school districts and analyzing the very successful management of locally designed desegregation in a sixth community. the first report comes from the new rochelle. n.y.. district. the first system in the united states to implement courtordered busing to remedy de jure segregation. the second is from pontiac. mich.. where a national storm of protest and antibusing organizing began in 1971. the third covers prince georges. md.. the nations ninth largest local district and the site of difficult middleoftheyear desegregation in january 1973. the fourth is from las vegas. where a metropolitanwide plan was implemented in 1972 in a school district larger than several eastern states. next come reports from two university towns in illis. evanston and champaign. which implemented desegregation plans about a decade ago. finally. a report from racine. wis.. shows the way one community chose to accomplish peaceful. wellplanned desegregation last fall. all of these communities together have  attracted even a tiny fraction of the national and international attention lavished on those who have disrupted the desegregation process at two boston high schools. racial violence is a very important story. but the quiet efforts of teachers and students in peacefully desegregated school systems is far more important for the future of our cities. i hope that members of the senate who have come to think of angry mobs as the essence of the busing issue consider the genuine accomplishments in many districts. i ask unanimous consent that these articles be printed in the recoan.
. it is unfortunate but certainly true that congress has  devoted a tenth of the time spent in recent years on futile antibusing legislation to the challenge of making desegregation work better. millions of children already attend desegregated schools and many more will be facing the desegregation transition in the coming years. we need to find ways to facilitate this process. both through financial aid and through learning from the experience of other cities. congress only significant effort to help was the enactment of the emergency school aid legislation. this program was damaged by antibusing battles both in congress and in hew and has been limited to small. shortterm transitional aid. it neither helps substantially with the immediate costs of busing  underwrites the years of educational change necessary to build an outstanding quality school. congressional research service calculations show that the appropriations for this modest program have shrunk 31 percent in recent years in constant value dollars. as the debate over busing has escalated. the commitment to support effective desegregation has fallen. there are ways to help and we do k some things that could ease the process. we have some good research evidence. in fact. that even the small emergency school program has had definite and measurable positive effects. a more carefully designed and more adequately supported program could surely have stronger supportive impact. today. in the last of this series of insertions. i would like to call the attention of the senate to suggestions of several experts about ways for local communities. the courts. and federal policymakers to make the desegregation process work better. meyer weinberg. editor of integrated education magazine. has summarized the nature and the opportunities of the desegregation transition in a recent study for the southern regional council: desegregation uncovers. it does  create. educational problems. under desegregation. our educational problems can be examined in broad daylight. hing was done. or will ever be done. about them if they remain in the shadows of segregation. to tell the truth. hing much may be done ever under desegregation. but research tells us that this does  have to be. every desegregated school that succeeds is a further demonstration that high quality education is feasible for every child and  for a chosen few. desegregation plans break down the often rigid status quo in urban school systems. whether something better replaces it depends largely on local school officials. federal assistance. however. could help officials prepare better plans. could help with the drive for community involvement. and could provide resources and technical assistance to permit school officials to institute programs of educational improvement for all children at the time of the transition and in the next several years. todays inserts begin with a summary of the lessons from communities that have already desegregated by rachel tompkins of the citizens council for ohio schools. the next article. "why busing plans work." by prof. john a. finger. jr.. discusses the need to design plans suitable for a particular community. plans which tend to stabilize neighborhoods. in the third excerpt. prof. thomas pettigrew of harvard university outlines eight conditions that help a desegregated school become effectively desegregated. gary orfields article. "how to make desegregation work." describes the processes of longterm educational change set in motion by desegregation and offers some ideas for anticipating these needs in initial planning. finally. the summary of robert crains southern schools study shows that even the small emergency school aid program had positive impact on the process. even in the initial phase of desegregation in resistant districts in the deep south. i ask unanimous consent that this material be printed in the record.
. in voting for this measure. i would like to point out that the reported bill differs significantly from the original measure. during consideration by the labor and public welfare committee. i offered several amendments which were unanimously accepted. the purpose of these three amendments is to overcome the open ended and unlimited provisions of s. 972 as introduced. the first amendment clarifies section 3(b). and prevents the federal government paying student twice for the same purposes. under s. 972 as introduced. an individual student could get a full $3.500 award under this act. and also receive large amounts of federal grants under other programs to pay twice for the same purposes. this amendment removes duplication only of grant awards authorized under the higher education act. it does  affect eligibility for veterans or social security benefits belonging to an eligible individual.  does it affect eligibility for federally subsidized work study or federal loan program. the second amendment perfects section 4(b). it mandates that the student use the funds received under this act for their intended purposes. such requirement was contained in the original s. 972. so that a student receiving these funds could spend them for any purpose he chose. students are allowed to spend moneys under this act for their living costs as well as tuition. books. and other costs of attendance as calculated in other student financial aid programs. should a student spend proceeds under this act for purposes wholly outside seeking an education. he must then pay them back. the final amendment specifies a dollar amount for appropriations. this amendment rewrites the appropriation authorization section in its entirety. original authorization section provided in perpetuity for an unlimited amount of funds for purposes of this act. this amendment provides funds at a level 10 times the original cost estimates submitted by senator moss. it authorizes payments for each year until fiscal year 1982. when higher education act. as amended by s. 2657. expires. the amendment also limits the total number of scholarships to 500 new awards each year. and a total of 1.000 scholarships in force during any year. these levels greatly exceed those suggested by senator moss. but provide an outside limit on the number of scholarships. as the original s. 972 provided resources to operate the new program. this amendment provides that a small portion of the appropriation can be used for administration. i feel these amendments were necessary in order to prevent distortion of the intent of this bill. i am pleased that the reported bill contains these reasonable constraints on the open ended provisions. each intended recipient will be aided. but program abuses which have raised problems with other federal programs of grants to students will be avoided. as my colleagues k. i had the privilege of serving as attorney general in the state of new york prior to my service here in the senate. a number of other senators have likewise served their respective states as the chief law enforcement official. i am hopeful that this measure. as focused by my refining amendments included in the committee reported bill. will lead to better public safety for all our citizens
to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate disagrees to the amendments of the house to the bill entitled "an act to provide that meetings of government agencies shall be open to the public. and for other purposes." requests a conference with the house on the disagreeing votes of the two houses thereon. and appoints mr. ribicoff. mr. muskie. mr. metcalf. mr. chiles. mr. percy. mr. javits. and mr. roth to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate had passed a joint resolution of the following title. in which the concurrence of the house is requested: s.j. res. 208. joint resolution recognizing the contributions of school volunteers.
. on august 1. u.s. education commissioner terrel h. bell completed his federal service and returned to his native utah to assume new responsibilities in higher education. ted bell served as education commissioner for only 2 years. but previously had compiled an outstanding record of service in virtually every level of public education. federal officials are frequently cited as having insufficient understanding of the needs and ideas in their respective fields of endeavor. ted bell has a career in education which includes being a classroom teacher in a rural area. a superintendent in a small rural cornmunity. a superintendent in a large urban school district. a state education commissioner. a regional u.s. commissioner of education. a deputy commissioner of education. and most recently. the u.s. education commissioner. such a record is all the more remarkable when seen in the context of dr. bells childhood. tle outgoing education commissioner was raised as one of many children of a widowed mother in rural idaho during the depression. education did  come easily in that environment. but ted bell was willing to reach out to grasp the opportunity in spite of hardship. he has often jokingly told the story that he selected his college simply on the basis of its lowest tuition. which in the 1940s was just a few dollars per semester. by achieving the position of u.s. education commissioner. the steward of $8 billion of annual federal education expenditures through over 100 separate programs. dr. bell presents a sterling example of the benefits of educational opportunity.
second. the buckley amendment relates. as i understand it. to a procedural question which does involve substance. but it relates to a procedural question when money goes from hew or under its authority to a school district.
. i am pleased that s. 2657 continues my long collaboration with the senator from rhode island (senator pell). who has already described the major features of s. 2657. this bill is the result of long and careful deliberations of the labor and public welfare committee. and i commend my colleagues on this excellent bill. this work has been aided by a number of sources which should be credited. oversight investigations by the committee on government operations. on which i also serve. resulted in several recommendations which are incorporated in the bill. assistance from the administration and innumerable educators and education associations has also been useful to the committee. the bill will continue and improve federal programs in higher education. vocational education. and the national institute of education. additionally. the administrative structure for education programs within hew has been strengthened. and other necessary education amendments are included. i wish to emphasize to my colleagues the importance of this measure. and the necessity to act expeditiously. title i of the bill reauthorizes the entire range of existing higher education programs. and provides many administrative improvements to combat the abuses which have tarnished the vital student aid programs. i am proud to have sponsored many of these improvements. if enacted. they will reverse the distressing prospect of endemic administrative problems of federal student aid programs. i should emphasize that the vast majority of participantsstudents. educational institutions. and private lendershave carried out all their responsibilities in these programs. however. given the financial magnitude. the popularity and the importance of student aid. we must assure that administrative problems are rooted out. s. 2657 contains over two dozen provisions to give administrators the necessary tools to improve these problems. i want to e particularly the provisions to protect the student from abuses arising from students misunderstanding their rights and responsibilities in student aid. these student consumer information provisions will help both schools and students. s. 2657 also includes a new provision to authorize federal activities in the emerging area of lifelong learning. this provides a "second chance" for many persons older than conventional schoolgoing age. who never adequately benefitted from the recent federal programs supporting postsecondary education. a modest authorization has been included to sponsor studies and the development of supportive mechanisms in lifelong learning. this will broaden the spectrum of lifelong learning and provide education opportunities for persons of all ages throughout their lifetimes. i strongly endorse these improvements in administration of student aid and increased efforts in lifelong learning. title ii of the bill improves the vocational education act. it continues a federal tradition since 1917 of aiding state and local school districts in preparing young people for occupations. the remaining titles of the bill contain other worthwhile provisions. i would like to highlight the national institute of education and the fund for the improvement of postsecondary education. as my colleagues k. nie has had a difficult history since it was established in 1972. the committee bill affirms that educational research remains an important federal activity. the new administration at nie under director harold hodgkinson has tackled these problems and. in my view. has turned the corner on its earlier problems. nie is  well on its way to filling the mission for which it was createdto be a strong federal agency for investment in research and development in the educational problems which continue to confront america. also established in 1972 and  reauthorized. fipse has consistently proven its value. it has widely distributed its limited funds among the most inative and challenging postsecondary education projects in the country. fipse has a record of stewardship which on the merits deserves both reauthorization and expanded resources. i ask unanimous consent to insert in the record a letter to the committee from the leading higher education organizations urging prompt passage of s. 2657 without substantial change.
. in conclusion. i must discuss one additional area. there are two vital questions about the costs of the bill which i hope senators consider overnight. because they involve very grave issues of social policy. there will be some other arguments on this bill about matters involving quality education and other things of that kind. but the money items involve two questions. one. shall we provide in the basic opportunity grant programbeog--an increase in the maximum award from $1.400 per student to $1.800 per student. do we need this change in view of the fact that the $1.400 was fixed in 1972 and the increase would be effective in 1978. is  the $1.400 obsolescent in terms of our present purpose. this is for students who are poor. but it involves a lot of money. something in excess of a billion dollars a year and it involves hundreds of thousands of students. the second question is in respect to the student guaranteed loans. which are private loans. but which the government guarantees and also gives an interest subsidy of 7 percent. which also involves many millions of dollars. we must realize that there are literally hundreds of thousands of these loans made each year. in any case. we will have all the figures. the simple question before us is whether or  we should accommodate in that opportunity. families which have a family income of between $15.000 and $25.000 a year. today it is limited to $15.000. because of inflation. we figure the $25.000 is worth about what the $15.000 was when we put it in effect in but both these things cost important money. i submit those to my colleagues so that they may overnight consider that juxtaposition. these are highly desirable purposes: do you want to spend the money. the committee thought you should. but the senate will decide. undoubtedly. these issues will be challenged. other than that. i think everyone is well acquainted with the issues at stake in the various aspects of the bill and much more detail will be included in the record.
. i would like to ask the senator a few questions. first. let me tell the senator that the department raises some question about this amendment on the ground that e of the civil rights statutes relating to higher education deals with religion. this discrimination on the ground of race. color. and national origin is dealt with. as well as sex. but  religion. and therefore. this would introduce yet aher proposition into the antidiscrimination aspects of the law. the language also raises some questions in my mind. for two reasons: first. i understand the amendment is designed to deal with contracts which may be offered or projects or studies which may be offered to a university or college from abroad. requiring discrimination and. for example. saying that people of a certain religious faith should  be hired under the contract.
. we understand that the senator from missouri will offer a substitute amendment. i call the attention of the senator from arizona to two propositions respecting his amendment and the eagleton substitute. i am sympathetic to both. but i think it is necessary. in order to handle the matter. to combine both concepts. first. the eagleton substitute will call for equal treatment respecting these individual eventsthat is. fatherson. motherdaughterso that schools that have fatherson will also allow. on the same terms and conditions. and with equal treatment. motherdaughter. the eagleton amendment does contain safeguards so that we will  have a biased situation there. the second thing i should like to ask the senator from arizona is with respect to the disquiet which is created by the following words in his amendment. i am  certain that these few words are really needed. the amendment. at page 2. lines 14 and 15. speaks of: any program or activity of any secondary school or educational institution undertaken in connection with. and then it goes on to deal with the promotion. organization. or operation of boys state. and so forth. there is question about the fact that if we adopted this amendment. we would be authorizing a segregated activity. but. as i think my colleagues properly say. we are undertaking a great reform in respect of trying to bring up the status of women. and this reform runs into some very deep social establishments which do differentiate between sexes. and we can expect to whole scale eliminate all those activities. for example. we would prefer to see that the motherdaughter and fatherson activities be intermingled. so that it becomes fourcornered instead of two. we would like to see the legion. in its very enviable and fine programs undertake joint boys and girls conferences. there is law against it. and i understand that it is being done just that way in a good many places. etheless. recognizing the facts of life and facing those facts of life. i express the hope to the senator from arizona that we can work out the matter so that two things occur: first. a very clear definition of the activites which we intend to allow to be governed by sex. and. second. the words "undertaken in connection with" are much too broad. and i suggest that the words be stricken and that it relate to any program or activity of any secondary or educational institution dealing with the promotion. organization. or operation of the boys conference. and so forth.
. i wish to make just one point. i adopt everything which the senator from rhode island has said. but i have listened very carefully to the senator from alaska . i am impressed. i k that is his view. we have had our hearings and have. in the hearings. found justification for these programs. obviously we like the guaranteed student loans. it is one of "my babies." and i like it because it involves very heavily private enterprise. but i take to heart everything the senator has said. and i promise him i will dig into it. i never want to be complacent. since this issue has moved him as deeply as it obviously has. it moves me. i will try very hard tc see what can be done to simplify the programs. i do  want to be arguing about the details . because obviously the senator has studied it well. and i want to be as forceful in my argument as he has been.
 i believe this debate is based upon a premise which should be very clearly set forth. i am deeply concerned if the word goes out that we are saying $1.800. but we really do  mean it. the fact is that in advance of the applications for basic educational opportunity grants. hew must estimate the amount which will be required. this demands  only an accurate guess of who will apply. but also their financial circumstances and the cost of their education. which can vary greatly based on what type of school a student selects. their estimate can he way off. -and it has been. sometimes it is too high. sometimes it is too low. there is way of accurately estimating these behavioral decisions of individual citizens. unless we want to throw money away by estimating the highest possible amount. there is just way of doing it.
may i say to senator stevens that he and i are passing each other in the night. all i am talking about is how to divide the 47 percent. and it can be divided in any number of ways. we may disagree on how the appropriations committee divides it. that is all i am talking about. the last point. which is very important. is that you are never going to get every student $1.400 or $1.800. he is  supposed to get it. it depends on the kind of college he goes to and the financial condition of his family. these grants are all variable up to $1.800. that is the important point the country has to k. student has a guarantee of $1.400 or $1.800 or any other figure. those are the ceilings. and the average must be lower otherwise you would be appropriating twice what we are talking about. the senators heart is in as much the right place as mine. but i must be sure that students and universities. and all the people involved. are sure about what we are talking. this is a ceiling. student is promised $1.800. and i ask senator pell to join me in that because. let us get that very clear: student is promised $1.800.
. in summary. this is simply to give regional offices of the office of education the authority to deal with certain specified functions in student loan programs. it was requested by the department as a way in which to strengthen and streamline the administration of the guaranteed student loan program. is this acceptable to my colleague.
 of the beth israel hospital center in new york city and leads in many other philanthropies. mr. silver has been identified with civic and philanthropic activities in new new york city for more than a quarter of a century and it is because of this that i share with my colleague some of his thoughts. mr. silver remarked that the major civic responsibility for all of us is  just coping with each emergency but to plan for and to dream of the practical and the feasible schemes in which we can all live by in our society. he states: we are  the first or the last to be faced with such a necessity of proceeding on two planes of actionreality and reform for today. vision. and revision for tomorrow.... mr. silver also eloquently pledged his desire to take actions in order to fulfill some of these dreams and he urges others to do the same. let me quote: to those who may feel that the times are too hard to endure and the problems too serious to overcome. i must stress that i for one can and will  accept an abdication of responsibility my own and  that of anyone in this room. individually and collectively. we are among those responsible for what happens to new york and for the chain reaction that could followand we can escape that responsibility. during these trying and difficult times. you and ior someone has to come up with a more creative performance. a demonstration of the magic of faith--or of interfaith. a redoubling of efforts in order to assure that our obligations to the children. the old. the ill and the poor are fully met .... as we survey the moral and political background of our failing corhmunities. there is a great deal to disturb usa relentless onslaught against tradition. justice and decency. we need men and women of wisdom and judgement who realize that we have reached a moment in the destiny of cities when the clock of history will run out. the time is and we must learn the truthall the truthand act upon it... we must change the whole picture around. we must free our cities of bribery and selfinterest. we must concern ourselves  merely with producing better products. better homes. and schools and hospitalsbut. in every sense with providing a better life for every citizen. we can learn from the defects of all our yesterdays and the disappointments of today. we can build a better tomorrowa richer more glorious tomorrowthe birth of a better world for all mankind."
. on february 10. 1977. our colleague. senator mathias. addressed the student symposium on cities on the problems of our cities with a focus on the sunbelt versus the frostbelt areas of the country. senator matias offers some interesting solutions and perspectives to this problem and i feel it should be brought to the attention of my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent that the text of senator mathias speech be printed in the record.
s inee if he does  lack competence or integrity. my office has been in contact with mr. flaherty and in addition to denying that he ever advocated defiance of any desegregation order he made several other statements relating to his conduct if confirmed as deputy attorney general. first. in response to questions. mr. flaherty stated that in cases where the justice department intervened as amicus curiae in school desegregation suits which called for busing as a remedy for unconstitutional segregation. he would abide by the decision made by the assistant attorney general for civil rights as to the departments position and would  attempt to use his office to press his individual views on busing. second. in response to questions. mr. flaherty stated that in suits instituted by the department of justice to stop un-. constitutional school segregation. even if th3 department asked for a remedy which included busing. he would abide by the decision of the assistant attorney general for civil rights and would  use his position to press his views which are generally opposed to busing. finally. mr. flaherty stated that he would at all times vigorously enforce the law in all areas. including school desegregation. regardless of his personal views. i expect that mr. flaherty will live up to these commitments and i hope that his actions will be monitored by the senate.
he does. and he has this authority under title ifi of the ceta measure. the authority is contained in subsection (b) of section 311. part b research. training. and evaluation. and it gives the secretary broad authority as follows: (b) the secretary shall establish a program of experimental. developmental. demonstration. and pilot projects. through grants to or contracts with public or private profit organizations. or through contracts with other private organizations. for the purpose of improving techniques and demonstrating the effectiveness of specialized methods in meeting the manpower. employment. and tmining problems. and so on. also. under subsection (c) : (c) the secretary is authorized to conduct. either directly or by way of contract. grant. or other arrangement. a thorough evaluation of all programs and activities conducted pursuant to this act to determine the effectiveness of such programs and activities in meeting the special needs of disadvantaged. chronically unemployed. and lowincome persons for meaningful employment opportunities and supportive services to continue or resume their education and employment and to become more responsible and productive citizens. . i state that ceta is so closely related to other employment services. vocational education. social services. vocational rehabilitation that an effort to deal with overlapping in those programs and to coordinate them more effectively comes expressly. in my opinion. within the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of section 311 of the ceta law in which the secretary has broad authority for contracts for the purpose of development. demonstration. and pilot projects.
is it  also correct that all these school districts complete the survey in order to qualify for federal funds. in other words. they are getting federal funds and that is why they are completing the survey. there is law that says they have to do so. many school districts reject federal funds.
exactly. and that is the most important argument of all. in other words. if we have civil rights laws. we have to monitor their enforcement. because we do  propose to give money 1 for federal aid to education unless the civil rights laws are complied with. this is characteristic of what senator magnuson was talking about when he was talking about legislation on appropriations bills. we have managed to struggle through many of them. but this is a particularly sticky one. for the reason we are discussing. we do  kwe are flying absolutely blind. the senator wants us to completely omit a school year in terms of this survey. personally. i do  like the paperwork business. either. unless the secretary could convince meand i think it is true of my committeethat there is some real purpose to be served by this survey. i would be against it. but i k hing tonight. we just have scraps of information as to whether he needs it or . as to whether he has a legitimate case or . as to whether the very broad language contained in the amendmentwhich. by the way. is  qualified. as the senator says it is. at least. i do  read it that way. it just says: for the elementary and secondary schools civil rights survey. school year 19771978. there is qualification as to what piece of information you are going to get or  going to get or how much of it you will allow or will  allow. so. . it seems to me that one of two things can be done. i say to senator byrd. and i speak as a friend. i do  think i have ever been accused of trying to look for unnecessary work for anybody. we might do one of two things: we can leave it to senator williams and myself to bring in the secretary. i am really shocked. and we have heard this many times before. where a senator could  get the time of day from a secretary. senator williams and i have done this before. we have gotten the secretary up on the carpet very fast and we heard from him. and we made disposition of the matter in the right way. we can either do that: let us undertake a solemn commitment to the senator from virginia to handle this. and we will have the help of the appropriations committee. as they have just said. or we can amend it to read as follows. we can leave the language as it is. but at least give us this protection: unless the secretary certifies to the appropriate committees of congress 30 days in advance the necessity for such survey and reasons therefor. we will have him by the neck. and we will find out what this is really all about. in some kind of intelligent way. instead of flying blind on this amendment.
. i will read it rather slowly to members of the senate. at the end of unprinted amendment  607 add the following: provided. however. that whenever the secretary has reason to believe that there may be a violation of the civil rights laws in a particular school system and so certifies. he may take an appropriate survey in respect to that particular school system. the. presiding officer. the question is on agreeing to the amendment of the senator from new york.
. two recent publications are suggestive of the salutary effects of strengthening the linkages between education and work. the first is an excellent publication of the u.s. government printing office developed for the office of manpower. hew. by urban management consultants of san francisco. inc. it is entitled "education and ceta" and i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at the end of my statement a few brief excerpts. i found the publication to be useful particularly for its analysis of coordination agreements between prime sponsors and local education agencies. the second is a publication of the work in america institute. in new yor1. and describes the success of high school workstudy programs undertaken by the continental illis bank of chicago. i ask unanimous consent to have thi3 article printed in todays record at the end of my statement.
. today with senators williams. kennedy. hayakawa. percy. riegle. and schweiker as cosponsors. i am introducing a bill to amend the rehabilitation act of 1973. this bill is offered to put before the congress. the administration. and the public. an alternative to the present rehabilitaticn act state allocation formula. the current federal allocation formula for distributing funds to states for the support of basic vocational rehabilitation is highly inequitable. states with large populations and relatively high per capita incomes receive. under the current vocational rehabilitation funding formula. disproportionately low allocations of available federal funds. it is essential that we ackledge that our programs of vocational rehabilitation be people oriented. and geared to serve those handicapped individuals who need such services. this means that we must more closely equilibrate the target population of vocational rehabilitation services with funding for these services. the bill which i introduce today to amend the allocation formula will help insure that those handicapped individuals in need of services are provided more equitable access to vocational rehabilitation services regardless of their state of residence.
i recently received a communication from the director of vocational rehabilitation of the state of illis describing funding constructions in providing services for the vocationally handicapped in that state. largely due to inequity in the federal allocation formula. i ask unanimous consent that this communication be printed in the record:
. the inequity inherent in the current allocation formula has been recognized  merely by those states which find themselves unable to provide handicapped persons requisite services for vocational rehabilitation. the department of health. education. and welfare has recommended that federal funds for basic vocational rehabilitation services be allocated according to a formula which is based upon an estimate of the relative proportion of the vocational rehabilitation target population within each state.
concomitant with the introduction of this bill. i am requesting specific recommendations from the president. hew secretary califa assistant secretary for human development arabella martinez. and leaders in the field of vocational rehabilitation services regarding the state allocation proposal we have offered and possible alternatives. while we strongly feel this approach would constitute a major improvement over the inequity of hillburton. we are  inextricably tied to it and will welcome suggestions to improve the present formula. with the introduction of this bill. we hope to generate productive discussion which will lead to greater equity of funding for vocational rehabilitation services. the intention is direct: to provide handicapped individuals who require rehabilitation services more equitable opportunity to obtain such services regardless of their place of residence. we must understand that vocational rehabilitation services are the rationale for our federal program. and that we must better aline our desire for the equity of access to services with the equity of funding among the states. we must  allow our handicapped citizens to suffer as pawns in a war of allocational jealousy among states. . i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
 albert shanker. who signed the agreement between the city. the board. and hew under grave protest. but. the problem was that we were reaping the results of longstanding policies in new york city which had the unintended effect of segregating our public school faculty. the law required new york city to correct it to be entitled to federal aid to education. the question was how. we were faced with a question if the cure is worse than the disease. here i must aline myself with the proposition that the cure (the agreement) has a limited application and duration and therefore was to be preferred to the disease. our task  must be to assure that new york city never again finds itself in a situation which segregates its public school faculty.  that the federal aid is assured. a new new york city mayor should be able to review the case and construct an alternative which is within the legal requirements. i will gladly lend myself to such a course. but as i see alternative right . i do  presently see that city authorities or the union of teachers had any other choice than to enter into the agreement which was made.
the three questions are: first. the name. address. and business of the employer. second. the expected proportion of the student hours of employment to the total hours of employment of all employees for the employer on a weekly. monthly. or annual basis. which shall  exceed 10 per centum. and third. certifying that the employment of such students will  create a substantial probability of reducing the fulltime employment opportunities of persons other than persons employed under special certificates issued under this subparagraph. so he can just answer  that is all there is to this new simplified application.
. i intend to support the amendment. because i believe that we have gone about as far as we should with respect to exemptions. with respect to the two exemptions which would be left in the bill by senator chafee. as i said when i spoke initially on the bill. as one of its comanagers. i deeply feel that the public school and secondary school exemptions are really impossible to justify for the 2.1 million teachers in the country. that what tenure means to primary and secondary school teachers would be completely up in the air. and that the teachers union. itself. opposes any exemption for those teachers. so it seems to me to be highly improper. therefore. i shall favor the chafee amendment. with all the cosponsors who are engaged in it.
so we will understand the situation. the technicalities may be very complex. but the situation is very simple. here it is: if you wish to leave in the bill two exemptions. one for tenured college professors and the other for high level executives over $20.000. but you wish to strike out of the bill the exemptions for secondary and public school teachers. which means that they will have until age 70. whereas the other two groups will only have until age 65. then you must vote "yea" on the chafee amendment. if. on the other hand. you wish all exemptions eliminatedall three. to wit. public school and secondary school teachers. tenured college professors. and highlevel executivesthen you must vote "nay" on chafee and "yea" on cranston. that is the pattern of voting. and the tabling would follow suit. that is the choice which the senate has. if any member is dissatisfied with the te of the debate. we have time on the bill
. let us start i all over again. if we can have a moment. c the fact is that all chafee is seeking to eliminate is the public school teachers and secondary school teachers. if they are eliminated. what is left in the cranston amendment is the opportunity to eliminate the two exemptions which remain. to wit. the tenured professors and the highlevel executives. is that  correct.
we could  work it out. i have complaints. but it seems to me that is the answer. if the committee wants us to go the route of this accelerated payment and. therefore. to target to the individual. we have to get some figure that reaches most of our states. and that figure should be something between the figures which we have been discussing. our base figure. apparently. is $500. the senators base figure is $1.000. mally. we do that in conference all the time. we would split it. the difficulty is that it does  respond to the cold relative number. to wit. the mal tuition in the state institutions.
. in the course of the debate we developed that it was considered that the $1.000 tuition level deprives many of the states public schools of this fund. and therefore many veterans. and that the underutilization which is characteristic of a great number of states in the country could be materially cured by a plan such as we propose. recognizing that we must go to conference in this matter with the house of representatives. which has hing. just a continuation of the present situation. we feel that the basis which we have offered will give us a much better opportunity to work equity and encourage greater usage of the gi bill without invading the budget. or changing the basic figures within the budget. than the proposal which the committee has brought in. therefore. we urge its support by senators.
. i am joined in this amendment by the manager of the bill. senator cranston. by senator moynihan. my colleague from new york. and by senator durkin. this amendment provides that where the tuition is above $700 per annum. the accelerated plan under the bill shall apply to the extent of twothirds of the excess. that keeps everything within the budget. it is something for the states which have public colleges where tuition generally ranges between $500 and $800 and is. we think. a reasonable compromise between the two points of view which have been debated ardently. and it benefits a great many more states than are  benefitted under the bill.
. i wish to express my agreement with senator kennedy. i do  think he should stand alone in this matter. i have had many opportunities to vote for a tax deduction for college tuition and have felt that that is the wrong way to go. i am the ranking member of the committee which deals with education in this body. it would be distorting. running across the grain of all of our scholarships. our educational opportunity grantsalmost everything we do runs precisely the other way. here we have just passed the danforth amendment. which deals with the social security obligations of colleges and universities. we have just taken a step respecting tuition payments. which happens to be very hard on my state but is designed to help veterans with their college tuition. this is simply adding a layer of something totally new and different. with great costs. upon everything we do respecting education and in a very discriminatory way. that is. it really is  tailored to do what even we wish to do. i believe senator kennedy is right. that hearings should be heldour hearings in our committee do  indicate that there is a justification for this at all. the hearings should be held by the committee on finance and we should make some definitive disposition of this matter on the new tax bill. but it certainly should  be done at this stage on this bill. i hope. therefore. that the amendment will be rejected.
i understand that. but we can make the 6.6percent increase retroactive. the point is that hing whatever. as i see it. was done about what we did here. which was to provide that there would be an opportunity to get out of the accelerated payment. socalled. onethird of a veterans tuition above $700. all the house did was to substitute a statefederal program out of which the states have the privilege of paying onethird. do we have any idea what that amounts to or how many it will affect. or what states are called upon to do.
. in this same connection. that there is a real problem of college costs. and that it is necessary for us to do some thinking about a solution for really the people of middle income. as contrasted with the people of lower income. the middle class really faces something of a problem. i think it is very wrong to correct it by the tax route. which. in one basket. includes those who can afford to pay the tuition of private colleges. i will apply myself to the need for finding some solution in view of the widespread support for this amendment. which has  been laid over until next year. i will do my utmost. as ranking miity member of the committee which handles such legislation. to come up with -some solution which will make sense. and will. at the same time. follow the traditional pattern of our country relating to the capacity to pay.
i have  yet had that opportunity. i am looking forward to it and am seeking such a meeting. his successor.  may very well have given us a personality as well as an outlook which although different from that of dr. burns. is very relevant to the times. i am quite fully prepared to be receptive to that proposition and will look forward very much to the same kind of intimacy and cooperation with mr. miller that i had with dr. burns. my strong advocacy of dr. burns for reappointment. and i rather think that of other members. including the senator from alabama . was attributable to the impact which we all felt his reappointment would have on the ecoic world. which we consider to be in a very precarious condition. our support for dr. burns reappointment did  mean we were denigrating or being disrespectful to his successor. his successor may very well prove to be as relevant. though with a different set of talents. to our times. our job is to learn more about his successor and to do our utmost to cooperate with him effectively.
the point i would like to make is built. really. on what he said and what senator sarbanes said. and for this reason. to me. the most gifted element in this treaty is the 23 years in which we can learn to live with the treaty and with our situation. that is the key to why it should be approved. and for this reason. i k something about latin america. i have worked in it. traveled in it. for over 30 years. in their eyes. and one always has to see what is in the eye of the beholder. this is a colonial position different from mozambique or some other part of africa that was released from french. or british. or portugese sovereignty. that is the way they look at it. . to deal with a situation like that. other than in terms which are old world terms. the british just up and got out. i sat in the house of commons when wilson declared they were going to pull - out of everything east of suez. the t french. in a sense. after algeria. both gol o out and were pushed out. the portuges were pushed out. here is an intelligent. rational ap- proach by people who ought  be very i much against each other. and the 1964 events could have left such a terrible heritage of hatred as to make this ime possible. yet. here is a negotiation. extremely gifted. which gives us almost a quarter of a century to adjust our thinking. our purposes. our ecoic and political activities to this new situation in the world. very gifted. and. to me. the * main reason for the value of this treaty. senator gravel has underlined that by showing what can happen in this time. how completely reoriented life could be. come. and he is  making any predictions. there may be an invention of some kind which will completely revise all of the figures on the charts he gives us. really implicit in what he is pointing out to us is that we have made a treaty which gives both people. the panamanians and the people of the united states. plenty of time and plenty of room to turn around and deal with an ongoing. developing ecoic and political situation. in a way to keep the peace and attain the necessary result. i would like to emphasize that implication as being. to me. one senator. probably the principal reason why these agreements. these very agreements. ought to be ratified. i thank the senator.
. there is other opinion deserving our attention. i refer especially to the very penetrating analysis done by dean pollak of the university of pennsylvania law school for use in this debate. i believe that that has been made a part of the record. if it is . i shall ask unanimous consent that it be printed at this point in my remarks.
. today i join with my distinguished colleague. senator moynihan. in introducing legislation which will remove the state matching requirement from the tuition acceleration provision of public law 95202. the gi bill improvement act of we are joined in this effort by senators bayh. brooke. clark. durkin. huddleston. humphrey. ribicoff. and riegle. our legislation is based upon the tuition acceleration provision passed unanimously by the senate last october 19. one which would have substantially assisted veterans to utilize their education benefits in educational institutions with high tuition charges. the gi bill improvement act. as initially passed by the senate in s. 457. included a provision which would allow acceleration of a veterans educational entitlement to pay 662/3 percent of tuition costs above $700. had the senate position carried. veterans attending higher cost institutions would have been able to receive a greater amount of monthly gi bill educational assistance by utilizing more quickly portions of their 45 months total entitlement.
 set out to teach the israelis a lesson. that is what this is all about. that is shown by the way that he cut their numbers. that seems to be his policy. and he is going to cut them down on both sides. i believe that. on the pending resolution. that is a great disservice to the united states. and our colleague from new jersey and our colleague from delaware have explained why. we are worrying about 30.000 cubans in africa. but we have 3 million israelis in israel. are we going to sap their vitality and their morale and cut their legs out from under them. that is what this is all about. we would have right to debate this matter if that were  the issue. senators ask me what the saudis think. frankly. we will never k how much is for the record and how much they really think. prince saud the other day. for whom i have emous regard. made some untoward statements about this letter regarding the f15sa scrap of paper. we will  worry about that. but what caused the administration to say that he did  really mean that. he meant something else. and former israeli foreign minister allon this morning said. i presume to the united states. "this is really inimical to israel." everybody has to take a stand. there is an emous amount of posturing over there. it takes a lot of sophistication to sort it out. with my utmost regard for the saudis and for mr. allon. we have to dig beneath the surface to find out how the saudis feel. so far as the saudis are concerned. why should they be with us. they should be with us because we are the backbone of the world in which they have all their wealth. their billions are all in dollars. and they do  want to throw them over. because they really think this country is the strongest and most dependable country for their investment and for themselves. do you think they are going to lean on france for their security for the next 5 years. they are  crazy. believe me.
 of litton educational publishing of new york. and chairman of the associations school division. spoke of the current crisis in american education and the need for remedies. i request that the address be printed in the record. the text of mr. jackels address follows:
it is. i hope very much we will  take that long . i offer an amendment to the bill. s. 2384. this amendment will remove the state matching requirement from the tuition acceleration provision of public law 95202. the gi bill improvement act of 1977. this amendment and s. 2956 are based upon the tuition acceleration provision passed unanimously by the senate last october 19. one which would have substantially assisted veterans to utilize their education benefits in educational institutions with high tuition charges. the gi bill improvement act. public law 95202. as initially passed by the senate in s. 457. included a provision which would allow acceleration of a veterans educational entitlement to pay 662 percent of tuition costs above $700. had the senate position carried. veterans attending higher cost institutions would have been able to receive a greater amount of monthly gi bill educational assistance by utilizing more quickly portions of their 45 months total entitlement.
. this amendment is a means for the senate to express its desire to use esea programs to aid public school students who qualify. between today and the floor consideration of s. 1753. we can review in detail the provisions of the domenici amendment and determine if any improvements are advisable. for these reasons. i will vote for this amendment.
. we have about 11 million college students in the united states. and it is a fact that we are spending far less than has been stated earlier. still. substantial sums of money are being spent. we estimate it is somewhere in the area of upwards of $500 uer student who gets the benefit of these particular student aid programs effected by this bill. other aid. such as social security education benefits to survivors or veterans benefits are  available to the general population. the basic grants or guaranteed loans affected by this bill will be available to the general population of postsecondary students. a problem in our country right  is that we need this highly educated population according to the demands of modern science and business. but we do  have adequate entry level employment for them. too many ph. d.s are driving taxicabs. of course. we already are very much ahead in the world because we have such an educated population. so i certainly hope. and as the ranking member of this committee. i shall address myself to the question of opportunity and effective utilization that has been demonstrated. i hope that these expenditures will be found to be more than justified in terms of priorities. finally. i would like to again thank senator morgan for his interest in this important matter and his accommodation so we can get this bill passed. i hope that consistent with his expressed desire to assure that the poor are  to lose benefits. we may be able to fashion on the esea bill a feasible resolution.
the senator has a number of bilingual amendments. and i think the concept is important. the committee generally. and senator pell will correct me if i am wrong. has taken the position that the purpose of bilingual education is to end bilingual education. in short. to win children to the proposition that their mother tongue is english and that they should learn and study in the english language. mind you. i am very devoted to bilingual education. in short. i wish that we had. in our whole educational system. from the kindergarten up. the requirement that children learn a second language. whatever that might beprobably. in our country. it is most likely that it would be spanish. but i do believe that the way to come at it is  this way. that is. by perpetuating the language inadequacy which occurs from parentage and the language spoken at home. but by dealing with it. first. by bringing the children into the total english realm. and then. like other children to whom english is the mother tongue. enabling them to learn a second language. that is my philosophy. if we are on the same wavelength. because i think that really has to be the purpose of the elementary and secondary education federal aid. then i am entirely with the senator on this and probably his other amendments. what i am interested in is the fundamental thrust of what we are trying to do.
i think that is a fair statement. but i wish to make it very clear that. by accepting this amendment or raising objection to it. i am in way compromising my point of view. but i will fight for it and insist on it. because whether it is new mexico. which is contiguous to mexico and has a very broad spanishspeaking population. or whether it is in my state. which has an equally broad spanishspeaking population. though they are mainly from puerto rico. i believe this is the right way to go. people in this country have to recognize that they have to learn and speak english. that is the basic tongue. our federal aid. in my judgment. must be directed toward that end and we can confuse bilingualism with the fact that children ought to learn and k aher language. while asserting that point of view and my own intention in raising objection to the amendment. i have objection to it.
the department is definitely opposed to this amendment. and i am inclined to agree with them. for one. although the senator says there are few districts compared with all the districts in the united states. which run into the thousands. hew estimates that 500 additional school districts would qualify under this particular amendment. and they feel that the cost for these additional districts could exceed the whole esaa budget for 1979. to wit. $290 million. hence. if we accept the amendment we are wiping out the program in terms of what we allowed for it under this bill. i am sympathetic to the problems but. after all. if those districts have disadvantaged children then they would qualify under esea title i. i certainly would be perfectly willing to be sure they qualified under that. if they have bilingual problems. they come under the bilingual education. but to throw them in under emergency school aid. which is intended to deal with unconstitutional segregation. i must say i can see how we can stretch that. especially in view of the estimates of the department that it would take up everything you have got under the esea program. i have got to go by the estimate of the department. so i can accept the amendment.
. i have grave concern about the amendments running counter to the general purpose of the bill. which is to do as well as we can for public schools. because the effect of this amendment on our staff is to bring the public school to the position of a public school. even though they may wish to do better with whatever is available to them. but in view of the fact that it is  a major proposition. and reserving my right to do whatever i can to work it out intelligently in conference. i am  going to impose any objection.
. as for the dialog. i do  want to get into it. because it is late and everyone wants to get home. but it is a fact that  over 7 percent of the total support of the public school system of the united states comes from the federal government. so. although the figures sometimes sound big. it is  all that big a deal. the public school system. out of the backs of their taxpayers. are paying 93 percent. remember. that is 7 percent. in contrast with 7 percentmore than 13 times the number of billions of dollars we appropriate that americans are paying through local governments for the education of their children.
. members should read pages 36 and 37 of the committees report. the facts are horrendous about the actual illiteracy of many who graduate from high school. a gallup poll showed last year that 83 percent of the american people favor "a back to basics movement." and other surveys indicated that more than 65 percent of u.s. parents do  believe their children are receiving adequate instruction in basic skills. it is true that you can throw money at a program.  can you neglect a situation where the complaint is so widespread about the basic skill effectiveness of american education with respect to the american child. so we are trying to do something about it. considering the size of the national educational effort. spending about $120 billion a year. this is throwing very little money at the problem. to make this money useful will take a lot of brains and a lot of efficiency. but without some moneylike oil for a major machineyou are  going to be able to accomplish anything. so far as leaving it exclusively to the local communities and states is concerned. we have done that. and look at where we are. so we have to try to improve the situation. at least with some sense of initiative and drive and stimulation from here. it seems to me that this sum of money. under $50 million. is a very modest amount for this very basic problem in the whole american educational system. for those reasons. i think we would be pennywise and pound foolish to strike title ii from the bill. we all k it is  going to make any difference in the appropriation figure. considering the order of magnitude which is involved. this program is perhaps as useful as any in this bill. i strongly urge it upon the senate.
