 that the anderson resolution has gone to the calendar. the senator from new mexico or any other senator can move to make it the pending business. i had in mind making clear why a point of order is  being made  against sending the resolution to the calendarso that matter will be stated on the record. so there can be question as to what is the concept of their rights of those who entertain the view i entertain. that is the purpose in both casesboth to move the consideration of the resolution and to make a brief statement.
i point out that unless the senate is allowed to come to a vote on the question of taking up the bill. we shall  have an opportunity to vote on. or consider in that way. the motion of the distinguished senator from oregon. inasmuch as the question of committee reference has been adverted to. i also wish to point out the number of days which by next wednesday we shall have spent. in actual debate on the bill. at least 9 days. i believe this illustrates very clearly the reason why a reference of the bill to a committee would then only break the continuity of the elucidation of the bill on the floor of the senate and would add 10 days to the already completely imponderable calendar in this connection. this would ige the exigencies. in terms of tranquillity in the nation. which face us because of our responsibility to give the country laws to deal completely with this situation. about which the people feel so deeply that problems for many. many communities will develop if a complete answer is  given. it is one thing to be deeply concerned about. and deplore. demonstrations which are unnecessary. in view of the state of the law. it is quite aher thing when those charged with preserving the rights of citizens under the law find themselves faced with the kind of factual disclosure which we heard yesterday. which i think is a milestone in the civilrights debate: for all practical purposes an admission that. withstanding the constitutional safeguards which are on the statute books for all. the right of negroes to vote is denied in certain parts of the country because the white element in those communities is afraid to allow that constitutional right to be exercised. that emphasizes why people like me point out that the grave. danger to public order and tranquillity which arises when people who have deep feelings on this subject take to the streets to protest and to express their grievances. can be answered unless there is a reasonable reply. the disclosure of the facts which was developed in the course of the interchange yesterday between the senator from minnesota and the senator from louisiana strongly supports this thesis. again i point out that sooner or later the senate will have to take control of its own procedure. i am  one who believes in breaking into the continuity of having the senate finally vote on the civil rights bill by having an interruption which i do  believe would prove fruitful. although i have the deepest respect. for the senator from oregon. by means of referring the bill to a committee. i shall oppose that attempt. and i hope the senate will  choose that route
. throughout the nation and the world individuals of conscience of all faiths have joined to voice their deep concern for the danger of slow strangulation of an ancient faith in the u.s.s.r. in the soviet union. the worlds second largest jewish community seems to be faced with eventual extinction. being denied even those fundamental religious and cultural rights guaranteed to them by soviet law. public protest is the only avenue of aid for this beleagured community which has livedand on occasion prosperedin that part of the world for centuries. the jewish communities outside the u.s.s.r. can send their soviet brethren packages of needed foods. including passover matzohs. or religious books or articlesthe soviets bar their delivery or declare them contraband. neither israel  any other nation can provide a refuge for the oppressedthe soviets refuse exit permits. the outside world can send teachers or rabbis to soviet jewry to help sustain their faith and to provide the warmth of spiritual and temporal contactthe soviets bar the way. the jewish communities of the world can receive delegations of their coreligionists from the u.s.s.r. as have other faithsthe soviets have closed the gates. soviet jewry. of course. is  threatened with despoliation and death camps as were the jewish communities of europe during the nazi era. the threat is more sophisticated and more subtlethe slow smothering of a faith and culture that has flourished for centuries in a land where even  the light is already flickering. men of conscience. through the appeal of conscience foundation. comprising religious and lay leaders of the major faiths. last month sponsored a manifesto of conscience published in the september 14 new york times. this manifesto eloquently bespeaks the expression of deep concern over the issue of the treatment of soviet jewry held by millions of others of our fellow americans who are. in effect. represented by the many govers and other political leaders and by the many religious and lay leaders who signed the manifesto and who have independently given voice on this matter. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the manifesto published in the new york times be included as a part of my remarks at this point.
