. it is with pride that i present to you the outstanding individuals who have achieved the highest hos as a girl scout or boy scout. these young people possess qualities of leadership and hard work that distinguishes them from the rest. since the beginning of the century. the girl scouts and boy scouts have provided a positive outlet for young men and women to develop leadership skills. make new friends. explore new ideas. as well as gain a sense of self determination. selfreliance and team work. the highest hos that can be received by a girl scout are the gold and silver awards. these awards are presented to those girl scouts who have demonstrated their commitment to excellence. hard work and the desire to help their community. the eagle scout award is the highest ho given to a boy scout. recipients display outstanding .leadership in outdoor skills. and in community service that is helpful to religious and school institutions. it is with great ho that i congratulate the recipients of these awards. the accomplishments of these young people are certainly worthy of praise. the skills they have learned as scouts will allow them to help the world become a better place. we also pay tribute to the parents. scout leaders. and scouting organizabions that have guided these young people to achieve such greatness. without their time and energy e of this would be possible. it is a privilege to submit to you the list of the young men and women who have earned these awards. so i ask that it be printed in the record. the list follows: girl scout gold award recipients for cranston: amanda toppa. east greenwich: kimberly gaffney. johnston: amy crane. bonnie renfrew. kenyon: kimberly pierce. th providence: heather konicki. pawtucket: tanya coots. heather davis. portsmouth: elizabeth goltman. julia kohl. janessa lecomte. jennifer mclean. bridget sullivan. rehoboth. ma: nicole swallow. riverside: cochetta dolloff. west kingston: cheryl berker. west warwick: heather labelle. wood river junction: shayna horgan. woonsocket: kimberly hebert.
