. i ampleased to join with my colleagues in the house today in wishing godspeed to one of our colleagues who will complete 16 years of service in this body this year. paul a. fihas been a hardworking legislator ever since he came to the house in the 83d congress. as a member of the banking and currency. and veterans affairscommittees. he has dealt conscientiously with a great number of vital issues affecting our nation.. coming to the house with a able background of legal activity in the field of civil service. paul has given his talents to thepublic interest for morethan a decade and a half. he leaves the house  to take the high position of new york state supreme court judge. i k he will fulfill his obligations. as he has in. the congress. with dedication and skill. and i wish him the best as he embarks on this new endeavor.
. american consumers save billions of dollars a year due to the availability of parallel imports. or "gray market" merchandise. these products are threatened by a recent court decision. the legislation i am. introducing today is vitally needed in order to maintain consumer access to this merchandise. by clarifying the law with respect to imports of trademarked goods. joining me as cosponsors of this measure are senators roth and rudman. parallel imports are genuine. trademarked articles manufactured abroad and purchased on the world markets by independent american importers. these include such trademarked goods as japanese cameras. swiss and japanese watches. fine foreign perfumes. tires. crystal. electronic goods. and computer chips (semiconductors) which are sold to u.s. consumers at discounts of 25 to 40 percent less than the identical products. the products are manufactured in the same plants. but imported and sold through different channels at vastly different prices. there are two routes by which genuine trademarked goods are brought to u.s consumers: through a "u.s. authorized distributor" owned or controlled by the foreign manufacturer. or through independent u.s. importers who purchase the goods from foreign authorized distributors. other than price. the products are identical. for many decades. some overseas manufacturers have been setting up subsidiary companies in the united states. which they own and direct. the foreign firms designate their american subsidiaries as the exclusive importers and distributors of their trademarked perfumes. watches. cameras. and other such products in this country. the foreign firms see the united states as a wealthy market where they can demandand gethigher prices for their goods than anywhere else in the world. they set prices on the goods higher here than they do overseas. often by as much as 30 to 40 percent. for many years. treasury department regulations have permitted independent american importers to compete with foreigned importers. the american independents. often small businesses. buy- these popular products overseas on the open market at the lower "world" price. the independents can then pay to ship them back to the united states. pay u.s. customs duties. and still sell them to retailers for 30 to 40 percent less than the manufacturers own distributors are charging for the same products. s 874i this huge price difference has led to the emous growth of "price competitive" retail stores and catalog/ showroom businesses. which buy their goods from the independent importers. such storesfrom large chain stores to individual "mon and pop" neighborhood storessell upward of $100 billion worth of goods each year. employ hundreds of thousands of employees and also make an emous investment in the good will of trademarks through their widespread advertising and marketing of paralled imports. all in all. then. they make a very valuable contribution to our ecoy. priceconscious americans who shop at these stores may be saving billions of dollars annually. the difference in prices is quite remarkable. a seiko watch. for example. which is sold for $200 by an "authorized dealer." may be sold for $120 or $140 by a discount retailer who buys from independent importers. similar savings can be made on imported perfumes. here are some examples of very popular brands: two ounces of chloe toilet waterauthorized dealer price $22.50. parallel importer price $13.99. anais anais/cacharelauthorized dealer price for 1.7 ounces is $18.00. but $11.99 on the gray market. opium perfume. which is sold to authorized u.s. dealers at $96 per ounce. can be bought retail in paris by an independent importer. shipped to the united states and duty paid. all for $69still far less than u.s. wholesale price. the same price savings can be made on camera purchases. here are a few examples: an olympus camera which sells for $290 at american discount stores cost $325 when bought from the authorized distributor. the price comparisons for a nikon motor drive is $156 versus $230. a mita camera $150 versus $189. even doam perig champagne can be purchased at a discount: $40 versus $60. if we eliminate the paralled market. u.s. consumers will really suffer. being forced to pay up to 40 percent more. billions of dollars per year for consumer products. and product availability will be limited only to those major metropolitan areas where exclusive "authorized" stores choose to locate. let me make it very clear that paralled imports are  counterfeit goods or cheap imitations of brand name. trademarked goods. they are genuine goods. manufactured by the trademark holder and they do  displace american manufacturing jobs. some authorized distributors say they are being unfairly treated and injured by unauthorized competition. but this overlooks their real complaint. namely the high prices charged to american distributors by foreign manufactures. most courts have upheld the longstanding customs regulations against the attacks of the authorized distributors. however. a recent decision of the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit. copiat versus united states (may 6. 1986). struck down these regulations on the basis of a narrow reading of the legislative history behind section 526 of the tariff acts of 1922 and 1930. the court explicitly ackledged that consumer and other benefits would be lost. but stated that these arguments should more properly be addressed to congress.
. american consumers save billions of dollars a year due to the availability of parallel imports. or "gray market" merchandise. these products are threatened by a recent court decision. the legislation i am. introducing today is vitally needed in order to maintain consumer access to this merchandise. by clarifying the law with respect to imports of trademarked goods. joining me as cosponsors of this measure are senators roth and rudman. parallel imports are genuine. trademarked articles manufactured abroad and purchased on the world markets by independent american importers. these include such trademarked goods as japanese cameras. swiss and japanese watches. fine foreign perfumes. tires. crystal. electronic goods. and computer chips (semiconductors) which are sold to u.s. consumers at discounts of 25 to 40 percent less than the identical products. the products are manufactured in the same plants. but imported and sold through different channels at vastly different prices. there are two routes by which genuine trademarked goods are brought to u.s consumers: through a "u.s. authorized distributor" owned or controlled by the foreign manufacturer. or through independent u.s. importers who purchase the goods from foreign authorized distributors. other than price. the products are identical. for many decades. some overseas manufacturers have been setting up subsidiary companies in the united states. which they own and direct. the foreign firms designate their american subsidiaries as the exclusive importers and distributors of their trademarked perfumes. watches. cameras. and other such products in this country. the foreign firms see the united states as a wealthy market where they can demandand gethigher prices for their goods than anywhere else in the world. they set prices on the goods higher here than they do overseas. often by as much as 30 to 40 percent. for many years. treasury department regulations have permitted independent american importers to compete with foreigned importers. the american independents. often small businesses. buy- these popular products overseas on the open market at the lower "world" price. the independents can then pay to ship them back to the united states. pay u.s. customs duties. and still sell them to retailers for 30 to 40 percent less than the manufacturers own distributors are charging for the same products. s 874i this huge price difference has led to the emous growth of "price competitive" retail stores and catalog/ showroom businesses. which buy their goods from the independent importers. such storesfrom large chain stores to individual "mon and pop" neighborhood storessell upward of $100 billion worth of goods each year. employ hundreds of thousands of employees and also make an emous investment in the good will of trademarks through their widespread advertising and marketing of paralled imports. all in all. then. they make a very valuable contribution to our ecoy. priceconscious americans who shop at these stores may be saving billions of dollars annually. the difference in prices is quite remarkable. a seiko watch. for example. which is sold for $200 by an "authorized dealer." may be sold for $120 or $140 by a discount retailer who buys from independent importers. similar savings can be made on imported perfumes. here are some examples of very popular brands: two ounces of chloe toilet waterauthorized dealer price $22.50. parallel importer price $13.99. anais anais/cacharelauthorized dealer price for 1.7 ounces is $18.00. but $11.99 on the gray market. opium perfume. which is sold to authorized u.s. dealers at $96 per ounce. can be bought retail in paris by an independent importer. shipped to the united states and duty paid. all for $69still far less than u.s. wholesale price. the same price savings can be made on camera purchases. here are a few examples: an olympus camera which sells for $290 at american discount stores cost $325 when bought from the authorized distributor. the price comparisons for a nikon motor drive is $156 versus $230. a mita camera $150 versus $189. even doam perig champagne can be purchased at a discount: $40 versus $60. if we eliminate the paralled market. u.s. consumers will really suffer. being forced to pay up to 40 percent more. billions of dollars per year for consumer products. and product availability will be limited only to those major metropolitan areas where exclusive "authorized" stores choose to locate. let me make it very clear that paralled imports are  counterfeit goods or cheap imitations of brand name. trademarked goods. they are genuine goods. manufactured by the trademark holder and they do  displace american manufacturing jobs. some authorized distributors say they are being unfairly treated and injured by unauthorized competition. but this overlooks their real complaint. namely the high prices charged to american distributors by foreign manufactures. most courts have upheld the longstanding customs regulations against the attacks of the authorized distributors. however. a recent decision of the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit. copiat versus united states (may 6. 1986). struck down these regulations on the basis of a narrow reading of the legislative history behind section 526 of the tariff acts of 1922 and 1930. the court explicitly ackledged that consumer and other benefits would be lost. but stated that these arguments should more properly be addressed to congress.
. a number of good amendments have been offered to this legislation. just yesterday. for example. i attempted to attach my amendment. the financial institutions fraud prosecution amendment. to .the bill. although my amendment was clearly meritorious and had gained the favor of a number of senators. i reluctantly withdrew it at the behest of the bill managers who demanded that the senate approve a clean bill. several other amendments have been offered this week that might have made valuable contributions to the operation of the rtc. nevertheless. i have agreed to join with the bill managers in opposing all amendments to this bill. regardless of the amendments nature. it seems to me that the senates responsibilty is to provide the rtc with the resources it needs to complete the job that it set out to do in august 1989. we need to monitor carefully every taxpayer dollar that is distributed to the corporation to ensure that the funding is used wisely and efficiently. but further delay at this time will only raise the ultimate cost of the s&l bailout. i look forward to seeing this bill enacted today. i look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that the rtc is operating in as efficient a manner as possible.
. i am pleased to be a cosponsor of s. 240. the private securities litigation reform act. which the senate approved today. this proposal has been introduced by senators domenici and dodd year after year without ever reaching the full senate for consideration. finally. this year. the senate debated and approved securities reform without substantial. changes to the domenicidodd bill. as reported by the banking committee. ours has become an increasingly litigious society. opportunistic lawyers are prepared to spring into action with the least provocation. in the case of securities fraud suits. this class of attorneys claims to have the interests of small investors in mind. but the level of compensation they exact compared with the compensation received by their clients tells quite a different story. as many as 300 securities fraud suits are filed annually. an astonishing 93 percent of these suits are resolvedout of court. with an average settlement of more than $8 million each. it is accident that so many of these suits are settled out of court. that is one of the major problems addressed by s.-240. under current law. every defendant can be found jointly and severally liableor liable for the entire settlement costregardless of the extent of the defendants involvement. it has become the practice of some lawyers to name as many deep pocket defendants as possible. frequently. the fear of being held 100 percent responsible and the emous cost of diverting substantial resources to defending against these suits leads these defendants to settle. s. 240 applies proportionate liability. enabling the court to determine the extent of a defendants involvement and determining liability on the basis of that involvement. s. 240 seeks to reduce abusive practices by prohibiting brokers or dealers from receiving a referral fee from attorneys seeking clients for class action suits. giving the court authority to determine whether a conflict of interest exists if an attorney is also a shareholder. and. by prohibiting funds discharged by the sec from being used for attorneys fees. it seeks to limit frivolous lawsuits by eliminating professional plaintiffs. prohibiting attorneys fees from exceeding a reasonable percentage of damages awarded. and giving courts the authority to appoint lead plaintiff on the basis of greatest financial loss rather than continuing the practice of naming lead attorneys based on who filed the suit first. i believe that we have approved a bill that will benefit shareholders and corporations alike. shareholders will have more information on which to base their investments and corporations will be able to operate in an environment free of meritless lawsuits. i commend senators domenici and dodd for proposing this worthwhile legislation and chairman damato for moving it so swiftly through the legislative process.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on antitrust. business rights. and competition. of the senate judiciary committee. be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on thursday. february 26. 1998 at 2:00 p.m. to hold a hearing in room 226. senate dirksen building. on: "oversight of antitrust division of the department of justice: international and criminal enforcement."
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on antitrust. business rights. and competition. of the senate judiciary committee. be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on thursday. february 26. 1998 at 2:00 p.m. to hold a hearing in room 226. senate dirksen building. on: "oversight of antitrust division of the department of justice: international and criminal enforcement."
dewey. it was just a couple of months ago that we used to beat senators baker and laxalt regularly on the tennis court. even though we have served on two committees together. on small business and on energy. i am really  sure that you get to k anybody here in the chamber or in the course of your duties as well as you get to .k them on the tennis court and in the world outside of here. dewey. i am just  going to let the moment go by without expressing my affection for you. for your wisdom. your kindness. and yes. sir. your guts. whenever the gout hits my big toe. i feel sorry for myself. but you just have  felt sorry for yourself in many months. i do  k what i would do if i were in a similar situation. but i have seen what you have done. you have just gone ahead and done your job. and done it with wisdom and with kindness and with courage. i will tell you. i am extremely proud to be your colleague. i am even prouder of the fact that we are friends. and i suspect in aher couple of months we will *be beating baker and laxalt on the courts again.
. i wonder if i might. in response to the senator from virginia who raised an important point. respond more precisely to the question he raised. the present law divides information into three separate categories: first. returntax returns and related documents. second. taxpayer return informationtaxpayers books and records. including corporate records filed with irs by or on the taxpayers behalf. and third. return informationthirdparty items collected by the irs. for disclosure of the first and second. an ex parte order must be obtained from the court. the nunn bill divides the irs material into two categories: first. return informatsonall information the taxpayer is required by law to file with the irs and any information filed with the irs by or on behalf of an "individual taxpayer." which is defined as a "corporation. partnership. association. union. or other entity consisting of more than owners. shareholders. partners or members." second. retumn informat inall other information irs discovera. an ex parte order would be required for disclosures of the first definition of return information. the problem is that although senator numnand i will  talk to my distinguished fri~nd from new hampshirehas "tightened up" his definitions of return and return information. his bill still greatly expands the material that justice can obtatin without an ex parte order. under his bill any business. partnership. association. or other entity with three or more members is  longer protected by the requirement of an ex parte order. therefore. if a business taxpayerconsisting of three or more personsis audited and provides books and records to irs. the material provided could be turned over to justice without an ex parte order. there is and should be lesser standard for search warrant orders for corporate records than for individual records. the standard is the same because of the interest of the public as a whole to protect privacy rights by preventing "unreasonable searches and seizures" under the fourth amendment. similarly. the supreme court has established that speech does  lose its protection under the first amendment because it has a corporate rather than an individual origin. that is the precise answer to the question raised by the distinguished senator from virginia
. i am pleased today to cosponsor senate journal resolution 105. along with several of my distinguished colleagues. this joint resolution calls upon the department of justice and all other appropriate federal agencies to enforce federal antitrust laws including the prohibition against vertical price restraints. rather than ige the law and attempt to usurp the role of congress by changing these laws. i am also anncing today that the senate small business committee. which i chair. will conduct hearings in the near future on the nature and magnitude of illegal anticompetitive restraints which violate the antitrust laws. we should  htve to plead with the administration to enforce laws already on the books prohibiting vertical price restraints. also kn as resale price maintenance. the sherman act for the past 93 years has held that these anticompetitive restraints are per se illegal. although the supreme court clearly and correctly decided in continental t.v. against gte sylvania that it was the intent of congress to make resale price maintenance a per se violation of the antitrust laws. the department of justice  is attempting to override congress. and convince the supreme court that vertical price restraints should  be illegal in all cases. the department has filed a brief for the united states as amicus curiae in support of a petition for a writ of certiorari in monsanto company against sprayrite service corporation. the government is  a litigant in this case. but justice department officials. on their own initiative. are using this case to argue that the supreme court should ige the intent of congress by making some vertical price restraints legal. what the department of justice does  understand is that if such action is to be taken. it is for the congress to take and  the executive or judicial branches of the government. which implement and interpret the laws but do  make the laws. i might also point out that the departments position on vertical price restraints is  a new revelation. on december 1. 1981. and september 9. 1982. the small business committee conducted hearings on current antitrust enforcement efforts. the assistant attorney general in charge of the departments antitrust division testified at both hearings. and made his views clear: that since he did  believe resale price maintenance to be illegal in every case. despite the intent of congress and a confirmation of that intent by the supreme court. his department has . and will . enforce this law.  enforcing the law is bad egh. but  the department is trying to change the law on vertical price restraints by attempting to circumvent the authority of congress through the courts. i understand the department plans to file a brief in aher antitrust case before the supreme court which deals with vertical price restraints. in further support of their position that the laws established by congress prohibiting resale price maintenance should be weakened through judicial reinterpretation. the joint resolution does  question or restrict the authority of the department of justice to represent the united states in antitrust cases or file briefs with the supreme cuurt. or any other court. but congress.  the department of justice. enacts laws. or when necessary. changes them. it has never been the position of congress that vertical price restraints are  a per se violation of antitrust law. the joint resolution states that. if the department seeks changes in the law. then it shall propose those legislative changes to congress. and  attempt to usurp the authority of congress by asking the supreme court to. in effect. create new legislation through judicial interpretation. vertical price restraints attempt to establish. illegally. prices which can be charged at the retail level. these restraints  only are anticompetitive. with a particularly negative effect on small business. but they force consumers to pay higher prices. i believe that congress acted correctly when it enacted legislation to make vertical price restraints illegal. therefore. i intend that senate joint resolution 105 be the first step in calling to the administrations attention the need for strict enforcement of our antitrust laws. the hearings will specifically focus on vertical restraints. including resale price maintenance. moolization. and price discrimination. these illegal practices. left unchecked. are disruptive forces that lead to an increase in ecoic concentration and must be curtailed. we can afford to allow the executive branch to sit on the sidelines while illegal antitrust practices. as determined by congress.  the department. take place. accordingly. i intend to insure that the department of justice enforces these laws and does the job it is required by law to do.e
. on march 20 the supreme court of the united states. in a unanimous decision in monsanto co. against spray rite service corp.. refused to consider a change to present law that vertical price fixing agreements are subject to per se treatment. this important decision should hopefully put to an end any efforts by this administration to rewrite the antitrust rule book and return their attention to the important job of enforcement. a clear signal has been sent by the court to businesses across this country march 4. 1.84 asakh s. i84 that all businessmen will be allowed to compete independently. manufacturers will  be allowed to control retail prices. vertical price fixing i an antirompetitive practice that adversely affects small business. results in higher prices for consumers. and protects and proies inefficiency. most importantly. vertical price fixing also limits the free extercise of business judgment by independent distributors and effectively eliminates price competition among retallers. for more than 70 years. the supreme court. the congress. and the executive branch have consistently condemned vertical price fixing as one of the most serious and costly of all antitrust violations. in 1890. congress with the passage of the sherman act made it clearly unlawful for any contract agreement. combination. or conspiracy to establish or maintain minimum resale prices. more recently. in 1975. with the repeal of the fair trade laws. congress again went on record in opposition to the fixing of prices at the retail level. the antiturst statutes form an important first line of defense against unfair competition. enforcement of the antitrust statutes should be based on laws written by congress rather than the ecoic philosophy of a particular individual. in statements before the senate small business committee. and in interviews with the media. the former assistant attorney general. william baxter. indicated he would  enforce the laws. and that vertical price fixing is  always harmful. although the government was  a litigant in monsanto against spray rite. justice officials on their own initiative filed an amicus brief to attempt to convince the court to ige the intent of congress and past court in. terpretation by making some vertical price restraints legal. at time did the department of justice submit a legislative package to congress to seek such a change. justice brennan. in his concurring opinion in monsanto against spray rite. states: as the court es. the solicitor general has filed a brief in this court as amirus curiae urging us to overrule the courts decision in dr. miles medical (o. v. john d. park & sons co.. 220 u.s. 378 (1911). ihat decision has stood for 78 years. and congress has certainly been aware of its existence throuighout that time. yet congress has never enacted legislation to overrule the interpretation of the sherman act adopted in that case. under these circumstances. i see reason for us to depart from our loigstanding interpretation of the act. this decision should make clear to the department of justice and the federal trade commission that the people of this country expect the ban against vertical price fixing be enforced. this decision is heartening news to this senator. the congress. and the small business community. who are onnitted to free and 9pen competition. potash
. i am pleased today to cosponsor senate journal resolution 105. along with several of my distinguished colleagues. this joint resolution calls upon the department of justice and all other appropriate federal agencies to enforce federal antitrust laws including the prohibition against vertical price restraints. rather than ige the law and attempt to usurp the role of congress by changing these laws. i am also anncing today that the senate small business committee. which i chair. will conduct hearings in the near future on the nature and magnitude of illegal anticompetitive restraints which violate the antitrust laws. we should  htve to plead with the administration to enforce laws already on the books prohibiting vertical price restraints. also kn as resale price maintenance. the sherman act for the past 93 years has held that these anticompetitive restraints are per se illegal. although the supreme court clearly and correctly decided in continental t.v. against gte sylvania that it was the intent of congress to make resale price maintenance a per se violation of the antitrust laws. the department of justice  is attempting to override congress. and convince the supreme court that vertical price restraints should  be illegal in all cases. the department has filed a brief for the united states as amicus curiae in support of a petition for a writ of certiorari in monsanto company against sprayrite service corporation. the government is  a litigant in this case. but justice department officials. on their own initiative. are using this case to argue that the supreme court should ige the intent of congress by making some vertical price restraints legal. what the department of justice does  understand is that if such action is to be taken. it is for the congress to take and  the executive or judicial branches of the government. which implement and interpret the laws but do  make the laws. i might also point out that the departments position on vertical price restraints is  a new revelation. on december 1. 1981. and september 9. 1982. the small business committee conducted hearings on current antitrust enforcement efforts. the assistant attorney general in charge of the departments antitrust division testified at both hearings. and made his views clear: that since he did  believe resale price maintenance to be illegal in every case. despite the intent of congress and a confirmation of that intent by the supreme court. his department has . and will . enforce this law.  enforcing the law is bad egh. but  the department is trying to change the law on vertical price restraints by attempting to circumvent the authority of congress through the courts. i understand the department plans to file a brief in aher antitrust case before the supreme court which deals with vertical price restraints. in further support of their position that the laws established by congress prohibiting resale price maintenance should be weakened through judicial reinterpretation. the joint resolution does  question or restrict the authority of the department of justice to represent the united states in antitrust cases or file briefs with the supreme cuurt. or any other court. but congress.  the department of justice. enacts laws. or when necessary. changes them. it has never been the position of congress that vertical price restraints are  a per se violation of antitrust law. the joint resolution states that. if the department seeks changes in the law. then it shall propose those legislative changes to congress. and  attempt to usurp the authority of congress by asking the supreme court to. in effect. create new legislation through judicial interpretation. vertical price restraints attempt to establish. illegally. prices which can be charged at the retail level. these restraints  only are anticompetitive. with a particularly negative effect on small business. but they force consumers to pay higher prices. i believe that congress acted correctly when it enacted legislation to make vertical price restraints illegal. therefore. i intend that senate joint resolution 105 be the first step in calling to the administrations attention the need for strict enforcement of our antitrust laws. the hearings will specifically focus on vertical restraints. including resale price maintenance. moolization. and price discrimination. these illegal practices. left unchecked. are disruptive forces that lead to an increase in ecoic concentration and must be curtailed. we can afford to allow the executive branch to sit on the sidelines while illegal antitrust practices. as determined by congress.  the department. take place. accordingly. i intend to insure that the department of justice enforces these laws and does the job it is required by law to do.e
. on march 20 the supreme court of the united states. in a unanimous decision in monsanto co. against spray rite service corp.. refused to consider a change to present law that vertical price fixing agreements are subject to per se treatment. this important decision should hopefully put to an end any efforts by this administration to rewrite the antitrust rule book and return their attention to the important job of enforcement. a clear signal has been sent by the court to businesses across this country march 4. 1.84 asakh s. i84 that all businessmen will be allowed to compete independently. manufacturers will  be allowed to control retail prices. vertical price fixing i an antirompetitive practice that adversely affects small business. results in higher prices for consumers. and protects and proies inefficiency. most importantly. vertical price fixing also limits the free extercise of business judgment by independent distributors and effectively eliminates price competition among retallers. for more than 70 years. the supreme court. the congress. and the executive branch have consistently condemned vertical price fixing as one of the most serious and costly of all antitrust violations. in 1890. congress with the passage of the sherman act made it clearly unlawful for any contract agreement. combination. or conspiracy to establish or maintain minimum resale prices. more recently. in 1975. with the repeal of the fair trade laws. congress again went on record in opposition to the fixing of prices at the retail level. the antiturst statutes form an important first line of defense against unfair competition. enforcement of the antitrust statutes should be based on laws written by congress rather than the ecoic philosophy of a particular individual. in statements before the senate small business committee. and in interviews with the media. the former assistant attorney general. william baxter. indicated he would  enforce the laws. and that vertical price fixing is  always harmful. although the government was  a litigant in monsanto against spray rite. justice officials on their own initiative filed an amicus brief to attempt to convince the court to ige the intent of congress and past court in. terpretation by making some vertical price restraints legal. at time did the department of justice submit a legislative package to congress to seek such a change. justice brennan. in his concurring opinion in monsanto against spray rite. states: as the court es. the solicitor general has filed a brief in this court as amirus curiae urging us to overrule the courts decision in dr. miles medical (o. v. john d. park & sons co.. 220 u.s. 378 (1911). ihat decision has stood for 78 years. and congress has certainly been aware of its existence throuighout that time. yet congress has never enacted legislation to overrule the interpretation of the sherman act adopted in that case. under these circumstances. i see reason for us to depart from our loigstanding interpretation of the act. this decision should make clear to the department of justice and the federal trade commission that the people of this country expect the ban against vertical price fixing be enforced. this decision is heartening news to this senator. the congress. and the small business community. who are onnitted to free and 9pen competition. potash
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee field hearing on the impact of tax reform and simplification proposals on small business on february 10. 1986. in oklahoma city. ok. the hearing will commence at 3 p.m. in court room one on the third floor of the federal court house. senator don nickles will chair the hearing. for further information. please call bill langdon. of the committee staff at 2245175. or brpt bernhardt of senator nickles office at 2246005.
. in april the consumer product safety commission ordered off the market all childrens sleepwear treated with the flame retardant chemical on the grounds that the chemical tris could cause cancer. e of us. i am sure. oppose the decision to take tristreated garments. which are dangerous to the very children we wish to protect. off the market. however. i do believe that the businesses which were engaged in producing tristreated garments are entitled to ecoic justice. it has been argued that these businesses are more entitled to government compensation than any businesses adversely affected by government regulations or decisions. but. i believe that there is a vital difference between the businesses which would be compensated by s. 1503 and businesses such as saccharin or cyclamate manufacturers whose products are also ordered off the market by the government because of documented health risks. for those who manufactured tristreated garments did  do so by choice. they were using tris in good faith because the government required them to use flameretardant fabrics. and tris was the only chemical agent used in fabrics available to them. but producers of childrens sleepwear were required to comply with these government regulations before the government itself tested and conclusively determined which flameretardant chemicals were safe and which were . and when the government belatedly ruled that the chemical tris was unsafe. it triggered a $200 million loss in the childrens sleepwear and associated industries. a loss which businesses involved will have to try to absorb if we do  act. perhaps the largest businesses involved will be able to withstand their share of the loss if it is later decided that all businesses involved will bear a share. but many small businesses will . and it is these for which i am particularly concerned. indeed. i find it unfortunate. unrealistic. and unfair that the consumer product safety commission ruled that the smallest and most vulnerable businesses. the garment manufacturers. alone had to bear the total loss involved. childrens sleepwear garment manufacturers comprise only about 100 firms. 5 of which are in my own state of massachusetts. of these firms. about 70 are small and generally family run businesses. indeed. the largest childrens sleepwear factory in massachusetts. in new bedford. employs only about 250 people. these manufacturers are for the most part undercapitalized and operate on credit. because of the extreme financial instability in the industry engendered by the tris ruling on april 8. these firms are suffering  only the loss of their complete past tristreated line. but are finding it difficult to obtain credit to produce next seasons line. small business administration loans provide a stopgap resolution for these small businesses. and i have put the entire resources of my office behind the affected massachusetts garment manufacturers seeking such loans. but the only real solution for these businesses is compensation for the losses they have borne. s. 1503. which i am cosponsoring. would fairly and rightfully allow the businesses affected to go into the u.s. court of claims. prove and recover their losses from the government. i would emphasize that s. 1503 would compensate them only for their actual losses and  their lost anticipated profits. but since such court procedures would take several years. a bearable situation perhaps for large businesses but ineffective relief for small businesses on the edge of bankruptcy. i hope that the committee will add to s. 1503 a provision for expediting these cases in the court of claims. in the hartscott antitrust amendments of 1976. congress authorized such a procedure providing that a court may take the designated cases out of order and hear them immediately after the case being heard at the time. such a provision is essential if the small businesses involved are to be awarded relief in time to avoid disaster. but i believe there may be an even more exepditious way for the senate to initiate procedures to reimburse the businesses affected by the tris ruling. and i am. therefore. introducing a congressional reference resolution in the senate regarding these tris cases. such a resolution. upon passage by the senate would immediately refer the tris cases to the court of claims. in addition to the advantage that such a reference would have in requiring action by the senate only. it would mean that the court could consider questions of equity and fairness.  just principles of law in determining claims. after these considerations. the court would report back to the senate. and we would then have a clear picture of the rights and claims at issue. the judiciary committee has already held hearings on s. 1503. with the introduction of my congressional reference resolution and the necessary accompanying bill. the committee will have before it the full range of options. i commend the committee and senator allen who chaired the committee hearings for the diligence and concern which they have already shown. i ask that they  choose the promptest and most equitable course of action. such speed is absolutely essential if aid is to reach the small businesses involved in time to save many of them from bankruptcy. by mr. stevens (for himself. mr. culver. and mr. stone):
 went on to say: it would also be desirable to simplify the rules and thus reduce the cost of registration of new issues and their subsequent distribution. we had in the committee some very significant figures as to cost. it was stated that the cost of registering small issues was very substantial in relation to the proceeds derived from the securities. it was added that the records of the sec showed that the estimated cost of registering issues of $600.000 or less during the period from january 1. 1952. to ember 1. 1953. was $3.55 per $100 of - proceeds. this was almost 8 times the average cost of 47 cents per $100 of proceeds for all issues. regardless of size. registered during the same period. somebody has to absorb this additional l cost and it is going to be absorbed by either the purchaser of the securities or the one who sells them. fraud is one thing. of course. we seek to avoid. but i wonder if those who advocate leaving this at $300.000 realize that 1 they are creating a situation in which less . fraud could exist. we k that a great deal of fraud exists in this field. on the matter of regulation the chairman of the securities and exchange commission had this to say to the committee: to accomplish two purposes regulation a was amended in the early part of 1953 so as to require an offering circular as a term and condition of granting the exemption. and that the offering circular contain certain prescribed information so as to insure uniformity of administration. the investor who buys an exempt security  has these protections: 1. he has the protection of regularly prescribed standards of information in the offering circular. 2. he has the protection of section 12 of the securities act. which gives him a remedy against the seller for misrepresentations and concealment. and 3. he has the protection of the general fraud provision of section 17 of the act. so it seems to me. admitting there has been a change in values. admitting that small business is interested in this. as they have so testified to our committee. and could be assisted. admitting that if there is any fraud or the possibility of any fraud we are all anxious to have the securities and exchange commission develop procedures and regulations to lessen that possibility. i do think that the case made by the gentleman from maine is one we ought to bear in mind. those of us who represent communities in our own states that do  have a great deal of money which can be provided for investment purposes. a large area of the country does  have this capital available. we hope they will develop this large area of the country. repeated reference and emphasis was made throughout the hearings of the value of lifting this exemption to small business. that is one of the most important aspects of this part of the bill. i hope serious consideration will be given to this matter when it is brought up tomorrow.
which is a very peculiar reliance. it seems to me. may i ask the gentleman in what conceivable way could a small business concern go into court and enforce any such commitment as exists here. the attorney general says he does  think it is enforcible.
. these are the issues. therefore. which present themselves to us. i will say the first question is this: are we satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that this appointment will add to the faith and confidence of the people of the united states in the government of the united states as a government of law and  of men. with impartial justice and equality under the law for everyone. or. to put it in a little broader sense. -are we satisfied at this time of world war. when we are fighting for freedom. that the confirmation of this appointment will contribute to the faith of our citizens and the faith of our allies in the stability of constitutional selfgovernment. of which the united states stands as a champion against all subversive and selfish pressure groups throughout the world. the other question is one with which we are familiar. but which is  perhaps as critically involved in this case as is the other issue. because it has  been made so much a matter of controversy. the second question is as follows: are we satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt. on the face of the facts presented. that this man has the personal health. capacity. experience. judicial temperament. integrity. loyalty. standards of practice. and independence of judgment to justify his selection above all others. and in the face of conflicting opinion. for confirmation of this appointment at this time. in both cases i say "beyond a reasonable doubt." because i believe it is the obligation of the senate. in these days of trial and crisis. to be satisfied beyond any reasonable doubt that is disclosed by the facts before it after reasonable search for facts. before confirming such an appointment. coming to the first question. relating to the action of judge meaney in connection with the liquidation of the bank. i wish to point out that the statement which i am making is based upon the record. the record contains the testimony of 48 witnesses and consists of 168 pages. i have doubt that many members of the senate who will vote on this question will  have had the time to read the record. therefore it has been necessary for the senator from nebraska to summarize it and present it so that there can be excuse for misunderstanding the circumstances. as senator has risen to speak in favor of confirmation. i think that as a member of the judiciary committee it is necessary for me also to state briefly to the senate something about judge meaney and his career. in order that the senate may see clearly the situation as it was developed before the subcommittee. i regret that senator has risen in his support to state even these brief facts with regard to him. the record of the inee is that he is 53 years old. he attended st. peters college in jersey city. and the law school of fordham university. he was admitted to the bar of new jersey in 1911. he served as a lieutenant in the fiftyfirst pioneer infantry during the world war. including service with the army of occupation. he has taken an active part in veterans affairs. at one time he served as senior vice commander of the american legion for the department of new jersey. he served for 11 years. from 1923 to 1934. as judge of the juvenile court of jersey city. and for 5 years. from 1934 to 1939. as judge of the court of common pleas. the juvenile court deals primarily with questions of juvenile delinquency and domestic relations. the court of common pleas is the original court of general jurisdiction in the state. he was appointed to these offices by the gover of the state of new jersey and confirmed by the senate of new jersey. there is hing in the record which raises any question as to the inee based upon anything occurring prior to his resignation from the court of common pleas in 1939. or relating to the confirmation of his appointment to these several places. we proceed from that point. following his resignation from the court of common pleas in 1939 he was appointed as special counsel to the commissioner of banking and insurance of new jersey in connection with the liquidation of the new jersey title guarantee & trust co. he continued in that office. at a salary of $20.000 a year. until april 1. 1942. when his employment was discontinued by the new commissioner of banking and insurance. who had taken office a few months previously. he is   a public official. and states that he intends to resume the general practice of law if his appointment to the federal bench is  confirmed. the first objection relating to the conduct of the liquidation was the one which was relied upon primarily. although  entirely. in the report by the senator from vermont from the subcommittee to the committee on the judiciary. the senator from vermont  only examined the facts of the case. but reported in detail to us upon the law of the state of new jersey. i mention briefly the circumstances involved. although. as i have previously stated. i am  placing as much emphasis on this feature as i place on some other features which i shall mention later. this feature relates to the necessity for taking action against directors. officers. and others who withdrew what is called "smart" money during the 10 days preceding the closing of the bank. the federal government itself is interested in this matter. the bank was one of those whose deposits were insured by the federal deposit insurance corporation up to $5.000 on each deposit. in the 10 days preceding the closing of the bank $1.740.000 of deposits were withdrawn. i believe that includes only those withdrawals that were in excess of $1.000 each. this $1.750.000 was withdrawn in the last 10 days that the bank was open. out of a total of about $20.000.000 of deposits. of course. the recovery of any part of those withdrawals would be for the benefit of the general creditors of the bank and the depositors who did  withdraw. it also would be for the benefit of the federal deposit insurance corporation. which made good all the deposits up to $5.000. and is  subrogated to the position of those depositors. and therefore interested in recoveries which may be made under the circumstances. at the time of taking the testimony the bank had paid but three dividends of 5 percent each to its depositors. including the f. d. i. c. as one of the principal creditors at that time. the testimony indicated that al.er dividend of 5 percent was expected to be paid in the near future. the question then arises as to whether or  some of the withdrawals were made under circumstances under which the banking commissioner or his liquidator could bring suit for recovery. obviously. it would be for the benefit of the other creditors if that were done under ordinary circumstances. in this case it has  been done. however. there is a series of circumstances which also should be clear on the record. it should be clear to everyone involved that a suit was brought.  by the liquidator but by the city of west new york. n. j.. as a depositor. the city of west new york. through its own counsel. undertook to raise these very same points. it went even further and claimed that the directors and officers of the bank knew that the bank was insolvent during the period referred to. and that the city. which had  withdrawn its deposits. and evidently had made additional deposits during the insolvency of the bank. should have its deposits returned to it by the delinquent officers and by the bank. that suit. an independent suit seeking to charge the officers and directors of the bank with delinquency. was filed early in 1939. the answer to it was  filed by counsel for the liquidator until december 1939. a replication has been filed to the answer. the suit has been at issue ever since. it has  yet been tried. that suit. of course. to a certain extent. raised these very same questions. it raised the question whether those who had withdrawn their "smart" money were delinquent at that time because they knew of the insolvency of the bank. it has been pointed outand i shall introduce into the record a letter from the present commissioner of banking and insurance on the subjectthat while this suit was pending against the bank there might be some question as to whether the bank. through the liquidator. should at the same time sue for the recovery of the various withdrawals of "smart" money. the point being that if west new york should win its suit it might take from the bank a larger amount than the bank could recover from the directors and officers. i wish to urge on this pointwhich is. in a way. a collateral point--that counsel for the liquidator was employed for more than 3 years at a salary of $20.000 a year. he was succeeded by aher attorney. who was paid about $8.000 a year. for the reason that apparently most of the work which would require a great amount of time had been done. except with respect to this particular matter. which had  yet been disposed of. under those circumstances it seems to me that the subcommittee was justified in feeling that such conduct on the part of the attorney for the liquidator in falling to sue for the recovery of these amounts. and in failing to establish the liability of the directors to the city of west new york and others. during the 3 year period. followed as this was by the removal of counsel from office for aher reason. should be weighed in determining whether or . judge meaney should be selected from the whole district of new jersey for promotion to the federal court. it may very well be that judge meaney had good reason for  having brought those suits. there is much to be said on both sides of the question. and we can attempt to reach a final conclusion on that precise issue. however. it seems that we should consider all of these circumstances in considering whether or  judge meaney should be promoted.
the bank was paying $20.000 for fulltime services. it lost. i assume. onehalf the services when the same attorney was allowed $10.000 during part of the time for services relating to the trust matter. although unsuccessful. i would  go into these matters. or attempt to draw conclusions from them. except for the action of the man responsible for the continuation of the liquidation of the bank. the commissioner of banking and insurance of the state of new jersey. he was appointed in february 1942. and when he found the circumstances to be as i have described them. he felt that that was sufficient reason for discontinuing the services of judge meaney as counsel for the liquidator. he proceeded to do so. and he has  reaffirmed it in his recent letter to the gover which was transmitted by telegram to the members of the judiciary committee by the gover. and from which i have just read. it is  possible for the senate to review all this in detail. but the senate clearly should pause before confirming a man for appointment to a federal district court immediately after he has been removed from office by his superior for the reason that there was excessive compensation. as he saw it. under the circumstances.
i may say to the senator from illis that i think we should  be under obligation to go behind the decision of the chancelor. what occurred. however. was this: the $10.000 fee was allowed by the vice chancelor in that case. the commissioner of banking and insurance permitted it to be accepted by judge meaney as counsel for the trustee. the commissioner then was mr. reilly. and  mr. agger. it was accepted by judge meaney. and credit was made against the regular services which must have been reduced to some extent during that period of time when judge meaney was working on the other case. so far as the senate has to go in confirming judge meaney for the federal judiciary. it looks to the fact that he recently. on april 1. 1942. was removed from office by the new commissioner on that ground. publicly stated and publicly reiterated here. therefore. we look into the consideration that it certainly does  increase the faith of the public to have this appointment made under these unfortunate circumstances. the inee recently has been removed from office for the reason stated and yet he is appointed immediately to the federal court following such removal.
i think it would do exactly that. it would prevent. or as mr. bergson. head of the antitrust division in the department of justice said. at least make much more difficult the establishment of the defense of good faith in meeting competition in many cases.
that language has been the subject of many court interpretations. much of it comes from various of the existing antitrust laws. the sherman act. the clayton act. the federal trade commission act. and all of it has been construed in one or more decisions of the courts.
. i am very glad to cooperate with the senator. because i thoroughly agree with him. i understand the concern of the senator from utah and his colleagues. and particularly those on this side. with respect to the provisions of the bill in this matter. i would like to get agreement on changes in both his amendment and through an amended amendmentthe bennett amendmentchanges in the bill which would meet the demands of justice and the practicalities of the situation. i think a determination by unanimous vote of the independent directors. plus twothirds of the shareholders. with adequate kledge. which they would be presumed to have under the proxy statement rules. ought to be accorded a presumption of validity and finality. but i do  think it ought to be more. there are many situations that occur to me where a presumption should be overturned. such as questions involving the nature of transactions. the relationships of independent directors. even though they may honestly be independent. to the corporation and to the sponsors. and many questions of that sort. i am  satisfied with either the bill or the bennett amendment as it stands. but i shall be able to vote for the bennett amendment if it is amended or if. in substitution for its language. the provisions of the casejavits amendment were adopted. that is all the time i wish to take at this time. i reserve the remainder of my time
. i am  a member of the judiciary committee. i greatly respect the gentlemen on that committee. i am a lawyer by profession and have had considerable experience in trade association and antitrust law. cases. i believe that the legislation before us. insofar as. it is designed to deal with the problem of delivered prices. is sound. it is necessary in the interest of american competition. unless we are going to try to rearrange the whole ecoy of the united states and to decide that a plant shall be moved from pittsburgh to the west. or garment manufacturing plants. like those in my city. shall be decentralized at indianapolis or some other point. unless we decide that here. and if we should decide. the mere decision does  move them. it takes a long time to establish plants and to get skilled workers. it would take perhaps a matter of two decades to rearrange american industry. i sympathize entirely with the effort which is made to define what the supreme court has left in question. the supreme court. as i understand it. is claimed to have left open the question of discrimination by sellers under the robinsonpatman act. the supreme court has indicated that the discrimination interdicted by law. is the receipt by a seller of different avails from his sales to different buyers though he charges the same prices. we say in this bill it is . that it is interdicted by law if there is discrimination among buyers. by what the sellers charge the buyers. but it is  interdicted if the seller gets different returns from his sales. there is. however. one part of this act that does need changing. and i hope the committee will see fit to accept the socalled kefauver amendment. that is the amendment to section 2 (b). the robinsonpatman act. there i think the committee is doing something which might seriously affect small business. because there the bill says that the seller may meet any kind of a competitive price in any area. either through the use of this delivered price mechanism or otherwise. i point out to the committee that in the proviso to section 2 (b). there is qualification. it says. "that in any respect the seller may meet competition. and there is restriction on that whatever." i think we all have solicitude to preserve and protect small business. i think we want to protect small business even to the extent of legislating somewhat with respect to the ecoy. i like the kefauver amendment very much in this respect. which says. "you may meet any competition in a particular area with your ecoic power. provided that by doing it you do  substantially lessen competition." i think. looking at it realistically. we want to put that into effect. we do  want competition to be substantially lessened by the use of great ecoic power in particular areas of the country. where it directly affects the retailer. the right conferred by this bill to sell at delivered prices is  unreasonably interfered with thereby. i hope the committee will accept that amendment to section 2 (b).
. i. appreciate the time as i am opposed to this resolution. i k my colleague is sincere and in the real american tradition of which he is so fully an exponent will respect equally my disagreement. i oppose this resolution because i think it leads us in a direction. as in this field of investigation by a select committee of the house. where the house is practically a sovereign power. where we must watch ourselves carefully. the danger of this resolution is that it puts us in the position of using the power of investigation as a weapon. my colleague from tennessee was frank about when. in an address to the house on this resolution on april 23. 1953. he said. that he thought the foundations have given too much to support the "liberal viewpoint." and that he did think they had given egh to those whose objectives could be classed as "conservative." that is the nubbin of this resolution. criticism has been implied here of the ford foundation for setting up the fund for the republic to be headed by our gifted independent and stanchly american colleague. the gentleman from new jersey . but why should  the unamerican activities committee or any others investigating be glad to get help in the direction of being sure that the civil rights of citizens are being safeguarded. bishop oxnam told the unamerican activities committee the other day that they were releasing a lot of material from their files about him that was unscreened. that is a proper correction. it is the sort of thing those like myself who are proposing rules of procedure for congressional investigating committees are seeking to meet. i think the congress. having practically sovereign power in its investigations. should welcome the interposition of the best minds we can get for the best information and the best advice. and  be afraid of it. the real danger of this resolution is that it can be used as a weapon to subserve certain kinds of ideology. the debate about the fund for the republic clearly shows the danger. if there is one thing we have to preserve in our country it is the free market in ideas. this investigation. coming on the heels of the same kind of investigation only last year under the late representative cox. will seem to every foundition to have other major purpose than to exercise some censorship upon them as to the point of view for which they are to use their funds. i do  think that is right. it is  the spirit of our constitution or our system. i do  think it is a proper area for the congress to act. either. are we  courageous egh to stand up to what we believe in and argue it in the market place. i think that is what this resolution may tend to hamper and that is why it needs to be turned down.
i could  agree to have the senate confine that part of the bill to the question of desegregation in schools and to the socalled commingling situation. because if i were to try to have the bill confined to that. i would be leaving outand that is the whole burden of my debate in regard to part iiia whole list of civil rights which. in my opinion. are in the same class or character as the right to voteand i think the desegregation of the public schools is a matter of equal force and priority. so i believe that by striking out part iii. the senate would cut off at least half of the right arm. even though the senate might think it was only trying to remedy the situation a little bit. that is my fundamental point. therefore. i would  be willing to have part iii confined to desegregation of public schools. and like questions. because i would also wish to have part iii apply to the right to sit on a jury and to all the other fundamental civil rights. the last question the senator from vermont askedand i am trying to answer his questions as best i canwas what precautions we must take against individual tyranny. or in other words. against the irresponsibility of an individual attorney general. i think we must take such precautions to the best of our ability. but i think if we seek to write statutes which would deprive our executive officials of all discretion. then we would be writing legislation involving tyranny at least as badworse. but at least as badas the tyranny of the executive or the tyranny of the judiciary. so we must leave the executive officials an area for the exercise of discretion. matter what the congress writes into the bill. the attorney general will have an emous area of discretion. for instance. he could concentrate on antitrust prosecutions in the south. if he wished to do so. and could forget all about other prosecutions at all in the rest of the country. as senators on the other side k. the attorney general will  wish to stop antitrust suits or suits under the fair labor standards act. which has in it plenty of provisionsin fact. quite egh to keep the department of justice busy all the time. yet on the other hand. those on the other side of this issue take the position that the attorney general might decide that he wished to bedevil the southern states in regard to suits under this bill on the civilrights issue. and wish to concentrate on the civilrights issue. i refuse to believe that.
. i believe the amendment  pending before the senate. offered by the distinguished senator from th carolina. deals with a problem which deserves to be dealt with by the senate. and deals with it superbly well. such an amendment had been drafted by the senator from new jersey and myself. when we were informed of the work being done on the same subject by the senator from th carolina he has been kind egh to incorporate some of our suggestions in his draft. i shall take only a minute or so of the time of the senate to analyze the amendment. in the first place it makes clear that when property or money is misapplied. it is  only desirable to have a criminal penalty applied against the one who misapplied the fund. but also to recover the money or property involved. particularly because it is property of an organization of a cooperative character. a trade union. the fundamental purpose of having an opportunity and right to recover it in specie is extremely important. all that is served by the pending amendment. the second point is to find some technique by which an individual shall have the right to sue if the socalled corporate bodyusing the term in its informal sensefails or refuses to sue. let us suppose that it fails or refuses unreasonably to sue. even after demand has been made. then what. shall an individual have the right to sue. the senator from th carolina has dealt with both of these subjects by providing a petition for leave to sue. that is a very wellestablished ex parte procedure. it requires an individual only to show probable cause and a demand which has been refused. or where it is unnecessary to make the demand. or where it has been unreasonably neglected in terms of any response at all. all of this can be covered in an ex parte application to the court. finally. we are very well acquainted with the cases of stockholders who. under similar circumstances. might sue to recover funds misapplied by an officer. a director. or an employee of a corporation. when the corporation fails or refuses to sue. the way in which such a stockholder can get counsel is that the amount recovered then becomes a fund out of which counsel may be paid. so there is an automatic. builtin means for inducing competent lawyers to undertake this kind of litigation. our colleague provides exactly that in the amendment. based upon the equities of the situation and upon practical experience in terms of the trial of such cases. i respectfully submit that the amendment deserves the approval of the senate. i think it will go a long way toward materially strengthening the bill. in deference to our colleague. the senior senator from new jersey [mr. smithi. who first proposed the acrosstheboard idea of treating all these funds as fiduciary or trust funds. but which the senate did  see fit to accept. i think this amendment meets the fundamental objective. the law  will embrace trusts in the various type of operations in which an officer may engage with his own trade union. what is needed is a piece of machinery by which the individual member will  have to call upon the trade union or a particular criminal penalty alone. i hope the amendment will be agreed to.
i may say to the senator from illis that i shall intrude for a matter of only 2 minutes. i understand a colloquy took place on the floor this morning about the way in which the egyptians are running the suez canal. i was unfortunately delayed in my arrival by airplane this morning and was unable to participate in the colloquy. i am grateful that my colleague from new york and the junior senator from pennsylvania were able to participate and point out. as i understand they did with great effect and with great eloquence. that it is one thing to operate the suez canal technically. so that the banks do  cave in and ships do  collide with one aher. but that it is aher thing to obey international law and keep the commitments which were made to the united states at the time this country helped nasser out of the toughest spot he was ever in when the forces of the united kingdom and france were all in egypt. then the united states used its great influence to get these forces out. with the implied understanding that international law and the suez canal convention itself would be obeyed in respect to the operation of the canal. president eisenhower on february 20. 1957. in urging the israeli to withdraw their forces. had declared: we should  assume that. if israel withdraws. egypt will prevent israeli shipping from using the suez canal or the gulf of aqaba. if. unhappily. egypt does hereafter violate the armistice agreement or other international obligation. then this should be dealt with firmly by the society of nations. the fact is that israel is blockaded in terms of its cargoes moving through the canal. there is justification whatever for this in international law. yet the united states is  proposing. through the international bank of which we are a principal member. to make a loan to egypt. withstanding the violation of international law and the suez canal conventionthe constantile convention of 1888. i have protested against this in company with the junior senator from new york and the junior senator from pennsylvania. we will continue to protest. while. on the one hand. the mechanical operation of the canal seems to be proceeding all right. for which egypt is entitled to creditand one would deny it to themon the other hand. we protest against the infraction of international law. a practice which we simply can condone and remain civilized countries. obedient to the dictates of human personal relations. in making this statement i join with my colleagues in this particular effort. because i wish to identify myself with their point of view. i shall continue this effort to make certain that justice is done in terms of lifting the blockade which has been imposed upon israel and its cargoes. because it is quite illegal and in violation of every international concept of law and order and commerical practice being imposed by the government of the united arab republic on israel and its people and is. indeed. a very real threat to the peace in a sensitive area of the world.
. i ask unanimous consent that a joint report of the association of the bar of the city of new york. the new york county lawyers association. the bronx county bar association. the federal bar association. empire state chapter. the maritime law association of the united states. and the new york patent law association be printed at this point in my remarks. the report is entitled "report on the need for six additional judges for the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york."
yes. after i finish this one point. i shall cite an example. the securities and exchange commission annced an investigation of the american stock exchange. this had the most devastating effect upon the securities listed upon that exchange. without any reference to their value or lack of value. i feel certain the situation is only temporary and that it will right itself. however. it occurred. and people thought there might be something wrong. they said to themselves. "we had better patronize the new york stock exchange or some other exchange. the american stock exchange may  be so good." there is reason for that. i am  complaining about it. because it is my understanding that in this instance the american stock exchange rather preferred that the investigation be annced. rather than that the idea that it was being looked into should be leaked. i do  make an issue of that point. i simply say that we are dealing with an agency as to which the slightest breath. the slightest blow of the wind. makes a very fundamental difference in respect to the ecoy. it is for that reason that in allowing a delegation of functions. when we are dealing with an operation of this nature. we have to be far more careful and far more detailed and far more tailormade. in terms of what the commission really needs. than would be true of an agency like the fcc or one of the others. which either grants or denies a license. and the action is. in a sense. final. and as to which there is question of shocking the public confidence. which has a substantive effect the minute it is shaken. without waiting for a final decision
on the question of the proposed rulemaking power. let me say it might very well be. and probably it would be true. that if we were to allow it to happen. there would be hing unlawful about it. but i could  agree more than i do with the senator from south dakota that i can hardly conceive that in connection with the securities business it would ever have been within the contemplation of congress to permit a commission of the sec to delegate its power. it seems to me that the entire .scheme of the sec act is that congress intended to have the sec exercise the powers given to it. and i have doubt that the sec bill would never have been passed by congress if there had been the least. intimation that the president intended that the sec have the power to delegate its power. so i base my position on the possible unlawfulness of the plan as a plan.
madam president. today the senate has been legislating at a rapid paceperhaps an indication that there is a possibility that the date of sine die adjournment is  too far in the offing. however. we have been dealing with many very important matters. and certainly this one is in that category. when this matter came before the committee and it was decided that it could be acted upon without being referred to the banking and currency committee. it was clear that the taking of great care in the handling of this matter is of the utmost importance. the chairman of the committee was kind egh to ask that i make this statement here on the senate floor. in a sense speaking for the miity. and perhaps thus give the statement more force than if i were on the majority side. he asked that i state that the committee recognizes the grave dangers involved in an investigation of this character. this matter deals with the money. the credit. and the basic ecoic structure of the nation. in terms of the ownership of securities which represent the major part of our wealth and our productive power. great confidence in the securities system and in the companies which are so essential to our production could be destroyed and billions of dollars of security values. which depend upon the maintenance of that confidence. could be lost if improper procedures were followed. the great progress which has been made in the ownership of securities in our countryit is estimated that there are  somewhere between 12 million and 15 million security owners in the united statescould be jeopardized by an improvident investigation. i believe it is generally hoped that there will be even more widespread security ownership. and it is the purpose to have the investigation handled in such a way that even greater confidence will be inspired. so as to help broaden the ownership base of such securities. so the chairman of the committee wished emphasis to be placed on our desire to make sure that the securities and exchange commission investigation will  result in a situation destructive of those values or that confidence. of course. we desire to have anything that is wrong unearthed. but it is our fervent and definite desire that harm be done to the fundamental. most important values at stake. furthermore. the committee intends to assign one of its staff members to be constantly in touch with the investigation. so that at all times we shall be advised of the character and the progress of the investigation. and also so that the committee members may determine whether in their opinion the investigation is being conducted wisely and properly or unwisely or improperly. and so that at least the committee members may have an opportunity to have kledge of that matter. and. through the exercise of legislative oversight. may make sure that the investigation is a constructive one. of course. any wrongdoers or rascals must be found. and all necessary corrections must be made. i may say that as a result of my experience during the period of time when i served as attorney general of new york. i came to k the importance of finding any wrongdoers. but i also came to realize the importance of treating such investigations with both judiciousness and vigor. that duty and that responsibility are being presented to the securities and exchange commission. and the chairman of our committee was so gracious as to ask me to make this statement at this time. and also to state that the committee intends to do its duty in order to make sure that injustice or improvidence results from the way in which the investigation is handled. and to make sure that it is handled constructively. king professor cary as i dohe is  chairman of the securities and exchange commission. and i had opportunity to learn much about him before his ination was confirmed. he is a fellow new yorkeri have every confidence that he will see to it that precisely what we desire does occur.
. i have examined the bill. which necessarily has very great interest to new york state as well as to other parts of the country. i wish to ask the senator from south carolina . who is handling the bill on the floor. a question: i e that the committee has sought to meet the objections of the department of justice by including an amendment which would make clear that there is effort to immunize these mergers or acquisitions from the antitrust laws or antitrust standards. can the senator from south carolina state whether that amendment has changed in any way the view of the department of justice on the bill.
. i heard with great interest the argument of the senator. the same thing is true with regard to the pure food and drug laws and the securities acts and many other laws under which the small businessman may be involved in litigation. when i said what i did about the mansfielddirksen compromise being on the very thin edge of agreement. i had in mind some things which put them on that edge. one of them is counsel fees. if an individual sues in one of these cases and loses. the court will have the authority under a provision in the dirksenmansfield substitute to impose the defendants counsel fees upon him. that is a most unusual sanction. the sanction is in there only because of the fact that the title would affect a good many small businessmen. if the title does  affect a good many small businessmen. then this sanction becomes a threat to the individual who asserts his rights. certainly we do  want to make such a provision in the case of general motors or general electric. we have already taken into consideration the fact that the small businessman should be covered as well as the large businessmanas he is in a whole string of other laws across the board. do we think that if we leave him out of this provision. we will save him from litigation with the department of justice. the sec. or the other departments. of course .
. i realize we have a problem. yet i believe the bill requires amendment. because certainly the problem is  met by the bill. i say that for this reason. the amendment is. for all practical purposes. an assertion that as for businesses and activities which are substantially owned in the united states. the act shall  apply in terms of foreign agents registration. that is a generic exemption of a whole class of companies and people. what the senator from arkansas and the committee have been saying is. "let us seek to exempt a class of activity. that class of activity to be defined within very broad permissive provisions that the act contains." it can be very easily understood why the people and the corporations concerned are unwilling to submit themselvesand there are a number of them. many of them with great complexitiesto this determination by the department of justice on a casebycase basis. one example very opposite to this situation is the antitrust laws. at the same time. it can be easily understood why the committee feels that in some cases even an american principle may be acting for itself. or acting as a subsidiary of a foreign corporation. or acting as the parent of a foreign corporation. and may engage in an activity which comes within the confines of the statute. the real problem which has been raised is due in the first place. to the effort to regulate. by registration. something which probably is very difficult to regulate. and. second. due to the way in which the committee in its report has set a standard of judgment based upon predominant interest. a criterion which is extremely hard to get to. i would suggestand i k the chairman of the committee is wrestling with these questionsthis possibility to the chairman: i would say that where there is a very heavily predominant interest in the united states. we deal with it in a specific way. the major part of my amendment deals with 80percent ownership by americans. it may very well be that the only way in which this gordian k can be cut is to provide that. in the case of an american company which has a very substantial interest in a foreign subsidiary. for the purpose of this statute such a corporation shall be considered as an american company. and  acting for a foreign principal. on the other hand. if a foreign company has an american subsidiary. it would have to be very substantially owned in the united states in order to avoid foreignagent registration. therefore. i suggest to the senator from arkansas the possibility of agreeing upon some practical percentage which would make a generic exemption. on the ground that for the purpose of this registration statute it would be necessary to have some rule of thumb other than the uncertain definition of the department of justice. for example. we could provide that an american company would be considered an american company. matter what it did in this fieldeven if it were to act in the interest of a foreign subsidiaryprovided the foreign subsidiary was twothirds beneficially owned by the american company. that is a very high percentage because partnerships and joint ventures abroad often proceed on a 5050 percent basis. such a company might well be considered as substantally owned in the united states. suppose we were to provide. in reverse. that when we are dealing with an american subsidiary of a foreign company. that company would have to be 50 percent beneficially owned in the united states in order to qualify as an american company. that is a rule of thumb. i agree. and it is an arbitrary standard. but at the same time it is an effort to get away from the predominantinterest subject. which means that the department of justice would have to give a railway letterand i am sure the senator understands what i meanany time a doubtful situation existed. it is important to try to set up some standard by which. for the purpose of this act. we can say that if an american company has subsidiaries abroad. which subsidiaries are owned to the extent of twothirds. they will be considered to be american companies. whereas if the foreign companies are owned to the extent of onehalf. we will consider those subsidiaries to be american companies. i am  entirely wedded to this percentage. i have merely proposed it in an effort to resolve the issue. it does seem to me that unless we proceed in this way. we can have a sense of assurance or a sense of being at all precise. as one should be in writing a statute. in order to avoid a number of thorny questions. i believe that some percentage basis as a determinant of what is an american company should be acceptable. i would also  mind if we provided 80 percent of such ownership as to a parent company. in other words. a parent would have to have 80 percent ownership in the united states. and with the subsidiaries. it must own at least x percent of the subsidiaries. i suggested 80 percent. with respect to a foreign subsidiary in the united states. i have suggested that it would have to be 50 percent beneficially owned by americans. that might be a way in which we could get away from the concept. what i have tried to do is to suggest a solution which will deal with the foreign aspect of this question. rather than with the activity. i would appreciate having the senators comment.
. i served on the committee on banking and currency when the 1960 act was passed. i had something to do with the very technique which was employed under that act. an act which it was thought would answer one of the great objections of businessmen to dealing with the government. that is. the proliferation of approvals required by various elements of the government establishment. each able to contradict the other. leaving businessmen completely uncertain. the question i wish to ask the senator from wisconsin is important: is there in the bill anything which would inhibit or stop the department of justice from starting an antitrust suit under the clayton and sherman acts against any merged bank if actually the merger resulted in a successful restraint of competition within the language of those acts. the exemption would apply. as i understand. to protect a merger itself from attack as a possible prospective restraint of competition. but if it should appear from the operations of the merged bank that there were moolistic factors or factors contrary to the antitrust laws. there would be hing to stop the department of justice from pursuing the results of that merger. although the department might  be able to upset the mergerthat is. to dissolve what had already been put together.
. we have  dragged in the whole question of crime rates and statistics in the united states and the fact that the state which instituted a lottery is ridden with crime. i have just sent out for the crime statistics. however. i think my recollection is correct that. at worst. new york ranks somewhere near the middle of all states with respect to crime statistics. the arguments made by the senator from florida and the senator from ohio were made on the theory that the united states would permit the banks to participate in this way. what this measure would do. is  to permit banks to participate in this way. but to prohibit their participation. there is a world of difference in those two objectives. and that is the difference that i point out. ody is talking about getting the banks into this business. yet. that is the very essence of the argument that is being made. what we are talking about is whether we should prohibit them from engaging in this practice when. in their judgment.
. i also suggested that the antitrust implications of the situation be explored. again the policies to date of the administration in establishing a voluntary allocation system "with teeth" and deputy secretary simons letter of may 22. 1973. represent a definite and positive response. the justice department has also written me on this situation. the departments concerned have concxix1089part 14 sented to publication of this correspondence and i ask unanimous consent that this exchange of correspondence be printed in the record.
. this amendment adds a section to the bill to change the wording of section 6 (f) of the bill establishing the guaranteeing agency. kn by the acronym sipc. which insures the claims of customers of brokerage firms up to a limited amount. the purpose of the amendment is to make it possible for this agency. as does the fdicthe federal deposit insurance corporationto deal directly with the customer. if it is so advised. in paying a claim. in whole or in part. as the law reads . the claim may only be paid in whole or in part by advancing money to the trustee in bankruptcy. the trustee then. subject to court determinations. and so forth. may make payments. in whole or in part. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article published in the new york times of sunday.
 in respect to the federal bureau of investigation. i second the appraisal of my colleagues respecting  and the ranking miity member of the committee on the judiciary. one. the fbi has been opened up to the public view for the law enforcement agency which it is. and this is all to the good. for too long this seemed to the people to be some closed corporation over. above. or beside the government of the united states. certainly. we have seen the end of that. whatever may have been its virtues. in the end did  turn out to be virtues. second. and very important. my colleagues on the committee on the judiciary have approved a professional in terms of law enforcement and security of the united states. again. i think that is a beneficent change in terms of the public feeling a sense.  only of confidence. which i feel they have had. but also that the federal bureau of investigation is theirs. to serve them like any other agency of government. so i think the net result has been a good one. and i join my colleagues in approval of the ination.
 of the association. in his letter to you of "the american bar association has long been interested in the creation of an independent national legal services corporation and has on three occasions adopted policy positions in support of this concept. i am pleased to inform you that s. 2686. as reported. fully complies with the associations insistence on assuring the independence of lawyers for the poor to provide professional legal services to clients. i urge that the legislation be speedily and favorably acted upon by the senate and that any amendments seeking to restrict the independence of lawyers or the access of their clients to our processes of justice be resisted." sincerely.
. i believe we could decide this matter without a rollcall vote on the amendment. but i would like to call to the attention of the senator and the senate that the reason we established this corporationessentially a lawyers enterpriseis to have exactly the kind of professional discipline and professional operation which is set out here. and so far the senator has agreed with us. as the best way to deal with. all the vexing individual problems that have arisen. in my opinion this amendment overstates that situation and gives more than a gover veto. it even gives the veto to the state bar association. and under the broadest terms it gives the govers a veto in respect of police powers. i shall  quibble about that. i only state what i do to the senator and the senate because the scheme of the bill is such and it was designed to make this a i lawyerlike operation. we believe tha i the main problems arose with respect t( - legal services in that respect. we believ y we have proposed a scheme for funda. g mental correction. which is  agree( on in the house. they have a corpora. tion. which the administration agree. r upon in concept. hopefully. the senat4 will do so also. and that is the best wa3 to deal with these nettling issues thai have arisen on a casebycase basis. w think this is the best way to reach th - problemthrough a professional corporation to handle it in a lawyerlike manner.
first. let me say. . that it was my understanding that the senator from idaho offered his amendment in order to preserve the right of judicial review available under existing law.  to create new review opportunities. let me assure him that this provision of the bill is intended solely to prevent issues such as eligibility from being raised in the course of a case in which a recipient is representing a client. such questions have been raised from time to time since the inception of federally funded legal services. and courts that have been asked to rule upon them have uniformly held that such issues are irrelevant to the resolution of a clients case and should  be raised in that forum. courts have said that such issues should be taken up with the agency providing funds. in this respect. i e the cases of jacobs against board of school commissioners of the city of indianapolis. 349 federal supplement 605. decided in 1972. and dismissed as moot and on other grounds by the supreme court. and also the case of mayfield against the denver district court decided in colorado in the first sentence of the section to which the senator refers is thus declaratory of existing law as it has been enunciated by the courts. it was decided because we believe that repetitive litigation of this issue is a needless drain of federal funds to provide representation for poor people and a waste of time for already heavily burdened courts. with respect to the question of judicial review. the last sentence in the provision makes clear that existing law on judicial review of corporation decisions is unaffected. we have  closed any existing avenue and we have  opened any new avenues for review. thus. the provision neither adds to  detracts from the authority of a court to review a corporation decision. i might add furthermore it is my understanding that applying the usual rules of standing and justificability. a number of courts have reviewed corporation decisions in the past and the same kind of decisions will remain subject to judicial review in the future. so really we have  done anything to preclude the existing available opportunities for review which i thought was the basis of senator mcclures original concern. to wit. that in the bill as reported by the human resources committee we had inadvertently thrown a roadblock upon the existing avenue for judicial review of a corporation decision. if there was any such idea that is  disposed of.
