. i join my colleagues senators case. mondale. and proxmire in a bipartisan effort to eliminate the authorization for funds in h.r. 7109 to continue the space shuttle and space station. this amounts to a total of $137.6 million for the 1972 fiscal year but is only the start of an ambitious new space program which is estimated to cost approximately $13 billion by a recent study conducted for nasa by mathematica. inc. i do  believe such large expenditures for this program are desirable at this time when budgetary pressures are so great and when many social programs are being caught in the squeeze of lagging appropriations and a sputtering ecoy. this is especially true in view of the serious doubts raised about the space shuttle in the scientific community. dr. james van allen. the prominent space scientist. dr. tom gold of cornell university in my own state and a ed space science adviser. and brian oleary. a scientist astronaut from our space program all have expressed serious doubts as to the advisability of proceeding with the space shuttle program at this time. dr. van allen and dr. gold have both stated that the shuttle can be justified ecoically. given its present design and its present expected use. a study of the space shuttle made by the rand corp. under an air force grant. which was completed in october 1970 also concludes that it is difficult to justify the space shuttle on ecoic grounds. while the more recent mathematica study supports the space shuttle. it also estimates the cost at just $1 billion under the breakeven point of approximately $14 billion. given the cost overruns in many of our space programs. it seems highly doubtful whether the shuttle would come in at the expected cost and there is great likelihood that it would  prove to be a provident venture. we are already embarked on a large skylab program for which the committee has authorized approximately $535 million. this program has as its objective utilizing and applying space for mans benefit and kledge. at the same time demonstrating our capability to live and work in space for long periods of time. this is an ambitious program comparable. but larger in scope than the recent soviet effort. and i believe that it should be carried on further before launching into the new space shuttle develoument. many of the findings from the skylab program will be useful in the development of the space shuttle. we are also being asked to approve an authorization of approximately $612 million for two more apollo flights in 1972. this amount of money is quite large and difficult to justify on the basis of scientific kledge to be gained. however. it is argued that the existing equipment has already been constructed and great expenditures have been made in preparation for the final two apollo flights in 1972 and that it would be wasteful to discontinue the flights at this point. and i reluctantly will  oppose this item. i cite the examples of skylab and apollo as two space programs which are ongoing and which require expenditures of over $1 billion. one seems valuable. the other less so. but these large expenditures call into question any efforts to embark on yet aher program costing at least $14 billion which appears to be of really questionable validity. that is. the space shuttle. last weekend as a member of a senate subcommittee i toured parts of harlem and south bronx. looking into the general conditions of the neighborhoods and particularly the narcotics addiction problem. what i saw appalled me and also appalled those who were with me. senators hughes and schweiker. a 16yearold. who looked about 12 years old. could buy heroin. and did. right on the street corner. dark hideaways were used as "shooting galleries" where heroin addicts gave themselves injections. housing and general sanitary conditions were unbelievably bad. after viewing this situation. i find it difficult to justify a program such as the space shuttle. when many of our domestic programs are being cut back and even dismantled through appropriation. congressional authorizations for programs to aid governmental units like new york city have consistently outpaced appropriations and spending. in 1970 appropriations for federal aid were only 65 percent of the authorizations. leaving a gap of $8.5 billion. of the $4.7 billion authorized for elementary and secondary education by congress for fiscal year 1972. only $1.9 billion is being requested in the federal budget. education for the handicapped authorizations total $436 million. but appropriations requests stand at only $110 million. there are communities in new york state which have been waiting 10 years and more for urban renewal funds. with sign of realization as yet. money at all has been appropriated for alcoholism treatment and rehabilitation programs for which congress has authorized $100 million. of the $225 million authorized for each of the housing programs under sections 235 and 236. only $175 million has been requested for each program. the much publicized impounding of funds which have already been appropriated by congress is aher example of misplaced priorities. included in these impounded funds are $200 million out of $575 million appropriated for model cities. $200 million out of $350 million appropriated for water and sewer facilities grants and $200 million out of $1.2 billion appropriated for urban renewal. in view of the spending realities. congress must do all that is possible to eliminate wasteful programs which are  of general benefit to great numbers of people in the country. i believe that the space shuttle is one of these programs. if the federal government is going to deliver the needed services to its people which must be delivered. a hard look needs to be taken at even the most glamorous programs such as the space program. i have taken such a look and i urge the senate to support our amendment to delete the authorization for the space shuttle and space station.
