 nixon said: narcotics addiction is a problem which affects both the body and soul of america. at the cutting edge of this epidemic is the heroin addict. my bill offers one solution a cure for all addicts. but rather a proven treatment modality for addicts who. in the opinion of the medical experts. are suitable for it. what we need is an interim means of dealing with thousands of addicts. and of diminishing related crime to minimal. manageable levels. such an interim measure would be of emous help until we can find an effective. longterm cure for drug addiction. cxvii2557part 31 methadone. like heroin. is addictive. but it at least has the capacity for restoring to an addict the freedom to determine how he wishes to lead his life. in new york city. my research discloses there are. regrettably. 7.000 addict volunteers on the waiting list for treatment in methadone -maintenance programs. and the timelag into treatment varies between 2 and 6 months. such delays. occasioned by lack of resources. is inexcusable on the part of society. the only solution is to get the federal government to supply the needed resources. i recognize that methadone maintenance is both a scientific- and socialpolicy issue in the field of the treatment of narcotics addiction. however. we must set aside the emotional and philosophical debate of methadone mai tenance versus drugfree. at the moment. methadone programs are subject to controls exercised jointly by the bureau of narcotics and dangerous drugs and by the food and drug administration. their authority being based on the proposition that the treatment is still only experimental. privately. officials of these bureaus concede that the inherent safety and efficacy of the medication are longer in doubt. but hold that the fiction of experimental status is needed as a legal basis for preventing misuse. there is some merit in their contention. but in any event. the ind permit which  serves as a license for methadone treatment can be retained indefinitely as a control device. expansion to a caseload of 25.000 in new york. and an equal number elsewhere in the country. is inconsistent with the concept of experimental status. either the treatment is experimental or it is ready for largescale usebut  both. to remedy that problem. the bill i introduce today would: first. authorize the secretary of health. education. and welfare to make formula grants to statesto stimulate establishment of methadone maintenance treatment programs--lased upon population. financial need. and the need for more effective prevention and treatment of heroin addiction. the authorization levels are left open in the bill. the precise dollar amount would be determined by the senate upon the basis of the expert testimony received at legislative hearings and the recommendations of the committee on labor and public welfare. however. the magnitude of the funding needs is readily seen in gover rockefellers remarks at united nations observance day when he urged a "manhattan project" to save our youth from drug devastation and said: we stand here today in the heart of a great city that has by far the worst and most rapidly spreading drug infection. as gover of the state. i have led an allout effort to stem this tide and to cure the affliction. during the past six years. we have expended almost three quarters of a billion dollars of state funds for this purposemore than all the other states put together. more than our federal government and more than all the other nations of the world. second. require states to submit plans assuring the secretary that: first. methadone will be administered orally only to certified heroin addicts who volunteer for treatmenti emphasize voluntary because we can be sure how effective methadone maintenance is when provided under legal coercion. treating a patient against his will. regardless of the outcome. raises very serious ethical questionsin public or profit private centers or facilities operated under the community mental health centers act or facilities operated in accordance with certain standards. second. each program will be under the direction of a licensed physician qualified to treat narcotics addiction. third. either directly or through contractual arrangements. comprehensive rehabilitative services. including vocational counseling. educational and remedial services. psychological and psychiatric therapeutic programs and legal assistance will be provided. fourth. "outrearch" efforts to the private and public sectors of the ecoy to recruit. train and employ participants in methadone programs and provide assistance to persons in treatment in obtaining employment are encouraged. and fifth. if possible. encourage persons in methadone maintenance programs to become drugfree. i emphasize that along with the medicationmethadoneand which programs administer it. the bill encourages the use of supportive services to help the patient in his efforts to become rehabilitated and lead a socially acceptable and productive life. i believe that providing such assistance is a responsibility we should accept in treating the "whole person." third. mandate all patient records to remain confidential and in the absence of a court order. to be disclosed only with the patients consent. however. this section would  infringe upon legitimate research. fourth. qualify public and profit private agencies to directly participate in a federal program. in the absence of a state plan. with grant priority given to areas within states having the highest percentages of heroin addicts. fifth. authorize grants to medical and paramedical institutions to assure the availability of trained personnel. the provisions in my bill mandating special manpower initiatives and ancillary services in the operaton of methadone maintenance programs will. most importantly. stimulate reconciliation between therapeutic community "purists." who this year reported an increasing use of methadone. and methadoneoriented "theorists." who seemed to increasingly recognize the value of group encounter. counseling. vocational services. and the like. it is important to understand that with the expansion of methadone maintenance programsas stimulated by this billwe will be dispensing millions of doses per year of a potent narcotic. i am convinced that this medication is therapeutic when taken by the right person in a good medical program. however. i also recognize the concern of federal. state. and local law enforcement agencies and medical treatment programsto reduce this danger to a minimum. narcotics addiction and the crime it induces are clearly threatening to suffocate new york city. the magnitude and scope of the problem can readily be seen from an examination of statistics from my own city of new york. while there were less than 200 narcoticsrelated deaths in 1960. 10 years later. in 1970. the number of deaths increased to over 1.000215 of these were teenagers. the youngest of whom was only 13 years old. experts  indicate that there are 150.000 heroin addicts in new york city and it is a fact that today more people aged 2535 in new york city die as a result of narcotics than from any other single cause. the police department indicated that of the more than onequarter million arrests in 1970. 71.848 or 29 percent were for narcotic offenses. from scarsdale to san francisco. the shattered minds and hopeless futures of thousands of our young people are grim testimony to the inadequate response to the drug epidemic. as the attorney general of the united states testified: dependence on drugs for a person of any age is a personal tragedybut with thousands of americans under the age of 21 addicted to drugs. that dependence evidences a national emergency. there is a demonstrable relationship between narcotics addiction and the commission of serious crimes. and the cost in terms of broken homes. estranged families and lost opportunities constitutes one of the most pervasive social tragedies of our times. according to officials of the national institute of mental health. an estimated 40million americans are directly affected by drug abuse. the individual addicts and their families are  the only ones who suffer. addicts feed their destructive habit with acts of destruction. as the attorney general of the united states indicated: there is doubt that the increase in the number of drug addicts is reflected in the increase of street crimes and burglaries. in my own city of new york. more than 50 percent of the jail inmates are addicts and more than 50 percent of the property crimes are committed by addicts. we need alternative methods to cope with the drug problem. methadone does  "cure" the addict. rather. it is an addictive substitute to heroin. yet in threequarters of the cases in which it has been tried in new york city it has helped to stabilize the addict. and return him to his family and his job. is this capitulation to addiction. i say. what else do you offer. what other help can you offer on a massive scale to the thousands and thousands of "hooked" heroin addicts who want to return to jobs and family. but lack the psychological strength to shake off addiction. we ought  to be afraid of an interim proven measure which works. insulin is  a cure for diabetes but it keeps the sick person alive and permits him to function. the same is true of methadone. i say interim. for i believe we must also begin a massive research effort to find other more effective longterm heroin antagonists. at the same time. we must launch assaults upon the psycho/social societal ills that let our young people turn to heroin. most of us k the leading experts in the field of methadone have been dr. vincent dole and his wife. dr. marie nyswander. who developed the methadone maintenance technique. dr. doles recent volunteer detoxification program in manhattan house of detentionthe tombshas attracted nationwide interest. in testifying before the subcommittee on alcoholism and narcotics of the senate labor and public welfare committee. of which i am ranking miity member. dr. dole made clear that methadone "is pan~ea whatsoever" but stated: it is a positive response in the sense that we can show rehabilitation of many thousands of people who otherwise would have been hopeless heroin addicts. as a result of information obtained from the 7.000 patients currently under treatment in his program. dr. dole testified thatwe can say unequivocably that methadone is consistently successful in stopping heroin addiction when it is given under good medical control in the routing we recommend. i would commend to the attention of my colleagues the recently published proceedings of the third national conference on methadone maintenance treatment. the conference provided valuable insights into the many facets of methadone maintenance treatment programs. it added much to the scientific body of kledge on pharmacology. gave special attention to medicine. pediatrics. and obstetric treatment issues. discussed the complex issues of mapping out an epidemiology of heroin addiction and developing large systems of delivering clinical services. and reported on the problems involved in the treatment of adolescent addicts by methadone maintenance. i ask unanimous consent that the following published conference articles be printed in the record at this point in my remarks. along with the text of the bill: "successes and failures in methadone maintenance treatment of heroin addiction in new york city" by frances rowe gearing. m.d.. m.p.h. "the bernstein experiment." by harold l. trigg. m.d. "ancillary services in methadone treatment: the bedfordstuyvesant experience." by beny j. primm. m.d. "comparative study of three groups of patients at the bronx state hospital methadone maintenance program." by beatrice berle. m.d.. and joyce lowinson. m.d. "slow detoxification of adolescent heroin addicts in new york city." by robert b. mi]]man. m.d.. and marie e. nyswander. m.d. "court services and methadone treatment: the new york city probation program." by herman joseph. "planning for the treatment of 25.000 herion addicts." by vincent p. dole. m.d. "two standard data processing packages for methadone maintenance facilities in new york: intake and treatment." by alan warner. ph. d.
