the senator has pointed out his experience in law school. that the older professors were found to be the most effective. that is the very point of this legislation. to discuss the legislation in terms of compulsory retirement it seems to me is inaccurate. the point is that anybody can be kept on after 65. as apparently the professors in the law school of the distinguished senator were. there is mandatory requirement that professors with tenure be retired. they can be kept on the faculty. what this does is to say that they do  have a right to be kept on in their tenured status. of course. tenure means that their performance can be objectively evaluated. the distinguished senior senator from california said they can be let go for cause. but suggest i would like to have cited somewhere in this chamber an instance where a tenured professor was let go for cause. i understand in the history of harvard. in 300 yearsplus. there has never been a professor let go for cause even though one did murder his wife and did go to the electric chair with his tenure still intact.
that isif the senator will allow me to finisha very different thing. we are  trying to compel integration. we can do that. we can do that under the new york constitution. we can do that under the federal constitution. we can only try to prohibit discrimination and segregation. that is a very important distinction. the newspapersand lord bless them. i have never quarreled with them and i do  speak of something called "de facto segregation in new york." that is a complete misrepresentation under the law. because there is segregation in law in new york. there is segregation in law where there is a denial of the opportunity to enter a particular school because of race. but it is  segregation in law where there is denial of that opportunity because of race. de facto or otherwise. and where the state and local authorities. far from requiring segregation by race. make every effort.  merely to forbid segregation. but also to go beyond that to eliminate racial unbalance even where they are  required to do so by the constitution. therefore. i believe that it has lent fuel to the cause of those who oppose the civil rights bill because those same words have been used which mean unlawful denial to describe an entirely different situation. i do  condone racial imbalance. i will move heaven and earth to try to correct it. as i feel many of the educational authorities in my state wish to do. but i believe that the difference between this and segregation under the law must be very clearly pointed out.
