" appearing in the january 20 issue of the new york herald tribune: any decision made by congress at this time must be flexible. the swift changes of war and foreign affairs do  permit a military policy to be fixed in advance. in all its details. .certainly the armed services should  be bound. in the event of the outbreak of war. to any firm prescription as to what forces should be employed where. congress can and should weigh the military evidence and approve a basic plan. but it can put its approval in the form of a straitjacket. binding on the administration under any and all conditions. history is studded with military disasters invited by rigid programs that did  allow for unexpected events. at this point in my remarks. i ask to have the full text of the editorial inserted in the record.
 should exercise leadership. and where his test must be accomplishment.  good efforts or good intentions. the sad fact is. however. that sufficient leadership is  being exercised. that negotiations are  being pressed. and that the housea body which is coequal with the senatemust exercise its constitutional responsibilities. congress has choice. therefore. but to support this amendment.  only as an expression of grave concern over this lack of leadership and priority in the negotiations. but also as a vital and clear message that many of us can longer accept continued casualties as a trade for vague political or strategic timing. the more we delay in these negotiations. the weaker our position gets. the fuller the heroin hospitals become. and the longer our casualty lists grow. unless our leaders choose to act with courage. similar to the french in 1954. our men will be coming home from vietnam  in troop transports. but in boxes. while our cities decay and while people throughout the country. young and old. become so disenchanted as to give up hope of a peaceful and just society. . i urge support of the amendment.
. under the authority of the dual compensation act of 1964public law 88448all retired members of the uniformed services may  accept civilian employment by the federal government. however. this law places a limitation on the amount of retired pay that retired commissioned officers and warrant officers of a regular component may receive while receiving civilian salary from the federal government for employment in a civilian office. the act provides that a retired commissioned or warrant officer of a regular component of the uniformed services who holds a civilian office under the federal government shall receive the full compensation of the civilian employee. plus the first $2.000 officerretired pay. plus onehalf of the remainder. if any. whenever retired pay of the uniformed services is increased to reflect changes in the consumer price index. the $2.000 exemption in the formulafor reduction of retired paywill be increased by the same percentage. for example. on december 1. 1966. all retired military personel received a 3.7 percent costofliving increase in retired pay. thus. the initial exemption  amounts to $2.074. future increases in retired pay will cause this figure to continue to change. the following are exempt from the provisions of the reduction in pay limitation: first. retired regular officers and warrant officers whose retirement was based on disability resulting from injury or disease received in line of duty as a direct result of armed conflict or caused by an instrumentality of war and incurred in line of duty during a period of war. second. retired regular commissioned and warrant officers employed on a temporary. parttime. or intermittent basis for the first 30 working days in which they serve under that appointment. and third. retired regular commissioned and warrant officers employed in civilian offices on 30 ember 1964. who elected to remain subject to the exemption or limitation on pay applicable to their office on that datetitle 5. united states code. section 5532. the retired officers association. among others. believes that the provision in the act reducing the retirement pay of a regular officer by onehalf of the excess of his retirement pay over $2.000 should be repealed. in support of this position. james w. chapman. colonel. u.s. air force. retired. and legislative counsel to the retired officers association. in a letter dated july 28. 1965. to charles l. schultze. chairman. cabinet committee on federal staff retirement systems. washington. d.c.. stated: there is similar restriction on reserve officers who accept federal civilian positions.  on any regular or reserve member who was retired while serving as an enlisted member. even though he is advanced to officer status on the retired list and thus draws retired pay as an officer. therefore. the loss of pay constitutes an unjust discrimination against retired commissioned and warrant officers of the regular components of the uniformed services. also. and very importantly. it continues to militate against the acceptance of federal employment by retired regular officers and thus in many instances deprives the government of the possibility of obtaining the best qualified person for certain critical and hard to fill positions. removal of the pay restriction will put the government in a position to compete on a fair basis for employment of all skilled individuals and will prevent a waste of highly trained manpower. i have. accordingly. introduced today a bill to amend title 5 of the united states code to provide that retired officers of the uniformed services shall  suffer diminution of pay while holding civilian positions or offices with the government of the united states or district of columbia.
. my constituents continue to write to me about aids. they write of their fear. of their confusion. of their losses. we have a 134 reported cases in rhode island. infants. children. adults. my constituents want to k. why we are we waiting so long to take action. why we arent informed. and informing them. this measure that we consider today will provide many of the answers and will put us on the track to conquering this disease. this measure does  include language dealing with counseling and testing. confidentiality and protection against discrimination. i am hopeful that as the senate moves forward with further aids legislation in the future these issues can be properly addressed. today. i only ask my colleagues to join with me and the 54 other cosponsors of s. 1220 in passing this legislation without restrictive or weakening amendments. in the war on aids. this is congress first battle. i am confident of a victory.
s personal leadership. have produced agreements on arms control. space exploration. environmental protection. and health and scientific exchanges which. coupled with past and future pacts on berlin. european security. and expanded trade. mark the start of the end to the cold war. the united states and soviet russia are the two most powerful nations on earth. . for the first time. they have agreed to unite this power for peace. for the future of the worlds children rather than choosing to continue the tactic of fear which has surrounded every mi international dispute since world war ii. we will continue to have disagreements in the future. the need for a strong american defense has  evaporated in a cloud of euphoria. but reasonable men have met at the summit and found they can agree to scrap petty rivalries and begin to establish the apparatus for peaceful cooperation and the pursuit of world justice. this will be richard nixons page in history. he has earned it.
. today i am introducing a bill directing the administrator of the veterans administration to establish a national cemetery in connecticut or in the new england area. a recent comprehensive study of the national cemetery system by the veterans administration. pursuant to public law 9343. clearly points out the inadequacies in the current system. at present. there is grave site generally available to veterans of standard federal region i. comprising the six states of new england. in fact. there is only one national cemetery in the entire regiontogus. maineand it has long since been closed out. according to the study. commissioned pursuant to public law 9343. nationally there are about 29 million veterans eligible for future burial benefits. to effectively meet this demand. an expansion in the present system is essential. to exemplify this point. i would like to refer to some provoking statistics formulated by the veterans administration. in region i. it is projected that over 800.000 veterans will die by the year 2000. projected veterans deaths in my own state of connecticut have been estimated at over 220.000 during that same time period. in 1975. alone. 5.800 veterans will die in connecticut and there will be available national cemetery plots to provide interment for our veterans. furthermore. the national center for health statistics and cremation estimate that only 4.3 percent of funeral rites in the theast involve cremation. a close analysis of the detailed state by state projections of veteran deaths. compiled by the veterans administration will provide a clearer understanding of the scope of the demand in both connecticut and new england:
. on july 30. john mcguiness began his muchdeserved retirement following more than two decades of service in the office of the attending physician. since his first assignment here in 1954 as a naval hospital corpsman. through his more than a dozen years of civilian service. john mcguiness. by his warmth. kindness and competence. has won the thanks of numerous members. staff and visitors. i k that i speak for all of my colleagues in extending to john mcguiness our warm good wishes for his future happiness. i am proud indeed of my connecticut neighbor.
. i rise to oppose the amendment. i do so.  just in terms of the substance of this amendment but in terms of opposing the efforts of those that feel the war against aids can be won politically on the floor of the senate rather than in the laboratories of this nation. the last time we went through the exercise of an amendment of the distinguished senator from th carolina. it had to do with the aids education process. clearly. with that amendment. the finger was pointed at the homosexual community in terms of what education they should or should  receive. it was clear. according to the best kledge available. that full education on the matter of aids should be made available to all highrisk groups. but. for whatever reason. when the issue was raised here on the floor and the finger was pointed at the homosexual community. they were put into a special category. the education which they could receive was restricted. for whatever reason. be it politics. be it fear. this body denigrated itself by allowing that amendment to pass with only two votes in opposition. i think the time has come to stand up against all these amendments and allow the doctors and the scientists and the teachers to do their work. that is what is at issue here.  the philosophy of the distinguished senator from th carolina or the philosophy of senator kennedy or the philosophy of senator thurmond. it does  add one whit for us to micromanage the war against aids from the floor of the u.s. senate. i would ask. in regard to the present amendment. very simple questions: has the matter that has been requested of the u.s. senate by the distinguished senator from th carolina been requested by the surgeon general. has it been requested by the centers for disease control. has it been requested by the national institutes of health. has it been requested by the veterans administration itself. the answer that comes back is a clearcut  e of these. just as the earlier amendment on aher bill. the labor and health and human services appropriations bill. what was requested of the senate by the senator from th carolina had  been requested by any of the health. science. or education institutions or experts. that is really what is at issue. if you want a war against aids. then let it be fought by those who have the expertise and the kledge. hing could be more dangerous to victory in that war than to allow ideology to take hold. you make certain. for example. that only a portion of the risk groups are  educated. and you have gone a long way toward losing the war. for the information of my colleagues. there is right  a battle raging under the surface which. in effect. because of the efforts of the distinguished senator from th carolina and others. would deny complete education to the children of this nation. just as it has been denied to the homosexual community already by action of this body. ody asked for what is being asked for here. i see my distinguished colleague from th carolina on the floor. i would ask one question of him. he mentioned in the course of his comments that only one group opposes this. and then failed to mention what group that is. i would ask him. what group that is that opposes this amendment.
i am  going to object because. frankly. i hope maybe the discussions that are taking place here might put the aids bill back into a proper focus for those who think this is something that people can waste votes on and build up a sound politica record. it is  that. it is terribly urgent. and it is terribly urgent that it be in the right form. so with a guarantee that whatever we do here in terms of this veterans legislation is going to be done with dispatch and that hing else. hing else will intervene. i am  going to go ahead and interpose the objection. although. i find it strange that we can "pass" veterans legislation so speedily and so cleanly. but somehow we can address the greatest threat that has been posed to this nation since world war ii.
. first of all. i want to associate myself with every remark made by the distinguished senator from ohio. we are all for a war on drugs. the last time we had a war on drugs was 1986. we had a war on drugs bill here that cost $600 million. if you will recall. in the last moments of that debate. senator hatfield and myself stood up and said. "where are we to get the money." it was then revealed that alcohol abuse and mental health programs were to pay for the war on drugs. fortunately. the u.s. senate rejected that. additional moneys were found. in the appropriations committee as a result of the acrosstheboard cut imposed on laborhhs during the budget summit conference. substance abuse grants in states were cut below the 1987 level. drug abuse programs were cut below the 1987 level while we are here posturing on new drug initiatives. has anyone thought for 1 minute how bizarre it is that we hear recommendations of sending the coast guard to the persian gulf while the military comes home to fight the war on drugs. . i think it is important that we have a war on drugs. but i think it also important to understand that we should pay for a war on drugs. this is the same argument we had 2 years ago. what worries me is that my colleagues might feel that by using the military this would be a cheap way to fight. the already exist. so why  use them. then we do  have to add dollars. we do  have to ask for additional revenue and we can have our war. the military has its hands full. i am glad to hear the distinguished senator from ohio. who has far more experience in this area than i do. comment that they have other missions to fulfill. some believe. as i. these missions should be better fulfilled than is the present case. god ks they have difficulties egh to protect the national security in a military sense. has anybody stopped to remember how in the course of the war on drugs initially pronced here on the senate floor in 1986 we then cut the coast guard budget. i am for a war on drugs. i am for using the coast guard and the drug enforcement agency. and other law enforcement agencies of this nation to wage that war. and we ought to pay for it. that will call for drug abuse programs. it calls for what has to be a multibillion dollar investment in teaching our kids from 5 years of age that if you use drugs you are dead or next to it. so as to dry up the market because there is  egh barbed wire or helicopters to stop drugs from coming in. you .have to eliminate the market. thats our kids. this is posing even for an election year. we think so little about the war on drugs that we wage it in terms of an amendment to a bill which has everthing to do with national security in a military sense. it is going to be very difficult for anyone to vote against this. however. i do  want to mislead the american people into feeling that this war can be won at its present funding levels for law enforcement and education. it can. we are  spending egh money on traditional law enforcement or the education of our children. what is involved here also falls far short constitutionally. you are treading dangerous ground in the mixing of civilian and military law enforcement insofar as the constitution is concerned. the most important point to make is the priority this problem should command in terms of money. law enforcement. education. and treatment. on the one hand. across the way. we are cutting back on our commitment to drug abuse while we come on the floor and give the impression that we are upping the stakes. if we would only match the intensity of the rhetoric with the funding required to do the job. we would win the war on drugs. as long as people feel it can be won on the cheap. believe me. hing will happen. and the children of america stay at risk.
. everything that the distinguished senator from illis has said makes much sense. i think that he has spoken with his customary eloquence. but. even more than eloquence. he has spoken with profound and deep feeling. and with sure kledge of the facts. he has pointed out the urgency of such a move on the part of the united states and the soviet union. our nation has just recently annced through the defense department. as the senator very well ks. that we will be ready to deploy mirv in june of 1970. that is just 2 months away. if we deploy mirv. we will then be deploying a techogy which will enable us to field a missile with multiple warheads that will  fall in one cluster around a target. but that will go toward many targets at different ranges. it would be very difficult. if  impossible. for the soviet union. with its present defenses. to intercept such warheads by using its existing arsenal. what does that mean. it means that the soviet union. in order to be secure. will have to improve its techogy. and probably move toward mirving its ss9s. which have superior megatonnage to our minuteman iii and our landbased missiles. our icbms. we would then be called upon. in turn. to improve our mirv system. probably putting more warheads in the missile. and probably increasing our payload and our megatonnage. as the senator has so well pointd out. the cost of any of these moves is in the billions of dollarsmoney. as he has so well pointed out. that is so desperately needed for the hospitals of our cities and urban centers. for education. and as the senator stated in his very simple but most illustrative example. for building and supporting medical schools around the country. to say hing of the hospitals. which are crying out for salvationand literally for salvationtoday. for rapid transit systems that will free us from these clogged cities in which we live. for clean air and clean water. and for attacks upon cancer and other diseases. just think of what we could do. both in the united states and in the soviet union. if we could use just a fraction of the money that would be spent for the deployment of these sophisticated weapons systems for such purposes. time is of the essence. i fear that. once we deploy mirv. the soviets probably will have recourse other than to move ahead as rapidly as possible in order to mirv their ss9s. as the senator has pointed out. we are as near parity. perhaps. as we can be. it is secret that we have more icbms in our arsenal than does the soviet union. the soviet union is building more icbms. they are building more ss9s. and more ss11s. we k that. and it does  come as any shock or surprise to me. they k how many icbms we have. they are trying to catch up. perhaps they are trying to pass us. if i knew and if the senator knew that the soviet union had more icbms than we. we would perhaps be arguing on this floor right  that we should catch up to them so that we could have parity. it is secret that we have a superior submarine force. our polaris force. which we are in the process of converting into a poseidon force. we also k that the soviets are beginning to move in this direction. and they are trying to catch up with us and. again. perhaps pass us. it comes as shock to me that they are doing this. if the situation were reversed. i am sure we would do it. we also k that the united states is ahead in the b52 bomber force and the soviets are. doing something in this direction. perhaps they are trying to catch up with us again. and perhaps try-. ing to pass us. we also k that we have nuclear weapons in europe at the present time. they do  have long ranges. to be sure. but they certainly can be used if there should be an exchange between the soviet union and the united statesand god forbid that there is ever any nuclear exchange. so we can continue this insanity. that is all it isit is insanity. before the very able senator from illis entered the chamber. i said that we have been criticized for perhaps giving too much credence to the soviet union. that the soviet union is just trying to buy time. the senator has heard that argument. i am surethat the soviet union is trying to buy time. that if we did bring about a freeze on our offensive and defensive weapons. that would give the soviet union time. and they would use that time to step up their efforts in this general direction. let us examine that in the light of this resolution. we are  suggesting that we give them any more time than we have. we are suggesting. as the senator has very well pointed out. that this is a mutual freeze. that hing will happen unless the soviets join with us in this freeze. that we do  want in any way to diminish our national security. we want always to have national security. but all we are saying is that if the soviets can in very sane moments and we can in very sane moments realize that hing really is being gained by the nuclear arms race in which we find ourselves. we just stop. that is all. and do morejust stop. let me just point out to the senator that he ks as well as i that these agreements generally take time. men can sit down and come to an agreement on an important issue overnight. and certanly nations can be expected to do so. they have their delegations. i think the senator pointed out that they have their hawks. so to speak. and they have their doves. and we have our hawks.and we have our doves. they have their interests at heart. and we have our interests at heart. which is acceptable and understandable. so it is conceivable that these talks could go on for months and years. there is hing unusual about it. i do  k how long the partial test ban treaty took. but it took a long time to come to an agreement. the same is true with respect to the proliferation treaty and other treaties. if this negotiation between the soviet union and the united states should go on for. say. a year or 2 years. or perhaps even more what we are really talking about  as being the most devastating techogy kn. to man conceivably could be obsolete. conceivably could be of very little importance. compared to what the techogy may be in 1971 or 1972. if this is true. then we are in a worse position. far worse position. to try to negotiate than we are . in june of 1970. so if we could have this freeze during the time that the negotiations are going on. if both parties just stop and stand still and there is further testing and further deployment during this time. both will have performed a great service. and they will be more apt. in that climate. to be able to enter into a mutual arms limitation agreement than if they sat down in june and began to talkbut at the same time both parties were increasing their arsenal. both parties were continuing to test. and both parties were moving ahead with far more devastating techogy.
i wholeheartedly agree with the senator. it has often been said in this chamber that ha listens to every word that is said in the senate. and the house of representatives. as well. certainly. if we had an aroused congress that was constantly and. as the senator said. perpetually letting ha k how strong we feel about the return of these 1.400 american prisoners it would be bound to have some impact and expedite the return of these men to their families. i have talked to many of the members of the families of prisoners of war. as has the distinguished senator from west virginia. they are truly living tragic lives. in most instances they do  hear from them at all. in some instances where they do hear they obviously are just getting a form letter which means very little to them. they do  k what conditions the prisoners are living under. what they are exposed to. the conditions of health of the prisoners. or even of their sanity at the present time. they do  k whether their letters are getting to them. and it has been very tragic. some of these wives have had to go to paris and to other places to see if they could talk to diplomats of the th vietnamese government in an effort to get prisoners returned to the united states. it seems to me that it would be a good idea to have a congressional hearing. at which time we could have some of the wives. children. and members of the families appear. i think the military services of our government. the army. the navy. and the air force have unique kledge to which they could testify before such a committee. i think it would  only dramatize the situation but also make the american people well aware so that ha would feel the pressure of this government and its people and return these prisoners to their families in the united states. i do  k what procedure we might go through. but i do think the senator certainly has made a very great contribution by bringing up this matter. perhaps hearings might be held before the committee on foreign relations. or perhaps it might be the committee on armed services. the committee of which i am a member. i do  k what other committee it might be. our distinguished majority leader is in the chamber. perhaps he could give us some direction. but i am sure some committee would have jurisdiction over such a hearing in the senate so that we could begin to really apply all the power and pressure at our command to alleviate this very tragic situation which has existed far too long. and help to return these men to their families.
. i certainly approach this subject with a good deal of hesitation in view of the remarks that have been made by the able gentleman from new york. i recognize his sincerity and his conviction that this is bad legislation. i hope i will be able to indicate to you why i have been forced to the conclusion that this is  only good legislation but that there is other alternative open to us this aftern other than to support this legislation in the interest. first. of our national security. and in the interest. second. of the conditions that face us as far as the ecoic welfare of this country and the health of the american people is concerned. the gentleman is entirely right in calling attention to the gigantic expenditures of the federal government  in the field of research. both basic and applied. but there are some distinctions which i think it might be well for us to consider. on page 1118 of the budget. there is a listing of the expenditures for 1949. 1950. and 1951 for research and development in the federal government. it is as follows: expenditures for other developmental purposes [in millions of dollars] research and development 1049. 1950.esti 19esti mate mate civil: direct federal programs: atomic energy commission ------------------- 114 155 176 other agencies ----------- 85 118 119 total. direct federal programs ------------ 199 273 295 grantsinaid ------------ 11 12 12 total. civil research and development ----- 210 285 307 national defense: department of defense --- 688 630 606 other agencies --------------- 42 49 50 total. nationaldefense research and development ---------------- 730 679 616 total. research and development -------- 940 964 963 so the total of the federal governments expenditures. according to the budget. is $940.000.000 actually in 1949. $964.000.000 recommended in 1950 and $963.000.000 estimated in 1951. that gave me a great deal of concern as to where we were heading and as to whether we were actually accomplishing the purposes most of us had in mind. i am frank to say when we first considered this question in committee i was in serious doubt as to the wisdom of the legislation. the more i listened to and studied the evidence presented to us by over 150 qualified witnesses from all over the country. practically all of them earnestly in favor of some kind of legislation such as this. the more i became convinced we simply had to face the picture realistically and accept our responsibility in this field. in that connection i urge careful consideration of the list of eminent americans who are in support of this bill. which list is contained at the completion of the remarks of the gentleman from new jersey . let me turn to aher development which is. in my opinion. of extreme interest. you will recall that the deiartment of defense actually spent $688.oco.000.for research and development in 1949. that its estimate for 1950 in this field dropped $58.000.000 to $630.000.000 and that its estimate for 1951 dropped aher $24.000.000 to $606.000.000 in 1951. that is a total reduction in a period of only 2 years of $82.000.000. certainly such a development is  being made at the expense of our national security. surely a substantial savings in the field of national security should point the way to other agencies which. without exception. increased their estimate in 1950 over 1949 and increased them again in 1951 over 1950. in short. while the national defense has succeeded in reducing its program by $82.000.000 in this 2year period. the other agencies have increased their estimates by $105.000.000 why is this. i think the answer is to be found in the second report of the secretary of defense. let me quote briefly from that report. in the secretarys report you will find these two paragraphs at page 16: in the field of science. unification is working well. the research and development board. with the aid and advice of the nations top civilian and military technical specialists. is coordinating some 13.000 specific research and development projects of the armed forces. involving an expenditure of about a half billion dollars a year. by eliminating undesirable duplication. by requiring full use of existing facilities. and by sponsoring the exchange of information on pertinent research and development. both inside and outside the government. the board has been able to bring about savings in some areas and to shift funds made available thereby to neglected or to more important fields. satisfactory progress is being made in the formulation of a complete and integrated program of military research and development to provide instruments of warfare essential to our security within a budget that can be supported by the ecoy of this country. recognizing the need for technical and operational evaluation of weapons on an interservice basis. the joint chiefs of staff and the research and development board. with the concurrence of the secretary of defense. established the weapons systems evaluation group early this year to provide rigorous. unprejudiced. and independent analyses of present and future weapons systems under probable future combat conditions. these analyses are being made by the ablest professional minds. military and civilian. employing the most advanced analytical methods that can be brought to bear. the entire chapter iv. entitled "scientific research and development." is worthy of careful reading and again i recommend it highly as valuable evidence for all of us to consider. for my purposes. i would like to quote brief excerpts answering the question. why military research and development is necessary: if there is any one military policy on which the congress and the public seem to be unanimous. over and beyond the determination to be strong in this period of international uncertainty. it is determination to have superior military equipment and to base war strategy on its use. the phrases "magi line complex" and "preparing to fight the next war with weapons of the last war" are familiar expressions of our concern lest we take the easy but dangerous course of reliance on the status quo in a world of accelerating progress in techogy. it was a determination to take full advantage of every possible techogical superiority that led the congress to establish the research and development board as part of the national defense structure. it is the job of this board to insure that the desired superiority is achieved. aircraft that can travel faster than sound. guided missiles with increasing ranges and greater accuracy. and submarines that can "breathe" under water for indefinite periods of time are a few of the potential weapons on which material progress has been made since the close of world war ii. it is essential to the security of the united states that its defense be planned in terms of significant new techogical advances. already many of the remarkable weapons of world war ii are obsolete or obsolescent. and planning must be done  only in terms of what exists today but in terms of those developments. the early realization of which may profoundly influence the nature of future conflicts. aher element which plays a substantial part in research and development planning is the possibility of unconventional warfare. this term is applied to such things as biological warfare. radiological warfare. and chemical warfare in new and insidious forms. it also includes psychological warfare which affords a potential enemy many techniques for the destruction of morale and for undermining the capacity of selfdefense. except for the psychological aspects. unconventional warfare did  figure in world war ii. because it exists as a potential threat. however. full consideration must be given to adequate defenses and countermeasures. the army and the navy have vigorous research and development programs which have grown up over a period of years. when the air force was constituted as a separate branch of the armed services. its research and development efforts represented a third important program. the size. diversity. and complexity of the fields covered by these programs make sound planning increasingly important. it is the function of the research and development board to provide a complete and integrated plan of military research and development and to assign responsibility for carrying out its various parts to the respective military departments. the board must decide such ouestions as what tlon of the research and development dollar should go into studies in the defensive aspects of biological warfare. into basic research in the physical sciences. into the development of guided missiles. and so on through the whole list of weapons. equipment. techniques. and devices. the coordinating activities of the research and development board enable each department to become aware of what the other departments are doing in research and development. unnecessary duplication is thereby located and eliminated or prevented. more difficult. but probably of greater significance. is the boards continuing responsibility to shift emphasis and funds away from programs of lesser military promise and into those of greater value. the existence of such a coordinating agency makes it possible to stretch the research and development dollar and to cut costs. since the close of world war ii military expenditures for research and development have averaged over a half billion dollars per year. although this is but a small percentage of the average total military budget. it is a large figure in comparison to the much smaller sums spent on military research and development before the warin comparison. say. to the $13.000.000 obligated for military research and development in 1939. the year world war ii began. the amount of money currently being spent for research and development is only slightly less than the entire military appropriation for 1924. and is almost 50 percent as much as the total military appropriation as late as 1937. every citizen is naturally interested in three questions: (1) why has it become necessary to spend large sums for research and development. (2) what are these funds buying. and (3) does the united states have the best military research and development program in the world today. * * * * * basic research represents the broad base of theoretical kledge and new ideas from which all applications. military and otherwise. must be drawn. if basic research already flourished independently in our universities and industrial organizations. the need for government sponsorship in this area would  exist. or at least it would  be required on the present scale. in the past the united states has drawn heavily upon the basic research of europe for ideas. while it excelled in practical applications and engineering. although there is a growing body of fundamental science in the united states today. the reservoir is  yet great egh to compensate for the drains made upon it and for the destruction of european science by the war. the military departments are therefore sponsoring limited programs in fundamental science until such time as the united states has caught up in this area. they are also supporting the proposed legislation for a national science foundation. let me repeat that: "they are also supporting the proposed legislation for a national science foundation." this bill was reported june 14. 1949. the report of secretary of defense was filed december 30. 1949.  to return to that report: the country is also interested in the early rehabilitation of european science as part of the storehouse of general kledge. then there is this significant section entitled "savings through coordination." which continues: by eliminating undesirable duplication. by requiring full use of existing facilities. and by sponsoring the active crossexchange of information on pertinent research and development both in and outside the government. the research and development board has been able to bring .about savings in some areas and to shift funds made available thereby to neglected or to more important areas of research and development.  all savings are reflected in the ledgers. however. because much coordination takes place in the research and development board. when members of the military departments get together around committee or panel tables. for example. in the field of electron tubes a proposal for military work on a metal envelope cathode ray tube was  activated. since such a tube was found to be already under development by aher agency. formally effected coordination is illustrated by recent board action on the recommendation of the committee on guided missiles. requesting that three existing projects be terminated and two others combined into one. through this action an estimated $6.000.000 in planned obligations for the fiscal year 1950 was made available for allocation to other guided missiles projects of high priority. the research and development board also sponsors standardization wherever possible to make for greater ecoy and efficiency. an example in the research and development field proper was the introduction of standards for a uniform system of telemetering for the flight testing of guided missiles at the several test ranges. this has reduced the vast number of different parts of equipments formerly in use by the services. old telemetering equipment is being replaced by the new standard equipment on a maintenance basis. to render assistance to the munitions board. the research and development board has established a policy which urges the departments to give attention throughout the development of each project to the creation of simple. easily produced designs. ease of fabrication. assembly. inspection. and maintenance and promotion of interchangeability wherever possible are important considerations. the departments must assure the minimum use of strategic and critical materials. the minimum number and diversity of parts. and the maximum use of standard components and accessories. in its own operations. the research and development board saves funds and avoids duplication of effort by utilizing wherever possible the established groups of other agencies to make necessary studies and investigations. the committee on medical sciences. for example. is utilizing several of the medical committees and panels of the national research council as panels of its own committee. the problem. therefore. becomes one of obtaining the maximum benefit from every research and development dollar. public opinion demands that american defenses be modern and adequate to render the country secure against attack. when the united states citizen faces his responsibilities as a taxpayer he must bear in mind that the development cost of a modern large bomber through the prototype stage. to cite but one example. may well exceed $50.000.000. including the necessary special equipment that must go with it. similarly. the development cost of a jet fighter through the prototype stage is likely to be from $5.000.000 to $10.000.000. the construction of prototypes is the stage in the research and development process where costs run highest. research must. therefore. be well planned and reeults meticulously checked through all the earlier stages in order that costly errors may be avoided in the prototype phase. let me turn to still aher phase of this which i think is important.
. we have had other experiences with totalitarian ideologies in the other american republics. and we are probably  yet through with those either. relentless investigation. diplomatic action and the white light of publicity did much to lessen the threat to our security of nazi and fascist penetration in the other american republicsa penetration powerful in ecoic. social and political circles. though  as strong in numbers. but the same technique does  suit every ism  is the issue always timed the same. the activities in the americas of the indiges communist parties may  constitute an imminent threat to our security.  do i believe that this movement can be dealt with by force or repression. i believe rather that communists in this hemisphere represent in the american republics a new influence to be taken seriously as resulting from low standards of living and semifeudal ecoies in many countries. which seem hardly credible when found so close to our own borders by thousands of our citizens who work in or visit the other american republics. for example. the life expectancy of the average citizen of the united states is 65 years. the life expectancy of the average mexican is 34. and of the average brazilian 43 years. the reasons for this are  organic but are found in underrishment. bad housing. bad sanitation. and inadequate medical care. in brazil. for example. malaria is a major disease occurring in millions of cases and causing 35 percent of the total deaths every year. whereas in the united states deaths from malaria are very rare and the disease is well under control. in the united states we have 1 doctor for every 700 inhabitants and in brazil they have 1 for every 2.000. then. too. although 3 hospital beds per 1.000 population is considered an absolute minimum. we find in a country like colombia exactly onehalf of that. infant mortality shows the same pattern. in the united states infant mortality averages 40 per 1.000 live births. in brazil the comparable figure is almost five times as great185. and in colombia it is 154. that these problems essentially have an ecoic base is clear when we consider the per capita incomes in the other american republics as compared with our own. according to the latest figures. our own per capita income has climbed to approximately $1.150 for every man. woman. and child in the united states. this compares with a per capita income in brazil. colombia. mexico. peru. and practically every other central and south american country. except uruguay and argentina. of under $100 per person. or less than onetenth the united states figure. we are at present engaged in the consideration of a vast program for ecoic and other aid to greece and turkey designed to fortify the national integrity of these countries and to prevent their collapse as independent and democratic states. we k that this may well be the forerunner of obligations of the same general character to be undertaken in other parts of the middle east. europe. and in asia. and possibly in africa. if the areas of vital interest to us include thessaly and the black sea. they certainly include the caribbean. the south atlantic and the pacific oceans. and yet we countenance right here in our own back yard the continued existence of ecoic conditions which lend strength and support to a system of society we consider to be antithetical in every respect to our ownwe seem to be quite unmindful of the fact that the communist ideology is gaining.  losing. ground throughout the other american republics. here more clearly than anywhere else in the world the answer is dictated by basic facts we k so welllow standards of living. leading to despair. leading to the refuge of despair which is communism. linked closely with insufficient income in producing low standards of living is the illiteracy of large masses of the population of the other american republics. here. too. there are emous advances to be made. compared with a literacy of 96 percent of the population in the united states. literacy in most of the other american republics averages about 50 percent of the population. rising to a high of 8590 percent in argentina and falling to lows in the 30percent bracket in other countries. during the recent war a great effort was made by united states agencies. in full cooperation with and on the invitation of most of the other american republics. for the improvement of their standards of living. standards of education. and standards of health. it is estimated that the united states spent $76.000.000 on these programs from 1942 to 1946. for example. $16.000.000 were spent by the united states in cooperative health and sanitation programs alone. and millions of citizens of the other american republics were benefited in this way. large contributions were made by the other american republics toward this program. in bolivia contributions were about equal between the united states and bolivian govern"ments. mexico contributed 40 percent of the total cost. and in every case the government benefited made substantial contributions. in brazil alone 370 health centers were established. but these programs are gradually terminatingmost of them in 1948and what shall succeed them. in most cases it is doubtful that the health and sanitation programs can be carried on with local resources and local technical personnel. practically every participating government invites the united states to continue its interest and the program on a longterm basis and until higher standards are achieved and given permanence. aher example is the interamerican highway.  well along but still needing $65.000.000 and 4 years work to become a complete connecting link. this does  mean that we should go on forever supporting such operations. but it does mean that we should go on until they can or reasonably should be able to stand on their own feet. in the field of education the same is true. our educational missions in peru. chile. haiti. costa rica. honduras. brazil. and other countries will be pulling out in about 1948. unless they are extended. they have had emous effect in raising the level of education. vocational training. and malschool training. and in supplying competent instruction through teachertraining programs in all of these countries. it is very clear that practically everywhere the job is just about started even well startedas in most cases the program has been for 2 or 3 years while what is needed is a 10yeat program. the governments concerned want us to go on. yet. the war being over. they are afraid that our interest in them will lag. just as it did after world war i. and that we will  think of them in terms of mutual helpfulness again until aher crisis comes upon us. i wish to make it clear at this point that the other american republics have  been the recipients of favors from. us in respect to these programs but have been full partners. cooperating in every way. including their money contributions. together we have recognized the fact that improvement of the health. sanitation. education. and living standards of all americans in the western hemisphere is of equal importance to the security and wellbeing of every country in the hemisphere. to those who say that these programs take large sums of money. let it be made clear at once that world war ii cost us $100.000.000 per year. and that when the attack came at pearl harbor it was to the other american republics we looked firsttheir friendship. their loyalty to the common cause assured us at once that we were safe in our own homes. from that point on we could mobilize our resources freely and go on to win. cpntinuance cf our program in the other american republics on the basis of full -3360 and continuing cooperation with them sh.ould  cost us more than about a hundred million dollars a yearonefourth of the greekturkish assistance program for 15 months. the results of our own security. in the successful demonstration in this hemisphere that our form of society is the best on earth and in the general happiness of.living with neighbors who also are healthy and prosperous and well educated. will repay any such investment many times overand this is quite apart from the very tangible benefits in trade which would flow from a prosperous. literate. and healthy latin america. few of us recognize the size of the markets to the south of us and what they mean to us in terms of trade. in a mal year like 1939. 9.6 percent of our total exports. equaling $329.127.000. and 13.7 percent of our total imports. totaling $317.267.000. were with the other american republics. while in the first 8 months of 1946 we shipped $94.000.000 of goods to argentina alone. for their development the other american republics need our agricultural and industrial machinery. power. transportation. and commercial equipment. chemicals. paper products. and many other items. we. in turn. need their raw materials. mineral and oil resources. there is. too. the opportunity for an emous trade among the other american republics. such as that  growing between brazil and her neighbors in cotton textiles. progress in industrialization within the other american republics will materially raise their standards of living and per capita income. it will go far toward creating a middle class practically existent in the other american republicsand yet in every democratic country the bulwark of democracy and individual freedom. money alone will  do our job in the americas. but technical helpengineers. doctors. dentists. sanitation experts. metallurgists. factory managers. business supervisors. and a host of other specialistsare necessary. these men should be trained especially for the purpose of working in the other american republics and should consider themselves as soldiers of democracy. and  just as workingmen. for this purpose a great training organization in the united states is essential. the possibility of having citizens of the other american republics study in the united states and learn our techniques for use in their own countries has  begun to be adequately utilized.  have cultural and educational exchanges taken place on nearly the scale essential to the common destiny of the americas. much oratory has been lavished and much discussion stimulated by the failure so far to undertake the final implementation of the act of chapultepec of february 1945 in negotiating a hemisphere defense treaty among the american republics. such a treaty is essential to the peace and security of the western hemisphere and fits into the structure of the united nations charter. which was designed to accommodate it. it should be effectuated as soon as possible. an essential element. however. in the negotiation of such a treaty lies in the need for joining together american nations whose internal ecoies and wellbeing is more nearly approaching comparability than is the case  among the other american republics and the united states. to enter into such a treaty in any other context would be to endeavor to build upon sand a concrete structure of hemispheric security. and possibly to contribute within each of the other american republics to a continuance of the ecoic status quo. the final negotiation of the hemisphere defense treaty designed at chapultepec should go hand in hand with an interamerican conference for ecoic and cultural cooperation and the reorientation of the united states interamerican program of world war ii to the peacetime needs of the other american republics. then we would have need to fear totalitarian ideologies in the western hemisphere and we could march together with our brothers of the other american republics toward our common destiny of peace culture and prosperity.
where there are cases of violence by pupils against teachers. which occur in new york on occasion. it is perfectly propermore so and less so than it was proper for the army to be called out to see that the law of the united states was enforced in little rock. or when marshals had to be sworn in to keep people from being killed in montgomery. ala. in short. where there are problems of order. the law must be enforced. our job is to see to it that we have the foresight. in our policy and laws. to insure that such disorder is minimized. and eliminated so far as possible.
. we are being told that for the health and security of our democracy. many of these things should be secret. indeed. the supposition is that we who pry. into. this matter are busybodies and that we would be better off as a nation if we did  pry into these mattersthe matter of the spanish bases or the war in laos which is an undeclared war. do we  need the support of the people. we are adult egh so that we will make an agreement even with franco if we think it is in the interest of our nation. we do  need any government to tell us about it or to spare us the trouble because they do  think we will consider the matter or are  interested egh or sophisticated egh to do it i ask the senator whether he does  think there should be an appeal to the people of the country so that congress and the people of the united states. as a result. will be cut in on the action. and. of course. if we do  think something should be done. it will  be done.
the only difference. it strikes me. between us and the administration is the question of whether or  there is any hope in further negotiations. if there is hope in further negotiations. then this amendment is precisely the prescription the president would be espousing. this is a very nice difference. and i think we have a right to sustain that difference herethose who feel that . balancing the hope of negotiations against the damage to the national social fabric which continues to be rigged by the war in vietnam. we decide that the balance is outweighed and the chances for negotiations are  so lessened in what they might produce that those chances are so far outweighed by the continuing rupture of the social fabric of this country that we must say. "withdraw. and do hing else but withdraw." it is simply a question of whether we should continue. because we have some hope for negotiations or that we are hurting so badly that we must vote to get out. and i am for getting out.
. as the ing the past few weeks will bear out. it has been a frequent practice of the opponents of the civil rights bill to latch on to every news item which they believe reflects on new york city. indeed. if there has been any sneering in this chamber. it has been directed at new york citywhich. incidentally. has never been afraid to ackledge its problems and generally has faced up to them. for example. one item which has turned up in this civil rights debate has to do with a shocking incident which occurred in kew gardens. in queens: county. n.y.. on the night of march 13. a young woman was stabbed to death. and it developed that 38 of her neighbors had seen her stabbed or heard her cries and  one of them called the police or tried to save her life. i have joined those who have  only deplored this apathy. but called it shocking. and requiring our searching attention. the incident. of course. has relevance to the civil rights debate. but nevertheless. it has been cited in the debate at least twice. possibly in an effort to disparage new york city. or to perhaps indicate that only in a big city like new york could such a thing happen. in view of this. i would like to commend to my colleagues a penetrating article by a. m. rosenthal. metropolitan editor of the new york times. in last sundays new york times magazine. this article. "study of the sickness called apathy." deplores the "metropolitan masochism" and "sadistic search for a target" which followed the publication of that story. it makes the point that there are various forms of apathy. that some forms of apathy exist in villages and towns and other forms of apathy exist in great cities. and mr. rosenthal pointedly adds: the selfprotective shells in which we live. are determined  only by the difference between big cities and small. they are determined by ecoics and social class. by caste and by color. and by religion and by politics. the apathy displayed by the incident in kew gardens. tragically deplorable as it was. can be oversimplified and written off as some big city problem. apathy is a sickness which afflicts many aspects of our society in many ways. i am reminded. for example. of a moving book. entitled "a time to speak." just published in the past 2 weeks. it was written by charles morgan. jr.. a courageous birmingham. ala.. lawyer and it concerns the church bombing which killed four negro sunday schoolchildren. mr. morgan writes that this bombing was "a storm warning of the death in life that awaits any community where the good people remain silent in the face of hatred. lawlessness. intolerance. and bigotry." in short. the question of apathy is a complex subject. it is reflected in various ways in th and south. and in both large and small towns. i urge my colleagues to read this searching article by a. m. rosenthal in the new york times sunday magazine of may 3. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record at this point.
we have a big problem in new york with fort drum. where some 80.000 army active and reserves train each year. i have been there and the facilities are terribly run down. the house has provided an estimated $8.4 million to deal primarily with new medical and barracks facilities. the senate has omitted it from the bill. i wrote to senator stennis under date of may 10 and asked if he would be kind egh to look into the matter. but it has been omitted. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point the letter to which i referred. dated may 10. 1976. addressed to the hoable john c. stennis. chairman. senate armed services committee. and included therein are the attachments which are referred to in the letter.
