 truman in 1945 as assistant secretary of state for public affairs. a post he held for 2 years. bill organized the voice of america broadcasts. and worked to establish unesco. the united national educational. scientific. and cultural organization. during the johnson administration. he served as chief u.s. member of the unesco executive board. with the rank of ambassador. in 1949. bill benton was appointed by gover chester bowles of connecticut to a seat in the senate. and later won election in his own right to the remainder of former senator raymond e. baldwins unexpired term. his 3year record in the senate was marked by compassionate and competent representation of connecticut and the nation. and was highlighted by opposition to the anticommunist crusades of the former senator from wisconsin. joseph mccarthy. much of the fortune and success amassed by bill benton accrued to the benefit of his fellow man. his interest in american art enriched collections at the university of connecticut. and his business acumen helped sustain the university of chicago. a contractual beneficial of the encyclopaedia britannica empire. the william benton foundation continues today its philanthropic purpose. the life of this able american deserves more than mere mention in these pages. i miss my good friend and former senator. bill benton. and commend his accomplishments and ideals to the attention of all americans.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the recoro articles written by: edmund stillman. new york times magazine. june 18. 1967. max frankel. new york times magazine. april 30. 1967. ward just. washington post. june 4. 1967. and edwin 0. relschauer. former ambassador to japan. look magazine. april 4. 1967. in this connection. mr. reischauer testified on january 30 of this year before the senate foreign relations committee further developing his ideas in regard to u.s. policy in asia. including the situation in vietnam. i also ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a report in the washington post. may 20. 1967. of a speech by barbara ward before the womens national democratic club. and an article by david halberstam. new york times book review. april 1967.
the second article focuses on the recent negotiations on a stabilization plan between an imf team and the government of jamaica. in describing the relationship between the stabilization program which the government of jamaica finally adopted and the role of the imf. the author of the series. art pine. asked and answered the following question. and i quote "was the imf. then. too tough on jamaica. by a wide majority both government officials and privatesector spokesmen insist it was . "the negotiations were tough. but the im people werent unfair." says richard fletcher. the  2 man at jamaicas embattled finance ministry. "there was only one technical matter on which we disagreed. for the rest. we made the key decisions ourselves." furthermore. he quotes a leading jamaican as saying. the fact is that jamaica for too long has delayed the actions needed to restore financial stability. so . you might say. the chickens are coming home to roost. . in sum. the facility will help to assure a more stable and smoothly functioning international monentary system and a sound world ecoy. the united states is heavily dependent on such a world ecoy. and the facility represents a major element of our program to achieve it.
