. it was emphasized during the hearings before the committee on foreign affairs that a largescale movement of grain to india had to be gotten under way in april to deal effectively with the famine situation in india and that this was also required by transportation problems in the united states and overseas transportation. this urgency continues and requires the most expeditious possible action on the part of the congress. the question of governmental stability in india with which relief of the famine situation is directly tied up also continues to have the highest priority for american foreign policy. though the bill reported out by the committee on foreign affairs has  come to the floor for consideration due to the fact that the question of granting a rule is still undecided in the rules committee the issue remains extremely pressing and in view of the interest in it throughout the country members will undoubtedly be called on to answer questions respecting it when they are at home during the recess. accordingly. i am appending the answers to a number of questions which have been raised in the course of comnmittee consideration and speeches in the house and the attention of members is urgently invited to these answers. they are: first. a statement of the government of india repudiating the statements of dr. bharatan kumarappa on the position of india in the struggle between democracy and communism. second. the statement of prime minister nehru to the parliament of india with respect to the message sent to the congress of the united states by 43 members of the parliament showing that this was an expression of embarrassment by the government of india and riot a question of the right of the members of parliament to speak. third. a factual memorandum from the embassy of india with respect to provisions for feeding the indigent in india. and fourth. a similar factual memorandum with respect to dispositions regarding the wealth of the indian princes.
. the illegal flow of drugs from foreign countries compounds the serious burgeoning problem of narcotics addiction in our country. recent investigations to trace this traffic. have disclosed that about 80 percent of the illicit heroin entering the united states traces its origin to opiates grown in turkey clandestinely manufactured in france. i have been deeply concerned about our need to effectively control the unlawful flow of narcotics into the united states and have written to mr. john e. ingersoll. director of the u.s. bureau of narcotics. in order to determine what action has been taken by our government to suppress this illicit traffic in narcotics from turkey. mr. ingersoll has advised me that an agreement has been reached with the government of turkey which provides for a phased reduction in the number of provinces currently growing opium. moreover. the agency for international development initiated a $3 million loan project designed to provide turkey with scientific equipment and expertise for crop substitution and agricultural techniques. also. funds have been allotted to strengthen and increase law enforcement by the turkish government for the prevention of illicit opium sales. the director is confident in the sincerity of the turkish governments intentions in this area. and by the propitious results of the loan program so far. he expresses the belief that opium production in turkey will end entirely at least by the fall of 1972. the information hurein illustrates important governmental action on the matter of the availability of narcotics. as well as a peaceful selfhelp relationship between the united states and turkey.
