. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on housing and transportation of the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on wednesday. april 25. 2001. to conduct a hearing on "huds program. budget and management priorities for fy 2002."
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on housing and transportation of the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on wednesday. april 25. 2001. to conduct a hearing on "huds program. budget and management priorities for fy 2002."
i would say that they had made very great steps toward setting up the proper accounts by the time we got in there. they had started from scratch. "of course. it took some time for them to survey what was wrong and to decide on the steps that were necessary to correct the situation. and then to educate their whole staff as to how to put those steps into effect. "i have the feeling  that their current accounting is in very good shape. it is this backlog of old errors and unidentified entries and matters of that nature that is causing trouble. "they are making great strides in that matter . they have what they call the backlog section which is engaged in that. and in some cases they have had to go back to the inception of the organization and rewrite the books in order to find out what was going on." the record is abundantly clear that1. the inadequacies in the accounting system for the fiscal year 1945 and prior fiscal years were disclosed in the course of the supervision exercised by this office over the constituent units. 2. upon such disclosure. this office. in conjunction with the fpha. promptly took adequate steps to correct these inadequacies. 3. the staff personnel of the fpha selected for this purpose are extremely capable and are so regarded by the general accounting office. 4. the general accounting office regards the steps which had been taken to correct the situation as the logical steps that should have been taken. 5. good progress in correcting the inadequacies had already been made by the fpha when the general accounting office made its initial survey of the accounting system. and 6. the current accounting system of the fpha is in very good shape. and there remains only the backlog of old errors which can  cause any difficulties. in connection with the latter item. i also desire to call attention to the fact that the general accounting office has indicated that excellent progress is  being made in clearing up this old backlog and bringing it forward on a proper basis. and that for this purpose there has been included in the administrative expense budget for the federal public housing authority for 1948 a special fund of $175.0c0. i realize. of course. that the representatives of some of the groups who have opposed reorganization plan  3 have sought to confuse this matter by reference to this report of the comptroller general of the united states. an example of the type of distortion given to this report is found at page 39 of printed senate hearings on the plan where the representative of the national association of real estate boards testifies that it shows that a single administrator. as proposed by the plan. "has  on the basis of actual operations provided for efficiency and ecoy." i realize also that a great many statements have been made about the socalled "lee report" of an investigation of the activities of the federal public housing authority. this is also referred to in the testimony of the representative of the national association of real estate boards at page 40 of the printed senate hearings on the plan. as i indicated in recent testimony before the committee on banking and currency. although both the fpha commissioner and i have on several occasions requested that a copy of this report be made available to us so that we might take any action which might be warranteddepending on the actual factscopy has ever been furnished. as indicated by the fpha commissioner in recent testimony before the committee on banking and currency. some of the allegations. presumably contained in the socalled lee report. were brought up and answered in the course or the house appropriations committee hearings on h. r. 3756. aside from statements contained in a press release of the committee which is answered at pages 110 to 116 of the printed senate hearings on the plan. this represents the only information available to us as to the substance of the socalled lee report. sincerely yours.
then is it the understanding of the able senator from wyoming. that the housing expediter must budget his own activities. matter how he may do so. that he will be given as much latitude as he may desire. but that nevertheless he must budget- his activities within the $17.500.000. and he can contem-. plate receiving any funds in addition to that amount.
the senator from new york would like to answer the senator from wyoming. first the senator from new york would like to point out that the very point the able senator from wyoming has emphasized in this particular instance was covered very thoroughly last friday aftern in the chamber. the senator from new york most definitely gathered that the congress. in way. shape. or manner. can indicate to the housing expediter that he can count on the congress for one penny if he exceeds his appropriation during the coming fiscal year. he can ask for any amount he desires. that is always possible. and is quite customary. as a matter of fact. among administrative agencies. but he can count on it. furthermore. because of the colloquy which was entered into between the distinguished senator from wyoming and the distinguished senator from california it was very clearly shown on the floor that he would  only  be expected to come back to congress with any such request. but that. absolutely. he could  count. in any way. shape. or manner on congress doing anything in line with meeting such a request.
 has set as a goal the construction of 6 million new housing units for low- and moderateincome families in the next 10 years. if we are to meet this objective. there must be a deep commitment on the part of government. federal. state and local. as well as the wholehearted support of private industry .... i can overestimate the importance of the rent supplement program. and the importance of its adequate funding during fiscal 1969. of all our programs it is the one that has the solid support of almost every facet of industry. including. of course. the private sector. i hope the congress and the nation will meet their responsibilities and turn down this amendment.
. i rise to support this bill. although with grave reservations. because i believe we need a housing bill this year and because i do  want to block that possibility. twentyfive years ago. congress passed the housing act of 1949. and made a commitment to "a decent home and suitable living environment for every american family." this bill. unfortunately. does little to carry out that commitment. hopefully the conference with the senate version will significantly improve it. i have grave reservations over much of this bill. i simply can believe that abolishing model cities and urban renewal programs. refusing any new contract authority for sections 235 and 236 programs. or setting a regressive new minimum rent requirement while the presently existing maximum rent ceiling is repealed. can really help the poor or nearpoor tenant in search of a roof over his head. i do  endorse the concept of special revenue sharing. and make mistake about it. that is what this bill is all about. i supported general revenue sharing. i believe that state and local governments are in a tight financial squeeze. but blocs grants for housing. to be allocated on a local whim subject to the vehement pressures of communities which often do  want new residents. will do little to solve the critical housing shortage or to provide "a decent home and suitable living environment for every american family." finally. i am disappointed that the replacement of the block grant approach is  even fully protected by a strong. holdharmless provision. cities in the district i represent. in westchester county. n.y.. will be sharply and often destructively affected. yonkers. for instance. will experience a cut in its annual funding from $5.6 million to $2.6 millior in fiscal year 1980. white plains will be cut from its present level of $3.7 million to a mere half a million dollars in fiscal year 1980. mount ver will be cut from its present $2.5 million to $1.1 million in fiscal year 1980. i am hopeful that the conference will improve the holdharmless and save cities such as these. i vote for this bill because i am hopeful that our conferees will negotiate with those of the senate to write a fair and forward looking bill which truly deals with the housing crisis we face.
. i must say this amendment comes with some regret. at least i see it that way. this is an amendment that we adopted in the finance committee in which we pushed up tho time for depreciation from 15 to 20 years. the real estate people made out very. very wellthere is question about thatin this legislation that we adopted in 1981. the depreciation period is dropped from 40 years. in some instances 30 years. down to 15 and  we just eased them up to 20 with considerable added revenue. . they are going to make up the revenue. as i understand the explanation. by making some changes in the historic rehabilitation credit. they also reduced the credit on the rehabilitation of older buildings. . i do also understand that this is acceptable to the historic preservation people. that there does  seem to be too much objection to this. is there any information the chairman has on that. it seems to me that one of the great things we have done for our inner cities is to encourage the rehabilitatlon of these buildings by virtue of the tax credits that we have given and  they are the ones that are going to pay for this.
. as i understand it. the historic preservationists are  upset over this. if there were some revenue there. we could have picked up that in addition. if there is anybody who has made out well in this congress in the last 2 years. it has been the real estate lobby.  we are giving them a little something more. and i have trouble with that.
. in the finance committee. we had long discussions on this matter. and the objective of the exercise was to prevent what we call churning. that is the constant turning over of the tax shelters and syndications and everything like that. so when we moved it upward. when we extended the depreciations period from 15 to 20 years. the real estate lobby objected. of course they did. they object to everything. if they had their way. we would have it down to 10 years. i am amazed they did  have the gall to propose it. instead. when we were discussing backing down from the 20 years. there was discussion of some recapture provisions. what happens to those in this settlement. i ask the chairman what happened to the recapture that we were going to get through if they backed down.
the manager of the bill is misunderstanding the approach i am seeking. i am  seeking to reexamine benefits that currently exist for the elderly. what i am seeking is to have some hearings in the future on imaginative ways that we might care for this very substantial group of our population which is increasing and  restrict it to this tiny little segment that was taken care of when the other great segment was left out in these benefits. i am  out to reexamine what was done in the past. or whether $125.000 on the sale of a home is good or bad or indifferent or should be increased. the chairman misunderstood me. i am  critical of anything that has taken place in the committee in the past. realizing we are chockfull through october i -suspect with this tax reform. i am seeking from the chairman of the committee some commitment or suggestionhowever we want to label itthat when we get a breathing spell we can have some hearings. and get some people in to think of imaginative ways we can handle housing for the elderly other than the existing methods.
. i must say this amendment comes with some regret. at least i see it that way. this is an amendment that we adopted in the finance committee in which we pushed up tho time for depreciation from 15 to 20 years. the real estate people made out very. very wellthere is question about thatin this legislation that we adopted in 1981. the depreciation period is dropped from 40 years. in some instances 30 years. down to 15 and  we just eased them up to 20 with considerable added revenue. . they are going to make up the revenue. as i understand the explanation. by making some changes in the historic rehabilitation credit. they also reduced the credit on the rehabilitation of older buildings. . i do also understand that this is acceptable to the historic preservation people. that there does  seem to be too much objection to this. is there any information the chairman has on that. it seems to me that one of the great things we have done for our inner cities is to encourage the rehabilitatlon of these buildings by virtue of the tax credits that we have given and  they are the ones that are going to pay for this.
. as i understand it. the historic preservationists are  upset over this. if there were some revenue there. we could have picked up that in addition. if there is anybody who has made out well in this congress in the last 2 years. it has been the real estate lobby.  we are giving them a little something more. and i have trouble with that.
. in the finance committee. we had long discussions on this matter. and the objective of the exercise was to prevent what we call churning. that is the constant turning over of the tax shelters and syndications and everything like that. so when we moved it upward. when we extended the depreciations period from 15 to 20 years. the real estate lobby objected. of course they did. they object to everything. if they had their way. we would have it down to 10 years. i am amazed they did  have the gall to propose it. instead. when we were discussing backing down from the 20 years. there was discussion of some recapture provisions. what happens to those in this settlement. i ask the chairman what happened to the recapture that we were going to get through if they backed down.
the manager of the bill is misunderstanding the approach i am seeking. i am  seeking to reexamine benefits that currently exist for the elderly. what i am seeking is to have some hearings in the future on imaginative ways that we might care for this very substantial group of our population which is increasing and  restrict it to this tiny little segment that was taken care of when the other great segment was left out in these benefits. i am  out to reexamine what was done in the past. or whether $125.000 on the sale of a home is good or bad or indifferent or should be increased. the chairman misunderstood me. i am  critical of anything that has taken place in the committee in the past. realizing we are chockfull through october i -suspect with this tax reform. i am seeking from the chairman of the committee some commitment or suggestionhowever we want to label itthat when we get a breathing spell we can have some hearings. and get some people in to think of imaginative ways we can handle housing for the elderly other than the existing methods.
. i oppose this bill beand freddie mac. this ensures that cause it makes the job of reducing the second mortgages are always available. deficit all the more difficult. there is fannie mae and freddie mac have in- creativity in the approach it has jected greater competition in the takeher than to add some fancy market. they have promoted stand- new programs that do  benefit the ardization. they have set a standard smaller states. we can afford more in the market. although they do less of the same in the 100th congress. than 2.5 percent of the total business. the american people expect better of i believe fannie mae and freddie their leaders. and i intend to stand up mac have demonstrated their impor- for the interest of the taxpayer. along tance in this market. they have done with my friend. the ranking miity exactly what congress intended they member of the budget committee. do. and i am pleased that s. 825 will this bill fails to offer us any guidance allow them to continue doing exactly in setting spending priorities for houswhat they have been doing without ing and community development in additional restrictions or time limita_--the late 1980s. tions. this congress has already identified i hope my colleagues will join me in many new high priority areas. which supporting lower interest rates for will require some new spendingeduhomeowners. and permanent exten- cation. scientific research. catastrophsion of fannie maes and freddie ic health insurance. welfare reform. macs existing second lien authority. and assistance for the homeless. my question is. these are all fine initiaopposing housing and community tives. but how are we going to pay for devlopment act 0f 1981 them. i suggest that we start holding
. today i am joining in the introduction of legislation that is vitally important to all lowincome americans. especially the homeless. this bill is also important to the preservation of historically significant buildings. through the rehabilitation tax credit for certified historic structures. we created this lowincome housing tax credit as part of the tax reform act of 1986 to encourage the construetion and rehabilitation of housing for lowincome americans. the credit has the potential for expanding tile supply of available and affordable housing and. in fact. it is necessary to provide the incentive to develop or reate housing for the poor. the tax credit for rehabilitation expenditures was created in the revenue act of 1978 to provide an incentive for developers to restore and preserve historical structures. this incentive was necessary to avoid the demolition of thousands of historically significant buildings across the country. the studies that have been done on this credit show a dramatic response to our concerns and millions of dollars have been spent on rehabilitating historic building in all part of this nation. unfortunately. the application of the new passive loss rules to both of these credits has significantly reduced the effectiveness of both programs. the limitations on the available credits have caused a sharp decline in the availability of equity capital for lowincome housing and rehabilitation projects. i have received specific information from the rhode island historlcal preservation commission that shows a dramatic decline in the number of rehabilitation projects that have been started since the passive loss rules went into effect. history has shown that investment in lowincome housing and rehabilitation projects is highly dependent on the tax benefits provided by these credits. i would therefore urge my colleagues to give this bill their full support. by mr. bingaman (for himself and mr. borr.n):
. today i am pleased to join in introducing legislation that will help fill the housing needs of lowincome americans. our proposal would improve the structure of the lowincome housing tax credit and make it permanent. we created the lowincome housing tax credit as part of the tax reform act of 1986 to encourage construction and rehabilitation of housing for lowincome americans. the credit provides a valuable tax incentive to profit and forprofit developers to fund the production of lowincome rental housing. but. unless we act to extend the program. the tax credit will expire on extension of the tax credit is one of the chief provisions of the national affordable housing act of 1989. of which i am a cosponsor. the affordable housing act is comprehensive legislation that addresses the overall problem of the dearth of affordable housing. it is an inative approach to this countrys housing crisis and has many excellent provisions. but e is more direct than providing permanent authority for the lowincome housing tax credit. in my state. rhode island housing is using the tax credits to address the critical need for lowincome housing. and the loss of these credits would be a very tough blow to their efforts. rhode island combines equity raised through the sale of tax credits with bond financing and zero interest second mortgages to produce lowincome housing in one of this countrys most expensive housing markets. our state was also one of only nine states to use 100 percent of its 1988 credit allocation. in addition. current demand for the 1989 credit allocation far exceeds available supply. in 1988. four rhode island profit developers received tax credit financing for the production of a total of 261 units of lowincome rental housing. according to the national council of state housing agencies. rhode island allocated a higher percentage of 1988 lowincome housing tax credits to profit housing developers than any state in the country. in 1988. 89.5 percent of rhode islands $1.232.500 tax credit supply went to profit developers. rhode island housing is projecting that tax credits will help produce over 200 additional lowincome housing units within the state during 1989. without this valuable resource. e of these units would be under construction today. providing the necessary housing supply for the poor is a longterm job. for both state housing agencies and developers. the state housing agencies that assist with these programs must invest a considerable amount of time and resources in the development of the necessary administrative capacity to operate the program. in addition. private housing developers must have considerable lead time for the projects. if they are to make the required investments in time and resources. these necessary participants in the program need to k that it will be extended past 1989. our proposal preserves the basic structure of the credit by tightly targeting the program to provide housing for families whose income is less than 60 percent of median income for the state. in addition. a familys monthly rental cost for a unit in a lowincome housing project must  exceed 30 percent of their monthly income. this bill includes one of the main proposals advanced in last years rousemaxwell report and in the recommendations of the recent mitchelldanforth task force on the lowincome housing tax credit: the indefinite extension of the lowincome housing tax credit program. in addition. the mitchelldanforth task force produced a series of recommendations to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the tax credit program. all of these recommendations for improving the operation of the credit have been included in this legislation. one of the most important provisions in the bill for the issue of continued availability of lowincome housing would encourage longer term lowincome use of a project. this is accomplished by establishment of a three step process for conversion of the property to other than lowincome use. experience has shown that investment in lowincome housing is highly dependent on the tax benefits provided by this credit. the lowincome housing tax credit is one of the most direct and efficient ways to subsidize the production of lowcost. affordable housing for lowincome americans. i would urge my colleagues to give this bill their full support.
. i am pleased to join senator danforth and our other colleagues in the introduction of this bill to extend all of the expiring tax provisions for 1 year. these provisions are an important part of our efforts to maintain our competitive position in the world ecoy. encourage education. provide affordable housing. both to renters and for first time homebuyers. and to provide jobs for all americans. the mortgage revenue bonds program. which is scheduled to expire at the end of this year. is an important part of our efforts to reverse the declining home ownership trend that exists in this country. for many americans. the dream of home ownership continues to become more and more difficult to achieve. the nations home ownership rate is at its lowest level in almost two decades. in many states. such as rhode island. where housing is very expensive when compared to median incomes. we must provide tax incentives for programs that assist lowincome americans in acquiring their first home. the mortgage revenue bond cmrbi program authorizes states to issue taxexempt mortgage revenue bonds to provide below marketrate financing for the purchase of homes by citizens in those states. this below marketrate financing allows firsttime homebuyers to purchase a home. when they would  be able to buy a house with any of the conventional financing methods. in 1986. we adopted a state volume cap which placed a limit on the total amount of private purpose taxexempt bonds that could be issued by a state. the mrb program expands the types of privatepurpose bonds that can be issued by a state within its volume cap. i believe it is vitally important that we allow states to utilize the volume cap in the most beneficial way for each states citizens. the mortgage revenue bond program is an important part of the state housing program in my home state and its efforts to address the large affordability gap that exists in rhode island. rhode island housing. the manager of our mrb program. utilizes state resources to provide second mortgages and interest rate buydowns combined with the mrb program to assist citizens of rhode island in the purchase of a home. in the 17 years that rhode island housing and mortgage finance corporation [rihmfc] has existed. over 38.400 families have been able to purchase a home utilizing mortgages from the mrb program totaling almost $1.7 billion. the managers of the mrb program have calculated that approximately 80 percent of the families served by the mrb program would  have been able to qualify for a conventional mortgage. in 1990. rihmfc issued $220 million in mortgage revenue bonds and assisted over 2.000 rhode island families with the purchase of a first home by providing over $188 million in mortgages. the median family income of the participants in the rhode island mrb program last year was $30.267about 83 percent of rhode islands statewide median income for 1990. the average loan amount issued to these participants was $93.431 on an average purchase price of $105.583 compared to a statewide average sales price of $147.780 for all homes sold in rhode island during 1989. the average age of all the recipients who have received mortgages provided by rihmfc is 31.5 years. which indicates that the program is  assisting only young people right out of college. in fact. it is helping young families who may have been in the work force for 10 or more years before they could afford to buy a first home. the experiences of rhode island housing illustrate the vital importance of this program to fulfilling the home ownership dreams of lowincome americans. it is imperative for us to expand the authority of the states to issue taxexempt bonds to provide mortgage revenue bond financing to our young families who would  otherwise be able to fulfill the american dream by purchasing a first home. the extension of this program through the end of 1992 will allow states. such as rhode island. to continue to assist young families who may  otherwise have been able to purchase a home. i am hopeful that we will be able to maintain this program that is such an important part of our overall housing program. the next provision i would like to discuss is the lowincome housing tax credit that was created in the tax reform act of 1986 to encourage construction and rehabilitation of housing for lowincome americans. the effectiveness of this credit in providing lowincome housing has been proven during the 5 years since its enactment and we should  let it expire at the end of this year. the credit provides a valuable tax incentive to both profit and forprofit developers to fund the production and preservation of lowincome rental housing. it is absolutely necessary to encourage the development and reation of housing for the poor. in my state the rihmfc. the state housing agency. has used the tax credit to successfully address the needs of our citizens for safe and affordable housing. the loss of these credits would be devastating to their efforts. by combining the credit with bond financing and zero interest second mortgages. rihfmc has been able to produce and preserve lowincome housing in one of this countrys most expensive housing markets. our state was one of only nine states to use 100 percent of its credit allocation for both 1988 and 1989. during the last 3 years. 25 rhode island developers have received tax credit financing for the production and preservation of a total of 851 units of lowincome rental housing. although only 10 of the 25 developers are profit organizations. they have received 72 percent of the almost $3 million in tax credits that have been allocated by rihfmc. according to the national council of state housing agencies. rhode island allocated a higher percentage of 1988 lowincome housing credits to profit housing developers than any state in the country. providing an adequate supply of safe and affordable housing is a longterm job. for both state housing agencies and developers. state housing agencies that assist with these programs must invest a considerable amount of time and resources in the development of the necessary administrative capacity to operate the program. in addition. private housing developers must have considerable lead time for these undertakings. if they are to make the required investments in time and resources. these necessary participants in the program must k that it will be extended past this year. the nations winning the competitiveness race are those that recognize the importance of advanced techogy. and work to attract companies that will establish research and development facilities within their borders. to achieve greater ecoic competitiveness we must foster.  impede. u.s. investment in research and development. we must expand.  export. our techogical base. the current regulations under section 861 create an incentive for companies to move their r&e offshore. if r&e expenses incurred in the united states must be allocated to foreign sales. u.s. companies may move the r&e offshore to take advantage of beneficial tax treatment in other countries. it has been alleged that reform is some type of tax break. i assure you that is  the case. section 861 is a penalty on domestic r&e. in that it requires u.s. r&e performers to engage in an accounting fiction that leads to double taxation and increases their worldwide tax liability. removal of this penalty simply allows american companies to be treated like their counterparts all over the world. the r&e tax credit is also very important to encourage american companies to increase the level of research they are doing on new techogies and new products. this credit has served as a very effective incentive since it was first enacted in 1981. i am sorry that we may only be able to extend these provisions for 1 year. since america needs a consistent and permanent r&e policy. research projects often take years to complete and require businesses to make commitments of funds years in advance. therefore they need the assurance that a permanent r&e policy would provide. these two provisions are vitally important to the international competitiveness of u.s. companies. an issue that has become one of the top concerns of congress. and rightly so. given the importance of this issue. government policies should be carefully scrutinized to ensure they enhance our ability to compete rather than hinder it. we can let these provisions lapse at this critical time when we should be encouraging new and increased research and development activities in the united states. each of the provisions in this bill are important to the americans who utilize them and rely on them to fulfill their intended purpose. we must extend them this year. we can allow them to expire and expect people to rely on our ability to extend them retroactively next year. i urge my colleagues to join us in cosponsoring this legislation and to support our effort to extend these provisions this year.e
. i would like to say in this legislation. we provide for the extension of the socalled extenders. the mortgage revenue bonds and the r&d tax credit and other measures. lowincome housing provisions. i just touch on those because they are of particular importance to my state. there are other features in this bill that i think are good. i think it is a good bill. there are some down features. i am  interested in all the provisions dealing with the iras. i think we went too far. the back loaded iras socalled. but we had our fight on that and we lost. i hope when this bill comes out of conference. it can be acceptable to the administration in all respects. several senators addressed the chair.
. the senate has expressed its desire to eliminate this tax on three separate occasione. in ember of last year. 92 senators voted in favor of a senseofthesenate resolution supporting repeal of the luxury tax. again early this year. the senate included the repeal of the luxury tax as part of the tax bill passed by the -senate. finally. the senate again passed a resolution supporting the repeal of this tax on september 10. given the overwhelming level of support for repealing this tax. i hope that we can finally do just that. this will be good news for boatbuilders as they get ready for their boat show in annapolis next week. this bill also permanently extends the mortgage revenue bond program. which i have been working toward for several years . last year. i joined with the distinguished senator from michigan (mr. ribglzj to introduce a bill to permanently extend the mortgage revenue bond program. this program has helped thousands of firsttime home buyers acquire a home of their own in rhode island. for many americans. the dream of home ownership continues to become more and more difficult to achieve. the nations home ownership rate is at its lowest level in almost two decades. most of these families will never be able to afford a home if the mortgage revenue bond program is permitted to expire. i am pleased that this bill extends this program permanently. the mortgage revenue bond programs value has been demonstrated time and time again. and i am happy that we finally recognize this fact and have made the program a permanent part of the tax code. the bill also permanently extends the lowincome housing tax credit. this credit encourages the construotion and rehabilitation of housing for lowincome americans. like the mortgage revenue bond program. the effeotiveness of this credit in providing lowincome ho"ing has been proven during the 5 years since its enactment and we should  let it expire. the credit provides a valuable tax incentive to both profit and forprofit developers to fund the production and preservation of lowincome rental housing. it is absolutely necessary to encourage the development and reation of housing for the poor. in my state. the rhode island housing and mortgage finance corporation [rihfmc]. the state housing agency. has used the tax credit to successfully address the needs of our citizens for safe and affordable housing. the loss of these credits would be devastating to their efforts. by combining the credit with bond financing and zero interest second mortgages. rihfmc has been able to produce and preserve lowincome housing in one of this countrys most expensive housing markets. the measure also contains several important provisions relating to the medicare program. first. it repeals a provision enacted in the 1990 budget reconciliation law which eliminated a separate payment for interpretation of ekgs. i opposed enactment of that provision in 1990. and am glad to see it repealed. in addition. the bill provides that new physicians and practitioners should be reimbursed at the same level as other professionals under medicare. in my home state of rhode island. we have had trouble attracting health care providers due to historically low reimbursement rates under medicare. a further reduction in payments for new physicians made it especially difficult to attract recent medical graduates. as well as other new practitioners. the bill also requires the secretary to review and update the medicare geographic practice cost index. i am hopeful that this update will take into consideration the current cost of iiedical practice and will result in increased reimbursement in rhode island and other states which have been reimbursed at lower levels than other comparable practice areas. i am hopeful that these and other reforms will improve the delivery of health care under medicare. i would like to express concern about one provision which reduces reimbursement for payment to kidney dialysis centers for erythropoletin or epo. this drug is provided to persons suffering from end stage renal disease [esrd]. currently. medicare reimburses at a maximum payment of $11 for 1.000 units. this bill reduces that payment to a maximum of 310 per 1.000 units. it is my understanding that these centers pay the manufacturer approximately $10 per 1.000 units. according to the centers. the difference is used to administer the drug. clearly. this payment reduction will have impact on the company that manufactures the drug. but instead will impact the center. i am concerned that the cut will adversely impact patient care. i would also like to express my frustration that we were unable to include in the conference agreement. any of the senate amendments to the medicaid program. there were a number of improvements in the home and communitybased waiver program for those with disabilities. i regret that they were dropped. " with so many provisions. there is bound to be those that any individual senator supports and opposes. that is certainly true for this senator. yet. on the whole it is a bill that does more good than harm. and i urge my colleagues to support it.
. i am pleased to once again join senator rieole in introducing legislation permanently extending the authorization for the mortgage revenue bond program. the dream of home ownership continues to become more and more difficult to achieve for many americans. the nations home ownership rate is at its lowest level in almost two decades. this decline has occurred at a time when members of the baby boom were at the prime homebuying age and during one of the most sustained and vigorous housing recoveries on record. home ownership is an important part of the american dream and i believe we must continue to provide tax incentives for programs that assist lowincome americans in acquiring their first home. we must reverse the declining home ownership trend that has existed in this country since 1980. in many states. such as rhode island. where housing is very expensive when compared to median incomes. we must provide tax incentives for programs that assist lowincome americans in acquiring their first home. the mortgage revenue bond [mrb] program authorizes states to issue taxexempt mortgage revenue bonds to provide below marketrate financing for the purchase of homes by citizens in those states. this below marketrate financing allows firsttime homebuyers to purchase a home. when they would  be able to buy a house with any of the conventional financing methods. in 1986. we adopted a state volume cap which placed a limit on the total amount of private purpose taxexempt bonds that could be issued by a state. the mrb program expands the types of privatepurpose bonds that can be issued by a state within its volume cap. i believe it is vitally important that we allow states to utilize the volume cap in the most beneficial way for each states citizens. the mortgage revenue bond program is an important part of the state housing program in my home state and its efforts to address the large affordability gap that exists in rhode island. rhode island housing. the manager of our mrb program. utilizes state resources to provide second mortgages and interest rate buydowns combined with the mrb program to assist citizens of rhode island in the purchase of a home. since 1917. the rhode island housing and mortgage finance corporation friihmfc] has financed the purchase of more than 40.000 homes utilizing mortgages from the mrb program totaling almost $2.3 billion. the managers of the mrb program have calculated that approximately 80 percent of the families served by the mrb program would  have been able to qualify for a conventional mortgage. in 1992. rihmfc assisted over 2.600 rhode island families with the purchase of a first home. the median family income of the participants in the rhode island mrb program last year was $30.520about 75 percent of rhode islands statewide median income for 1992. the average loan amount issued to these participants was $87.864 on an average purchase price of $98.251 compared to a statewide average sales price of $117.000 for all homes sold in rhode island. the average age of all the recipients who have received mortgages provided by rihmfc is 31.9 years. which indicates that the program is  assisting only young people right out of college. in fact. it is helping young families who may have been in the workforce for 10 or more years before they could afford to buy a first home. the experiences of rhode island housing illustrate the vital importance of this program to fulfilling the homeownership dreams of lowincome americans. it is imperative for us to permanently extend the authority of the states to issue taxexempt bonds to provide mortgage revenue bond financing to our young families who would  otherwise be able to fulfill the american dream by purchasing a first home.. by mr. levin (for himself. mr.
. i wish ta engage in a colloquy with senator domenici. the distinguished chairman of the budget committee. with respect to the rural housing guaranteed loan program. in reviewing the report accompanying the fiscal year 1996 concurrent budget resolution. i e that. the senate budget committee recommends "the reduction or elimination of certain subsidies provided by the federal government for a range of credit programs in the small business administration. the federal housing administration. and the rural housing and community development service." am i correct in understanding this to mean that the budget committee assumes savings from the rural housing and community development services section 502 unsubsidized guaranteed loan program over the next seven years.
there is point in kidding ourselves any longer. i am satisfied that if the democratic party wants to have as its platform a tax cut. period. that is their privilege. what they are  going to have as their platform is a tax cut and great housing programs. and great health programs. and great transportation programs. and great education programs. it will have to be one or the other. and most importantly. it is the same today as it always has been: you get what you pay for. i think i understand the mood of connecticut. and have for the last several years. it is one of retrenchment. one of bitterness over the vietnam war. one of everybody looking out for himself. but the fact is that this nation can move as long as we are mainly motivated by selfinterest. right at the end of last year. we had hearings in my committee. the space committee. and everyone was wondering why one was interested in the space program any longer. "look at all the benefits we are getting from it." they said. as a member of the committee and a great advocate of the space program. i have been saying the same thing. but you can ask america to be adventurous in space and  be adventurous in housing or transportation. we move together. nr we do  move at all in our national programs.
in response to this appeal. secretary lynn responds in the following manner. we are currently studying the implications of section 802 and soon expect to make a decision on whether or  it should be implemented. in a period of extreme budget stringency. we must. of course. view any new program with an extremely critical eye. if we decide to proceed. i will be in touch with you in order to obtain your groups advice on the technical details. the distinguished senator from wisconsin. in calling for the resignation of secretary lynn. labeled hud. the department of " housing. i share the senator from wisconsins concern over huds unwillingness to actively pursue programs designed to provide a decent roof over every americans head. i believe. the congress must speak its will and tell the administration to launch this program. under the procedures of the congressional budget and impoundment control act of 1974. if hud can effectively expend these funds. they can come back to the congress and ask for a deferral. but let the congress decide.  the administration by executive fiat or by action. secretary lynns statement indicates a continued lack of initiative. we do  need further study. the congress has studied this program. we need action. it is a good program. it probably is the best of all the programs in the housing area. to avoid delaying the immediate start of the 802 program as soon as hud completes its preparatory work. i urge the adoption of my amendment which will provide the initial funding that is needed for this program. in conclusion. . when i introduced this in the committee at that time the concern was that we had stalled out on our housing commitments.  we sit here.  only with a lack of housing but in the midst of a recession. as one of the resolutions toward the recessionary aspects of our ecoic problems i would like to see a commitment to housing. to mass transit. to positive programs which  only give a higher quality of life but create more jobs and go ahead and provide a higher income level for all americans. so i would hope that my colleague3 would pass this amendment. i have never heard so much rhetoric from the executive and congressional branch over our ecoic woes and  one bit of sacrifice has been asked for. let us act here. the idea was good. the authorization was adopted. . just because the secretary. who has advocated hing in the way of creative housing programs since he became secretary. wants to study it further is reason for this body to  act. i urge the adoption of this amendment.
. in 1973. the federal government abandoned the goal of providing a decent home for all americans. the section 802 program is designed. in part. to provide these state agencies with the federal assistance that is necessary to tackle the tough jobs in our inner cities. i am deeply disappointed with huds opposition to this program. to me. their position on this matter is indicative of an overall lack of commitment to the housing goals. as set forth by the congress. i hope this appropriation of $35 million will survive a housesenate conference committee. the states have the expertise and the enthusiasm to do the job. let us  allow the apathy in washington to kill this vitally needed program.
 carters urban policy proposals will be passed by congress in the near future. in fact. the national development bank proposal has already run aground in the senate budget committee. to insure a high priority for rural and urban ecoic development during the next 18 months. it is important that section 204 be enacted as a grant program. and as a companion program to section 204. section 202. the business loan and loan guarantee program should be funded at a significantly higher level than presently requested by eda. taken together with edas section 202 program for the private sector. section 204 permits a city to package business loans and loan guarantees with industrial land assembly. land banking. acquisition of industrial sites. including acquisition of abandoned properties with redevelopment potential. real estate development. including redevelopment and rehabilitation of historical buildings for industrial and commercial use. rehabilitation and reation of usable empty factory buildings for industrial and commercial use and many other activities. i believe my proposals are in line with edas goals of packaging and linking the many programs and tools it has to offer a distressed area. i ask for unanimous consent that the text of this bill be printed in the record.
. let me say that some hard choices are going to have to be madehard choices between the political rhetoric of balancing the budget and the human condition that is  being confronted in terms of those who can find a home. can rent a home. can build a home. unfortunately. that choice is going to have to be made. i do  see anything so glorious in an ecoic condition that has one balancing books while human beings find themselves without a roof over their heads. or. in the case of the construction industry. find themselves without a job. is there one among us here that would  go ahead and unbalance the budget to give a person a job. or a roof over his head. or an education. or to take care of those that are ill. i could go down the whole checklist. i have heard hing but balance the budget. balance the budget.  we are confronted with the harsh ecoic realities of this time. which means it will longer be possible to spend large sums of money and buy elections with public moneys come ember. instead. it will require a great deal of political courage to stand up for that which should be a priority to all of usthe condition of the people of this nationin the face of calls for a balanced budget. there is question in my mind that the problem of inflation has  been attacked. it will only be attacked when we develop an energy program. that is the cause of inflation.  an unbalanced budget. but. more importantly. why should the political campaigns be paid from the coinage of the unemployed. of those  housed. of those  getting an education. and so on down the line. i will tell you what the section 235 revision is. it is an attempt to give the impression of something being done in the area of housing without abandoning the balanced budget. however. under these ecoic conditions. we can have both. 80.000 or 100.000 units means hing in this country today. either in terms of those building the houses or those who need them. i have made my choice. i have stated it here. in terms of alleviating the human condition. i am afraid we can balance the budget this year. and anything to the contrary is a charade. i hope the administration will  feel. in any way. that it will get away with having done the job that must be done in the housing area by virtue of what takes place here today on the floor. rather. there are steps that they could have taken 6 months agothe implementation of brookecranston program. i am glad we have updated the brookecranston program and revised the 235 housing program. anything less than implementation of both of these programs. however. is only half a job done. it would  be sufficient  adequate for the country at this time.
the usual budget process engaged in by the executive branch of government and by the legislative branch takes place over the course of a period of a year. what we have before us today in terms of this legislation. in terms of the requests from the white house. was slapped together in a matter of weeks as a response to certain political posturing on this side of the aisle relative to a balanced budget. i find it difficult to believe just on the matter of time that one can accomplish in 2 or 3 weeks what one should carefully have done in the course of a year. second. if indeed the budget is to be balanced. then it seems to me that the burden of spending cuts should fall across all shoulders and  principally across the shoulders of both those who are disadvantaged and those who need our special care if they are to achieve that quality of life associated with the american commitment. what bothers me about these cuts is that their effect will  be felt in the year 1980 but rather in the years 1981. 1982. 1983. in other words. in a period of time past that of this election.  of the national association of home builders warned the members of the senate small business committee that housing starts would drop drastically by june of this year. his worse prediction has come true. the most recent start figures for march dropped 22 percent from february to 1.041 million units. this rate is 42 percent below the figure for march of 1979. the issuance of building permits. an indication of future activity. dropped also by 42 percent from march of 1979. in view of the recent housing start figures. the national association of home builders has revised its projections. they  project that housing starts for 1980 will fall below 1 million for the yearto a level of 965.000. single family starts are expected to reach only 525.400 for the year. this would be the lowest level of annual housing starts since 1945. but do  pay any attention to those figures. i am afraid what was conceived of when this budget balancing idea came to someones mind was the fact that those who would suffer the most would
. i ask unanimous consent that a table showing for each state the number of assisted housing units which are estimated to be provided in 1980. the number which would result under the senate budget committees assumptions and the number which would be provided under my amendment. be printed in the record.
. in the extended consideration we have given to this bill in committee and on the floor. i have come increasingly to see the need for efforts to maximize the return on the heavy investment we are making in defense programs. many of these expenditures are in the nature of contingency expenses. we buy weapons and support many programs on the explicit premise that by acquiring them we will reduce the need for ever having to use them. it is generally conceded among ecoists that expenditures of this character are an ecoic drain rather than a productive investment. since they rarely contribute directly to increasing the nations productive capacity. thus. it is extremely important that we identify and take advantage of those elements of the defense budget which do promise valuable return to the society as a whole. one of the most promising of such areas is the large program of defense research. which often has led to useful new techogies for other sectors of the ecoy. yet it is widely recognized that the spif from defense research to other applications has been substantially less than could have and should have been the ease. the reason for this lies in the absence of any systematic effort to insure maximum civilian benefits from the vast sums spent on defense research and development. i believe we should remedy this defect. i am pleased to submit today. together with the distinguished junior senator from california . an amendment which i believe would go far toward increasing the domestic return on the nations expenditures for defense research. this amendment to s. 2546 would create an interagency advisory council on domestic applications of defense research and would authorize the department of defense to use some of its funds to support research of mutual interest to it and other agencieshud. hewwith promise of significant benefits. there are a number of examples of such work: spif of military radar and computer techogy to domestic air traffic control. a great variety of transportation techogies. experimental work (in housing on military bases. certain categories of manpower training and educational research. methods of delivering quality medical care to large populations. and many others. many institutions doing defense research are seeking an opportunity to apply their skills to the nations domestic problems. presently. there is good mechanism for encouraging such domestic applications. this amendment seeks to establish such a mechanism. and to insure that the large sums expended for defense research include a special effort to realize useful applications outside the strictly military area. this proposal is compatible with other efforts underway in the department to employ the large resources it commands in ways which assist other sectors of our society. discussions with prominent members of the research community revealed substantial interest in this kind of idea. both as a means of realizing important shortterm benefits and as a method of reallocating over a period of time some fraction of our defense capabilities to defense applications. the intent would be that. as defense research programs expand in the coming years. sponsorship and supervision of work begun under the auspices of the proposed council would shift to other departments. the interagency advisory council would be composed of one member from the department of defense. to be designated by the secretary of defense. one member from the department of health. education. and welfare. to be designated by the secretary of health. education. and welfare. one member from the department of housing and urban development. to be designated by the secretary of housing and urban development. one member from the department of transportation. to be designated by the secretary of transportation. and one member from the office of ecoic opportunity. to be designated by the director of the office of ecoic opportunity. this fivemember council would be chaired by the council member designated by the secretary of housing and urban development. the specific functions of the council would be threefold. they would review proposed research programs and projects submitted to them by the aforementioned research institutions. in doing so. the council would accept for consideration research projects that are of mutual interest to the department of defense and one or more of the participating departments or agencies. additional categories of research acceptable for consideration would be those bearing on such important national needs as the council should specify. including but  limited to the physical and social aspects of cities. housing. education and transportation. their deliberations would permit them to take cognizance of the valuable capabilities created by various institutions for related defense research programs. the councils second function would be to make appropriate recommendations to the director of defense research and engineering of the department of defense with regard to the merits of the proposals submitted for consideration. finally. the council would be charged with reviewing the results of research conducted under its auspices and would advise the director of defense research and engineering as to the desirability of continuing. modifying. terminating. or transferring such research activities. it is important. in my opinion. to e that the activities of this council will preclude the fixation of an "unrestricted" characterization that might otherwise attach to grants of this nature. the makeup of the council itself insures that the federal personnel most familiar with the domestic problems confronting our nation will have a voice in recommending the allocation of these funds. while the secretary of defense will naturally rely on the advice and recommendations submitted by the council. his decision will be controlling and final. for the purposes of this proposal. he may authorize up to 5 percent of the total funds expended in each fiscal year by the department of defense under contracts with the designated institutions performing defense research. in addition. institution would be permitted to receive more than $5 million under this title in any one fiscal year. this approach recognizes that the secretary is in the best position to judge what proportion of the defense research budget should be made available in light of both our defense requirements and the potential domestic payoffs that continue to emerge from the research community. by adopting the proposal that i am  suggesting. we could achieve a double benefit over and above the existing grant procedures. it would maximize the utility of research on which defense moneys are presently expended. but more important. it will establish a mechanism by which new avenues might be explored and later developed through the regular channels of domestic research funding. this measure does  require a major shift in our defense policy. it potentially represents only one of several efforts currently underway in the department of defense to focus its massive resources on this nations internal deficiencies. mentioning one very briefly. the domestic action council was established among high echelon personnel to seek ways in which the military can apply their resources to underdeveloped domestic areas while they perform their unquestionably vital defense role. our proposal is modest. its central purpose is to continue that which has already begun. defense research will continue to uncover ideas and solutions that have wide application. the proposal would increase the likelihood that we will realize those applications. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the proposed amendment be printed in the record.
. since the early 1830s. when alexis de tocqueville recorded his observations on the american scene. visitors from abroad have continued to remark on the american genius for voluntary organization. this years observance of girl scout week. markng the 61st anniversary of the founding of this fine volunteerled youth movement. finds many americans in agreement with secretary of defense richardsons recent appeal for a renewal of the voluntary ethic in american life and for strengthened support of the private. voluntary sectors role in resolving current problems and in moving the nation forward. the secretary wrote in the new york times: never before in our nations history have voluntarism and the voluntary ethic been so important to the preservation of what is best and most important in american society. in 1913. when juliette low recruited a small band of voluntary associates to help found americas first girl scout troop. it was evidence of her strong faith in the american capacity to advance worthwhile causes through organized. volunteer effort. in the 61 years since. many thousands of able men and women have volunteered their time and energies. their service and leadership and skills. to assure to each succeeding generation of girls the opportunities for selfdevelopment and learningbydoing that girl scout membership provides. today. girl scouting is active in all 50 states. and its registered membership has grown to nearly 4 million girls and adults. thanks to the example of its volunteer leaders. and girl scout programs emphasis on community service. millions of young girl scouts have been inspired to adopt service to others as a way of life in their adult years. it is to both these "graduates" of girl scouting who have become volunteer leaders in communities across the nation. and the girl scout movements splendid volunteer leadership. that we pay tribute during this anniversary week. they are  only helping to keep alive a great american tradition. they provide evidence. especially reassuring in these critical times. that. despite shortages of governmental money or manpower. private citizens. organized for effective. ongoing volunteer action. remain americas most valuable natural resource. like all viable movements. girl scouting. throughout its 61 years. has demonstrated a capacity to combine reverence for its traditions and symbols with a lively freedom to revise and inate. girl scouts are  only keeping pace with todays rapid social changes. in many areas of concern. they are setting new directions for other young people to follow. as pioneers in developing girls outdoor skills. todays girl scouts are naturally concerned environmentalists. true to girl scout tradition. moreover. they are translating that concern into direct action. as their current ecoaction projects. in all 50 states. demonstrate. since girl scouting was one of the first organizations to encourage girls to be independent. selfreliant female citizens. girl scout program is also continuing to emphasize girls need to prepare for newly emerging female liferoles. a national "career previews" project. begun last summer when senior scouts were brought to new york city for shortterm work assignments in leading professional and business firms. is  serving as a working model for local girl scout councils which are implementing similar projects in other areas of the united states. this onthejob career exploration is only one of a number of girl scout projects designed to demonstrate to girls that they must choose early. and prepare early. if they are to be ready for the highlevel jobs becoming available to the "new" woman. recognizing that all areas of womens lives are becoming increasingly outerdirected and complex. girl scouts are actively involved. too. in learning and service projects designed to improve human relations skills and to deepen understanding of persons of different cultural. racial. ethnic. or ecoic backgrounds. girl scouts from suburban and rural areas have been brought to the cities for indepth experiences in urban living. disadvantaged innercity girls spend to 2 weeks each summer at girl scoutings magnificent national center west in wyoming. for many. it is their first experience of living in surroundings of unspoiled. natural beauty. girl scouting also touches the lives of thousands of other innercity children. both boys and girls. scouts and scouts. through summerlong girl scoutsponsored day and resident camp programs. an experimental 2week camp which brought atlanta teenagers of all ecoic levels together in the summer of 1971. is  providing similar impetus and directions for all girl scout camps in the region. the initial. experimental camp won a 1971 american camping association award for inative program and is  being followed up. in atlanta. by girl scoutsponsored "rap sessions" between innercity and suburban youngsters at one of that citys large housing projects. inative projects like these are being duplicated by girl scouts across the country in an energetic. intelligent effort to increase understanding among americans of diverse backgrounds during girls important formative years. these are the years. experts agree. when prejudice is most likely to develop.  only do the girl scouts thereby make an immediate contribution to an improved social climate in the nation. they are also helping to instill in millions of future citizens fundamentally healthy. affirmative attitudes toward members of diverse groups within the society. certainly. girl scouts of the united states of america merits the enthusiastic plaudits of this body. and the respectful salute of all americans. as many millions of girl scouts. past and present. join in this years observance of girl scout week. from march 10 to 16. for 61 years. girl scouting has demonstrated that girls lives can be substantially enriched through concerned voluntary effort. today. the girl scout movement is clearly "paying its way" in the larger society. by meeting girls changing needs and perceptions. and by bringing together. in its free and equal association. all of the 7- through 17yearold girls in our heterogeneous nation.
 should attach the highest priority to arresting the inflationary spiral. compounding the problems created by inflation is a slowdown in ecoic activity which is likely to become a recession. some ecoists believe that after two quarters of downturn. ecoic activity will pick up in the fall. but others are  so sure. the outlook for increases in the gross national product could best be described as uncertain. some members of congress have suggested that a tax cut is in order to help stimulate the ecoy. i am concerned that a tax cut might lead to an overall increase in spending power. which would fuel inflation. it would be better. in my view. to encourage selective expansion in those sectors of the ecoy where there is unused productive capacity. while using monetary policy to moderate the general tendency toward demand pull inflation. one area of the ecoy which clearly needs stimulation is housing production. reacting to high interest rates. housing starts fell to a 3year low in december of last year. while the monetary situation eased in the early part of this year. the federal reserve board recently has been forced to tighten the monetary screws to curb inflation. the fed has raised the discount rate from 7 to 8 percent. the prime rate has jumped to 101/2 percent needless to say. the outlook for the mortgage market is bleak. it is commonplace that the housing industry is countercyclical. when the rest of the ecoy heats up. pushing up interest rates. sales and production of housing necessarily slow down. housing is. in a sense. the whipping boy of the ecoy. it is punished for excessive spending in other industries. the result is that those who want to buy or sell their homes are unable to do so.
 of the united states would  sign the bill. it would hardly get through the house of representatives. it would cause us to vote for a subsidy to make up the difference. we are  talking about low and moderate income housing . we are talking about middle and upper income housing. under this legislation $45.000 houses could be purchased. if we do this. it will require subsidies. the senator from wisconsin will say it will  be a subsidy. he will say we can do it at onehalf percent administrative cost. the testimony which we had before the senate banking. housing. and urban affairs committee was that it would cost 1 percent. the treasury borrowing rate. which fluctuates. is today at 8.25 percent. but conceivably we might be paying as high as 9 or 9.25 percent for this money. obviously. it is a popular thing to come in and want to vote for the lowest interest rate possible. but when you vote for the low interest rates. as would be proposed by the senator from wisconsin. then you are going to have to bite the bullet and subsidize. i am saying to you that that would be inflationary. and everyone has said that it would be. we understand that it would be. it is the only reason why senator cranston and i finally agreed that we would go along with the treasury borrowing rate plus administrative costs. with the assurance that the secretary of housing and urban development would keep that interest rate just as low as humanly possible. hopefully 9 percent and maybe even below 9 percent. we just do  k. we do  k what it will be. but it is their intent to keep that interest rate as low as they can. we do have the letter from the secretary that under circumstances would it go higher than 9.5 percent. all i am saying to you is if we pass this amendment we just will  have an emergency bill. we do need this emergency bill. i hope the amendment will be defeated.
s program will doubt cause some consumer purchases which would  occur in the absence of a tax rebate. but i do  believe it will have a significant effect on the severely depressed housing industry. for $150 in increased purchasing power in the hands of the average family is  likely. in my opinion. to be spent on purchase of a new home. yet increasing new housing production would be among the most effective and least inflationary ways to stimulate our sagging ecoy. there is a huge amount of unused capacity in the housing sector. by using this capacity we can provide hundreds of thousands of jobs in the housing. wood products. furniture. appliance. and related industries. we can significantly reduce the burden on our budget of unemployment compensation. and by increasing the availability of housing units. which are presently in short supply in many areas. we can reduce rents and thus help curb inflation. with these objectives in mind. i am today introducing the "home purchase incentive act of 1975." the program set forth in this bill is. in my opinion. the most effective and least expensive way of assuring a substantial increase in housing starts in the near future.
i was going to suggest that the senator agree that our committee would hold hearings on this matter. i do  think hud has voiced an opinion on it. traditionally. as the senator ks. we have  allowed 235 to be used for mobile homes. the interest rate has been quite different with mobile homes. this may be good legislation. it certainly is important. mobile homes are an important part of our housing picture. but i wonder whether we should have huds opinion on this matter prior to acceptance of this amendment.
is it purely optional as to whether hud would apply 235 to mobile homes. under the senators amendment. it it mandatory. as the senator ks. traditionally. there has been more of a risk in mobile homes. and they have  had as low an interest rate that conventional homes have had. under 235 at this time. it is down to 5 percent. as i understand it. i am  opposed to mobiles homes. as the senator from th carolina and our distinguished chairman have said. they are popular and are an important part of our housing program. i just wonder what the consequences would be. it appears to me that hud should at least have its opinion heard. i am sorry we do  have an opinion from hud on it. i just want to k whether. by the adoption of the senator from th carolinas amendment. the use of section 235 funds to subsidize mobile home purchases would be mandatory or optional with hud.
. there is question that our test flight of the new congressional budget process shows it can fly. we clearly have a viable system for establishing policy goals and controlling spending by the congress. we have established a realistic spending ceiling of $412 billion and a deficit large egh to provide a continuing stimulus for the rapidly recovering ecoy. and. although the rhetoric of this politcial season may obscure the reality. our overall totals for spending. debt and deficit are  that different from those of the administration. the larger deficit on which the congress has settled is larger because we have established programs to meet our nations  1 need: new jobs. i am deeply disappointed about the failure of the congress to enact meaningful tax reform and to tighten up procedures in medicare and medicaid programs. and those failures are starkly evident in the reduced revenues on which we will be acting today. the inability of the majority of this great body to mobolize behind a fair and effective tax system will be a blot on the history of the 94th congress. and this resolution contains the sad. official ackledgment of that failure. i do have at least one grave reservation about this budget resolution above and beyond the concerns regarding health program funding. which i have already discussed. i mentioned this very briefly to the chairman. and think. the ranking miity member. the ceilings simply do  allow us the flexibility we need to manage even our modest efforts in the production and management of subsidized housing. as i understand it. these totals will  allow us to make any supplemental appropriations at all. a major concern of mine is that we may  have egh money for operating subsidies for public housing and that there may be a desperate need for supplemental appropriations. in addition. the section 8 housing subsidy program is just beginning to show positive results across the nation. and if these successes continue. it may also need expansion in the fall. furthermore. i have been working all year to get expanded support for such important housing assistance programs as new construction of public housing. public housing modernization and rehabilitation loan programs. i do continue to believe that. with the tough congressional oversight of the federal housing effort provided by the senate banking committee we can provide some effective housing assistance to low- and moderateincome families within these severe fiscal constraints. but the congress must recognize that this level of program simply can meet the nations real and pressing housing needs. when i first came to the senate. the distinguished chairman of the budget committee was on the banking. housing and urban affairs committee. which was then the banking and currency committee. so he is personally well aware of the problems this country faces in dealing with the housing crisis that we have today. i realize that my concern is simply one illustration of the basic problem of negotiating among competing priorities. and i do believe that. overall. this budget resolution indicates movement in appropriate directions. for instance. the first resolution provided for only a little more than 300.000 public service jobs. and my attempt last spring to increase significantly the totals for this vital purpose did  gain sufficient support to pass. so i am especially pleased that we will vote today to support at least 500.000 public service jobs in fiscal year 1977. also. i think it appropriate that the priorities have been shifted to allow for more rapid development of alternative energy sources. but the report of the budget committee establishes that there is question that our fiscal future is going to be one of sharp competition for public resources which will  expand greatly. the congressional budget act clearly gives us a rational framework within which to resolve our predictable differences. i hope we will be able to perfect the process. for example. i would like to see greater coordination between the standing committees which are expert on matters of legislative substance jgnd the budget committee. and i hope we can provide more time for members to study the budget resolution and supporting doeumentation after each resolution is filed. but there is question that the budget committee. under the skillful leadership of the distinguished senator from maine and the distinguished senator from oklahoma. has produced a monumental achievement beyond anything we could have hoped or expected 2 years ago. we have a way to balance congressional priorities. to order our choices about what is important. and to guide the growth of our federal budgets. the legislative branch can  exercise its constitutional responsibilities with full information about the meaning and impact of its choices. i join my colleagues in congratulating the committee on its accomplishments. and i look forward with great relish to the cooperative. creative efforts and even to the inevitable battles that we can expect as a part of this new process.
. the section of the bill which the distinguished senator from ohio would delete is a provision which i introduced together with my distinguished colleague from california . as i understand it. this amendment would strike section 212 of the act. which provides that states could  include the value of the section 236 interest reduction payments or operating assistance under the "troubled projects" subsidy in the assessed value of housing projects for property tax purposes. the purpose of the amendment was to assure that california. which was considering the inclusion of subsidy payments in assessed value of property. could  do so. as the senator from ohio has well pointed out. if states included the value in determining property taxation. they would get the benefit of the increased value of the property due to a federal subsidy. and the committee believed that states should  get that windfall benefit. i think the senator from ohio would agree with our belief.
the average rental paid in my community would vary between $45 and $60 a month. in view of the emously enhanced cost of living which the people of my district in common with the other citizens of the middle class are experiencing . the margin for any more payment of rental is nil. living costs have gone up some 60 percent over prewar prices. and rent control is the one thing keeping ends together as far as my people are concerned.
 has found that 75.000 units for the fiscal year 1952 are warranted considering defense mobilization needs. the appropriations subcommittee which handled the bill and the whole appropriations committee found that 50.000 units could be allowed even under defense mobilization. the need is especially great  because of the greatly increased pressure on lowincome families eligible for public housing due to the galloping inflation and the cost of living especially in the price of foods. the hearings before the appropriations subcommittee showed a vast demand of about 20 times the number of applications from families eligible for public housing compared to the supply of units available or to become available within a year. and that this type of demand persists in cities from atlanta. ga.. to fres calif.. and from boston to tampa. new york. with a continuing critical housing shortage. is hit especially hard. according to its mayor. with 10.000 to 15.000 units immediately cut off for 1952 and the prospects for an estimated 30.000 units more indefinitely postponed. at a time when our people are asked to hazard their lives in a great effort for national security. the least we can do is to protect as far as possible the social welfare advances which have been achieved. i should think that this argument would be equally appealing even to those who have fought public housing. yet. it is this very program which is being made mercilessly to suffer. national unity in this great national defense effort is  to be fortified in this way.
 to proceed for the fiscal year 195152 with a program of 75.000 publichousing units out of a total of 135.000 units authorized. in this connection. compelling reason has been brought to our attention which would warrant reducing the figure of 75.000 on the basis of material shortages for such housing. it  appears quite clear that the action taken on the independent offices appropriations bill. which in effect destroyed the federal publichousing program for the coming fiscal year. was unwarranted by any requirements of defense mobilization. but was rather dictated by an effort to reverse on an appropriations bill a housing program which had been authorized by the congress in the housing act of 1949 after years of effort and consideration. the lowincome families. particularly in the large cities of the country. are deeply aggrieved by this action and the house action is being bitterly protested. demand from families for these units even on the present program is running at 201 to supply in these cities. my bill. h. r. 4207. seeking to repeal the house action. is a means by which members from these areas may express themselves. i hope that members .will give this bill early and vigorous support in getting hearings and house action on it. the full text of the letter from mr. foley follows:
i do  think that is any answer. it requires time to acquire sites. to arrange to sell bonds of the local housing authorities. to make plans. and to let contracts. what has been done in the independent offices appropriation bill in the house is to end this activity in substance for new starts in the fiscal year 195152. except for only 5.000 units. this in the face of over 40.000 units in preparation for the contract stage in new york city alone and with the emous demand from lowincome families throughout the country to which i have referred.
 recommended for the fiscal year 195275.000 units and little more than onethird of what is in the housing act135.000 unitsserves ice on everybody in the country that they can depend on promises as to what congress will authorize for publichousing construction. the congress exercises. by the adoption of this conference report. and. shows its full intention to retain full power over the number of units to be allowed in any year. the congress can pass any law which will preventsomeone from making promises. what we can do is to demonstrate to responsible people that congress has the power and proposes to exercise it. therefore. that they have excuse for being under any misapprehension.
the amendment. as i understand it. proposes that the power remain to impose regulations x and w if the federal reserve board considers that necessary to control inflation. ial campaign. 6 months in which. if we ever needed control machinery. we ought to keep it in effect. i think it is very unwise if we take this out. you dismantle what we have had dealing with the engines of inflation. consumer credit. and real estate credit. and you leave only the power to cope with bank credit which does  begin to answer the situation at a time when consumer credit alone is around the $14.000.000 or $15.000.000 mark. i repeat. we have been acting in a way in which the left hand does  k what the right hand is doing and is an evidence of it. i hope very much that good common sense will reassert itself and that we will pass this amendment and cause this effort to dismantle the credit control machinery to be stricken out of the bill.
we treat them better and worse than other citizens. but there are many inducements which would make it attractive for such citizens to get jobs around the country. especially because of the difficult housing conditions to which they are subjected.
of course. as the gentleman ks. it often depends on whose ox is gored. the fundamental philosophy of the great middle group in our country is. i believe. that when it is demonstrable that to perform an essential social or ecoic function the help of the government is needed. the government should help. and that whether or  we are drifting into a socialist society depends upon the overall quotient which that represents in the whole ecoic activity and output of the country. i submit that even if you take the whole government budget which is  for defense. which comes to something in the area of plus $20 billion and lay it beside a gross national product of $360 billion per annum this country if anything is the greatest fortress of private initiative that was ever kn to mankindand that is after you enact the administrations public housing program and everything in this housing bill.
i believe that there should be immediate action to authorize at least $500 million in new funds for the urban renewal administration. approximately doubling the size and scope of the program previously proposed to the congress for the next fiscal year and there should also be provision for any additional staff needed to speed up construction on projects already in progress and in processing new applications for the 35 states and 4 territories participating in the program. this proposal should stimulate and accelerate construction in key city areas throughout the united states during this period of ecoic downturn. it should also have a very real impact on bolstering our urban communities. confidence in the federal governments firm intent  only to continue but to substantially expand its ecoic participation in useful works  open to it like the urban renewal program. these projects are  makework projects. they come within the definition of the presidents recommendation. to date more than $1.145.600.000 out of the total fund authorization of the urban renewal administration of $1.250.000.000 has been reserved for. approved projects. applications are currently coming in at the rate of $30 million a month and the urban renewal administration estimates that by the end of this fiscal year some 3 months away. it will have nearly $300 million worth of applications en hand above and beyond the limits of its existing lending authority. therefore. i believe the proposed legislation deserves the same prompt consideration congress already has accorded aher key antirecession measure. the bill to stimulate home building so speedily passed last week. this urban renewal proposal being introduced today is a vital legislative supplement. we believe. to the directive president fsenhower sent the housing and home finance administrator. albert cole. on march 19 instructing him to assign top priority to accelerating the start of construction on urbanrenewal sites already cleared and to speed the disposal of project land ready for construction almost immediately following sale. our bill also provides for staff expansion which should virtually eliminate the regrettable time lag in processing urban renewal applications which in some cases has discouraged community participation completely or led to the cancellation of projects stalled by delay in the planning stages. the proposed legislation specifically provides that under title i of the housing act of 1949. the limitation on the urban renewal administrations lending authority  standing at $1.250.000.000 shall be increased by $500 million effective on the date the bill is signed into law. it authorizes the agency to "make such action as may be necessary to expedite the processing of applications of local public agencies for assistanceand for that purpose such additional personnel may be employed. in accordance with the civilservice laws and classification act of 1949. as may be required to carry out the accelerated program contemplated by this act." . measures already introduced on urban renewal for fiscal year 1959 would authorize $250 million in additional lending authority for the administration so that the actual construction work can begin on some 120 projects in fiscal 1959. compared to 56 in 1957. even that figure falls short of meeting the already existing and longrange urban renewal needs. particularly in the area of residential construction for middleincome families. the inadequate scope of our present program was dramatized just recently when the american municipal association reported the results of its urban renewal survey among more than 140 communities which already have or want such projects. these localities estimated that under the present formula where project financing is assisted by federal grants approximating twothirds of net project costs. they would require $513 million in grant reservations for the calendar year 1958. for the entire period from 1958 through 1967. they could undertake urbanrenewal construction calling for more than $3 billion in federal assistance. and it must be ed that this figure still does  reflect the full amount that could be expended since 10 major cities of over 100.000 population already active in urban renewal did  return estimates. an analysis made by the urban renewal administration shows that as of february 1958. there were 46 survey and planning applications pending from cities totaling $188 million. fourteen of these projects. involving a total request of $58 million are located in cities where the recession has taken hold and they have been declared areas of "substantial labor surplus". even with the additional $50 million which will become available on april 1. the urban renewal administration under present circumstances will  be able to even process some of these documented applications from labor surplus areas until the beginning of the next fiscal year in july. the urban renewal program  so widely accepted serves a doublebarreled purpose: by providing a sum large egh to prompt communities to initiate new projects and to push forward those already in progress. we will supply a vitally needed impetus to construction in certain ecoically distressed areas. while simultaneously encouraging communities to draw up and expand a longrange program of urban development which will ultimately improve living conditions for millions of americans. this type of public project is  a "make work" project. on the contrary. such projects come directly within the definition of the presidents recommendation that the projects adopted should be projects already in process. for which the planning has been done. for which there is orderly administration. and which can go at once when we "fire the gun." that is the reason for our support of this legislation. my colleagues. who are joining me in the introduction of the bill and i believe. that it is one of the most effective and constructive antirecession moves which could be made. it fits in with the job we are doing. it is favored in all parts of the country. its practicality assures it success. i urge that this proposal be given high priority attention.
when i referred to the situation which would exist if the lines were clear and there were danger of defeating the conference report by reason of a combination of those who thought it was too little and those who thought it was too much voting against it. i was thinking of the urban renewal provisions. which are critically important in every large city in the country. including my own. i think we have written ourselves down very badly. and very much against the national interest. for this reason: there are $500 million in valid applications . we passed bill in 1958. so there have been authorizations to use during this period. as i say. there are in hand  applications to the extent of $500 million. so when we provide $500 million for the fiscal year 1960. that is the end of it. it is finished. there is urban renewal program beyond what is already in hand in terms of pending applications. it is true that one application may be withdrawn and aher may replace it. but we are providing only for what has already been "soaked up." i believe that the urban renewal program is such a fructifying source of further investment and rehabilitation of the great cities which are in grave danger of going downhill. with tremendous losses to the national interest. that this provision represents a basic and very deep imperfection in the conference report. if i did  fear that its friends and enemies combined could kill itthat is. its more zealous friendsi would vote against it. but under the circumstances i feel that we are in an impasse. in which those who are dissatisfied by reason of the fact that the bill represents too little had better go along with it because they might get stuck and find themselves voting in the company of those who think it is too much. thereby defeating the entire bill. the senator asks what i object to. i object most strenuously to the inadequacy of the treatment of urban renewal. one of the most constructive programs. even in the eyes of the administration. it does  involve inflation. it involves tremendous construction. adding to the assets of the country in an unparalleled way. i k that it is  necessary for me to "sell" the senator from alabama on this subject. i am only pointing out why i am very unhappy about the conference report and why i feel it represents a housing program which is far short of even the minimal demands of the country. especially of the large cities.
for example. . in the city of new york and in the state of new york. trade unions are promoting these projects. and tenant cooperatives are promoting them. and there is the possibility that employers will do precisely the same thingand also organizations or associations of almost every kind or character. thus. there is a ready receptacle for those who have a common interest in providing housing for moderateincome families. in addition. there is in new york a pattern by means of which those promoting entities for this type of housing find it very convenient to seek agreements with municipalities for limited tax exemptions. which are very useful for municipalities. because they will put in place of a sterile piece of land or a slum or a blighted area. a beautiful piece of construction which in the years ahead will be a credit to the community and will be a taxpaying entity. therefore. communities find it very convenient to allow tax exemptions or tax standstills. in order to permit such projects to get started. in addition. the power of condemnation is allowedit is often given. in new yorkand thus materially reduces the cost of the land sites themselves. all these features lend themselves to the plan i have proposed. but do  develop in connection with the moderateincome housing plan proposed by the administration.
. it would authorize the secretary of agriculture and hud to designate such districts within states to allow for regional planning grants under section 701 of the housing act of 1954. present 701 grants are allowed for urban planning but this bill would help the smaller communities and rural areas which transcend political boundaries. planning is concerned with pattern and intensity of land use. public facilities. transportation. open space. housing. fiscal development. and so forth. the planning will enable the rural areas to avoid many of the problems of the existing larger cities which unfortunately were never able to plan ahead.
. as a member of the agriculture appropriations subcommittee. i want to express my support of the action taken by the committee in dealing with certain programs within the department of agriculture. i think the committee has shown its wisdom in restoring the funds for both the extension service and the cooperative state research service. i also support the funding for the watershed protection program. allowing that program to move forward immediately. in addition i am particularly pleased to e that the bill contains some funding for two new programs. first is a badly needed study of the ecoic indicators of change in the rural ecoy. we have become more aware that a determined effort is needed to provide for a strong ecoically viable rural ecoy to offer reason to stem the vast migration of rural people into our already overcrowded cities. aher study to be begun will assist in identifying the kinds of agricultural development that would be appropriate in the undeveloped countries. this will help to accelerate the selfhelp requirements which i feel are so vital to world agriculture development. i am also pleased to e our committee has restored the budget requests for both domestic farm labor housing and rural housing direct loans. we must make every effort to improve our rural environment and anyone familiar with the pitiful condition of such migrant housing will k how much still needs to be done. finally although i regret the senate did  see fit to adopt the full budget request for food assistance in the consumer and marketing service. i was glad to join with the senator from michigan [senator hart] to increase the funds from the house for the school breakfast program and special assistance for needy schools.
. with the costs of education anywhere running at an average from $700 to $1.200 annually a child. matter how cheaply you do it. you can see what happens to local communities subjected to that kind of impact. it is  a fact that all the federal government does is finance public housing when it is built. it pays an annual subsidy in respect of public housing. and makes an annual payment in lieu of taxes. it is an ongoing activity of the federal government. in every budget we write.
. i am pleased to join with senator hart and the other sponsors of the amendment to add $987.5 million to the 1971 appropriation for urban renewal. the house has appropriated $1 billion for urban renewal and the senate appropriations committee has added an additional $300 in the bill. however. the available authorization through 1971 is $2.287.5 billion and the full amount is needed if there is to be a substantial reduction in the $3 billion backlog of applications which are on hand at housing and urban development. according to secretary romney. in 1949. congress enacted the urban renewal program with the stated objective of eliminating and preventing the spread of slums and blight and to help achieve the national goal of "a decent home and a suitable living environment for every american family." since the inception of the program. 1.000 communities in all 50 states have participated or are participating. the program is  simply a bigcity program. but has been used in communities of all sizes. with 40% of renewal funds spent in cities with populations under 100.000. by the end of fiscal 1969. the urban renewal program had accomplished the demolition of approximately 460.000 dwelling units in blighted areas and relocated 270.000 families and 141.000 individuals from grant assisted areaswith the vast majority going into standard housing. during the same period. approximately 257.000 new or rehabilitated housing units were started or completed. of which 53 percent are for low and moderate income families. the urban renewal program also has generated over 500.000 permanent jobs. in addition to the construction jobs provided. with a total of 2.2 million jobs to be provided when all redevelopment approved as of june 30. 1969 is completed._ at the present budget levels. the urban renewal program will  accomplish its objective to provide a decent home and suitable environment for all americans. in fact. it will  keep pace with its current applications. fiscal 1970s appropriation was $1 billion. approximately $600 million short of the authorization. on july 1. 1970. a new authorization of $1.7 billion becomes available for urban renewal. thus far. out of $2.3 billion available for urban renewal. only $1.3 billion has been approved for appropriation. there has been much talk of reordering of priorities and of providing 26 million housing units in 10 years. but relatively small amounts of money have been spent toward the realization of those goals. if we are to work toward the goal of adequate housing for all americanscertainly this is a fundamental needand if we hope to show that we are sincerely interested in concentrating our resources on solving the crucial domestic problems confronting us. the urban renewal program must be funded at its fully authorized limit of $2.3 billion for fiscal 1971. the necessary increase would  be inflationary since the investment in urban renewal is an investment in tangible assets of value which has increased the assessed valuation of land and improvements in completed urban renewal projects by an average of 240 percent. i urge the senate to fully fund the program by adding $987.5 million to the committee approved appropriation for urban renewal.
. the leasing program in lowrent public housing has proved a very valuable tool in making housing available quickly. since the programs inception in 1966. over 16.000 units have been leased to public housing tenants in the theastern region. in the fiscal year 1969. leased units accounted for over 30 percent of the total units of public housing provided under all public housing programs in the theastern region. i was pleased to see that the committee bill clarified the authority of local public housing agencies to lease units in other structures in addition to existing structures and extended the initial term and renewal period of the lease from 5 to 10 years. these changes will be very helpful in making the program work more effectively. however. recent indications are that hud is deemphasizing the leased housing program. this. despite the fact that even in huds view. the program had become the most versatile of housing assistance activities directed toward lowincome families and has proven to be a most effective method of providing a supplementary form of lowrent housing. in fiscal 1969. units under contract totaled more than 54.000. unfortunately. for fiscal year 1970. hud established a production target of only 16.000 leased units under the program. the estimates for fiscal year 1971 are that approximately 14.000 units will be developed through the leasing program. it should be pointed out that the annual contributions contracts in the leased housing program are authorized within the total authorization for the lowrent public housing program. thus it has been an administrative determination as to how much lowrent public housing will be done on a leasing basis each year. i have checked into the situation on several occasions and have been told that despite the success and value of the leasing program. there are plans to expand the program or to stop its contraction. the reasons given are that existing leased units are  counted for the established 10year national housing goal and that since annual contributions allocated to the leasing program develop into budget outlays more quickly than those allocated to other lowrent housing programs. there is concern with possible inflationary impact. the short answer as to why the leasing program results in faster budget outlays is that it is a quicker and more effective way to make housing available to lowrent tenants. this is one of its advantages rather than a disadvantage. i feel that hud is illadvised to be deemphasizing this program at this time. in addition. this administrative decision seems counter to the intent of congress when enacting the program and also when making improvements in the program as the committee has done in this bill. i am advised that the housing subcommittee of the house banking and currency committee has included a provision in its proposed bill which would require that 30 percent of the annual contributions authorization in the lowrent public housing programs be used for the leased public housing program. i would like to ask the chairman of the committee whether he feels it would be appropriate for the same directions to be placed in the senate bill or whether he feels the better course for us to pursue today is to express our desire that hud make greater use of the leasing program. i would hope that in any case. the committee would give favorable consideration to the provisions of the house bill governing leased housing if the issue is present at the conference. i ask unanimous consent that a memorandum from hud dated february 17. 1970. discussing the leasing program be made part of my remarks.
thus. we find grave deficiencies in certain of the arrangements made by the committee in this particular measure at is deal with transitional areas. in this field of refinancing and rehabilitation to save the old neighborhoods. it has subsidy at all. and yet in our own experience in the great cities. we k that we can bring about the rehabilitation of housing that we wish to bring about without having some subsidy. even if a shallow one. and the 4percent subsidy in my amendment is certainly shallow egh. . before further discussing my amendment. i would like to ask the manager of the bill a question with regard to one part of the bill here involved. i have a question with respect to a particular aspect of the neighborhood preservation section of the bill which we would like to address to the chairman of the committee. it occurs onpage 42 of the bill. if the senator will follow me. at lines 1 through 5. where it states: during the mortgage term rental increases shall be made except those which are necessary to offset actual and reasonable operating expense increases or debt service payment increases due to any loan provided under paragraph (4). we understand perfectly what debt service payment increases mean. we are left in doubt whether operating expense increases include or exclude taxes and if so what kind of taxes.
i thank the senator. it occurs to me that as part of the debate on the amendment there should be included the statement of the committee which appears on page 6. which reads as follows: the committee concurs with the house and urges the department to carefully screen applicants for the construction of section 236 projects. and admonishes the department to pay particular attention to the deficiencies pointed out in the house investigative report. . i e on pages 6 and 7 of the committee report that money has been proi ided for the various types of counseling services contemplated by hud. the committee report states that there was budget request for counseling services this fiscal year and that there seems to be some confusion on the part of hud as to what kinds of services they are willing to support. a report is requested by the- end of this year from hud on. this situation. testimony at the hearings indicates that of the $3.25 million appropriated by the congress for counseling last year. very little will be spent in the current fiscal year. because of this hud did  ask for additional money specifically for counseling but has indicated that funds from the research and techogy appropriations which the committee has set at $60 million will be used for counseling programs. this seems to be quite a strain on the research and techogy budget since the congress has recommended that hud get deeply involved in experiments in housing allowances. housing abandonment and leadbase paint. these are three very important areas and will use up a large amount of that budget. thus. we can be sure how much of the research and techogy money will be left for counseling programs. i believe that the situation with regard to counseling services is shocking in that so little effort was made this year to implement either the 237 homeownership counseling program or any of the other counseling or technical assistance programs. if we are to make our housing programs work. it is necessary to provide homeowners and tenants with the khow that will enable them to take care of the housing provided them. unfortunately this is  being done. i would like to vigorously support the committees call for a review and report of the situation and i urge hud to begin implementing programs to provide counseling services as soon as possible. this is one area which should  be neglected as it has been.
the reason i asked the question is that i also have a bill before the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs dealing with a memorial to president eisenhower. relating to coinage issued in his name. really. by way of a memorial for him. i just wanted to make sure that we were  making final disposition of the proceeds here before we would get a chance to act on it. and i understand that the answer is in the affirmative.
. in order to do its business over a period of years. the federal government decided. when it went into the business. to take away $50 million from opic and put it into a reserve for housing guarantees outside opics operations. opic has had to have necessary capital in order to carry on an extension of its business. but that does  mean opic is going to be any 0 interest earned by opic on insurance fees. january 1970 through march 1973 (estimated). $30.888.516 of fee earnings allotted by board of directors to guaranty reserves. $44.111.484 of appropriations allotted by board of directors to guaranty reserves. a administrative costs are  available prior to fiscal year 1970 as aid and other predecessor agencies did  segregate its administrative costs against specific programs. arises in deciding whether we are or  going to stay in this field if we are going to stay in it. it is my contentionand i must demonstrate it to the satisfaction of the senatethat this is the most ecoic and intelligent way to do it. by the way. aher thing which has  been mentioned is the fact that other major countries have exactly these proless profitable. so the argument that because there may be a request for appropriations. which we can deny. if we choose to. is that they want to pay claims. but i still do  see how we can claim that to be insolvency. a number of other points are critically important. aside from the insolvency matter. to which i have referred. one is that the whole problem which february -25. 1974 grams. and the premiums. are much lower than ours. because their governments have been underwriting. them much more than we do. great britain has such a. program. so has germany. so has japan. so have france. and the low countries. every developed country has gone into the business. it seems to me that it is a very significant point that they have done so. and that they have approached the matter in this way.
. in view of our housing crisis and the condition of our inner cities. we can afford  to provide an incentive of this nature to rehabilitation of our existing large supply of apartment buildings and other rental housing facilities. these facilities have been allowed to deteriorate to such an extent that they are frequently longer useful or adequate for family use." (15 cong. rec. 37884 (dec. 9. 1969) (remarks of senator curtis).) since 1969. over 100 rehabilitation projects have been undertaken with financing from two sources: first. a mortgage loan which was insured by the u.s. department of housing and urban development--hudi.un der section 236 or 221 of the national housing act. or made directly by a state or local housing finance agency. and second. equity contributions of investorsgenerally in limited partnership formbased upon the section 167(k) incentive. the actual results of these projects have been generally what one might expect in such an inative and risky program. that is: many false starts. but also major successes that validate the program and show the potential for far broader results in the future. on the negative side. many "quick buck" operators were attracted to the rehabilitation programs with a view toward realizing substantial undeserved profits either by: bul:ding the project at a lower cost than the agreed construction priceunder a government loan program which did  require cost certification. or by selling the equity interests without apprising the investors of all the facts. in addition. many inexperienced groupsprofit and profitattempted to use the rehabilitation program to learn the development and contracting businessand generally lost the governments money as well as their own. on the other hand. there have been some stunning examples of success in using the rehabilitation processs to *these conclusions were recently confirmed in arthur d. little. inc.. project rehab monitoring reportoverview. 6870 (hud rep. f22. may 1971) (the "little study"). achieve the goals of the housing programs. the positive results are typified by those achieved in a 700unit project in williamsburg. brooklyn. n.y.. developed by kraus enterprises. inc.. which was financed by loans from the city of new york and assisted by rent supplement payments from hud. in this project: first. hud. state and local agencies praised the construction work as being up to the highest standard of new construction work. all new components were added except for the foundation and structural shell. second. the overall development process from land acquisition through rent up took a far shorter time than is usually achieved under the new construction programsroughly 12 months per building as contrasted with the 3- to 7year period typical for new construction projects in the core urban areas. third. as is typical in rehabilitation projects. the developer performedand thereby removed from the budget and workload of the urban renewal authoritiesthe jobs of land assemblage. relocation. and management pending redevelopment. fourth. the development costs and rentals achieved were less than 60 percent of those achieved in most new construction projects in the new york city area. fifth. the developer. who also managed the buildings. demonstrated that it was possible to maintain rehabilitated units in excellent condition over a long period of time. certain of these buildingscommenced prior to the enactment or even proposal. of section 167 (k) -have been operational for over 7 years and still: the apartments and public areas are in immaculate physical condition. tenant morale is high. vacancy and collection losses are running at less than 1 percent per annum. and debt service payments to the government lending agency are current. sixth. most significant of all. this project demonstratea that rehabilitation workcoupled with federal rental assistanceis the only way to achieve in the urban areas one of the primary goals of the housing programs. that is. providing decent dwelling units to low income working families. because of the high costs of new construction in the urban areas. many new construction projects primarily help either upper middle income families or welfare assisted families. with aid to the lowincome working families in the middle. broad scale rehabilitation projects in new york and boston were also successfully undertaken by continental wingate corp. with mortgage financing insured by hud under section 236. typically. under such a program. the loan represents 90 percent of specified development costs so that the minimum equity is 11 percent of the government loan. to the extent that the owner incurs further development costs. its equity will exceed the 11 percent level. section 167(k) is a necessary incentive for equity investment in a highly difficult and risky activity. it is explicitly mentioned as the incentive for rehabilitation in huds proposed regulations for section 23 leasing of rehabilitated housing.-24 cfr section 1276.3(n) (2).clearly. apart from this tax incentive one would invest in a rehabilitation project. since the maximum allowable return from rents is only 6 percent and is rarely. if ever. realized in full. and because of the location and dependence on government rental assistance. there is little. if any. chance of the investor recovering his equity commitment on a future gale. critics of section 167(k) have prepared hypothetical tables indicating that: first and second. inconsistently. there are further equity contributions by the investors which represent an additional profitthe socalled "premium"-to the developer/contractor over and above any fees included in the government loan. it appears. however. from testimony before the house ways and means committee. that the actual pattern is far different from these hypothetical calculations. the only witness submitting a detailed statement as to numerical results in a section 167(k) project stated that: 1. equity contributions by the investors equal to over 20% of the government loan will often be necessary to cover all costs of completing the project (including the cost of the developers organization which performs the functions of land assembly. management pending rehabilitation. relocation and rentup losses).* at the 20% plus equity level 2. if long delays and difficulties are encountered (as they generally will be in this type of venture). the developer/contractor may even at a 20% plus contribution levelrealize any significant net compensation after expenses for its work on the project. (see letter to the committee dated february 13. 1973 from stephen s. ziegler. esq.) this statement is supported by the little study. which stated that in view of the many potential pitfalls. it is  clear whether the tax benefits are "a sufficient incentive to encourage large producers to participate in rehabilitation." (arthur d. little. inc.. project rehab monitoring reportoverview. p. 176 (hud report f.22 may 1971). see also belin. real estate rehabilitation: a new tax incentive. the tax rules. n.y.u. 29th inst. on fed. tax. (part 2) 1055. 106667 (1971).) the necessity for extending the section 167(k) incentive is demonstrated by plans currently being made by the williamsburg developerwith the new york state division of housing and community renewalfor a far larger project in the south bronx area of new york city. the required financial backing. and bonding. for this massive project are to be provided by a major life insurance companywhich will be compensated * the little study confirms the difficulty and magnitude of these functions and the fact that the government loan does  contain any compensation therefor (see especially pp. 18081. 197. 217). from the equity contributions of the investors. if section 167(k) is  extended. the 1975 and later stages of this project can proceedfor the basic reason that there will be funds available to pay the financial backer. the question might be raised. of course. as to whether certain of the abuses of the past 5 years might  recur in the future if section 167(k) were extended. in fact. however. hud. the state and local housing finance agencies. the sec and the blue sky authorities have already instituted controls to stop these abuses. including: first. strict cost certification requirements. second. increased bonding requirements. third. requiring that the developer and manager show a significant "track record" before granting a project loan. fourth. insistence on the advance submission of a management plan and promulgation of detailed guidelines on project management. and fifth. guidelines for disclosures in prospectuses offering equity interests. this amendment extends section 167 (k) for 3 years until january 1. 1978. and we consider this in the cities a very important stimulus to the rehabilitation of low- and middleincome housing. which is so urgently needed in many of the great cities. including my own great city. new york. i have discussed this amendment with senator long and senator bennett and also with tihe chairman of the banking. housing. and urban affairs committee
. in view of our housing crisis and the condition of our inner cities. we can afford  to provide an incentive of this nature to rehabilitation of our existing large supply of apartment buildings and other rental housing facilities. these facilities have been allowed to deteriorate to such an extent that they are frequently longer useful or adequate for family use. (15 coiig. ree. 37884 (dec. 9. 1969) (remarks of senator curtis) ). since 1969. over 100 rehabilitation projects have been undertaken with financing from two sources: a mortgage loan which was: * these conclusions were recently confirmed in arthur d. little. inc.. project rehvab monitoring reportoverview. 6870 (hud rep. f22. may 1971) (the "little study"). first. insured by the u.s. department of housing and urban developmenthudunder section 236 or 221 of the national housing act. or second. made directly by a state or local housing finance agency. and equity contributions of investorsgenerally in limited partnership formbased upon the section 167(k) incentive. the actual results of these projects have been generally what one might expect in such an inative and risky program. that is. many false starts. but also major successes that validate the program and show the potential for far broader results in the future. on the negative side. many "quick buck" operators were attracted to the rehabilitation programs with a view toward realizing substantial undeserved profits either by: building the project at a lower cost than the agreed construction priceunder a government loan program which did  require cost certification. or by selling the equity interests without apprising the investors of all the facts. in addition. many inexperienced groups--profit and profitattempted to use the rehabilitation program to learn the development and contracting businessand generally lost the governments money as well as their own. on the other hand. there have been some stunning examples of success in using the rehabilitation process to achieve the goals of the housing programs. the positive results are typified by those achieved in a 700unit project in williamsburg. brooklyn. n.y.. developed by kraus enterprises. inc.. which was financed by loans from the city of new york and assisted by rent supplement payments from hud. broad scale rehabilitation projects in new york and boston were also successfully undertaken by continental wingate corp. with mortgage financing insured by hud under section 236. section 167(k) is a necessary incentive for equity investment in a highly difficult and risky activity. it is explicitly mentioned as the incentive for rehabilitation in huds proposed regulations for section 23 leasing of rehabilitated housing. (24 cfr  1276.3(n) (2).) clearly. apart from this tax incentive one would invest in a rehabilitation project. since: the maximum allowable return from rents is only 6 percent and is rarely. if ever. realized in full. and because of the location and dependence on government rental assistance. there is little. if any. chance of the investor recovering his equity commitment on a future sale. critics of section 167(k) have prepared hypothetical tables indicating that: first and second. inconsistently. there are further equity contributions by the investors which represent an additional profitthe socalled "premium"-to the developer/contractor over and above any fees included in the government loan. it appears. however. from testimony before the house ways and means committee. that the actual pattern is far different from these hypothetical calculations. the only witness submitting a detailed statement as to numerical resuits in a section 167(k) project stated that: 1. equity contributions by the investors equal to over 20% of the government loan will often be necessary to cover all costs of completing the project (including the cost of the developers organization which performs the functions of land assembly. management pending rehabilitation. relocation and rentup losses).* at the 20% plus equity level 2. if long delays and difficulties are encountered (as they generally will be in this type of venture). the developer/contractor may --even at a 20% plus contribution levelrealize any significant net compensation after expenses for its work on the project. (see letter to the committee dated february 13. 1973 from stephen s. ziegler. esq.) this statement is supported by the little study. which stated that in view of the many potential pitfalls. it is  clear whether the tax benefits are "a sufficient incentive to encourage large producers to participate in rehabilitation." (arthur d. little. inc.. "project rehab monitoring reportoverview." p. 176 (hud report f. may 22. 1971). see also belin. "real estate rehabilitation: a new tax incentive. the tax rules." n.y.u. 29th inst. on fed. tax. (pt. 2) 1055. 106667 (1971).) the necessity for extending the section 167(k) incentive is demonstrated by plans currently being made by the williamsburg developerwith the new york state division of housing and community renewalfor a far larger project in the south bronx area of new york city. the required financial backing. and bonding. for this massive project are to be provided by a major life insurance companywhich will be compensated from the equity contributions of the investors. if section 167(k) is  extended. the 1976 and later stages of this project can proceedfor the basic reason that there will be funds available to pay the financial backer. the question might be raised. of course. as to whether certain of the abuses of the past 5 years might  recur in the future if section 167(k) were extended. in fact. however. hud. the state and local housing finance agencies. the sec and the blue sky authorities have already instituted controls to stop these abuses. including: first. strict cost certification requirements. second. increased bonding requirements. third. requiring that the developer and manager show a significant "track record" before granting a project loan. fourth. insistence on the advance submission of a management plan and pro*the little study confirms the difficulty and magnitude of these functions and the fact that the government loan does  contain any compensation therefor (see especially pp. 18081. 197. 217). mulgation of detailed guidelines on project management. and fifth. guidelines for disclosures in prospectuses offering equity interests. indeed. i am recommending that still further controls be added to section 167(k) in the extending legislation. that is: first. the section should apply only when. under a hud. state or local program: the owner is limited as to rental charges and net income. cost certification of development costs is required. and construction and development fees payable from mortgages proceeds are limited to specified percentages of other costs. these conditions are stricter than those  embodied in sections 1250(a) (1) (c) and 1039(b) (1) (b) which define qualified low- and moderateincome housing for purposes of different rules for taxation of gair by sale. the conditions will assure that the tax incentive will be granted only when the owners ecoic return is limited. second. the section should be limited to a situation in which the owner is taking a major developmental risk. a minimum requirement should be the rehabilitation of over 20 units in a 2year period. the minimum rehabilitation expenditure per unit should be raised from $3.000 to $8.000. third. the $15.000 limit on costs eligible for 60month depreciation should be increased to $20.000. this is necessary to keep the incentive apace with the increase in "brick and mortar" construction costs since 1969. fourth. it has been asserted that the present tax structure does  assure long term interest in project management. to overcome this objection. i would recommend the following changes in the rules under section 1250 governing the tax consequences of a disposition of a section 167(k) project: the gain realized on a foreclosure at any time during the first 200 months of operations should be fully taxed as ordinary income. thus providing a strong incentive for the developer and investors to have a continuing interest in the operations of the project. underexisting law section 1250(a) (1) (c) (iv) -the percentage of section 167(k) additional depreciation subject to tax at ordinary income rates on a deposit would otherwise decline by 1 percent per month after 100 months. the gain on the sale of the project should be fully taxable as long term capital gaineven if the project has  yet been held for 200 monthswhen all of the following requirements are met: the project was developed by the owner and held by it for at least 120 months. the sale is made to a tenants cooperative. with the approval of hud or the state or local agency. the aforesaid approval contains a finding by the agency that the cooperative was actually exercising management functions under a management contract with the owner for the 3 years preceding the sale. and all mortgage payments coming due beginning 1 year after cost certification. were made when due. these provisions will provide the owner with a substantial incentive to gradually and responsibly groom the tenants for the assumption of management of the project. with the foregoing changes. i believe that extension of section 167(k) for a further 5year period is greatly needed. such an extension will make possible a far broader use of rehabilitation in furnishing decent housingat a reasonable priceto lowincome working families. it will enable us to build upon the experiences of the past 5 yearsin achieving even better results in the future. by mr. javits:
the other question. . relates to page 69. function 1.0516  600. as to income security. there. a very large cut of $21 billion has been made in section 8 assisted housing programs. the reason being that the administration and the committee feel that we should  deal with new construction or rehabilitated housing. but should afford the subsidies to those who occupy existing housing. but it is well recognized that all of us may have a very different view if new construction and rehabilitation under section 8 assisted housing turns out to be what is necessary as i believe it still is and the congress acts to provide for those purposes. therefore. we ought to keep the matter under consideration until the second budget resolution and  conclude it here. do i understand the chairman of the budget committee agrees with that and feels that that can be settled as a committee purpose.
this amendment extends that assistance also to section 236assisted projects which are insured by state agencies rather than the federal government. as you k. the section 236 program. the old interest subsidy program to provide housing for low- and moderateincome citizens. is composed of two primary parts. the section 236(j) program with projects insured by the federal government and the section 236(b) program with projects financed by state agencies and  insured by the federal government. as many of you will remember. in proposing the section 236(b) part we were inviting the state agencies to fill a gap the federal government could  completely fill and providing them with a mechanism to do so. as a result. we have always attempted to treat the programs and tenants housed under the programs equally. the new troubled projects operating subsidy program. designed by hud and included within this bill as reported by the committee. does  do so at the present time. although both the committee debate and report language clearly recognized the need for assistance of the projects built under both parts of the section 236 program. with this amendment we are trying to follow the intent of the committee report since the owners of section 236(b) projects face the same inflationary forces as do their counterparts owning section 236(j) projects. there is justification for 20 percent of the tenants under this program being treated differently from the other 80 percent. however. we do recognize. as did the committee. huds need to collect reliable data and determine the extent of need in the section 236(b) projects. and therefore. going along with the intent of the committee. have under our amendment delayed funding under this program for statefinanced projects until october 1. 1979. while maintaining the principle of equality for all federally subsidized section 236 projects and tenants. the amendment is conditioned upon the fact that within the discretion of hud the owner or mortgagee of such statebacked projects should show their good faith by a contribution satisfactory to hud. this assistance could take the form of the provision of various services. forbearance on delinquencies. tax considerations. rental subsidies. or capital contributions. i hope very much the committee may look favorably on this amendment.
