. i wish to say just a wordand i shall be briefabout the national teachers corps. i have been visited by a considerable number of wonderful young men who have been trained for the national teachers corps. they came to see me. as well as other senators. from various universities. these young men paid their own way. they are dedicated to their work. they have sought this opportunity to serve the poor through the national teachers corps. which gives bright promise. like the peace corps and like vista. we k that it is badly needed in the war on poverty. there were 10.000 applicants who were attracted to the national teachers corps. but  we find ourselvesbecause there have been appropriations made by congresswith a remnant of 1.600 once eager teachers. who. having finished their special training.  have place to go. the program was launched with considerable promise. congress authorized $36.1 million for its first year. the administration requested less than half that amount-$13.2 millionand finally $9.1 million was appropriated. with tight restrictions on its expenditure. with this money. the national teachers corps went about giving special training to 1.616 teachers to go to needy. poverty schools. . funds are needed for the current year to pay these teachers to put their experience and their enthusiasm to work as contemplated by u.s. investment in their training. for fiscal year 1967. $64.715.000 is authorized. and the administration requested $31.372.000. which would have resulted in putting some 3.000 teachers in the field in slum schools. and aher 750 in training. unfortunately. the other body did  include any money for the national teachers corps in the laborhew appropriation bill which was approved by that body on may 5. and which is still pending before the appropriations committee in the senate. if the senate does  act affirmatively. the national teachers corps will become a broken promise to the slum child. and a shattered dream for the dedicated young people who have volunteered to step into the front lines as teachers in the fight against poverty. the senate has a real responsibility in this matter. i express the earnest hope that it can be met. we can. with logic. adopt a multibilliondollar antipoverty program and then let the national teachers corps die. the subcommittee on executive reorganization is holding hearings on the cities. under the chairmanship of the senator from connecticut . as to how urgently this kind of dedication is needed. here it is. right at hand. in this situation. if only they could be given a little money to take care of it. i express the earnest hope that the appropriations committee of the senate considering the matter may enable something to be done. we must answer the cries for help which we are hearing in a situation with which the whole country is confronted. i k of more worthwhile program than the national teachers corps. i commend it highly to the appropriations subcommittee hearing and hope that it will act on it affirmatively.
