. it has been some 10 years since the last overall review of the executive branch by the congress and 20 years last week. since the enactment of legislation establishing the first hoover commission. as a member of the government operations committee and as a former staff member of the first hoover commission. i am particularly aware of great changes in the size. emphasis. and complexity of government since the second hoover commission that point to the need for aher study of the operations of the executive branch. to this end. i have joined with my distinguished colleague from maryland for two consecutive congresses in introducing a bill to set up a commission on the reorganization of the executive branch. regrettably. there has been action to date on moving this legislation through committee. i would particularly commend the gentleman from maryland for his persistence and initiative today. although congressional scrutiny of the executive branch is continual. there is a definite need for a comprehensive study with a broad congressional mandate and widespread public support. this need is underscored by developments at home and abroad. the number of new federal programs established within the last 10 years is unprecedented since the days of the new deal. many of them require new or improved administrative machinery and the creation of new bureaus and offices whose duties and responsibilities are  always explicitly defined and distinguished from those of other units of government. the increasing need for action on problems of air and water pollution. traffic safety and congestion. aid for disadvantaged and consumer intereststo mention only a fewrequires a fresh look at the machinery of government that can best deal with these matters. further. the serious need to cut essential government spending. coupled with the proliferation of government activities. indicates a clear need to take a hard look at the whole structure of sound executive administration. a thorough study of the executive budget process. for example. might result in a clearer understanding of what is essential as opposed to what is merely desirable. and might lead to a system of priorities among proposed programs. on the foreign scene. our worldwide responsibilities and commitments have considerably enlarged since the last hoover commission. in my judgment. as a former ambassador. it is a matter of some importance to see whether our existing structure of government can deal effectively with our opportunities and responsibilities. in our nuclear age it is essential that we have new and more effective machinery to identify and get ahead of emerging problems before they become crises with limited and narrowing options. leading toward potential confrontation. today. the cabinet is overbalanced in favor of domestic departments. and it is a real question as to whether the executive is so structured as to give effect to our responsibility as leader of the free world. the bill we have introduced proposes to study those areas where reform is indicated. it is patterned after the legislation establishing the first and second hoover commissions but its powers and duties. as well as the membership of the commission. are broadened to meet the needs of the present age. this is a thoughtful and necessary piece of legislation and farreaching in the beneficial changes it portends for the administrative arm of our government.
i would like to pay my respects to my colleague. but i think he overlooks one important thing. what a good many of us are trying to do here is to keep us from being isolated.  isolationists. the great danger the united states faces is that we will break the backs of our people and our ecoy if our defense budget becomes $35.000.000.000 instead of $15.000.000.000. this is exactly what it will cost if you try to isolate the united s&aes and try to build a steel fence around it. and then history has always shown we will have a war. what we who are for this bill are trying to do is to have the country pay expenditures for peace. which will retain the peace. and whih will retain the lives of the 10.000.000 who may be killed in a next war. the philosophy the gentleman espouses here. i say with all respect. will cost us many billions of dollars and will eventually lead to a war that will destroy our country and our ecoy. and  save it.
. i join with my colleagues from so many states and with the deputy majority leader in commending the senior senator from new hampshire for his speech today. i am greatly impressed with two points which. very interestingly. are almost the same as the points at least implied by our colleague from minnesota . who made quite a speech on the same subject earlier in the week. and who in many ways stands on aher side of the political spectrum from the distinguished senator who has just spoken. i think this is especially impressive. i think the senator from new hampshire has put the country in his debt for two reasons. first. he has shown very clearly that when we have divisions of opinion in our country about a government official or a policy of government. this is  our weakness. it is our strength. for when any effort is made to exploit that difference of opinion by those who would use it against us. we rally as one man to the side of the person in authority and say. "he is our man." we can argue about it. one else can. that is tremendously impressive. especially coming from the senator from new hampshire. second. as the senator has pointed out in his great wisdom and wide experience. this is a long. hard pull. and involves many elements which will take the very best thought the country has. quick solutions are possible. painstaking. difficult work. and sacrifice over a very long period of time will be needed. a quick solution could lead to world war i. it is the slow solution we want. because we want a peaceful solution. the senator from new hampshire has made an outstanding contribution to the discussion of this question. and i thank him.
 should. and i am confident will. come to congress for the ultimate authority pursuant to the wording of the bretton woods act of a phase i interim settlement looking toward phase ii longterm negotiations could open the door to an unmatched balance of ecoic stability in the world which could lead to greater hope for peace than we have seen since the end of world war ii.
