. on march 25. 1975. the u.s. postal service will issue a stamp hoing heroes of the revolution. one of those hoed is haym salomon who settled in new york after fleeing poland in 1772. i wish to acquaint my colleagues with the accomplishments of this "patriot without a sword-" haym salomon was born of jewishportuguese parents in lissa. poland. in 1740. he fled from oppression to america in 1772. bringing with him a talent for linguistics and a passion for freedom. in new york. where he became a broker. he was one of the early members of a body of revolutionaries. when fire destroyed a great part of new york in 1776 the british arrested everyone they suspected of sympathy for the revolutionsalomon among them. the british discovered salomons talent for language during his imprisonment. they decided to use him as an interpreter with hessian soldiers who had come to america as british mercenaries. but salomon. instead of passing on in german the messages and instructions the british wished. suggested to the hessians that they desert. he told them that the colonists would win and they would then be killed. before the british became aware of this oneman sabotage campaign. salomon escaped. poor health made it impossible for him to serve in combat but he performed a great service. first he acted as paymaster general for the french forces fighting with the colonials. handling immense sums of money without charging commission. he was then appointed official broker to the office of finance of the continental congress. he floated loans. endorsed government loans. invested most of his own money in government bonds. equipped entire units from his own personal funds. and gave generously to needy servicemen. salomon died at age 45 as a direct result of his war experience. he had contracted a chronic lung ailment while a prisoner of the british. a committee of the u.s. senate in 1850 adopted a report on the services to the cause of the revolution rendered by haym salomon. it praises him as being one who "gave great assistance to the government by loans of money and by advancing liberally of his means to sustain the men engaged in the struggle for independence."
