. i am pleased to join today in introducing. with the senior senator from massachusetts a set of amendments to s. 318. a bill to preserve and promote the resources of the connecticut river valley. in 1966. the congress passed a bill authorizing a study of the connecticut river from the canadian border to long island sound. the study was conducted by the department of the interior. which found the 400mile stretch of river valley to be of priceless natural beauty. a rich historic heritage. and a wealth of recreational opportunities. the department also developed a proposal for preserving three units of the river valley: the coos unit in new hampshire and vermont. the mount holyoke unit in massachusetts. and the gateway unit in connecticut. a bill to preserve the gateway unit has already passed the senate. but the bill covering the mount holyoke unit has been held up in committee for several years. . at last. the many outstanding issues appear to have been resolved. the amendments which senator kennedy and i are introducing today have been carefully worked out in consultation with citizens groups in massachusetts. the national park service has been particularly helpful in advising on proposed changes. and the amendments have their support. i am hopeful that the revised bill to preserve and promote the resources of the connecticut river valley in massachusetts will receive the prompt and favorable consideration of the congress. for prompt action is needed if this region is to be protected for posterity.
. one of the essential elements in our action with respect to the captive nations is that we are trying to help in every way open to us. one of the great ways open to us is to encourage their most productive young people to escape from behind the iron curtain. behind which they are presently immured. so as to enable them to devote their best talents and best genius to the hope that the free world may use its great influence ultimately to bring about a selfdetermination by the captive nations. to which the free worlds prayers were directed in the resolution to which i have referred. this is an assurance of our interest. it is a sanction of our concern with what happens to the captive nations. which again represents practicing what we preach. i express the expectation that the necessary legislation may be before us before sine die adjournment so that we may again. as we did in the refugee relief act a few years ago. and as we did in the displaced persons act. consider the whole problem of refugees and escapees  in free europe and those who may come out by taking our fair share. which has always been the way in which the task of resettlement. to finally settle the problem. has been begun.
. i find objection to the bill. as a bill. and based upon the substantive elements which are concerned in it. but i take the strongest objection to a statement in the report at page 6. which reads as follows: the committee wishes to emphasize that it is  urging the senate to pass a bill which would contravene any of the wellestablished principles of international law which have been consistently followed in the past in connection with the payment of claims of american citizens under the international claims settlement act of 1949. as amended. one of these principles is that. in order to have his claim sustained. an individual must have been an american citizen at the time of the loss. this principle is in way involved in consideration of s. 2634. it is expressly because this principle is in way involved that i am  objecting to the bill. if it were involved. i would object very strongly for this reason. the alleged version of international law in the report is  international law at all in my opinion. because it is  applicable to people who have been driven out of their countries as they were in a number of the iron curtain countries.  through any wish of their own. but fleeing for their lives as escapees or refugees. then they were deprived of their property without opporturity to establish citizenship anywhere else. because they left completely involuntarily and against every concept of international law. let alone every concept of international morality. a year or two ago we passed a bill in which we gave benefits upon claims to those who had  been citizens at the time of their loss. they were italian nationals. the bill was the socalled italian claims bill. at that time i called specific attention to that situation as showing that this was  the rule of international law. indeed. it was  even being consistently applied. and therefore i reserved the right to contest it in any other situation in which it might be applied. specifically. i have already contested it in the socalled czechoslovakia claims act. which is  yet before us. but i wish to emphasize at this point that i challenge any such statement in the committees report. i wish to make clear that we are  adopting any such statement as a statement of the policy. because it is specifically said that the principle is in way involved in the consideration of this bill. indeed. it is . it is hing but a gratuitous statement in this report. and i thoroughly disagree with it as being unsound in law. contrary to our experience. and contrary to that international law. which i think is more sacred than any other. which protects inviolate the right of a person. wherever that person is. from being persecuted and chased out of his own country. i hope the foreign relations committee will pay strict attention to this proposition. which is of such great importance to those who are  american citizens. who have been much put upon and abused. who have been persecuted and harried from their own country. as well as despoiled of their own property. i shall  subscribe to any such proposition as is advocated in the report.
. i am happy to join in the tributes that mark the 43d anniversary of the independence of the republic of estonia. which is celebrated this year on february 24. the courageous people of estonia have steadfastly maintained their hope for freedom and independence despite hundreds of years of suppression under russian rulers. then on february 24. 1918. they established the estonian republic and proclaimed their independence. one of the smallest nationality groups in europe. the people of estonia were permitted to enjoy their independence for only two decades. in july 1940 their tiny country was overrun and annexed by the soviet union. and they have since been sealed off from the rest of the world behind the iron curtain. but communist regimentation and oppression have  succeeded in stamping out the flame of freedom. which continues to burn in this unfortunate land. the estonian people continue to pray for their deliverance and freedom. on this anniversary i am happy to join with americans of estonian descent in their hopes that their distressed kinsmen will one day regain their independence.
