i would like to make the senator from new hampshire. the chairman of the commerce appropriations subcommittee. aware of a strong ecoic development proposal from my home state of rhode island. the proposal focuses on the reation of the restored historic theater at the providence performing arts cen-
i would like to make the senator from new hampshire. the chairman of the commerce appropriations subcommittee. aware of a strong ecoic development proposal from my home state of rhode island. the proposal focuses on the reation of the restored historic theater at the providence performing arts cen-
. i deeply regret that senate concurrent resolution 14 as approved by the other body has been amended to omit recognition of arlington. mass.. as the birthplace of samuel wilson. as author of a resolution identical to senate concurrent resolution 14 in its original form. i have investigated the origins of "uncle sam" wilson with meticulous care. i am distressed that reference to his birthplace has been stricken from the legislation  before us. facts available through the library of congress. the arlington. mass.. historical society. and other distinguished and reliable sources. clearly establish that "uncle sam" wilson was born in the town of old meomy.  kn as arlington. in what today is the fifth district of massachusetts. which i have the ho to represent. on september 13. the 195th anniversary of the birth of "uncle sam" in 1766 in old meomythe troy. n.y. area committee for uncle sam will hold an official observance at the grave of this progenitor of our national symbol. full cognizance of the fact that uncle sam had his origins in the fifth district of massachusetts will be given at this ceremony. the troy committee also has carefully researched dusty archives and have emerged with unquestionable supporting evidence that "uncle sam" is as much a product of the fifth district of massachusetts as are the minutemen. concord bridge and lexington green. they have dispelled the folktales which would have it that "uncle sam" was born elsewhere. the reverend samuel cook who attended the birth of samuel wilson at old meomy on september 13. 1766. records that important fact in his "abstracts of births. deaths. and marriages." aher source book is benjamin cutters "history of the town of arlington. mass.. 16351879. with genealogy." "vital records of arlington. through the year 1850." supports the facts. language in paragraph 4 of the preamble of the bill which was approved by the other body. which read: whereas the story of samuel wilsons life. from his early colonial beginnings in old meomy (later west cambridge.  arlington. mass.) and mason. n.h.. to his rise in prominence and great public affection and esteem in troy. n.y.. where the sobriquet of "uncle sam" was given him. in an abridged story of america. and and. the resolving clause. reading: that the congress salutes "uncle sam" wilson. of troy. n.y.. as the progenitor of americas national symbol of uncle sam. and also recognizes arlington. mass.. famed in the history of americas dawning years. as the birthplace of the said samuel wilson. gave clear expression to established historical fact. in the interests of recognition. too long denied. of the contribution of samuel wilsons life to our culture and our heritage. i urge that senate concurrent resolution 14 be adopted.
. john f. kennedy. and mrs. kennedy in their 3 short years in the white house enriched the cultural life of our nation beyond measure. our appreciation for their vital interest in the arts should be expressed in a living tribute. plans presently underway for a national center for the performing arts should be stepped up and the product of the encouragement of mr. kennedy and the labors of so many citizens should be rededicated as the john f. kennedy memorial center. this will be the most appropriate memorial to a man who firmly believed that the extent of a nations esteem for the arts is a reflection of the quality of its civilization. i am introducing legislation to this effect and ask that a fine editorial which appeared in this mornings washington post be included at this point in the record:
. i am happy to rise in support of this legislation. a nation is  judged by military might. industrial ingenuity. and natural resources alone. its own citizens. other nations. and future historians judge it by the quality of its culture. and the importance it attaches to creative expression. the u.s. government from its earliest history has evidenced its support for the creative arts. the u.s. constitution itself authorized congress to provide protection for authors and inventors. george washington commented in 1790 that "there is hing which can better deserve our patronage than the promotion of science and literature." i doubt that most of us realize the extent to which various departments and agencies are involved in cultural and artistic endeavors of one sort or aher. there appears to be coordination of any sort between these agencies and central evidence of our continuing determination to strengthen the position of the arts in our society. in this respect the government has lagged behind the nation. in recent years. we have witnessed a tremendous growth in public interest and participation in the arts. paperback book sales have soared. symphony orchestras have enjoyed greater patronage. theater groups have sprung up all across the nation. more and more art galleries have opened in towns and cities throughout the country. these trends indicate a heartening upsurge in support for the arts. the modest bill before us today will do much to encourage these developments and provide a source of central coordination and direction in the national council on the arts. in large measure. this bill is the product of the hard work and dedication of the gentleman from new york. congressman john v. lindsay. congressman lindsay. who represents the hub of our nations theaters. museums. and publishing houses. has labored mightily to bring this measure to the floor of the house. for more than 4 years he has mobilized important support for this legislation from leaders of all the arts and waged an unceasing campaign to impress all of us here in congress with the importance of this public declaration of approval and encouragement. i am proud to support the gentleman from new york. congressman lindsay. in this effort and i urge my colleagues to join us in voting for this measure.
. recently. our former colleague ambassador stanley r. tupper. and dr. douglas l. bailey. published a book on the future of united statescanadian relations. entitled in its canadian edition. "one continenttwo voices. the future of canadianunited states relations." the book which originated in a paper on united statescanadian affairs first put forward by mr. tupper in 1966. is a thoughtful and imaginative discussion of the relations between two of the three th american nations. among the favorable reviews accorded the work is one by robin w. winks. which appeared in the toronto globe and mail on july 15. i include the text of mr. winks review in the record:
 has found a person uniquely qualified to direct the governments effort in this area. miss hanks has had extensive experience in washington. especially in the white house during the eisenhower administration. her credentials in the arts are widely recognized. she served as head of the associated council of the arts. a private organization which supports the arts. most recently. she was associated with the rockefeller brothers special projects funds where she was primarily responsible for turning out a comprehensive report on financing the performing arts. in the washington post for sunday. september 7. there appeared the following editorial regarding miss hanks appointment and i include it at this point in the record:
. in this era of rapid and complex techogical change. when our attention is constantly drawn to urgent domestic problems and international crises. moments of beauty seem all too fleeting and things of value all too fragile. yet there is much of this countrys culture to be enjoyed. indeed. the beauty and pleasure derived from music. and art. for example. can be shared by all of our people. young and old. rich and poor. black or white. this mutual pleasure and appreciation provides a kind of communication and promotes greater understanding and a high sense of common interest among all peoples. creativity in the arts and humanities plays a vital role in the health of our nation. and due to the emous dedication and constant efforts of an extraordinary lady. nancy hanks. the national foundation on the arts and humanities is accelerating its efforts to enrich american life and extend cultural opportunities to all americans. it is small tribute to her intelligence. her vitality. and her deep belief in the importance of assisting and supporting artistic and humanistic developments. that there is growing congressional endorsement of the role of the government in sustaining the arts. due to- her efforts. moreover. there is a significantly greater interest in and appreciation of the arts and humanities as an essential part of a meaningful life. i have had the privilege of king miss hanks for a number of years. she assumed the chairmanship of the foundation on the arts and humanities last year and brought to it extensive experience in the artsboth as the former head of the associated council of the arts. a private organization which supports the arts. and as the director of a study sponsored by the rockefeller fund which resulted in a comprehensive report on financing of the performing arts. that study contributed significantly to the formation of the national council on the arts. miss hanks devoted and energetic leadership of the national foundation has brought her increasing admiration and appreciation as evidenced by marquis childs column which appeared in the washington post of august 1. 1970. i include it at this point in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that the unfinished business be temporarily laid aside. and that the senate proceed to consider senate resolution 110. calendar 251. extending an invitation to hold the 1956 winter olympic games at lake placid. n. y.
. the international olympic committee meets in rome on april 24 to act on invitations for the 1956 winter olympics. i am advised that in previous years the country selected as the host to the summer field olympics is usually given priority consideration for the winter olympics of the same year. inasmuch as time is of the essence. i earnestly request the adoption by the senate of this resolution so that it may be transmitted to the international olympic committee at rome in time to lend support to the invitation previously extended by the village of lake placid.
the senator from new york thanks the very generous senator from south carolina. the senator from new york would merely like to point out that all that has been disposed of so far is one title. title iii. title iii does  necessarily in any way. shape. or manner determine the substance of the rest of the bill. there are other things which need to be changed. other provisions in the tafthartley act which need to be decidedly changed. and i do  k why. because title ]ii may  be the way some of us want it to be. we should  go to work  and try to correct the laborrelations statute which is  on the books by writing a new statute with the imperfections of the present statute eliminated so far as it is possible to do so.
. please do  misunderstand me. i give to science all the credit to which science can possibly lay claim. it is vitally important. however. i feel very strongly about this question. and i should like to inquire of someone representing the committeeand i assume the senator from oregon does that himselfas to whether it was the intention of the committee to treat the liberal arts as of secondary importance.
the question i wouid raise with the senator from oregon also applies to the senator from georgia. is it the understanding of either senator that the emphasis here is by action of the committee placed on the scientists on the fields of the healing art. and on matters of that particular kind. which are scientific. and that the humanities or the liberal arts are in a secondary position.
 of the united states. instead. i portrayed the lives of the five eisenhower brothers of abilene. kans.. with emphasis on their religious background and on the homely virtues which dominated this midwestern american family. being a political exile from communism. i pray that the spirit of democracy. liberty. and freedomunder which members of this average american family rose to successwill reach the american people and make them conscious of the intangible values of democracy which are  appreciated as fully as they should be. this book has received much favorable comment by way of book reviews and editorials. perhaps the most pertinent and effective presentation of this nature appears as an editorial in the june 26. 1955. issue of the new york sunday news. and i ask that the text of this editorial be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
it may seem strange. but i dare say that in many ways we are in agreement. i had thought there was general agreement as to the purpose of any legislation to eliminate the improper activities disclosed by the mcclellan committee. i had understood that purpose was to protect the rank and file workers from dishonest union officials and to assure to them democratic processes in the operation of their unions. without depriving them of control over these unions by governmental interference and intrusion. for example. the junior senator from arizona [ of the united states will also approve it. and we shall then have a law on the books which will go a long way toward cleaning up and preventing any recurrence of conditions which the mcclellan committee has unearthed.
 from among private citizens. will make creative recommendations as to how high standards and increased opportunities in the arts may be encouraged and promoted to the benefit of all americans. i hope this important bill will be strongly supported.
. i rise in support of the bill and i hope it will be promptly passed with bipartisan support. the legislation which we enacted into law in the 88th congress--establishing the national council on the artswas an important first step in recognizing the arts at the national level and willi believeencourage the growth and development of the arts throughout the united states.
. in my judgment this amendment is clear. it simply provides for public access to books and records as a matter of law. i believe this is important* and that it will sustain the right of the american people to k the facts.
 the hour is late to deal with the substance of the bill. the consideration of which is authorized by house resolution 478. i will merely state that h.r. 9460 enjoys bipartisan support. as the gentleman from new jersey has pointed out. over 100 members support the bill. many members on this side of the aisle support it. i think it is clear that in america today there is a growing feeling that the arts and humanities deserve greater recognition and support at the national level. particularly since there is great emphasis in this day and age on the sciences. i intend to support the bill. i believe in it. i also plan to offer an amendment at the appropriate time. finally. i would say that it is true. as stated in the miity views. that the bill did go through the full committee at a very rapid rateroughly. 15 minutes. in my judgment. there was  adequate time for consideration. however. the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee . has given the bill very careful thought and study over the years. i believe on balance it is a bill that should be supported
. i happen to be one of those. as the members perhaps k. who has cared particularly about the freedom of the press. i have been equally concerned with freedom for the arts and with autoy for the arts.
the congress. i believe. should take a very careful look at the question of autoy for the arts. i would ask the gentleman from new jersey. the distinguished chairman of our subcommittee. if we might  have a little colloquy at this point on this matter. first. i would state that this bill. h.r. 9460. lodges the authority in the several provisions of the bill with the two different chairman and  with the two councilsthe national council on the arts and the national council on the humanities. am i correct in that. i would ask the distinguished gentleman from new jersey.
i would call to the attention of the members the experience of great britain. and i think it is  without some relevance. in great britain the council on the arts very clearly has the power lodged with the council. specifically. and i quote from the charter: section 1. the arts council shall have full power by and in such name(a) to sue and be sued. (b) to enter into contracts or agreements in furtherance of the said objectives of the council. (c) to accept. hold and dispose of money or other personal property in furtherance of said objectives. including such sums voted by parliament to that end. (d) to accept trusts * * * (e) to invest monies and funds of the council which are  immediately required to be expended in furtherance of the said objectives. (f) generally to do all other lawful acts whatsoever that may be conducive or incidental to attainment of the objects for which the council is hereby established. it is very clear that the principle in great britain is keeping the arts council totally separate from any degree of government control. this point is made by several prominent individuals: eric w. white. assistant secretary of the council writes: the arts council is  a government department. minister directs its policies or decides how. and to whom. its grants shall be made. there is record of any civil servant requiring or directing. or even advising. the council on what or what  to do. and if ever some action of the council -is criticized in parliament. successive chancellors of the exchequer have invariably declared that they will  interfere with the arts council discretion. sir william emyrs williams. secretary general of the council. states that the council is "wholly free from state control of any kind." the council divides the funds at its disposal "as it deems best." * finally. sir david ormsbygore. former british ambassador to the united states. speaking at the fifth assembly of the american national theater and academy. said: the arts council decides to the best of its ability which organizations. musical or theatrical. are doing the sort of job which deserves support from public funds * * *. how much support they need to do that job properly. and how their claims compare with those of others. * * * the individual organization is then left to make its own best use of the money available. the council. for example. does  choose plays to be performed. "commitment to culture." a book by frederick dorian. makes the same point very clearly on page 382: the chairman of the arts council presides at all official meetings. but he is  the chief who can insist on specific artistic policies. the question. therefore. it seems to me. is whether or  the congress wishes to establish an arts council where the authority is lodged with the chairman. and  with the council itself. i personally have the greatest confidence in roger stevens. i think we are fortunate that he is willing to serve. and i think his contributions to the arts are clear. however. we are concerned  with an individual but with a principle. i would ask the distinguished gentleman from new jersey what his view is with regard to the role of the chairman in the determination of grants and specific amounts of money to the several areas mentioned in the bill. whether it is a project or a production or a group or workshop. i believe this should be done with the approval of the appropriate council.
. i hope that a principle will be made clear here today that is basic and of paramount importanceautoy for the arts. the congress must be disinterested as between particular grants. there must be a clear insulation from federal control and from the dead hand of the government. congress should support the arts in my judgment. but without attempting to influence artistic judgment or direction. the congress must  interpose its ideas on artistic questions. this should be left entirely to the talented and public spirited men and women who serve on the national council on the arts and its several distinguished panels on the theater. the dance. and the visual arts. the congress has the right and clearly so to appropriate funds for the encouragement of the arts. but we should  deal with specific grants which. in my judgment. would be a grave error. we must. as the house of commons has for two decades. uphold independence for the arts free from political interference.
. my bill would give employers and employees in the performing arts that authority which is essential to the efficient and fair conduct of their business. in my judgment. this measure is in the public interest and i am hopeful that the congress will act promptly.
. i am happy to be able to join with several colleagues in introducing today legislation to amend the national foundation on the arts and humanities act of the amendments proposed. while generally of a technical nature. will make needed changes in the scope of the foundations endeavors and the procedures under which it operates. i believe the foundation has worked creatively in the state of new york and throughout the nation to support and encourage artists. authors. playwrights. and the members of the dance. in addition to grants to a number of talented individual new yorkers in several fields. national organizations based in new york city have also received assistance from the national endowment for the arts. for example. the academy of american poets received a matching grant to launch a lecture series entitled "dialogs on the art of poetry." for high school teachers. the american lyric theater workshop received a grant to create a special theater laboratory for professional actors. writers. musicians. and dancers. under the direction of jerome robbins. the educational broadcasting corp. received a matching grant under a program to enable educational stations throughout the country to provide additional programing in various art fields. other grants indicative of the diversity and cre:.tivity of the foundations endeavors went to the american playwright theater. the new york city opera co.. the new york shakespeare festival. and the new york state council on the artsthe first state arts council. the national endowment for the humanities has supported as well numerous individual and institutional projects with financial assistance for research and publications. educational. and special projects. and fellowships and stipends in many areas of intellectual and creative endeavor. this range of work gives earnest of our concern at the national level for the arts. and we should. in my judgment. continue to fully support the efforts of the foundation. to this end. the amendments proposed in this legislation will make important changes in the procedures of the foundirect tiein with local government required in law. dation while continuing that artistic freedom and independence from government control or direction that is vital for full and free development of creative endeavors. i think that the congress must take especial care that. whatever the nature of the amendments ultimately adopted. we do  attempt to legislate standards for projects supported by the foundation. the role of the critic and the judge should be left to roger stevens and dr. barnaby keeney. and to their distinguished councils. five significant amendments are contemplated in this legislation. first. the definition of the term "workshop" in section 3(f) of the act would be amended to include workshops in the humanities as well as those in the arts. second. changes in sections 5(c) and 5(f) of the act would permit the national endowment for the arts to enter into contracts as well as award grants. further. the endowment could. under this amendment. provide assistance to a group for a survey in the art. without requiring the group to match the federal contribution. this change could be particularly valuable for new arts organizations which do  yet have the facilities or personnel for matching fund solicitation. third. section 5(h) (5) would be amended to permit the national endowment for the arts to use any amounts remaining after grants are made to the states for further program activities. it is contemplated that such funds could be used to make grants to groups within states or to support regional activities among several states. fourth. changes are proposed in the duties of the national council on the arts and the national council on the humanities. under present law. each council must make a recommendation on every application submitted to the endowment before the chairman may approve or disapprove the application. this procedure. given the large volume of applications and. the relative infrequency of council meetings. is  in the best interest of efficient operation. thus. it is suggested that a council recommendation  be required where the chairman intends to disapprove an application and that each council be authorized to waive the application review requirement in favor of the endowment chairman concerned under such circumstances and with such restrictions as the council may choose to include. fifth. amendments are suggested to permit more discretion with respect to the matching of restricted gifts with funds provided under section 11(b). at present. only unrestricted gifts may be matched. a requirement which has curtailed the opportunity for obtaining gifts. finally. openended authorizations are recommended. beginning in fiscal year 1969. in order to accommodate the inrequires consultation with federal. state and local public agencies. requires the foundation to use existing public agency programs as much as possible. coadjuvant (shared risk) loans with public agencies. "local profit housing association" defined to include public housing. creasing number of applications. openended authorizations will also permit more flexibility in allotting funds to the different categories of assistance. as demand and budgetary considerations will allow.
 i believe it is essential that we strongly and fully support the arts and the humanities and recognize this as a national priority. as roger stevens stated in the annual report of the endowment for the arts: we believe that the time has come for our society to give  merely ceremonial ho to the arts. but genuine attention and substantive support. we must do this  alone because it is good for the arts. but because our nations survival as a civilized society depends on it. exposure to the arts and to the humanities is  simply a way to fill leisure hours but a genuine improvement of the mind. of the taste. of the sense of judgment. our nation is poor in spirit if our artistic and scholarly endeavors do  keep pace with our material progress. and a nation that lacks an awareness of what it is about and whence it came. that lacks a heritage for this generation to hand down to its children. that lacks a sense of time fleeting and the permanence of artthat lacks. in short. all those things which spring from enjoyment of the arts and study of the humanitiesthen that nation will have done little to make its mark on the history of mankind.
as the gentleman ks. i have supported significant cuts and i will continue to do so. voting in toto against public works. agriculture. and for a cutback in space. i have quarrel over the fact that we must make significant cuts or that we need expenditure control over past appropriations. which we presently lack. but i will argue strenuously that the role of the artist should be equated with the role of the teacher. that it is just as important to support the arts and scholarship as it is to spend money for hospitals. let alone roads.
first. i believe the gentlemans question is very pertinent. i believe that an increase in funds here will result in a substantial increase in matching funds from the private sector and other federal sources. i believe further that it will permit many theatrical groups. symphonies. and others. to continue. it is a question. basically. of whether we wish to give the arts a national priority. or whether we do . i would  argue with the gentleman about whether we should cut. but i would argue that we should  cut here. because of the serious deficita term the gentleman frequently uses with great effectbecause of this deficit in the arts and in the humanities we would be shortchanging the youth of america if we did  do something to assist the study of the humanities and we would be making a serious mistake in national priorities if we did  support the arts.
i think it might be useful to emphasize at this point in the record that the state arts councils have been uniquely successful. they are  in over 50 states and territories. and the funds have been more than matched. so federal dollars have really been the seed money that has gone throughout the united states. the state arts councils constitute one of the most hopeful programs we have.
 i took the liberty of talking on this particular point  with roger stevens but with august heckscher. who was concerned with the idea of establishing the theater fund. he tells me that it would be essentially to support a private enterprise theater. it would  be for clubs and only for plays of unusual merit. what would happen. as the gentleman ks. perhaps. is that there would be some tickets provided at lower cost. particularly for students. that would in.sure the continuance of a play of superior merit. but it is really an investment in private enterprise in the theater. as you can see.
i would concur with the statement of the distinguished gentleman and would point out. in addition. that i believe the members of the councils are some of the ablest and most kledgeable americans in the arts and the humanities. and i believe the whole intent of our efforts and theirs is to keep these selections totally free from government control and based entirely on artistic and humanistic merit.
. i hope that through the efforts of this bill and other steps we will soon have more permanent theater groups in this nation. we should have at least tenwe have only five. i would surely think that america can afford at least 12 symphony orchestras which are  worried about their survival on a daytoday basis. and i hope that we can adequately finance at least five opera companies whereas today there is only one that has any significant financial resources. in short. i believe that what we do here today will give a clear indication as to whether or  we believe our artists and humanists should be ranked with the educators. and whether congress will give proper recognition to the arts and the humanities.
. there can be and i think there has been a legitimate debate on the level of funding. i have taken a different position than some. but i do  think that the present amendment is wise. i think it would be a major and serious mistake to rule out the individual artist and thereby affect the heart of the arts endowment. let me say at the outset that i think this committee. and indeed this congress. would be on dangerous ground if we tried to invade the area of selection of individual grants or categories. this is something the house of commons and the british arts council have very studiously and very scrupulously avoided. more than that. i think we must always be concerned with individual creativity. i would read on this point from a brief letter of roger stevens. he said: there has been some questioning of our program of grants to individual artists. a feeling that perhaps the federal government finds it difficult to decide upon and select the artists to be supported . . . there are problems in making grants to individual artists. doubt. . . . the only trouble is that artists. and often the greatest of them. do  maintain contacts with the institutions that would probably be used for this purpose. for example a university. to require them to do so might lead to compulsion on the artist. or might cut the federal government off from the main source of progress in the arts. as elsewhere throughout american experience: the creative individual. mr. stevens continues: 0 there is aher excellent reason for direct support of the artist by the government in the united states. frequently an artist can and does live on very little money. r if he has hope that the society in which he i lives believes in what he is trying to accomplish. the important fact is that when the federal government gives recognition to the artist. he is being recognized and hoed by all of the american people. i would urge consideration and reconsideration of this amendment. i believe it would seriously weaken and circumscribe the endowment for the arts. and it might remove the individual and creative artist from an area of basic and fundamental support.
. it is a tangible symbol that the american people and their government recognize that things of the spirit are as important to the future of mankind as material improvements and techogical advances. it constitutes further recognition of the arts at the national level. the fact is that this nation is  doing egh for the arts. for the music. dance. theater. visual and spoken arts that invigorate us as a people and sustain men as individuals. and that will give identity to our time in the history of mankind. i wish that it had been possible to complete the kennedy center at its original cost but construction estimates of 11 years ago unfortunately bear little resemblance to todays costs. over $24 million in private contributions have been collected for the centers construction. we must complete this building and without more expensive delay. we are all concerned about trimming unnecessary federal spendingbut i consider the $1212 million in this bill necessaryand would respectfully suggest to those who are  disposed to that point of view that a review of the budgets of some of the other departments of this government would reveal sums well in excess of that amount in appropriations and loan authority that could be eliminated without danger to our country or its important programs. i urge bipartisan support of this bill.
 specifically. i believe the point here in this colloquy is first that the anthologies have been terminated and that the policy is changed to provide grants only to advance future creative work rather than to recognize past accomplishments. second. it is a question of keeping total separation between the arts and the federal government. grants are and must continue to be made solely on artistic and academic merit by the arts and humanities councils. the congress must play role in artistic judgment. this is solely the province of the councils and will insure that there will be federal domination of the arts richard in that connection.
 of the new york philharmonic. the theater is in similar difficulties. with ticket income up 8 percent in 2 years and gross expenditures up 17 percent. the problem is  confined to institutional art but affects individuals as well. a recent survey of former participants in the macdowell colony showed that 74 percent of the writers. 92 percent of the composers. and 88 percent of the painters and sculptors could  support themselves from the earnings of their art. for the future. the arts endowment plans to spend several million dollars on the expansion and improvement of the public service and quality of 90 major orchestras. additional funds will also go to museums which might otherwise have to curtail some of their activities. and more money will go to opera companies for new productions and tours to benefit many americans who do  live near resident groups. on the humanities side. additional funds are needed for basic research. for improving education in the humanities. for fellowships for writers. teachers. and scholars. and for expanded use and enjoyment of the humanities by the general public. most specifically. there continues to be a grave imbalance between the humanities and the sciences in terms of federal support. only 21/2 percent of the postdoctoral fellowships awarded in this country go to humanists. and the federal government spends $5 million on the humanities as opposed to $15 billion for the sciences. i urge support for this bill. which i think is essential to the quality of american life. i think the funds that are made available will return four. five. and 10 times to the benefit of future americans.
 at this point. let me make four quick points first. there has been a very interesting and revealing study made of the state of new york by the american council for the arts in education. the results have been compiled by the national research center for the arts. specifically. this survey points out a majority of new york state residents have a decidedly positive outlook toward the arts and favor increased cultural facilities in their communities. moreover. it stresses strong support for additional arts funds comes from blue collar workers. among others. let us take a look at exactly what we are doing. i remember in the days when the arts only got $2.5 million. but here we are increasing federal funds for the arts from $38.2 million to $72.5 million. that sounds like a lot. however. let me call your attention to one very simple figure. the $72.5 million represents only 32 cents per person nationally. if you were living in canada. you would be spending $1.40. if you were living in west germany. it would be $2.40 per person. and if you were in vienna. one of the great artistic centers of the world. people spend $5.50 for the arts. yet in the most affluent nation in the world we are starting to haggle about spending 32 cents per person. for those concerned about the artists. let me point out that three out of four artists in the professional theater today are without jobs55 percent of equity members lack jobs. in terms of operating costs. in the metropolitan operaan entity of cultural merit which i am sure everyone in this house believes has great value to our country and to the cultural worldthe box office income covers only 47 percent of the operating costs. the same is true of dance and orchestras. and in the state of new york the operating deficit in terms of box office sales is on the order of $70 million. major and metropolitan orchestras have a shortfall of about $40 million. or almost 50 percent. this is true of the metropolitan opera. the museum of modern art. the buffalo symphony. and all kinds of museums and artistic endeavors. we are  doing what we should for our working artists. or for residences for artists. or studios with good light. and when we look at the case of the humanities we are still spending a fraction of what we should spend. a few years ago we were spending $5 million on the humanities. and $15 billion on the sciences. what we are really saying is that the future of our country depends on the cultural quality of our life. and try to cut back one program that has been a distinct success. that is supported by a majority of americans. is essential to our cultural wellbeing and. indeed. to our national decisions. would be very. very foolish in my judgment. and it would be a travesty to our commitment to artistic endeavor and to the humanities. i say to the members today that to haggle over 32 cents is a very unwise decision to take. as regards the state of new york. i think it is essential  only for purely cultural reasons. but also for the ecoic benefits provided the communities by these federal funds. in buffalo. for instance. i am certain that the buffalo philharmonic attracts tourists. visitors. and increases business in restaurants and other businesses. further. i would e that 35.000 jobs in new york state are directly related to the profit arts. i believe the bill should be strongly supported and the amendment soundly defeated.
. i rise in support of the national foundation on the arts and humanities and the appropriation therefor in the department of the interior and related agencies appropriation bill. 1967. being h.r. perhaps the best example to demonstrate that governmental support and assistance serves to stimulate private fundirg for the arts is contained in the 4year history of the new york state council on the arts. the council began its activities with a survey of needs. during its first year196162the council operated with a budget of $450.000 over 70 percent of which was supplied by its state appropriation. the remainder coming from private sources. during 196465. the ratio was entirely reversed. with almost 75 percent of a larger budget--$562.000coming from private funding and the remainder from the state. the councils appropriation in 196162 was $330.000. in 196465. this has been more than halvedto $153.000. during the same period. the number of communities served by the council doubled. from 46 to 92. the number of performances tripled. 92 to 277. and the number of touring companies aided by the council increased almost twelvefold. from 6 to 71from the testimony of john hightower. executive director of the council. a special report prepared for the u.s. office of education and printed in the hearings calls the new york state council on the arts "the most developed state council in the country." and continues: new york has also amply demonstrated that a state can assist and further the arts without loss of freedomwithout setting up controls. the bill is intended to encourage this type of state activity in the arts throughout the whole of the united states. a great deal of what needs to be said in this field has been previously said by my predecessor. john v. lindsay.  mayor of new york city. he was the coauthor of the arts council bill. and. in support of it. in this body stated on august 20. 1964. as follows:
. i support h.r. 13783. "a bill to amend the acts of march 3. 1931. and october 19. 1962. relating to the furnishing of books and other materials to the blind so as to authorize the furnishing of such books and other materials to other handicapped persons." i am vitally concerned with the problems of these physically handicapped people as was my predecessor. john v. lindsay. mayor lindsay of new york. when a congressman. as one of his first acts in the 89th congress. 1st session. on january 4. 1965. introduced h.r. 94. having a similar purpose to the legislation before us. to help quadriplegics. incidentally. the functions of the library of congress in this field administered at the division for the blind and referred to in report  1600. are analyzed and considered at length in an article in the new yorker magazine ofember 3. 1962. commencing at page 204. "a reporter at large. the recorded companions." it points up the valuable educational function performed.
. a .new edifice has risen in the heart of my district. it is the new whitney museum of american art at the corner of madison avenue and 75th street. it is designed by marcel breuer. who has just been chosen to design the new franklin d. roosevelt memorial in washington. d.c.. by the f.d.r. memorial commission of which i am a member. the old whitney museum was located at 22 west 54th street and has been sold to the museum of modern art. on september 28. the new whitney museum of american art will open to join the ranks of the other worldrened institutions of culture. the new york times of saturday. july 23. forecast the advent in an interesting article by sanka k. which follows:
. ard hoffmann lived in the heart of my congressional district at 144 east 58th street. he was typical of the district in his interest in art and culture. but he was outstanding in his ability as an artist to convey the meaning of freedom in the antinazi themes of some of his best kn paintings. his death at the age 80 is mourned because of his great contribution to society. his obituary from the new york times follows:
. my republican colleagues have rightfully raised the question of the political use of the kennedy film. "years of lightningday of drums." which. incidentally. is a fine film that all americans should see. i am familiar with this situation because i acted as special counsel for the kennedy centeri might add. without feebefore i was elected to congress. in connection with the distribution arrangement. neither the usia  the kennedy center  the embassy pictures. the distributor. is involved in this political manipulation. it is simply a question of a democratic candidate arranging a theater party. as anyone could. to trade on the kennedy name. it is unfair. in my opinion. to do this. but any legitimate organizationas to which the republican party could be the most legitimatehas the right to do this. i am happy to say that i am informed that the theater involved in milwaukee. wis.. has withdrawn this permission. the picture plays in a theater and anybody can buy tickets and run a theater party. hopefully. other democratic candidates will  try to take advantage of the fact that anyone can go to a movie theater in order to claim special privilege.
 kennedy in order to attempt to set at rest the uncertainty still remaining withstanding the publication of the warren report just 2 years ago. i have a special order for the close of legislative business tomorrow to present my statement in connection with the resolution. i will also at that time list the library of congress compilation of literature on the subject. the latest article by tom wicker of the new york times. appeared on sunday. september 25. and in wellconsidered fashion points up the public concern on the subject. the wicker article follows:
. for many years. there has been discussion about the need for preserving the great backlog of film heretofore produced and going back to the turn of the century. because of the great cultural potential. film and other reproductive devices deserve additional thought and assistance. my colleagues will be interested in the fact that the american film institute has been organized as a profit. governmental corporation to preserve. protect. and develop the artistic and cultural use of film. it will be ed that george stevens. jr.. involved in the production of wellrespected usia film "years of lightning. day of drums." will be the chief executive officer of the new corporation. the new york times article of june 6 regarding this organization and the public figures connected with it follows:
. having newly arrived in the 2d session of the 89th congress. i did  have the opportunity of king art younger for very long before his passing. etheless. in the short period of our acquaintance i found him friendly and understanding. we had some interesting discussions concerning mutual problems of california and new york. i join with my colleagues in expression of sadness at his passing and in sincere condolences to his family.
. my friend. emanuel "manny" ress. the political poet laureate and button king. is dead. he was a pioneer in the art of titillating the ticket in political situations. he knew all the politicians of whatever party and station. and was friend to all. his buttons and slogans were "clean  obscene." and he would  have it otherwise. manny will be missed. and he would have appreciated the conclusion "ress in peace." his obtituary from the new york times of wednesday. july 26. 1967. follows:
. as we look forward to the growth of the study of the arts and humanities in this country. and to a greater stress on international education. i pay tribute to the american academy in rome. the farsightedness of its distinguished founders. the efforts of its trustees and directors. and the creative work of its many residents and visitors over the past 70 years have been of great benefit to our country here and abroad and have provided us all with an example we should try to emulate. i am pleased to be the sponsor of legislation which will enable the american academy in rome to continue and expand its splendid work and many contributions to the fields of art and humanity.
 of the salmagundi club. an outstanding group interested in the arts and humanities in my district. testified on august 15. 1967. before the special subcommittee on arts and humanities of the senate committee on labor and public welfare of the united states. 90th congress. first session. on s. 2061 to amend the national foundation on the arts and the humanities act of 1965. his testimony appears at page 455 of the hearings. i am pleased to bring his testimony to the attention of my colleagues. because it presents for consideration some sage advice on the program. the testimony follows:
 herman d. kenin. of the american federation of musicians. on the the subject of "duties of public authorities in supporting music and the theater in the united states." this talk was given at the international secretariat of entertainment trade unions in london. england. and demonstrates that the trade unions of the world look to the united states for information in this field. i am pleased that abe l. savage. the new director of public relations for the american federation of musicians. brought this to my attention. and i. in turn. bring it to my colleagues:
 of the united states and the speaker of the house of representatives. (u.s. government organizational manual. architect of:.the. capitol. pp. 3132 (196667)). the capitol architect also is responsible for planning and construction of additional buildings and improvements committed to his care by congress. current projects include extension. reconstruction. alteration. and improvement of the u.s. capitol. construction and equipment of an additional office building for the house of representatives. preliminary plans for the construction of the library of.congress. james madison memorial building. and expansion of the facilities of the capitol powerplant. use of the title "superintendent of the capitol building and grounds" is  without precedent. this was the title in use from february 14. 1902. to march. 3. 1921. the original title. architect of the capitol. was changed to conform the title of the office to its duties. unfortunately. on march 3. 1921. the legislative. executive. and judicial appropriation act (ch. 124. § 1. 41 stat. 1291. 40 u.s.c. 1) contained a provision for changing the title back to "architect of the capitol." this was so. even though the duties of the office continued to be consistent with those of the superintendent of the capitol building and grounds. while the congress had business changing the title back to its original form. there is. at the present time. good reason to return to the use of the 1902 title. "superintendent of the capitol building and grounds." for one thing. it describes this job accurately. thus. the false impression that the present "architect" is indeed a professionally trained architect will be cleared up. the fact that  of the house sam rayburn) armed him with 11 years ago. and with practically the same set of hired architects. mt. lardner went on to say: appointed by presfdent eisenhower in 1954. stewart and the architects working for him have supervised the spending of more than $200 million. theyre still going strong with a $100 million plus more capitol hill projects in the works .... the madison memorial library. authorized last year--despite bitter complaints about architectural trends on the hillwould cost aher $75 million ... stewart bypassed -a congressional directive to consult with a committee headed by the american institute of architects on the madison library when he picked dewitt. hardison. poor. swanke. shelton and almond (firm of architects selected for the remodeling of -the old senate and supreme court chambers. and for the west front extension and madison memorial library .... he was approached by some 20 architectural firms who wanted to bid on the madison library job. a major factor in choosing the same group was their "highly satisfactory service on the east front extension" stewart said.  of the fine arts commission. and others have raised some questions concerning the artistic merit of some of the work of the architects presently employed by mr. stewart. mr. walton has said: the quality of their design is well kn. its shown in the rayburn building. inside (the west front) it will be aher rayburn building. modern mausoleum architecture. the same brass fixtures. it is  my purpose here to consider the merits of the controversy over the west end extension of the capitol. although i am opposed to the extension. actually. criticism regarding mr. stewarts decisions in this regard are  relevant to the point of whether he should be called architect of the capitol. on the other hand. so long as the impression exists that mr. stewart is an architect. when he makes decisions as to current architectural thought and style. he should have the benefit of the training and expertise of an architect. the new york times. in its editorial of friday. july 19. which i append thereto. supports senate joint resolution 74.  before the house public works committee. which "would require preparation and periodic review of a comprehensive plan for the capitol grounds by an outside firm in consultation with the national capitol planning commission. and the selection of architects by a committee including representatives of congress. the planning commission. the fine arts commission and the architecture profession." without regard to other suggestions. remedial legislation is needed to remove the ambiguity which exists because of the title "office of architect of the capitol." confusion and misunderstanding concerning the nature and scope of the work of this office should be cleared up. we should start by restoring to the office the former title "superintendent of capitol building and grounds." [from the new york times. july 19. 1968]
that suit certainly adds some volume to the music that takes place. wherever the majority leader plays the fiddle. at the square dance. . there are a lot of jokes about this building. i did  k senator hart. a lot of people say that this is probably the most inept. inappropriate type of memorial to senator hart that possibly could be constructed. i can comment on that. others might be able to do so. all i k is that in a time when we are urging the rest of the nation to curb inflation. i think it is appropriate for us to do our part and hold back. maybe we will need a building sometime. i hope we do . i have a cure in lieu of this building.
i am  sure i completely understood his remarks about the eisenhower theater and the performances there. but as i understood him. he said that 21 out of 26 performances were given by the kennedy center performing group. is that correct.
i see. i thank the senator. . i should like to make one comment about the miity performances. in testimony before our committee. mr. stevens listed a series of activities that are taking place within the kennedy center outreach activities. if you want to call them that. in which they have a specially priced ticket program for students and handicapped and the elderly and enlisted personnel. he stated that nearly half a million people have attended free events there. in addition. the center and office of education cooperated in sponsoring a state network. the alliance for arts. they underwrote an annual american college theater festival. which i have been familiar with. the friends of the kennedy center has presented free weekly symposia. mr. stevens also pointed out that the national advisory commission has been working to expand black and other miity participation in the performing arts at the center and across the country. both in terms of artists and audiences. more than half a million dollars in private funds has been expended and committed in a score of projects recommended by the commission in the 3 years since its inception. so the second point the senator was making there is being tackled by the center and by those associated with it.
. the winter olympics at lake placid marked the beginnings of a rekindling of american pride. from the great individual performances of athletes like eric heiden. to the incredible victory of the u.s. hockey team. americans everywhere drew renewed strength and encouragement from this competition. memories of this competition would be tarnished if the lpooc is allowed to sink into bankruptcy. i support this amendment and urge its adoption by my colleagues.
let me just say this in response to what the senator from delaware is saying. when we get into the very problem that has been testified to by representatives of two separate administrations. you get into this business of the defense saying. "  that wasnt my main direction. ask my wife. af.k my publisher. ask my adviser. my main direction was really to write a terrific book about the operations of the u.s. government. my secondary direction was to identify and expose agents. but that wasnt my principal reason." that is whly you found me having such reluctance in connection with this suggestion of senator gorton and. indeed. my refusal to accept it here.
the senator from maryland ks perfectly that once this horse is out of the barn we will  see that social security cover for those new hires. we are  affecting anybody who is in the present federal service. if we do  pass the package. then people do  have to come to work for the federal government. who is representing the people of the united states of america. those of us in this body and in the other body. if we do  pass a package that is satisfactory egh to attract to the banner of service in the u.s. government. we will  get people. so there is an incentive on us to pass an adequate supplemental program. who are we affecting. we are  affecting a single person who  works for the federal government. if. by january 1. 1984. we do  have on the books a satisfactory supplemental program to go with the social security coverage. then ody has to come and work for the federal government. that will get our attention if hing else does.
. i have just learned of a very important series of books on the shoreline and barrier islands of the united states and the management policies that might solve many problems in this dynamic environment. the series. entitle "living with the shore." deals with a range of coastal management and development issues such as homesite safety along the entire atlantic. gulf. and pacific shorelines as well as two great lakes. each book in this series includes the following shorespecific information: sitesafety maps and descriptions of every stretch of shoreline. in egh detail to find specific homesites. uptodate information on landuse laws. discussions of the dynamics of shoreline change from the geological forces that shape the beaches. ways to protect life and property from damage by hurricanes and other natural disasters. principles of shoreline conservation. especially the counterproductive effects of shoreline stabilization measures. and alternative management schemes in the context of assumed acceleration of sea level rise. with sea level rising and american recreational beaches disappearing at a rapid rate. this series will help educate our citizens about the need for wise use and proper management of our beaches. the series is published by duke university press and has been headed by prof. orrin pilkey. author of "the beaches are moving." volumes in the series are already available for the texas gulf coast. th carolina. south carolina. and the south shore of long island and soon will be ready on florida and louisiana. as sponsor of legislation to protect americas barrier islands and beaches. i am keenly aware of the need for greater public awareness of the tremendous geological forces operating on our beaches and the need to factor this information into our coastal development decisions. "living with the shore" is precisely the educational set of books to produce this greater awareness.e
. i rise today to join senator boschwitz and other distinguished colleagues in the 1985 congressional call to conscience for soviet jewry. as we all k. the government of the soviet union has long persecuted the soviet jews. under official soviet policy. jews who struggle to maintain and carry on their cultural and religious heritage are denied educational and employment opportunities andin thousands of tragic casesimprisoned or forced into internal exile. those who comprise this courageous segment of soviet society struggle daily for the basic human rights we in the united states take for granted. in the last year. as the soviet government has slowed emigration to a trickle. the plight of soviet jews has become even bleaker. the figures are becoming familiar to all of us. but they bear repeating: in 1979. 51.320 jews were allowed to emigrate. in 1984 that figure plummetted to 896. the lowest level since 1970. it is estimated that some 350.000 soviet jews have received invitations from israel to leave the soviet union and settle in a land where they would be welcome as citizens and free to practice their beliefs. we  face. a situation in which almost all of those brave egh to apply for exit visas are refused and face an uncertain future of unemployment. kgb harassment. and false arrest. the persecution of these refuseniks has discouraged thousands of other jews who long to leave the soviet union from even expressing that desire. i recently joined 38 of my distinguished colleagues in signing a letter to mr. mikhail gorbachev. the new leader of the soviet union. urging him. at this crucial junction in sovietamerican relations. to review his governments current policy toward soviet jews and open once again the door of emigration. it is vital that soviet leaders be made aware of our deep concern in this matter.  only because of the emigration problem. but also because of the steppedup suppression of jewish cultural activities. according to a state department report entitled "the soviet crackdown on jewish cultural activities." in late july 1984. the soviet authorities began a major. sustained crackdown on hebrew teachers and other jewish cultural activists. the report adds. "there can be doubt that the campaign has been consciously directed by soviet authorities to discredit the revival of jewish culture in the soviet union." one victim of this kind is igor guberman. a refusenik whose case recently was brought to my attention. mr. guberman is a writer. the author of popular books and science articles for young people. and the former editor of the uficial jewish cultural journal. "jews in the u.s.s.r." in december 1978 he applied for an exit visa and was contacted several months later by the kgb with an offer of a visa in return for spying activities and denunciation of fellow jewish activists. mr. guberman refused to collaborate and was arrested shortly thereafter on false charges of selling icons. of which he had been a collector for many years. he was convicted and sentenced to 5 years of hard labor. and at last word he was living in internal exile in siberia. far from his wife and two children. i urge my distinguished colleagues to consider the fact that there are thousands of igor gubermans whose stories never reach the west. their treatment by the soviet government is an intolerable denial of some of the most basic human rightsthe right to think and believe as one chooses. and to preserve ones cultural heritage. let us hope that our call to conscience is heard by the new soviet leadership and that the persecution of soviet jews will soon come to an end.e
. i am pleased to join senators kennedy and thurmond today in introducing legislation to prohibit the mailorder sales of dangerous martial arts weapons. the popularity of kung fu. movies and television programs has produced a fascination with martial arts paraphernalia in the united states. particularly among our young people. many states have enacted laws to prohibit the manufacture of sale of these dangerous weapons. in my own state of rhode island there is a longstanding prohibition against carrying. possessing. or attempting to use against aher these socalled kungfu weapons. just recently the rhode island state legislature passed new legislation adding five point. socalled chinese stars to that list of prohibited items. one under 18 years of age is allowed to carry or possess these devices. which can inflict serious cuts and wounds when thrown. they have become a new fad with gangs of young boys who use them to terrorize other young people and certainly  to engage in the exercise of martial arts as a sport. while the state is dealing very effectively with distribution and possession of these items within rhode island. our efforts are being thwarted by interstate catalog sales of martial arts paraphernalia. the distribution of these illegal devices therefore goes unchecked because existing federal postal regulationswhich already prohibit the mailing of certain firearms. explosives. switchblades. and other dangerous articlesdo  specifically prohibit sending martial arts weapons through the mail. legislation isneeded to provide the u.s. postal service with explicit authority to stop mailorder sale of martial arts weapons to states which have outlawed such sales or possession. the bill we are introducing today would amend the existing ban on dangerous items contained in federal statutes. by adding certain clearly specified martial arts weapons to the existing list of other mailable dangerous items. such as switchblade knives. this measure would also prohibit mailorder sales to states which have banned the sale or possession of such items. this legislation is both timely and necessary. the federal government. through the u.s. postal service. should  be in the position of impeding or frustrating state authorities which have acted in the best interests of citizens. in this legislation there is attempt to mandate policy in states which have  seen fit to regulate the manufacture or use of these weapons in their jurisdictions. but for those states which have seen fit to take action in this area. this legislation will assist their efforts immensely. i urge other senators to join in support. by mrs. kassebaum:
. this spate of hos attests to the exceptional quality of the work being done by the rhode island committee on the humanities. and by the talented artists it supports. i join with all rhode islanders in offering congratulations to mr. wolpaw. mr. crowley. and to rich for these welldeserved laurelsand gratitude for keeping the arts in our lives.*
. american music is one of the nations great assets. our music is heard around the world and it lives only because of the vitality and strength of our copyright and trade laws. as has been well documented. home taping has caused a massive displacement of record sales and has thereby undermined the music communitys ability to continue to produce the diversified music that has been a hallmark of the american musical tradition. we owe it to our music community. to ourselves. and to our children as consumers of music to take great care that the exciting new techogies. developed solely to perform our great music. come into the market in a fair way. respectful of the rights ol our creators. for once we have the opportunity to deal with a potential problem before it becomes unmanageable. by setting up this differential tariff. we can hope to convince exporters to our market to adopt a simple. inexpensive. and equitable solution to this problem.* by mr. mattingly:
the senator from maryland ks perfectly that once this horse is out of the barn we will  see that social security cover for those new hires. we are  affecting anybody who is in the present federal service. if we do  pass the package. then people do  have to come to work for the federal government. who is representing the people of the united states of america. those of us in this body and in the other body. if we do  pass a package that is satisfactory egh to attract to the banner of service in the u.s. government. we will  get people. so there is an incentive on us to pass an adequate supplemental program. who are we affecting. we are  affecting a single person who  works for the federal government. if. by january 1. 1984. we do  have on the books a satisfactory supplemental program to go with the social security coverage. then ody has to come and work for the federal government. that will get our attention if hing else does.
. i have just learned of a very important series of books on the shoreline and barrier islands of the united states and the management policies that might solve many problems in this dynamic environment. the series. entitle "living with the shore." deals with a range of coastal management and development issues such as homesite safety along the entire atlantic. gulf. and pacific shorelines as well as two great lakes. each book in this series includes the following shorespecific information: sitesafety maps and descriptions of every stretch of shoreline. in egh detail to find specific homesites. uptodate information on landuse laws. discussions of the dynamics of shoreline change from the geological forces that shape the beaches. ways to protect life and property from damage by hurricanes and other natural disasters. principles of shoreline conservation. especially the counterproductive effects of shoreline stabilization measures. and alternative management schemes in the context of assumed acceleration of sea level rise. with sea level rising and american recreational beaches disappearing at a rapid rate. this series will help educate our citizens about the need for wise use and proper management of our beaches. the series is published by duke university press and has been headed by prof. orrin pilkey. author of "the beaches are moving." volumes in the series are already available for the texas gulf coast. th carolina. south carolina. and the south shore of long island and soon will be ready on florida and louisiana. as sponsor of legislation to protect americas barrier islands and beaches. i am keenly aware of the need for greater public awareness of the tremendous geological forces operating on our beaches and the need to factor this information into our coastal development decisions. "living with the shore" is precisely the educational set of books to produce this greater awareness.e
. i rise today to join senator boschwitz and other distinguished colleagues in the 1985 congressional call to conscience for soviet jewry. as we all k. the government of the soviet union has long persecuted the soviet jews. under official soviet policy. jews who struggle to maintain and carry on their cultural and religious heritage are denied educational and employment opportunities andin thousands of tragic casesimprisoned or forced into internal exile. those who comprise this courageous segment of soviet society struggle daily for the basic human rights we in the united states take for granted. in the last year. as the soviet government has slowed emigration to a trickle. the plight of soviet jews has become even bleaker. the figures are becoming familiar to all of us. but they bear repeating: in 1979. 51.320 jews were allowed to emigrate. in 1984 that figure plummetted to 896. the lowest level since 1970. it is estimated that some 350.000 soviet jews have received invitations from israel to leave the soviet union and settle in a land where they would be welcome as citizens and free to practice their beliefs. we  face. a situation in which almost all of those brave egh to apply for exit visas are refused and face an uncertain future of unemployment. kgb harassment. and false arrest. the persecution of these refuseniks has discouraged thousands of other jews who long to leave the soviet union from even expressing that desire. i recently joined 38 of my distinguished colleagues in signing a letter to mr. mikhail gorbachev. the new leader of the soviet union. urging him. at this crucial junction in sovietamerican relations. to review his governments current policy toward soviet jews and open once again the door of emigration. it is vital that soviet leaders be made aware of our deep concern in this matter.  only because of the emigration problem. but also because of the steppedup suppression of jewish cultural activities. according to a state department report entitled "the soviet crackdown on jewish cultural activities." in late july 1984. the soviet authorities began a major. sustained crackdown on hebrew teachers and other jewish cultural activists. the report adds. "there can be doubt that the campaign has been consciously directed by soviet authorities to discredit the revival of jewish culture in the soviet union." one victim of this kind is igor guberman. a refusenik whose case recently was brought to my attention. mr. guberman is a writer. the author of popular books and science articles for young people. and the former editor of the uficial jewish cultural journal. "jews in the u.s.s.r." in december 1978 he applied for an exit visa and was contacted several months later by the kgb with an offer of a visa in return for spying activities and denunciation of fellow jewish activists. mr. guberman refused to collaborate and was arrested shortly thereafter on false charges of selling icons. of which he had been a collector for many years. he was convicted and sentenced to 5 years of hard labor. and at last word he was living in internal exile in siberia. far from his wife and two children. i urge my distinguished colleagues to consider the fact that there are thousands of igor gubermans whose stories never reach the west. their treatment by the soviet government is an intolerable denial of some of the most basic human rightsthe right to think and believe as one chooses. and to preserve ones cultural heritage. let us hope that our call to conscience is heard by the new soviet leadership and that the persecution of soviet jews will soon come to an end.e
. i am pleased to join senators kennedy and thurmond today in introducing legislation to prohibit the mailorder sales of dangerous martial arts weapons. the popularity of kung fu. movies and television programs has produced a fascination with martial arts paraphernalia in the united states. particularly among our young people. many states have enacted laws to prohibit the manufacture of sale of these dangerous weapons. in my own state of rhode island there is a longstanding prohibition against carrying. possessing. or attempting to use against aher these socalled kungfu weapons. just recently the rhode island state legislature passed new legislation adding five point. socalled chinese stars to that list of prohibited items. one under 18 years of age is allowed to carry or possess these devices. which can inflict serious cuts and wounds when thrown. they have become a new fad with gangs of young boys who use them to terrorize other young people and certainly  to engage in the exercise of martial arts as a sport. while the state is dealing very effectively with distribution and possession of these items within rhode island. our efforts are being thwarted by interstate catalog sales of martial arts paraphernalia. the distribution of these illegal devices therefore goes unchecked because existing federal postal regulationswhich already prohibit the mailing of certain firearms. explosives. switchblades. and other dangerous articlesdo  specifically prohibit sending martial arts weapons through the mail. legislation isneeded to provide the u.s. postal service with explicit authority to stop mailorder sale of martial arts weapons to states which have outlawed such sales or possession. the bill we are introducing today would amend the existing ban on dangerous items contained in federal statutes. by adding certain clearly specified martial arts weapons to the existing list of other mailable dangerous items. such as switchblade knives. this measure would also prohibit mailorder sales to states which have banned the sale or possession of such items. this legislation is both timely and necessary. the federal government. through the u.s. postal service. should  be in the position of impeding or frustrating state authorities which have acted in the best interests of citizens. in this legislation there is attempt to mandate policy in states which have  seen fit to regulate the manufacture or use of these weapons in their jurisdictions. but for those states which have seen fit to take action in this area. this legislation will assist their efforts immensely. i urge other senators to join in support. by mrs. kassebaum:
. this spate of hos attests to the exceptional quality of the work being done by the rhode island committee on the humanities. and by the talented artists it supports. i join with all rhode islanders in offering congratulations to mr. wolpaw. mr. crowley. and to rich for these welldeserved laurelsand gratitude for keeping the arts in our lives.*
. american music is one of the nations great assets. our music is heard around the world and it lives only because of the vitality and strength of our copyright and trade laws. as has been well documented. home taping has caused a massive displacement of record sales and has thereby undermined the music communitys ability to continue to produce the diversified music that has been a hallmark of the american musical tradition. we owe it to our music community. to ourselves. and to our children as consumers of music to take great care that the exciting new techogies. developed solely to perform our great music. come into the market in a fair way. respectful of the rights ol our creators. for once we have the opportunity to deal with a potential problem before it becomes unmanageable. by setting up this differential tariff. we can hope to convince exporters to our market to adopt a simple. inexpensive. and equitable solution to this problem.* by mr. mattingly:
i would say again to the distinguished majority leader the way the agreement is  phrased. the senator from florida has to object to it. and i certainly would have to do that the way the agreement is phrased. it is  the senator from florida that is objecting to there being a time limitation. it would seem to me that agreement ought to be phrased so that if the senator from connecticut wants to object. he would be the one objecting because i am perfectly willing to have a time agreement30 minutes. 15 minutes. 2 hours. the rest of the night if you want to stay on the floor and debate it tonightin any of those instances. but the way the agreement is phrased . the senator from florida has to object. he is the one that is keeping the senate from working its will. i do  think that is correct. i think it works the other way. what the majority leader is telling me and what i hear is. if you want to be persistent eghi will use that term. i do  want to use something elseand say that you are going to read a book or you are going to stop this place. eventually you can work your will in this. but. on the other hand. if you have an amendment and you are supposed to give up that amendment if an individual does  like it. that is telling me that i only can get my amendment up if i am willing to be persistent egh to say that i care egh about this that i am going to stay here and protect my rights.
.  egh people have discovered the deep sense of satisfaction and enjoyment that comes from reading. in this modern era. there are too many dis. tractions pulling us away from this important aspect of our education. my hat is off to the great books discussion group. there are 2..500 such groups around the country and i would like to see this number grow. i request that the attached article be printed following my remarks in the
 reagan met with dissidents and refuseniks this spring in moscow. the improvement in the plight of soviet jewry is indeed welcome. yet. we must  be satisfied with scattered. albeit significant. successes. we can be content to applaud the release of highly visible refuseniks. while nearly 400.000 jews still await permission to emigrate. despite all that has been achieved. much more can be done by the soviet government to curb discrimination against its jewish citizens and further liberalize emigration rules to approach the 1979 emigration levels of 51.320. since january 1. 1987. government regulations have limited to parents. children. and siblings those who can initiate the necessary invitation for family reunification. a second problem is the broad ban on the emigration of those with "state secrets." and the third is the requirement that even adult children must have permission of their parents to leave the country. mr. gorbachev sent encouraging signals in late march 1988. when u.s. officials received assurances from the soviets that they will "liberally" interpret emigration regulations. we have since seen an increase in the number of soviet citizens allowed to emigrate from the u.s.s.r. the soviet government is visibly making greater attempts to comply with the international treaties which it has signed. such as the international covenant for civil rights. which grants every individual the right to "leave any country. including his own." and the helsinki accords. which verify the signatory nations commitment to uphold international covenants. the helsinki commission reports that the soviet government is seriously attempting to reduce antisemitism. for example. admission for jewish applicants to institutes of higher learning is becoming much easier. a private jewish library and a jewish museum have been established in moscow. and certain jewish literature has been permitted for import. and there are reportedly over 30.000 citizens groups in the soviet union. representing a wide range of social viewpoints. ironically. glast inherently demands our watchful attention. as well as our hopefulness. unfortunately. this new climate of openness has brought with it manifestations of deeply rooted russian antisemitism. which has existed since the czars ruled. in august 1988 there were reports in several western newspapers of antisemitic acts against jews in moscow and other cities in the soviet union. including the vandalization of jewish property. the destruction of 60 jewish tombstones in a moscow cemetery. threats of beatings. and antisemitic speeches and articles in the soviet press. one very frightening such manifestation is pamyat. an organization dedicated to a "purer" russian culture. which promotes antisemitism in the guise of russian nationalism. pamyat claims tens of thousands of followers. most of whom are lowranking bureaucrats and workers. its openly antisemitic leader. dmitri vasiliev. warns his members that "a satanic conspiracy of freemasons and zionists" may "destroy our sacred country. its culture. all that is dear to us. unless we unite and smash these evil forces ." by tying themselves to officially sanctioned drives promoting traditional russian culture. they have met with some official acceptance. they have been allowed to meet in the headquarters of the leningrad region party committee. and a march through central moscow in mid1987 ended with the leaders being officially received by the city partys then first secretary. boris yeltsin. we must remain vigilant. even as the united states enters a new era of improved relations with the soviet union. unless we maintain as a priority our advocacy for soviet jews. they could once again find themselves to the situation that prevailed in the years before the emigration movement.. bereft of the hope of ever living freely as jews. on behalf of the hundreds of thousands of jews in the soviet union who wish to leave. %ith the helsinki accords and other human rights agreements in mind. i join those who hope human rights progress will continues to be made within the soviet union. and i call once again for free emigration of jews from the u.s.s.r.o
. if i might. several years ago. we passed legislation eliminating the retirement age. previously. the retirement age had been 65. but we removed that and. therefore. it is against the law to force somebody to retire because of age. but. in effect. we have had breaks on that due to the fact that if somebody stayed working beyond the age of 65. he or she could  collect his or her full social security. so it all looked very nice on the books to have an elimination of the retirement age. etheless the fact there is an age limitation on earings under the social security caused people to retire. in many instances. when they would have chosen otherwise. so i think it is important that we recognize this legislation today as a corollary to that prior legislation eliminating the retirement age. as many have mentioned. this does  go all the way. this does  eliminate all the restraints on earnings under social security. there is a period between the ages of 65 to 70  where there are some limitations that have  been completely removed by this legislation. etheless. it is a tremendous step forward. and i am happy to give it full support and to join as a cosponsor. again. i commend those who have been so helpful in all this. the chairman of the finance committee. senator bentsen. the senior senator from new york and. of course. as i mentioned. the senior senator from colorado and our own leader. our own distinguished republican leader has worked on this for many years likewise. i want to thank the chair.
. i thank the distinguished senator from virginia. i wholeheartedly support the amendment that he and the senator from georgia have offered. i think anybody would have to believe in the tooth fairy to think that this provision in the appropriations bill does  really derail the base closing measure. there was a measure that the congress stepped up to the plate and said we are going to face up to base closing. we are going to do something about it. year after year. the congress had fought about any base closing. everybody with a parochial interest rose on the floor and valiantly defended a base in his or her state. bases were closed. indeed there was legislation on tile books that said base could be closed. so we set up a commission with 12 individuals. they came back with a report that i must say i thought was rather modest. what did the report do. it affected 145 defense installations. a defense installation does  mean a base. a defense installation can be really a very small entity. i suppose in the nation there are something like several thousand. probably as much as 10.000. installations. if you take therunder that category. of these 145 defense installations affected. c6 were to be closed. what a modest number. five were to be closed in part and 54 were to be either reduced or increased when units were relocated. so 54 does  mean all went down. some of those went up. so of the 145. it does  mean 145 were closed or nearly closed or even 144 or reduced. some of those 145 went up. after that modest effort that was agreed to by both houses of congress in setting up the commissionand really i think it was one of the great steps by this congress since i have been here. to face up to these parochial concerns and try to get a handle on military spending. as a result of that. we demonstrated the will to save this nation. it is estimated. some $5.6 billion over the next 20 years. so that was successful and so it seemed.  comes this step in the defense appropriation bill that would delay ft. it would delay it 3 months and set up a series of hoops that would have to be gone through. so i sincerely hope that our colleagues here on the floor will support the nunnwarner amendment. which would revoke that provision of the defense appropriations bill and get on with the closing of these bases as was originally expected when we gave approval to the base closing commission. and i might say this: all of us recognize that this was  all solved when we set up the base closing commission. everybody said. ". we have got to stick to it because there will be attempts to undermine this at different stages of the proceedings." so i hope we can stick by our guns nd see that this modest step is followed through. the nation will achieve greater efficiency and save some money. i thank the chair. and i thank the distinguished senator from virginia.
. i briefly want to make a couple of comments since i was one of the few here on july 26 who spoke against the amendment of the senator from th carolina at that time. it seems to me this is a totally unnecessary firestorm we are going through here this evening. the national endowment for the arts has been in existence for 25 years. it has funded 85.000 different projects. and of those a total of 25 have been brought into question. that is a pretty darned good record. the problem is  with the first amendment or anything like that. it is just that this action we are taking if supported tonight is going to cast a pall. is going to cast a chill over all exhibits in the future. is this exhibit going to meet the standards as set forth by the senate in this amendment. you have an exhibit that shows hitler as a wicked man. a pathological liar. . is that all right. let us look at  3. that is denigrating him on the basis of a handicap saying that he is a pathological liar. that is a violation. what sense. what is going to happen in the exhibits. we have decided here that it is legitimate for the government to fund some of these exhibits to encourage the arts in the nation. what is going to happen is those who put on the exhibits. if this should be adopted. will only feel that they should have safe exhibits. those that reach the lowest common deinator. i do  think that is what we want in our nation. come on. we can do better than that. eightyfive thousand exhibits. and only twentyfive have been questionable. so there is need for this amendment. i think we ought to let the fires of imagination and originality in the nation burn. there are liable to be some singeing. yes. there is. there is going to be some mistakes. but it seems to me that is a risk well worth taking. takingto encourage the flames of genius that we hope exist in this country. i want to thank the chair.
 bush said recently: i would prefer [ to] risk censorship. or (get the] federal government into telling every artist what he or she can paint. or how. he or she might expres themselves. there is aher argument expressedthat the government has business funding the arts at all. especially in this time of budget deficit. reinforcing that view is the constant reference made to the sick art and immoral trash funded by the nea. those references gave many the impression that a radical. independent agency kn as the nea has been running amok promoting offensive art since 1965. i agree that we must be careful to spend money on only those programs that are worthwhile. but i do  think that the majority of people realize to what extent the nea has touched their communities. it is an agency that has proven itself to be  only worthwhile. but exemplary. the nea was created with bipartisan support in 1965 with the goal of fostering professional excellence of the arts in america. and helping create a climate in which the arts may flourish. to that end. the nea has successfully provided 85.000 grants since its inception in 1965. of these. less than 25 have been the subject of controversy. that is a track record to be very proud of. my home state of rhode island is small in size. but rich in cultural and artistic activity. for us. the nea has had a farreaching and positive impact on our children. our communities. and even our ecoy. last year. all 39 cities and towns in rhode island participated in arts programs. and more than 2.6 million people attended profit arts events sponsored in part by the nea. rhode island received $796.000 in fiscal year 1989 nea moneys. benefiting 128 organizations. 500 schools. and 60 artists. the net result. a flourishing. popular public arts program. and a boost of $72 million to the rhode island ecoy. i might add that nea moneys are often matched 3 to i by private sector funds. thus generating a tremendous amount of support for. and stimulating public/private partnerships in. the arts those partnerships bring communities together for the enjoyment and benefit of all involved. furthermore. contrary to popular belief. nea funds are  reserved exclusively for artists and art institutions. in fact. the broad. diverse range of individuals and groups that receive nea support would come as a very big surprise to most. schools. churches. community groups. groups for those with mental or physical handicaps libraries. boys and girls clubs. parks. theatres. and even prisons receive help for their arts and artsrelated programs. neasponsored projects are  elite. radical activities that are of interest to only a very few. they are projects that are accessible to everyone. projects that improve the quality and richness of ourand our childrenslives. most of us have probably taken part in neasponsored events without ever realizing it. for example. here are lust some of the hundreds of neasponsored rhode island projects: "project discovery." which allowed 18.500 students to attend 41 performances at trinity repertory co. in providence. the westwarwick "chance to dance" afterschool activity for 100 fifth- and sixthgraders. museum tours and programs for 12.000 students at the r.i. museum of design. a pawtucket art program for persons with cerebral palsy. the providence first night celebration. the newport folklore society. the cranston "big sister" association. and the boston museum of fine arts rer exhibit. that is an impressive list. if there is any debate today about the importance of the nea. it should be framed in terms of the overall record of the agency.  in terms of a few individual grants that may have escaped careful scrutiny. a few rotten apples in the bunch should be viewed for what they areaaliesinstead of being used as the yardstick by which the entire agency is judged. let us let the fires of originality burn. sure there will be some singeing. but i think that is a risk worth taking if we want to allow american creativity to shine. i do  think we want to see safe artthat. of the lowest common deinatorbecome the only art supported by the nea. the nea has helped our arts programs flourish- that is what it. was created to do. and i. is working.*
. to be honest. i would have preferred a clean nea reauthorization bill without any restrictions. and last june i joined nine of my colleagues in introducing such a bill. but if we are to have legislative safeguards. if there remains concern about the nea and its work. then i believe that the compromise crafted by the distinguished senator from utah and others is a reasonable solution. at least it is much more workable than what we have seen in the past year. so let us let the fires of originality burn. there might be some singeing. but i think that is a risk worth taking if we want to allow american creativity to shine. i do  think we want to see safe artthat of the lowest common deinatorbecome the only art supported by the nea. the nea has helped our arts programs flourish. that is what it was created to do. and it is working. so i hope we will adopt the compromise. i thank the chair.
i was going to say 1415.  i must say i did run and look in the encyclopedia to check on that. but i am right. then. of course. the distinguished senator sometimes discusses the history of the senate and those senators who had such an active role here in many years past and we all have that compilation. that book the distinguished chairman produced. and it is in my library and i am delighted to have it. i appreciate it.
. i believe it is worthy to pay tribute to the outstanding achievements of christine banrodrigues who. at the eighth world association of karate/kckboxing organization championships last october in london. because the first personman or womanto capture three world titles and set a new world record at one world championship. christine is wellkn as an extraordinary athlete of the martial arts. and is considered by many to be the best allaround woman competitor ever to compete in sport karate. her previous credits include 15 firstplace national titles which earned her the national blackbelt leagues coveted "adult competitor of the year" award in 1991. under the guidance of her coach and husband. don rodrigues. the 25yearold native of warwick. ri. has continued her aggressive pursuit of excellence. in january alone christine was named "female athlete of the year" by words unlimited. the association of sportswriters and sportscasters of rhode island. in addition to being inducted into the national blackbelt league 1991 and the inside kungpu 1992 halls of fame respectively. it is with great pleasure that i recognize and ho christines exceptional skills and accomplishments. she is an example to all who have aspirations of success and the determination to make them real. christine is a source of pride to all of us in rhode island and we wish her continued success.
. i rise today to pay tribute to the- newport theatre of newport. ri. on the occasion ofits bicentennial. the building that the newport theatre presently utilizes was built in 1762. and was originally intended to be a public granary. instead. this threestory building. kn to all as the brick market. became a market for the local village on the first level. shortly after the revolution. the upper story was used as a printing office. it was  until 1793 that the upper stories were fitted to be a playhouse by mr. alexandre placide. mr. placide. a rope dance at the french court who was forced to flee to the united states during the french revolution. deserves much of the credit for establishing theatre in rhode island. he was the first in the state to obtain a license for holding theatrical entertainments. mr. placide and his large family became well kn figures in the circles of american playgoers. as a result of mr. placides dedication. the brick market theatre opened on july 3.. 1793. later named the newport theatre. this playhouse made a large contribution to the rhode island theatre community until 1842. at the request of the committee for national theatre week the u.s. postal service in newport issued a pictorial cancellation on july 3. 1993. to recognize the newport theatre. i encourage all to write to the u.s. postmaster in newport. ri 02840. to obtain this commemorative cancellation. finally i ask my co~leagues in the senate to join with me and all rhode islanders to. celebrate the bicentennial of this historic institution.9
i would like to make the senator from south carolina and the ranking member. senator domenici. aware of a particularly meritorious project from my home state of rhode island. the proposal calls for the expansion of the historic providence performing arts center in downtown providence. the building is the second largest indoor theater in new england and is listed on the national register of historic places. the expansion and theater reation will afford providence the opportunity to attract major theater productions and lead to the creation of hundreds of new jobs in the surrounding arts and entertainment district. it is just the type of project the ecoic development administration is trying to encourage in our nations downtown. central business district areas. i ask the managers of the bill. if the providence project is similar to those listed in the senate report.
. the amendment that i offered. and that the managers have agreed to accept. authorizes $1 million to support scholarathlete competitions. in 1995. i believe that competition can encourage greater understanding and friendship between the participants. academic and athletic competitions can bring together ecoically and culturally individuals who might otherwise never have the opportunity to interact. in 1993. the university of rhode island hosted the world scholarathlete games. these games were an emous success. with 2.000 young scholars and athletes participating from 125 different countries and all 50 states. young people between the ages of 16 and 19 who are talented in art. creative writing. singing. poetry. and athletics met in rhode island to engage in healthy competition and performances. i have doubt that lifelong friendships were forged at the world scholarathlete games. as we help to build these individual friendships. we help to dismantle the walls that divide us. the institute for international sport at the university of rhode island conducted the world scholarathlete games. the same group created national sportsmanship day to bring attention to ethics and fair play both in athletics and in society at large. . the institute for international sport plans to host the rhode island scholarathlete games in the summer of 1995. the rhode island games are intended to be a model for other states to replicate. like the scholarathlete games. the rhode island scholarathlete games are designed to bring together young people from diverse ecoic and social backgrounds in educational. athletic. and cultural activities intended to foster mutual understanding and respect. the rhode island scholarathlete games. with the cooperation and guidance of the rhode island department of education. will gather scholars with demonstrated proficiency in a particular sport or cultural activity. to participate in a program which will motivate them to achieve greater academic. athletic. and artistic excellence. the sports activities that are planned include: baseball. softball. sailing. basketball. volleyball. soccer. tennis. swimming. and track. the cultural activities will include: art. band. debate. choir. theater. poetry. and creative writing. the institute for international sport also plans to hold theme days on the subjects of ethics and fair play. the environment. and substance abuse. to qualify for participation in the games. students must have a record of academic excellence or must have demonstrated able progress or improvement. special attention will be given to encouraging students from high poverty areas to participate. educators and civic leaders from every state will be invited to attend and observe the games. the institute will offer training sessions to these individuals to enable them to emulate the rhode island scholarathlete games in their home states. my amendment authorizes the secretary of education to provide $1 million to an organization such as the institute for international sport to implement scholarathlete games in 1995. the institute is prepared to conduct the games and is uniquely qualified to do so. i appreciate the cooperation of the managers in ensuring acceptance of the amendment.
. i would like to thank the managers of the appropriations bill for the departments of labor.. health and human services. and education for their help in -providing funding for a program that was authorized earlier this week in the improving americas schools act which reauthorizes the elementary and secondary education act. the provision included in the esea authorizes the :secretary of education to provide $1 million for scholarathlete games to be conducted in 1995. i am delighted that the appropriators were able to provide $500.000 for this program. of course. we will be back next year with the hope of securing the rest of the authorized amount. in 1993. the institute - for international sport at the university of rhode island conducted the world scholar athlete games. 2.000 students from .125 countries and all 50 states participated in the games. through these games. friendships were formed and understanding was developed between boys and girls who would otherwise never have crossed paths. i believe that through this form of interaction bridges between diverse populations are built. the institute for international sport plans to conduct similar games in rhode island in 1995. the rhode island scholarathlete games will bring together boys and girls from the 5th through 12th grades. these students will have a record of academic excellence or have demonstrated marked improvement in their school work. the .institute is dedicated to making a special effort to include lowincome and miity students. rhode island is a small state with a lot of diversity. these games will reflect that diversity and help to develop greater understanding between these students. the sports activities that are planned include: baseball. softball. sailing. basketball. volleyball. soccer. tennis. swimming and track. the cultural activities will include: art. band. debate. choir. theater. poetry. and.creative writing. the institute for international sport also plans to hold theme days on the subjects of ethics and fair play. the environment and substance abuse. educators and civic leaders from every state will be invited to attend and observe the games. the institute will offer training sessions to these individuals to enable them to emulate the rhode island scholarathlete games in their home states. i greatly appreciate the cooperation of senator specter and harkin in providing the funds for this program. and i am delighted that senator pell has joined me in ensuring funding for scholarathlete competitions in 1995.
. jazz music embodies the distinct american spirit of ination and improvisation. freedom and honesty. and discipline and study. these are attributes and ideals that have made our nation great. and i would urge my colleagues to cosponsor this concurrent resolution.
. i am pleased to be an original cosponsor of a resolution offered today by senator specter that ackledges the emous contribution of the schindler project to educating our nations children about the effects of prejudice and intolerance. this project is intended to help american students to understand the unimaginable horror and brutality of the holocaust. the schindler project was begun by marian ungar davis who. after seeing steven spielbergs academy award winning film "schindlers list." concluded that every teenager should have an opportujitty to experience this extraordinary movie. she began by raising funds from her friends and neighbors to purchase tickets for high school seniors in her community of allegheny county. pa. she - was so successful that she expanded her goal to include all students graduating from high school in the united states. she has received cooperation from mr. spielberg and the film distribution company. as well as from a number of theater chains. to date. 200.000 high school students from 23 states have participated in the project. and ms. ungar davis has had inquiries from high schools in more than a dozen other states to express interest in participating in the schindler project. if just a handful of the students who view this film as a result of ms. ungar daviss efforts realize that they have the ability. through courage and strength of character. to have a positive effect on the lives of others. the schindler project wll be an emous success. similarly.f these studentswho have grown up during a time in which we have seen a rise in intolerance and an increase in socalled hate crimescome to a better understanding of the principles of equality and tolerance. then the schindler project will be of inestimable value. oskar schindler saved 1.100 jews from death. ms. ungar davis hopes to save our nations children from igance and prejudice.
s council. pointed out the "valuable life skills and lessons that are learned by youth and adults through participation in sports." i ask that the full text of the letter be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. i am delighted that national sportsmanship day was created in rhode island and i applaud all of those who participated in this inspiring event from the students and teachers. to the ethics fellows and the participants in the outreach program. finally. i would like to congratulate all of those at the institute for international sport at the university of rhode island who have made this program a success for the past 5 years. the letter follows:
. i am sorry we can proceed on this bill because this is an important bill. what it does. it opens the way to some funds. additional funds in the neighborhood of some $5 billion that we are going to have toif we want. we are going to have to pass this legislation before october. so  is the time to get with it. i heardi would like the senator from minnesotas attention if i might. i heard him say how erroneous it was for us to be dealing with legislation that has been on the books. i think he said. for 60 years. is that the time limit. how long davisbacon has been on. i have seen the senator on the floor discuss striker replacement that has been on about the same length of time. he had hesitancy about dealing with that legislation that has been on the books for a considerable time. so dealing with legislation that has been on the books for some time. labor legislation. is  unique in this place. it is  unique for the senator from minnesota. either.
i would just like to emphasize that this is the second world scholar athlete games that have been held by the institute of international sport at uri. the first games were held in 1993. the institute for international sport at the university of rhode island conducted the world scholar athlete games with 1.600 students from 108 countries and all 50 states participating. through these games friendships were formed and understanding was developed between boys and girls who would otherwise never have crossed paths. i believe. and i am certain that senator pell agrees. that through this form of interaction bridges between diverse populations are built.
the second world scholar athlete games will be held during the summer of 1997. through a partnership between the "sister cities international" and the institute for international sport along with others. 2.200 students from 125 countries are expected to participate.
. i am pleased to commemorate the seventh annual celebration of national sportsmanship day. which took place on march 5. designed to promote ethics. integrity. and good sportsmanship in athletics. national sportsmanship day was established by the institute for international sport at the university of rhode island. this year. over 8000 schools in all 50 states and 75 countries overseas participated in national sportsmanship day. there seems to be shortage of stories about assaults on referees. players. and even press photographers. i am particularly pleased. therefore. that the institute for international sport tackled the issue of violence in sports headon. as part of national sportsmanship day. the institute held a daylong town meeting where athletes. coaches. journalists. students. and educators engaged in a lengthy discussion about the causes and possible solutions for violence on the playing field. i think that the institutes work to foster this kind of dialogue among our young people is critical. in addition to the town meeting. the institute for international sport also sponsored an essay contest in which students wrote and shared their views on good sportsmanship. fair play. and courtesy on the playing field. several winning essays were published in usa today and the providence journal bulletin. and i ask that they be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. aher key component of national sportsmanship day is the studentathlete outreach program. this program encourages high schools and colleges to send talented studentathletes to local elementary and middle schools to promote good sportsmanship and serve as positive role models. these students help young people build selfesteem. respect for physical fitness. and an appreciation for the value of teamwork. i remain very proud that national sportsmanship day was initiated in rhode island. and i applaud the students and teachers who participated in this inspiring event. likewise. i congratulate all of those at the institute for international sport. whose hard work and dedication over the last 7 years have made this program so successful.
. the publics support for the nea and neh is very strong. in rhode island. we have a vigorous and growing arts community. the rhode island school of design is among the most prestigious fine arts and design schools in the nation. it attracts the most talented students and teachers who often make rhode island their permanent home. many rhode islanders. and people in the city of providence in particular. are emously enthusiastic about the arts community. which has contributed greatly to our ecoic redevelopment efforts. the nea and neh support a wide array of artists. writers. actors. musicians. and other artists. during the past several weeks. i have heard from a number of rhode island artists. i would like to share an excerpt from a rhode island musician with you. rebecca truitt. a cellist in the rhode island philharmonic. wrote to me on march 8. this is what she said: the declining state of public support for the arts in america is of great concern to me .... equally critical is the possibility that our cultural agencies may fail to receive authorization for fiscal year 1998. should that happen. it would be an embarrassing day for the united states. making us unique among cultured nations by eliminating the arts from our priorities. whether all orchestras. including my orchestra. the rhode island philharmonic orchestra. receive funding or . one thing is clear. the nea has helped raise the standard of all professional performing groups in the u.s.. catapulting american music and musicians to the forefront of the international music scene. moreover. the nea has helped to promote and sustain american jobs. throughout my years in the senate. i have supported funding for both the national endowment for the arts and the national endowment for the humanities. once again. i am delighted to introduce this reauthorization bill with senators jeffords and kennedy.
. i wholeheartedly support senator gortons efforts to continue to fund the national endowment for the arts and the national endowment for the humanities. and i support senator jeffords as he works to reauthorize both endowments for 5 years. i urge my colleagues to reject efforts to eliminate the endowments. either by cutting funding or by creating block grants to the states.
. i am pleased to commemorate the seventh annual celebration of national sportsmanship day. which took place on march 5. designed to promote ethics. integrity. and good sportsmanship in athletics. national sportsmanship day was established by the institute for international sport at the university of rhode island. this year. over 8000 schools in all 50 states and 75 countries overseas participated in national sportsmanship day. there seems to be shortage of stories about assaults on referees. players. and even press photographers. i am particularly pleased. therefore. that the institute for international sport tackled the issue of violence in sports headon. as part of national sportsmanship day. the institute held a daylong town meeting where athletes. coaches. journalists. students. and educators engaged in a lengthy discussion about the causes and possible solutions for violence on the playing field. i think that the institutes work to foster this kind of dialogue among our young people is critical. in addition to the town meeting. the institute for international sport also sponsored an essay contest in which students wrote and shared their views on good sportsmanship. fair play. and courtesy on the playing field. several winning essays were published in usa today and the providence journal bulletin. and i ask that they be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. aher key component of national sportsmanship day is the studentathlete outreach program. this program encourages high schools and colleges to send talented studentathletes to local elementary and middle schools to promote good sportsmanship and serve as positive role models. these students help young people build selfesteem. respect for physical fitness. and an appreciation for the value of teamwork. i remain very proud that national sportsmanship day was initiated in rhode island. and i applaud the students and teachers who participated in this inspiring event. likewise. i congratulate all of those at the institute for international sport. whose hard work and dedication over the last 7 years have made this program so successful.
. the publics support for the nea and neh is very strong. in rhode island. we have a vigorous and growing arts community. the rhode island school of design is among the most prestigious fine arts and design schools in the nation. it attracts the most talented students and teachers who often make rhode island their permanent home. many rhode islanders. and people in the city of providence in particular. are emously enthusiastic about the arts community. which has contributed greatly to our ecoic redevelopment efforts. the nea and neh support a wide array of artists. writers. actors. musicians. and other artists. during the past several weeks. i have heard from a number of rhode island artists. i would like to share an excerpt from a rhode island musician with you. rebecca truitt. a cellist in the rhode island philharmonic. wrote to me on march 8. this is what she said: the declining state of public support for the arts in america is of great concern to me .... equally critical is the possibility that our cultural agencies may fail to receive authorization for fiscal year 1998. should that happen. it would be an embarrassing day for the united states. making us unique among cultured nations by eliminating the arts from our priorities. whether all orchestras. including my orchestra. the rhode island philharmonic orchestra. receive funding or . one thing is clear. the nea has helped raise the standard of all professional performing groups in the u.s.. catapulting american music and musicians to the forefront of the international music scene. moreover. the nea has helped to promote and sustain american jobs. throughout my years in the senate. i have supported funding for both the national endowment for the arts and the national endowment for the humanities. once again. i am delighted to introduce this reauthorization bill with senators jeffords and kennedy.
. i wholeheartedly support senator gortons efforts to continue to fund the national endowment for the arts and the national endowment for the humanities. and i support senator jeffords as he works to reauthorize both endowments for 5 years. i urge my colleagues to reject efforts to eliminate the endowments. either by cutting funding or by creating block grants to the states.
coordinator. foster grandparents project. thern california youth center. dear mr. brinson: i want you to k how much i value and support the foster grandparent project of which you are the coordinator. for the past year. i have been privileged to watch the projects growth in increased impact on the wards of my hall. mr. lewis wilson. fostergrandparent on butte hall. has been teaching lapidary arts in a small rock shop set up in a corner of my arts and crafts shop. the relationships and skills that he has given to the boys who have come under his care and guidance has added immeasurably to their feelings of selfworth and sense of accomplishment. the example that he sets for the wards of honesty of feelings. independence and strength of character serves as a model for them to emulate. needless to say. i am very pleased with the success of mr. wilson and the foster grandparent project. i selfishly wish for a hundred more like him. i thank you for making him available to my shop program. without him the program would  be nearly as effective. yours sincerely.
 of twentieth centuryfox film corporation. the following statement is made: "toral tora. toral" is an americanjapanese historical film officially approved by the american department of defense as well as the japanese department of defense. the implication is approval by the department of defense under this administration. i would greatly appreciate. mr. secretary. your indicating to me whether such is the case. thank you for your attention to this matter. with kindest regards. sincerely.
. the point of difference i find myself in with the committee boils down to the fact that their legislation is presented to this body and to the people of the country as generic legislation. but. in fact. the specifications have been so drawn as to make it lockheed legislation. i have always enjoyed the sport of tennis. there is an old saying in the game. either go to the net or stay on the back line. but do  get in the middle of the court. this legislation is  at the net or on the back line. it is in the middle of the court. it is being sold to us as generic legislation. but the specifications make it lockheed legislation. if senators do  believe that this is true. then let me make ar. inquiry of my colleagues on the committee. on page 10 of the bill. under the title "congressional review." it states: the boardthis is an emergency board to pass on the loans given out of the $2 billionthe board shall  guarantee or make a commitment to guarantee any loan after october 1. 1971. unlessthen it gives a series of criteria. if senators do  think this is lockheed legislation. i would suggest to them that we remove the date. october 1. 1971. and we will find out fast that it is. because the object is to get lockheed in. without ay provisions that will apply to future applicants for loans. i would ask any member of the committee. would the committee accept an amendment removing the date of october 1. 1971.
. after a 3year period of hearings. discussion. and careful scrutiny. the senate finally has a government in the sunshine act. on the floor for its consideration. s. 5 provides that meetings of government agencies be open in order to allow the public to have the highest degree of kledge regarding governmental decisionmaking processes. the first sunshine legislation was introduced in august. 1972. unhappily. that date also closely coincides with the first reports of the watergate abuses. those abuses clearly illustrate the need for an open airing of governmental activities related to decisionmaking. s. 5. if enacted earlier might  have provided a remedy to the litany of abuses uncovered during this period. but it could have encouraged an open atmosphere for the conduct of the governments business in public. when governmental activities are held in secret behind closed doors. we have seen where the affairs of the federal government have suffered. but. even more important. when the public is kept in the dark as to agency activities and the essential decisions that affect their daily lives. the effects could have serious consequences. we have heard all the arguments against the bill from the commissions and agencies whose operations this bill would bring to light. the points they raise run the gamut from. the bill would unnecessarily inhibit the efficient conduct of agency business to beliefs that this bill would  allow a free and open exchange of ideas and candid opinions. what they seem to forget is the overriding responsibility to allow the public. in order for them to participate in the decisionmaking process. to have an unfettered access to information on how their government operates. many of these agency heads do  give the public egh credit to be able to view their proceedings and make competent judgments as to how they perform their duties. the bills expressed intent to implement open meetings.  only will foster increased public awareness of how their government functions. but it also has a dual purpose of increasing the publics confidence in governmental affairs. s. 5 provides an opportunity to begin mending some of our systemic ills by opening the doors of federml agencies and removing the cloak of secrecy which has too long been a part of the decisionmaking process. we only have to look to the states for examples of how open meeting laws have been accepted and regarded as successful steps to opening agency meetings. it must be viewed as a sad commentary when state laws on open government date back as far as 1950 and open meetings legislation are  on the statute books of 49 states. yet. the congress has  acted until  to consider open government legislation that would apply to itself and the executive agencies. the congress should have taken the states example long ago and enacted legislation of its own. my own state of connecticut has had an open meeting law relating to state agencies since 1971. a recent act passed by the state legislature and effective october 1. 1975. would extend the open meeting provisions to the legislative and judicial branches. the risks are too great to allow the closed door practices of federal agencies to continue as they have in the past. recent revelations of abuses have only served to increase the publics distrust of government activities. to let the trend continue unabated will destroy any relationship between the public and government agencies that is necessary for a democratic nation to survive. s. 5 provides a mechanism to restore that trust and rebuild the confidence that is necessary for any government to function properly.
. i urge my colleagues to examine mr. ullmans fine contribution to the growing body of literature dealing with united statesugandan relations and ask that the text of his article be printed in the record.
 of sacred heart university in fairfield. conn.. who described the conditions and the brutality of that regime in his book idi amin dada. hitler of africa. if we could read to members of the senate a couple of chapters from books written.  by men of the opposite political party. but by men who have been a part of mr. amins inner circle and who could longer stomach the violence and the killing and the torture. i do  think there would be one person in this chamber who would waste 1 day on any sense of the senate resolutions but would insist that this country act immediately. maybe uganda is  big egh in the sense of its participation or effect in the cycle of world affairs. maybe it is that there are  many ugandans living in the united states. so they do  have a lobby. maybe it is that the oil situation is  of such importance in uganda that we have to tiptoe lightly in our relations with that country. but a human right is just that. anywhere. whether it is in africa. the united states. or wherever. it is a precious thing. and our commitment to life should  be predicated upon where that life exists or under what circumstances. people say. "what will happen to the people of uganda in the case of such a boycott." what is happening to the people of uganda right . without it. that is the question. the people of uganda. tragically. because of what has gone on. have hing to lose. unfortunately too many people have been ducking this issue. and i am glad we have the opportunity to bring it to the floor this aftern. the house of representatives resolution obviously was dictated by an administration unwilling to act. i have doubt that if this amendment proposed by senator hatfield. myself. and others is adopted. it will be accepted by the house. human rights are and always have been the heart of our democracy in its finest hours. whether at home or abroad. whether in yorktown or mandy or selma. ala. it is what this country is all about. but we have to fight for it. we can just go ahead and say the worst and then sit back in our chairs. that is what is at issue here today. i have said many times that it is the state of our spirit that determines the state of the union. we have heard egh talk about human rights. i want to see them come into full flower. and indeed in the case of uganda. just in the sense of being able to live. i ask rejection of the substitute amendment. although it is a wellintentioned amendment. i have disputes with the distinguished senator from idaho as to what the right thing is to do on this issue. he feels as strongly as i do. let us make that point very clear. it is just that i feel that if the end is to be achieved. it has to be achieved in the onsense language of the original amendment. and i hope that will be the language enacted by the u.s. senate.
under the ruling as given by the chair. it would never be possibleneverto insure. either procedurally or in a matter of debate. consideration of any matter other than that dictated by the majority leader. that is where we have finally arrived. i suggest that this is the one motion that can be wiped off the books as being dilatory. because. indeed. appeals from the rulings of the chair are the one last protection to each member of this body. take this away and each one of us is denuded from any protection of the rules of the senate.
. in celebrating national childrens book week. i think it is important that we pay tribute to booksellers. publishers. editors. authors. and illustrators whose efforts have provided a wide range of books for children of all ages. we should also praise the parents. teachers and librarians who take the time to encourage each youngster. and finally. let us praise the most important neoule: babar. the elenhant king. the little prince. stuart little. ferdinand the bull. samiam. harriet the spy. and all their friends. the children who spend countless hours lost in their special world of books.*
. as chairman of the subcommittee on the handicapped. i continue to become more aware and sensitive to the needs and aspirations of individuals with handicaps. and their families. in this last month of the international year of disabled persons we can look all ncross this country and observe private and governmental organizations working well together to strengthen public understanding of the potential contributions of disabled americans. we must continue to invest in people and assist individuals with disabilities to become more independent and productive members of society. a program worthy of our attention and recognition is the special olympics. it is the special lympics program which  serves over 1 million retarded individuals that has achieved a great victory of the spirit. a program of yearround sports trainifig and athletic competition. special olympics hos the ideal of the greek olympics. mentally retarded individuals have learned through sports they can compete and succeed in life. on january 4. millions of americans will have the opportunity to share in the feelings of joy and pride which special olympics brings to retarded individuals and their families through a very special television movie. "the kid from here." it is the story of a young mother raising her son. and a coach who introduces them to special olympics and a new way of life. one of the greatest barriers parents face raising a retarded child is the problem of attitudes. this type of television movie can promote improved public understanding and sensitivity toward mental retardation. it reminds us that individuals who are mentalr retarded are more like us than they are different. we must emphasize and develop the abilities of people.  isolate people because of their disabilities. the star of this movie is ricky wittmann. a reallife special olympian from california. it is through ricky that we are reminded of the need for mentally retarded individuals to be provided the chance to experience life and develop selfconfidence. . families everywhere. i believe. can benefit from watching "the kid from here" on monday night. january 4.0
. recently the remarks of s desk. if you think of it that way. find what his priorities are. what problems be needs solved and show him what special olympics can offer for him in the process of running his enterprise. you are offering family. joy. love. in a unique package. i have heard eunice shriver say to speciai olympics that. "what you are winning through your efforts is life itself." i believe that is what you should offer a company. winning thorugh your efforts. how would a company fail to be a part of that. thank you.*
 of the united states. because americans are too lazy to get off their duffs to participate even for 1 minute in the electoral process. twentyfive percent a majority to elect a senator. 20 percent a congressman. . this government is going to be better than the people who serve in it. this is  just an isolated debate on the senate floor. what we are trying to do here is to find a cheap way out from our obligations as american citizens{ what you need down here are men and women who are going to stand up and face the music and make the tough decisions. that is the proper procedure.  just some words written on paper. in the absence of an active oversight process by the american people. the congress has been criticized for its failure to oversee. what is going on. yet. the american people are  overseeing that portion of the government over which they have a direct controlthe executive and legislative branches of government. they are  insisting that the tough decisions be made. they just feel if we write this amendment- in then the government can take care of itself. well. it can. there are many things this government can do. but it can run itself. and there is way you are going to change that by amending the constitution. so i wish to once again. in conclusion. express my admiration to the senator from rhode island for stating so eloquently all that was the reason for creating this united states of america. i hope that. whether in this chamber pr outside. this is  a gen. eration of americans that is going to try to tiptoe off the stage with a few words. rather it must perform those deeds of principle and of courage. which will always be required of men if their work product is to be excellent. well done. senator cmarzi.
. on sunday. july 24. 1983. the national theater of the deaf will dedicate its new home and base of operations. hazel e. stark center in chester. conn. the acquisition and development of the the hazel e. stark center was made possible through the generosity of mr. irving stark and the stark foundation. inc.. of connecticut. other private and corporate gifts support the companys world tours and activities  covered by department of education contracts. during its 16 years of operations and led by its artistic director. david hays. this company of hearing and deaf actors has toured america 32 times and abroad 18 times. giving over 3.000 performances in universities. colleges. secondary and elementary schools. libraries. museums and art centers in all 50 states and 23 countries. by presenting deaf actors in professional and glamorous legitimate theater performances. the troupe has forcibly demonstrated the exceptional capabilities of the deaf and virtually erased the stigma from sign language. the ntds particular style. a synthesis of spoken english and sign language. makes its performances available to all. hearing and deaf alike. through the power of its example the ntd has corrected the average persons misconception of the deaf. and enhanced the publics awareness of existing government programs serving the deaf. the national theater of the deaf. receiving basic support from the u.s. department of education. is an outstanding example of the partnership that can be created between the public and private sectors on behalf of disabled individuals. the theater has had a great impact on the social progress of americas deaf citizens and has been recognized for its artistic ability many times. most ably in 1977 when it received a tony award for theater excellence. i salute the national theater of the deaf on the occasion of the stark center dedication and urge my colleagues to join me in recognizing the continuing excellence of this very special theater company.e
.. the opportunity for handicapped people to be exposed to the arts is extremely important. this amendment prevents the elimination of funding for the american theater of the deaf which has provided a great service to the handicapped population. this amendment adds funds to the committee mark. but. rather. ensures that funds will be allocated by the department for this purpose at the same rate as previous years.
i thank the senator from wisconsin for his comments and commend him for his commitment to programs serving the handicapped. the appropriations committee has indeed demonstrated its support for this program by providing a fiscal year 1985 increase of $550.000 for a total for arts for the handicapped of $2 million. this amounts to a 38percent increase in just 1 year. representing one of the largest single percent increases for any program in the department of education. i am aware that the level approved by the house for this program is $2.5 million and that this issue. therefore. will be among those items to be worked out in conference. as my friend from wisconsin is aware. however. the arts for the handicapped program is one of those funded out of the secretary of educations discretionary fund. it would  be wise. therefore. to increase this one program through a floor amendment because of the larger questions which need to be resolved in conference. and since our recommendations add up to the full 6 percent setaside allowable by law. any increase in the program at this time would either violate the underlying statute or come at the expense of one of the other programs in the setaside. i am certain that the senator would  wish to do either. therefore. i ask that the senator withdraw his amendment and await the outcome of the conference where we will give this matter full consideration.
. i commend the distinguished senator from utah for his amendment. i agree with him that that is one of the great events which takes place in this country. this particular special olympics is of an international nature.  just one of those which takes place every year in the united states. i would say probably the best way i could get money for the retarded people woulcl be if every member of the senate would attend the special olympics. i think i could set almost any figure at all for the endeavor involved there. because it really brings out the best in all of us. i am  just talking about money. i am talking about a oneforone participation. i k many of the organizations. the ones that go one for one with the special olympicsi k the jaycees do in the state of connecticut. i k many of them give their time to this event. this is a great event to have in the united states. bringing athletes from all over the world. i see the money spent around here. and i see $500.000 for this allimportant event.believe me. there is difficulty in supporting it. i k this opinion is shared by all members. including the distinguished senator from wisconsin [mr. pmire1. i certainly support the amendment.
. on sunday. july 24. 1983. the national theater of the deaf will dedicate its new home and base of operations. hazel e. stark center in chester. conn. the acquisition and development of the the hazel e. stark center was made possible through the generosity of mr. irving stark and the stark foundation. inc.. of connecticut. other private and corporate gifts support the companys world tours and activities  covered by department of education contracts. during its 16 years of operations and led by its artistic director. david hays. this company of hearing and deaf actors has toured america 32 times and abroad 18 times. giving over 3.000 performances in universities. colleges. secondary and elementary schools. libraries. museums and art centers in all 50 states and 23 countries. by presenting deaf actors in professional and glamorous legitimate theater performances. the troupe has forcibly demonstrated the exceptional capabilities of the deaf and virtually erased the stigma from sign language. the ntds particular style. a synthesis of spoken english and sign language. makes its performances available to all. hearing and deaf alike. through the power of its example the ntd has corrected the average persons misconception of the deaf. and enhanced the publics awareness of existing government programs serving the deaf. the national theater of the deaf. receiving basic support from the u.s. department of education. is an outstanding example of the partnership that can be created between the public and private sectors on behalf of disabled individuals. the theater has had a great impact on the social progress of americas deaf citizens and has been recognized for its artistic ability many times. most ably in 1977 when it received a tony award for theater excellence. i salute the national theater of the deaf on the occasion of the stark center dedication and urge my colleagues to join me in recognizing the continuing excellence of this very special theater company.e
.. the opportunity for handicapped people to be exposed to the arts is extremely important. this amendment prevents the elimination of funding for the american theater of the deaf which has provided a great service to the handicapped population. this amendment adds funds to the committee mark. but. rather. ensures that funds will be allocated by the department for this purpose at the same rate as previous years.
i thank the senator from wisconsin for his comments and commend him for his commitment to programs serving the handicapped. the appropriations committee has indeed demonstrated its support for this program by providing a fiscal year 1985 increase of $550.000 for a total for arts for the handicapped of $2 million. this amounts to a 38percent increase in just 1 year. representing one of the largest single percent increases for any program in the department of education. i am aware that the level approved by the house for this program is $2.5 million and that this issue. therefore. will be among those items to be worked out in conference. as my friend from wisconsin is aware. however. the arts for the handicapped program is one of those funded out of the secretary of educations discretionary fund. it would  be wise. therefore. to increase this one program through a floor amendment because of the larger questions which need to be resolved in conference. and since our recommendations add up to the full 6 percent setaside allowable by law. any increase in the program at this time would either violate the underlying statute or come at the expense of one of the other programs in the setaside. i am certain that the senator would  wish to do either. therefore. i ask that the senator withdraw his amendment and await the outcome of the conference where we will give this matter full consideration.
. i commend the distinguished senator from utah for his amendment. i agree with him that that is one of the great events which takes place in this country. this particular special olympics is of an international nature.  just one of those which takes place every year in the united states. i would say probably the best way i could get money for the retarded people woulcl be if every member of the senate would attend the special olympics. i think i could set almost any figure at all for the endeavor involved there. because it really brings out the best in all of us. i am  just talking about money. i am talking about a oneforone participation. i k many of the organizations. the ones that go one for one with the special olympicsi k the jaycees do in the state of connecticut. i k many of them give their time to this event. this is a great event to have in the united states. bringing athletes from all over the world. i see the money spent around here. and i see $500.000 for this allimportant event.believe me. there is difficulty in supporting it. i k this opinion is shared by all members. including the distinguished senator from wisconsin [mr. pmire1. i certainly support the amendment.
i think it is possible. i think i would hope the distinguished majority leader. who has been dealing in good faith. and the distinguished miity leader. would renew their effort because i will tell you: there is only one person that is relishing this squabbling among ourselves and that is mr. botha in south africa. hing would please him more than to see us founder on the rocks whether on partisanship. philosophy. or whatever. the surge of sentiment is overwhelming in this body for these sanctions. but you are darn right we need every vote in order to assure that we are going to have a bill. i do  want some hollow victory with a narrow margin that says as an amendment we would like to do something about south africa when there is a possibility that we can do something about south africa. but that is going to require literally in my book about 67 votes to 70 votes.  a simple majority. so i would hopei k how heated we all get on this subject. but i want the record clear. as i stated at the outset. the majority leader has been doing his job as a leader in trying to bring the parties together. i do  want to threaten them. i do  want to throw a ring around them. i think he should have the utmost flexibility. i hope we will do that. and it will be done in conjunction with the distinguished miity leader. who i might add at the session we had last week was just as flexible and just as encompassing of all views as anyone on this side. so. i would hope that the rhetoric does  get too steamed up because if it does. we are going to get in the very box that will kill the sanctions bill.
. the b1 experience is painful for me because i supported the b1 bomber from the beginning. and i still believe we must provide the funds needed to fix it. but if there is a lesson to be learned from this. it is that unfettered dod programs are trouble waiting to happen. it is precisely for this reason that the advanced techogy bomber [atb] or stealth bomber program must be opened up to the maximum extent possible. congress ks next to hing about the program. and there are already indications in open literature of significant cost problems. as a minimum. we should have unclassified budgetary information. the department of defense seems to be moving in the right direction. deputy secretary of defense taft sent me a letter dated june 24. 1987. i ask unanimous consent that the letter be printed in the record.
. the findings of modern social science leave doubt of the devastating effects of discrimination in housing. studies abound to demonstrate these effects. but action to relieve them has yet to be taken. i call to the attention of the senate the cogent and perceptive work of eunice and george grier. in a recent study published in daedalus. the journal of the american academy of arts and sciences. they make the following observations regarding the social costs of segregation:
. i fail to see any convincing reason for permitting the sale of such weapons to private parties. destructive devices have reasonable use for sport or recreation. they are entirely inappropriate to household protection. they should simply be removed from the market. therefore. in anticipation that the recently passed title iv will become law. i introduce again today a bill to prohibit the sale of destructive devices to individuals. i hope and believe that when the senate has had a fuller opportunity to consider the merits of this proposal it will receive the strong endorsement of this body and the house of representatives. i sent the bill to the desk and ask that it be printed in full at this point in the record.
. i wish to join with my colleagues in deploring the needless reduction in the appropriation for the national foundation on the arts and the humanities. the foundation requires but a small sum for its continued and effective operation. it serves a vital function in our society. providing support and assistance for numerous worthy cultural projects. in a society where the sounds of warfare and of domestic strife seem all too dominant. this foundation brings some semblance of beauty and creativity to a troubled world. i deeply regret that the congress has seen fit. this year. to reduce the funds available for this worthy purpose. i hope that in the years to come. more of my colleagues will join in recognizing the worth and supporting the programs of the arts and humanities foundation.
. what makes these accomplishments unusual and heartwarming is that this group is  composed of professional musicians. but ordinary citizensmothers. fathers. housewives. teenagers. engineers. and secretaries. for 10 weeks they met every saturday night and practiced their music. these citizens took time out of their own busy lives to perfect a piece of music which they hoped would brighten their neighbors day and make their communities proud. i for one am proud. i love music and i am proud to represent people who have the ability to set aside their own personal problems and those of the rest of the world for a few brief hours. and sing solely for someone elses enjoyment. i am proud to represent the merchants who supported them in their efforts. despite their own ecoic problems. it has always been this type of community effort which has been at the core of this countrys greatness. i find these people exemplary. and hope they will keep right on singing.
. i do  k how many members of this body are familiar with "hot buttered soul." i do  k how many senators have ever heard an 18minute rendition of "by the time i get to phoenix." or how many have ever heard the music from the movie "shaft." but these are among the most vital cultural pheena of our times. and they are the product of one single. creative mindthe mind of isaac hayes. a sharecroppers son. isaac hayes. at age 28. has moved from the cottonfields to the concert halls on hing more than ingrained native ability. he has had formal musical trainingin fact he composes his music by humming it into a tape recorder. but he sings. he plays. he composes. he performs. and he shares his talents with millions of americans. making their loads a little lighter and their lives a little brighter by the warmth and spiritual quality of his music. three of his albums have received platinum records for reaching the $2 million sales mark. he has received grammy awards. and lately received an oscar for the music he composed for "shaft." he has been recognized by the memphis city council for "outstanding contributions to the community." isaac hayes has also made other contributions of a different kind: he shares his newfound wealth with those less f ortunate. his share of the proceeds from a recent concert with the memphis symphony were donated to a home for the elderly. he has made free appearances at prisons. and donated scholarship funds for less fortunate black students: the hayes foundation. a profit. taxexempt philanthropic organization. was established in 1971 by isaac hayes "to alleviate suffering wherever and whenever possible." isaac hayes has gone far. and will go much farther. he merits special attention. in his own right. and as an example to all americans of the heights that can be attained through the use of talent. drive. and compassion for ones fellow men.
. i am pleased to introduced legislation today with senator kennedy which will allow interstate commerce in antique scrimshaw art objects. such commerce is necessary if we are to preserve the marvelous old art of scrimshanders. in the 93d congress my colleague and i introduced similar legislation but unfortunately time conspired against its enactment. that legislation caused quite a stir amongst scores of concerned citizens who feared that it would hamper u.s. efforts to control and eventually end the devastating hunt of whales. hence my colleague and i revised our legislation to assure these citizens that we are in complete agreement on the need to preserve and protect the dangerous depleted whale population. such protection is. and should continue to be. a top priority of our government. were our legislative initiatives in any way detrimental to the achievement of this important priority. we would  even consider proposing them. i believe that the bill we introduce today has been greatly strengthened by this citizen response. and that there is  room in our initiative for the impression that our commitment to the preservation of whales is in any way lessened or weakened. further i think it reaffirms something which i have long believed: that our unswerving commitment to the moratorium on whales can exist side by side with a commitment to aid our antique scrimshaw dealers. the two are quite compatible and i see reason why they can be simultaneous priorities for the government. i hope the legislation we offer today will be helpful in this direction. s. 229 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that section 10(b) of the endangered species act of 1973 (87 stat. 896. 16 u.s.c. 1539) is amended by adding at the end thereof a new subparagraph (4) to read as follows: "(4) the secretary of commerce may grant. under such terms and conditions as he may prescribe (including. but  limited to. registration of inventories. keeping of complete sales records. provision for duly authorized agents of the secretary of commerce to have the right to inspect inventories and records. and filing of such reports as the secretary of commerce may require). exemptions to the prohibitions in clauses (e) and (f) of section 9(a) (1) of this act to persons for stocks or inventories of bone and teeth of marine mammals of the order cetacea. including parts or products thereof. lawfully held within the united states on december 21. 1972. subsequent purchasers of bone and teeth of marine mammals of the order cetacea. including parts or products thereof. originally sold by a person granted an exemption pursuant to this paragraph shall be entitled to the same exemption. in connection with any action brought for a violation of the provisions of section 9(a) of this act. there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the exemption provided for in this paragraph does  apply. and any person claiming the benefit of any such exemption shall have the burden of overcoming such presumption. withstanding the provisions of section 4 (f) (2) (a). regulations published by the secretary of commerce in connection with this exemption shall be effective on the date of publication." by mr. kennedy:
. i would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to a remarkably talented woman. probably the most versatile actress of the american theater today. julie harris has four times been hoed as the recipient of the antoinette perry theater award as best actress of the year. miss harris is currently appearing in our nations capital in "the belle of amherst." portraying one of americas greatest poets. emily dickinson. in this bicentennial year. miss harris has been traveling through the country. appearing before thousands. to bring to life the story of this intriguing lady from amherst. mass.. to bring to life the poetry which questioned the relationship between lifes experiences. the impulses of love. and the immortality of human expression. it was her spirit of inquiry. the emphasis on the spiritual as well as material resources of man. that was so evocative of our new countrys political and humanistic character. but it was  until after her death when her works became available that we came to comprehend those words. the words that seemed to lack pragmatic significance during her life. julie harris has in her portrayal presented a simple but enduring image of participation in what the drama of demozracy must be. for as miss dickinson herself once said: the show is  the show. but they who go. as a long standing admirer of her work. i would like to say that julie harris is indeed an american of whom we may all be proud and grateful for the happiness she has brought to so many.
. on may 6. 1976. the friuli area of thern italy was devastated by an earthquake which left hundreds dead and 100.000 people homeless. in a matter of seconds. homes. shops. and factories were leveled. cities were reduced to rubble. and many priceless art treasures were lost forever. then. on september 11 and 16. two new earthquakes multiplied the eity of the catastrophe. destroying many buildings which were weakened by the earlier tremors. americans responded quickly to the suffering of the friuli people. immediately after the may earthquake. congress authorized $25 million in emergency relief aid. these funds provided emergency humanitarian relief and are paying for the construction of schools and old age centers. thanks to this assistance. many urgent needs of the priull people have been met. but life in the friuli is still one of hardships and austerity for many. in light of this reality. i introduced. in april of this year. a bill to authorize an additional $25 million in disaster assistance for italy. the senate foreign relations committee has seen fit to include my proposal as well as an additional $10 million in its recommendations contained in s. 1520. i am grateful for this and commend the committee for their action. while ours is only a small contribution to the estimated $4 billion plus needed for reconstruction in the friuli. it is a significant indication of the bonds of friendship that tie the two countries and peoples together. the reconstruction stage is underway. one effort in this regard is the work of repairing and conserving the damaged ed art of the area. the friuli arts and ng monumentitalian emergency relief air committee. friam. is organizing in ild ad america and italy to offer financial and technical assistance to the italians. working with local authorities and international organizations. priam is orrp ganizing to restore damaged buildings. dm murals and other works of art. for exl- ample. the medieval walled city of ve verzone. which was devastated by the e- earthquakes. is today receiving signifth icant amounts of aid. soon. its unique o historic and artistic resources will again be available as a modern city and living ls museum. i wish to bring this and other s riam efforts to the attention of the t- senate and. therefore. i ask unanimous y consent that the first issue of the friam y news be printed in its entirety in the n re:cord at the conclusion of my remarks. 7. the presiding officer. without e objection. it is so ordered. s
. on march 21 of this year i addressed this chamber on the financial crisis facing our cultural institutions all across the country. i spoke then supporting full funding of the new challenge grants program of the national endowment of the arts which would aid arts organizations improve their fundraising capacities. on july 10. the new york times sunday magazine published an article by robert brustein entitled. "can the show go on." this article details the financial collapse threatening  only our new struggling arts organizations but also our most treasured and wellestablished institutions. the threat is very real and very immediate. if we fail to respond to the challenge. our nation will suffer an immeasurable loss. the congress must work with private contributors. both individual and business. and foundations which have so long been in the vanguard of assuring the survival and flourishing of the arts in america to see that this challenge is met. i ask unanimous consent that the article from the new york times be printed in the record in order that it become part of our deliberations on this most important matter.
. i have three amendments at the desk. i wish i could have made them available to all of my colleagues sooner. but they can be seen there. and in view of the time limitation i simply want to try to explain them in the hope that they may appeal to all of you. we have an fepc law in massachusetts. it was enacted in 1946. and it is working. and well. and with the approval of practically everyone in massachusetts. i was pleased to find that in subsection 7 of section 6 the committee adopted practically the identical language of the massachusetts statute. but i was disturbed to find that although it is only slightly different. it is still different from the massachusetts statute when you consider subsection (b) of section 7. i believe that goes to the heart of this legislation. i believe that you have a clear precedent. and i believe it will be helpful. constructive. and certainly  destructive if this amendment is adopted. i placed in the record on february 2 an analysis and comparison of the committee bill. the bill offered by the gentleman from pennsylvania. and the massachusetts law. if this amendment is adopted. it is my considered opinion that the committee bill will be almost identical with the massachusetts bill. may i call your attention to certain statements made by the commission in massachusetts with reference to the working of that bill. their first report. the commission said in part: it has  chosen to conduct a punitive expedition in massachusetts but has preferred to steer a conservative course of educating employers and workers alike as to their responsibilities and obligations under this law. their second report. filed in 1948. said: from the beginning. this commission has recognized that the elimination of discriminatory employment practices based upon individual and group prejudices could be accomplished most effectively by reason instead of force. and i am pleased to state that in the last report filed in ember of 1949 the commission was able to report that  a single complaint in massachusetts has been taken to the courts. and they call attention once more to this significant statement of policy: once more the commission ackledges the wisdom of the provision of the law requiring that the first efforts to adjust complaints be made through conference. conciliation. and persuasion. those are the words in that subsection. and i suggest to you members that where you have had 3 years of experience in a highly industrialized area and where a commission can make that sort of a report and add. "this process invites cooperation and is the antithesis of swinging a big stick." you will have an opportunity to write into this law the law that has been on the books 3 years and has been demonstrated in that fashion. i hope you will support the amendment.
 and the executive departments by this bill are ministerial duties to be performed for the congress. and the instructions as to their performance are directory in their nature. i should also like to ask unanimous consent to have placed in the record the matter found on pages 64 and 65 of the book entitled "congressional apportionment." by laurence f. schmeckbier. published in 1941. which contains the tables illustrating the application of all five modern methods of apportionment to the censuses of 1920 and 1930. and also from page 233 the figures showing the apportionment for 1940. under the majorfractions and equalproportions methods. i also present appendix b from the same book. covering pages 216 to 225. which contains the "priority list" of states as prepared under the majorfractions and equalproportions plans. based on the 1940 census.
before the senator from1 new york proceeds with the report he is about to make for the truman committee. on the general subject of transportation. i should like to say a word as to the exhibit relating to skyroads. which is being presented by the civil aeronautics administration in collaboration with the museum of modern art of new york city in the auditorium of the department of commerce in this city. . yesterday evening i spent an hour and a half at this exhibit. former senator josh lee. who was in the senate chamber a moment ago.  a member of the civil aeronautics board. was present at the exhibit while i was there. as well as many others from government departments. other members of the senate. however. were present. and i was there asked to call the exhibit personally to the attention of other senators as being one of extraordinary interest in enabling the people of today to orient themselves in relation to the air age in which they live. the exhibit consists of seven sections. the first deals with progress in mapmaking. in 25 exhibits. covering the time from the early days. even before the romans. to the present. the second relates to the progress of flight. with exhibits consisting of 60 photographic enlargements which trace the evolution of flight. including the flight by the wright brothers. which the senate recognized by the passage of a joint resolution a few days ago. on december 17 we will celebrate the fortieth anniversary of their flight. the third exhibit relates to air strategy. it points out one of the faults in the german strategy arose from too great reliance on the mercator projection. instead of a global map. in working out worldwide strategy in the present war. the fourth exhibit relates to the nature of the atmosphere. the fifth has to do with transition to peace. the sixth relates to the development of flying resources and training in this nation. the seventh exhibit relates to skyroads. and gives an excellent demonstratiori of the way in which planes coming into commercial airfields are guided into their respective airports. and the methods which will be used in the future to increase the traffic that can be handled at an airport. the exhibit concludes with a quiz board. where a person can ask himself questions relating to the location of places on the earth with relation to each other. and with respect to their relation to one aher by air. i am sure member of the senate could attain a 75 percent passing grade on that board. probably  more than 50 percent. it is a demonstration of the extent to which the world today is misinformed as to the possibilities of transportation by air. the exhibit will remain here through january 8. and will be open daily from 10 a. m. to 9 p. m. members of the senate were invited by the secretary of commerce to visit the exhibit for a preview yesterday evening. i wish to add high commendation of the exhibit as an unusual one. scientifically prepared by the museum of modern art in new york city. and supplemented by an exhibit of the department of commerce. i believe it will well repay any senator for the time spent in examining it.
i think the record is incontrovertible that the report of the engineers showed that they estimated the federal expenditure on the canal would be thirtyeight and onehalf million dollars. and the local expenditure would be $3.900.000. i understand that in the pennsylvania literature it is estimated there would be some additional expenditures. but i do  k what they are. they were  of the federal government. but were of local interests.
. it is on that point that i disagree with the senator. i believe that there will be. in addition to a strengthening of morale. a strengthening of production. i believe it is in accordance with the wishes of both the workers and the industrialists to put such a law on the statute books and to provide them with the transportation and reemployment aid which is provided in the bill. i think the bill will be helpful. even without the penalty provisions. i think there will be substantial value in the bill. because of the provisions relative to ciiurt proceedings and taxes.
. i may say that to my mind "facilities" might under some circumstances have a narrow definition. but once the ¢vord "facilities" is used in such a way that it includes "rights of passage." you immediately expand the kind of definition you give to "facilities" so that it is broad egh to cover practically any theater of operations.
in further support of my position that by its rules and precedents the senate could prevent a senator or group of senators from speaking endlessly in order to delay a vote. i quote the following excerpts from dr. frankling l. burdetts book filibustering in the senate. on page 16 he said: in any event. it seems likely that there were major or extended filibusters in the dignified senate prior to the advent of the remarkable john randolph of roae. on page 19 he said: one is inclined strongly to suspect that the senates first extended and spectacular filibusters were staged by that southern opponent of the adamses. (john randolph). * * * if men filibustered in the years immediately following. they at least did so with gravity and beneath the cloak of relevancy. in 1837 the opponents of the resolution to expunge from the senate records the 1834 resolution of censure against president jackson attempted an "incipient filibuster." in the words of dr. burdette. but an incipient filibuster is far short of the object of our attention today. in the course of debate on july 3. 1840. senator oliver h. smith. of indiana. called senator tappan to orderin the words of the editor of the debates-"for digressing from the question immediately before the senate." the chair ruled senator tappan out of order and he agreed that the entire debate was out of order. this appears at page 504 of volume 8 of the congressional globe. a few minutes later senator robert strange of th carolina. speaking of the senate rules said: when we met here at the beginning of this session. we adopted the rules lying upon our tables (p. 505. id.) and thereafter senator albert s. white. of indiana. is quoted as follows: ". to stop himand it is the duty of the senate to sustain you in the discharge of this duty. we have rules for conducting the debates. and these rules only require to be enforced in order to make debates decent and instructive in their import. and brief and reasonable in their duration. the government has been in operation above 50 years. and the freedom of debate has been sometimes abused. especially during the last 12 years. when those out of power made the two houses of congress the arena of political and electioneering combat against the democratic administration in power. the liberty of debate was abused during this time. but the democratic majority would  impose gags and muzzles on the mouths of the miity. they would  stop their speeches. considering. and justly considering. that the privilege of speech was inestimable and inattackablethat some abuse of it was inseparable from its enjoymentand that it was better to endure a temporary abuse than to incur a total extinction of this great privilege. but. sir. debate is one thing. and amendments aher. a long speech. wandering off from the bill. is a very different thing from a short amendment. directed to the texture of the bill itself. and intended to increase its beneficial. or to diminish its prejudicial. action. these amendments are the point to which i  speak. and to the nature of which i particularly invoke the attention of the senate. at the end of the session clay and calhoun and king had a colloquy which i desire to have printed in the record.
i. too. wish to commend the senator from south dakota. first for his initiative in attacking this problem. which is a very grave one indeed. as our colleagues have emphasized tonight. it is essential that we do something about it. second. i wish to commend the senator from south dakota for the manner in which he has presented this proposal to us. and for the nature of the proposal. i hope very much that there will be objection to it. either on the floor of the senate or in any other quarter of american life. i am  thinking of those people who. like the senator from south dakota and the senator from new jersey are concerned with civil liberties in a deep and important way. because if those of us who have that concern do  at some time recognize that there are evils in such matters as filthy and obscene literature which the people will  tolerate. and do  provide remedies consistent with the preservation of our civil liberties. then the people will insist that remedies which are  consistent perhaps with those liberties be put into effect. we therefore have the great responsibility to see. first. that the job is done. and. second. that it is done in the right way. the recommendation of the senator from south dakota toward both of those objectives i think is a truly distinctive one.
. were it  for its forcible incorporation into the soviet union in 1940. the brave little nation of lithuania would on february 16 doubtless be celebrating the 45th anniversary of its independence. unfortunately. circumstances. of geography and international politics placed the lithuanian people in an area where they have been subjected. through the centuries. to the almost uninterrupted encroachment of other larger countries. today. people in lithuania are  in a position to observe this anniversary of the beginning of a bright but alltoobrief period of freedom and independence. once again this year. however. many members of the u.s. congress will join americans of lithuanian descent in observing this anniversary. lithuania enjoyed but 22 years of independence in modern times. from 1918 to 1940. when it was temporarily occupied in part by poland and nazi germany and then was taken over by the soviet union. during this period. of independence. lithuania proudly occupied a place of ho among the free nations of the world. her political. social. ecoic. and cultural institutions were permitted t6 flo*er without interference or subjection. "lithuanias land reform law of 1922 was the firstin all europe. universal compulsory education reduced illiteracy. the ally of all oppressors. from 64 to 15 percent. her standards of commerce. agriculture. and industry rose. the arts flourished in an atmosphere of peace and liberty. the illegal seizure of the baltic states and their incorporation into the soviet union has never been recognized by this country. the passionate hope for a restoration of lithuanian independence continues to burn brightly in the hearts of americans of lithuanian descent. their hopes and sorrows are shared by people everywiere who cherish freedom.
i believe the senator from new york has put his finger on the heart of the matter. the thing that burns is the fact that for the first time in a long history of efforts to place this kind of effective legislation on the federal statute books in the field of civil rights. we are finally organized in a way which is in some sense comparable to the way in which the opposition has always operated. this evidence of great and effective organization is what really hurts. i am proud to be a part of the effort. i commend the leadership. the staff. and all those who have worked towards this end. there is question about the fact that we will get the job done.
. i think this kind of observance is one of the senates best traditions. we do it out of full hearts. it has some resemblance to the obsequies that will eventually attend all of us. it is unique in that category. of course. in that the subject is able to listen to the funeral sermon. i think he must do that with mixed feelings. as we all have mixed feelings in participating in this ceremony. one might think in reading the words as they will appear in the handsome little book we always get up for people of great consequence. that john williams was a paragon and that. perhaps like most paragons. he was a pretty stuffy guy. terms such as the "conscience of the senate." "mr. integrity." "honest john." and all of these things usually apply to a kind of heavy man and. often. a dull person. i like to remember john  only for all of the things that have been said about him. and said so well and so truly concerning what he means to us. but i like to remember him also for the fact that i catch him once in awhile in the mayflower coffee shop indulging in a double banana split. one is perfect. and if he were he would be an impossible fellow to get along with. seriouslyand i have been serious all alongmaybe it is a good thing that he is going. we get to rely on people like john to do the dirty things for us. sometimes things that we all ought to take responsibility for. as his neighbor and one who has benefited from his wise advice and from his sturdy nature that he always exhibits in times of distress and sorrow. and as one who has enjoyed his warm friendship. i join my colleagues in bidding him and his lovely wife.a happy journey out of here and the long life that we k they will still live.
. i intend to support the senator on this amendment. but i protest against the suggestion that what we are doing here is an exercise in futility. for the first time this will put an absolute ceiling.  on appropriations but on spending. for all purposes it overrides all provisions for discretionary authority. transfers. or anything else. and i do  want any legislative history to be on the books which would give the chance for any executive agency to say this was  intended to be an absolute ceiling on spending of all kinds.
 recommending establishment of the brigantine wilderness. a sysis of the brigantine wilderness proposal. and a draft environmental statement on the proposal prepared by the bureau of sport fisheries and wildlife.
. a democracy has the right to defend itself and  to permit itself to be subverted by its own constitutional processes. i think that is incontrovertible and we will all agree on that. but where that object can be accomplished without invasion of the elementary civil liberties of the citizen. it should be accomplished consistently with constitutional processes and  inconsistently with them. any member of this house who reads this bill conscientiously must in my opinion come to the conclusion that in essential respect. this bill definitely contravenes the individual civil rights of every government employee whom it affects. for example. on pages 13 and 14 in section 8 (b) the first five specifications constitute grounds for the discharge of an employee. with which ody can quarrel. they constitute in effect subversion and disloyalty to the united states while in the performance of duty. but  so with respect to specification  6. that does  deal with what the employee is doing in his job in any way directly or indirectly. it deals with his opinions. with whether the employee is a member of. affiliated with. or has sympathetic association with any organization. association. movement. group. or combination of persons designated by the attorney general. and so forth. it has hing to do with his conduct directly or indirectly while on the job. that is in the first five specifications. but it does have to do with what he thinks outside of duty hours. with what meetings he attends. with what literature he reads. and with what causes he contributes to.
 hoover and mr. ferdinand eberstadt. gave by book and page in exact deail to the dollar. and specified individual instances which made then believe that the request for funds was excessive and that. therefore. a cut was warranted. we are asked to make a cut. and i say this with invidious conation whatever upon the basis of irresponsibility because we are  given any specification of where a cut may be made. we are given the actual shipments of goods as of the 31st of march 1949. as about $3.800.000.000. every member ks. whether in business or . that the mere shipment of goods does  constitute a complete programsuch a program starts far behind the waters edge. i ask the committee to consider the fact that the allotments to the countries in the european recovery program. to wit. the authority that they have with which to buy and with which they actually do buy. including what is in the pipe line. either on contract or on order or being prepared for shipment. aggregates approximately $4.950.000.000 out of a total amount made available by the congress in the first year of the program of $5.010.000.000. a difference there of about $50.000.000. your committee was so careful that at the request of the gentleman from ohio that $50.000.000 was taken out of the request of $1.150.000.000 made on the committee by the administrator for european cooperation for the 3 months between march 31. 1949. and june 30. 1949. and that amount is eliminated from the bill which is before the house in the committee of the whole today which calls for $1.100.000.000 for that period. i invite the members to look at page 18 of the committee report as bearing the actions of eca and of oeec. it shows the screening process which the allocations for the initial period of the program had gone through. the national governments themselves which were affected requested $5.889.000.000. as screened by their own organization the oeec it came down to $4.875.000.000. and as finally screened by the eca itself it came down to $4.823.000.000 of proposed allotments. or a cut of $1.000.000.000 below what these governments themselves thought they needed.
. my distinguished colleague. representative dondero. of michigan. has on a number of occasions attacked modern art as a medium for the infiltration of communism. the final attack. entitled "modern art shackled to communism" was made on the floor of the house on august 16. 1949. criticism of the record of individuals as citizens or resdents of the united states and discussion of their political backgrounds and present beliefs is one thing. but an effort to discredit all modern art forms is quite aher and one of which e should be taken and which should be deprecated. for my colleagues personal opinion of modern art is his privilege. but my colleagues suggestion that it should all be lumped together and discredited - perhaps suppressed - because he believes it is being used by someeven manyartists to infiltrate communist ideas is a very dangerous use of the word "communism." the very point which distinguishes our forum of free expression from communism is the fact that modern art can live and flourish here without state authority or censorship and be accepted by americans who think well of it. i point out to my colleague that the work of grandma moses. john steuart curry. grant wood. and thomas hart benton is also modern art. these are among our most outstanding americans by anyones standards. it is very significant that the very example given by my colleague. the $30.000 contest of the hallmark co.. of new york city. is concentrated on modern art showing that it is getting broadscale acceptance among our people. grandma moses modern painting christmas card put out last year sold more copies to the american people. i am informed. than any other of the year. in his day. rembrandt was a modern artist. as witness his painting of the night watch. which almost deprived him of his livelihood under much the same kind of attack as my colleague is  making on modern art generally. it is also an example.  infrequent. of an academic artist turning to modern art. that my colleague is  confining his attack to individuals and their political or ideological beliefswhich he is perfectly justified in eoingbut rather to the whole of modern art is shown by these excerpts from his address: the human art termites. disciples of multiple "isms" that compose socalled modern art. boring industriously to destroy the high standards and priceless traditions of academic art. find comfort and satisfaction in the wide dissemination of this spurious reasoning and wickedly false declaration. and its casual acceptance by the unwary. socalled modern or contemporary art in our own beloved country contains all the "isms" of depravity. decadence. and destruction. xcv762 in seeking to discredit modern art by its wholesale condemnation as communistic my colleaguei am sure unwittinglyfalls into the trap of the same propagandistic device the influence of which we have all decried in the soviet union. nazi germany. and fascist italy. for it is condemnation by class and broadscale labeling without individual evaluation and. beyond everything else. without a patient confidence in the ultimate judgment of our people and their capability for discerning the good from the evil. the artistic from the propagandistic and the true from the false. in a distinguished editorial in the art digest. issue of june 1. 1949. peyton boswell. the editor. under the title of "a plea for tolerance" has analyzed this point of view as follows: you hate communism and you hate modern art. therefore. according to mathematical principles. the two are equal to each other and per se. modern art is communistic. the truth is the opposite. misnamed "modern" art is one of our strongest outposts of rugged individualism. or private enterprise and the valuable human desire to build that better mouse trapeven in the face of public censor and private hunger. it takes indeed a rugged individual to resist the temptation to rewrite ahers best seller. on such meat it has been proved that conformity is the opiate of the masses. perhaps more acres of canvas have been ruined in the name of modern art than ever suffered from academic brushes. but it was  because of bhe politics of the artists. number of words or political connections will ever make a bad painting good. or hide a good one from the generations to come. mr. boswells editorial produced a flood of approving comment from among the most distinguished museums. i am appending a number of these letters to my remarks. . it is my purpose in these brief remarks to endeavor to contribute a sense of hearing both sides of the case in respect to my colleagues remarks. in this way. under the same circumstances. the voice of modern art may be heard in response to the effort to destroy it on political or ideological grounds. it is very significant that the overwhelming majority of our young people are devotees of contemporary and modern art. i have a profound confidence in their balance. their good sense. and their spirit of freedom. i do  believe that they will be contaminated by modern art and i do believe that they themselves will evaluate and reject the art which is being used as a propaganda front. i would fight to the last breath to preserve to my colleague the right to make his case against any particular artist or his work. but i feel it my duty to protest just as vigorously any effort to smear all modern art and contemporary art with one brush as communistic. it is the essence of reliance on the judgment of the people that such sweeping and unselective condemnation should  be left unanswered.
 of the board of harper & bros.. writes to me as follows: i am familiar with the state departments book program. i think it is well administered. and feel very strongly  that it would be a great mistake to cut it below the modest amount expended in 1951. that would mean retaining the committees amount in the bill. in view of what we are voting for arms. i ask you whether you want to tie our hands behind our backs just for the sake of this shortsighted kind of ecoy to save $15.000.000 on a program vital to the national defense which the subcommittee has already cut $30.000.000. i am for encouraging the subcommittee and  for crippling our own efforts in the ideological field in the grim struggle against communism by this kind of shortsighted ecoy.
. i should like to compliment the gentleman on his very timely amendment hoing a great american who has made such an outstanding contribution to our cultural heritage in music which has become folk music. and calling this matter to our attention in this very splendid way. also. i should like to express my appreciation of the action of the subcommittee. but especially i should like to compliment my colleague from new york.
that is exactly correct. may i  finish my statement. joining to the colloquy which has just taken place. the fact that in 28 laws already on the books there is authorized injunctive relief by the united states government to prevent crimes. let me repeat that. because this is the answer of attorney general brownell to the very searching crossexamination of the senator from th carolina. on page 62 of the record of the hearings we find the following:
. the majority in the senate does  believe it is necessary to take that step. that is  the purpose of the majority. and it will show that that is  the purpose by its vote on the amendment. however. that is  the same thing as the statement by the senator from georgia. who believes sincerely and deeply that the system of the separation of the races is essential and is right. those who are in favor of the bill do  entertain that view. and they believe that something ought to be done about it.
i may say to the senator from ohio that one who is intense about a subject is  necessarily wrong because he is intense. i want my arguments to be judged upon their merits. the fact that i feel strongly upon a subject. although i do  think i have at all gone overboard about it. as is evidenced by my position on this amendment. and perhaps possibly upon other amendments. does  invalidate my view on a particular subject. whether my position is sound or unsound. i submit it to the senate to judge. second. there is hing written in the great book which says that the majority of the american people are dispassionate about the subject. i happen to think that the majority of the american people want civil rights to be asserted at this historic moment. we who are fighting for civil rights. as i think are the senator from ohio and myself. represent the prevailing majority view of the american people
i asked the question because i. too. feel that we should have provided for the brussels fair the amount which was included in the bill passed by the senate. i think it would have proved to be an investment. which.  having made. we will regret  having made. i think that at the fair the united states will  show up in the great and favorable way in which our country should be shown. but i express the hope that. as i have just said. and as has been said much better by other senators. including my distinguished colleague from massachusetts. our exhibit at the fair will be successful. i do  question the sincerity of the house conferees who took the position they assumed. except that i differ with them very strongly. i shall delay the senate for only a minute. to express a hope i entertain. we are a remarkable people. there are many things we do which the government does  do. and for which the government does  even pay. i express my hope. and indeed my expectation. that those active in the fields of american art and culture. those associated with the theater and with music. whom i k so well from my home city. and the great american business organizations.  seeing exactly what congress will do. and being longer under any uncertainty about what the federal government will do. will  pour into the breach and make the contributions which may be made even at the lth hourand this is the 11th hourand which will sustain american prestige and the american posture in respect to the fair. the fair. unfortunately. has been blown up to be a great test. as between the united states and the soviet union. as to which country will do better so far as prestige in the world is concerned. although together with many of my colleagues. i realize that action in this regard will  be decisive of the great issues with which we are confronted in congress and with which the world is faced. nevertheless the brussels fair has been perhaps inflated beyond its importance. but there it is. so i hope very muchand i express this as one senator from one statethat the great forces in our country which have heretofore contributed so mightily under similar circumstances. will welcome an opportunity to act patriotically. to make up. as i think they themselves believe they should do. for what is lacking in the amount of the appropriation.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the text of the bill. an analysis of the need for passage of the bill. and an article from the new york times of today. entitled "javits bill to ask end to art duties."
i was going to suggest that mally one would sit down after such a pleasant reception. but in this case i do  feel i have any business in so doing. this is a matter of deep feelings of many people. as those who listened to the debate have heard. insofar as one can. under the existing parliamentary situation. i am trying to go some distance toward allaying the fears of those who may entertain fears. i hope the senate will understand the fundamental situation. first. my amendment proposes that  only slaughtering but also handling should -be encompassed within the exemption. that was  by any means clear. and it is  clear as a matter of religious law that handling is regulated by the jewish practice of shehitah. as is slaughtering. nevertheless. one is so intimately connected with the other that i do  believe the legislative intent. which i think is clear both in this body and in the other body. would be fully realized unless the exemption were complete. i feel this is the fundamental intention of the senate and of the other body. hence. i am trying to articulate in words a complete exemption. in terms of those who will  eat meat unless it is slaughtered by ritualistic practices. in order to protect the practice rather than to concentrate strictly upon the letter of the rabbinical law which might be involved. as i say. i think that is the fundamental disposition of the senate. as to the essential question involved. let us all understand the jewish practice with respect to slaughtering.
i should like to state to the senator from minnesota that i appreciate the concern expressed by him. he has certainly shown his friendship to this effort by his vote on my amendment. at the same time. i feel the other body saw fit to try to button this matter up in two sections. i think the amendment of the senator from new jersey is an additional contribution the senate can make to the quieting of concern in the same section. again i point out. just as i felt the language i proposed was  the height of art in terms of legal draftsmanship. the same may be said of the proposal of the distinguished senator from new jersey. except it permits the matter to be susceptible of resolution in the final form to be adopted in conference. therefore. for those reasons. rather than for reasons of concern which the senator from minnesota expresses. i shall support the amendment. i feel the more we can take to conference. the better we can deal with the question. i felt that way about my amendment. i say that respectfully. i hope very much the senator from minnesota may feel the same way. in view of the explanation of my position.
i have today introduced a bill to stimulate increased citizen participation in government and elections. called the voters information act of 1959. it provides for the prominent display in post offices of information concerning registration. elections. and voter qualifications along with name and office address of the representatives and u.s. senators representing the areas served by the post office. this measure is being cosponsored in the house of representatives by representative edwin b. dooley. of new york. a measure of this kind to encourage eligible u.s. citizens to exercise their right to vote as set forth in the constitution. regardless of race. creed. color or national origin. clearly deserves consideration by the congress on a strictly partisan basis.  that the turmoil of last embers election is past. there is one result upon which we can all agreeit is  merely surprising. it is shocking that although 1958 set a record for offyear voting. less than 50 percent of those eligible to vote bothered to do so. at offyear election have more than half the electorate cast ballots on a national average. although in new york state last year. about 54 percent voted. in presidential years. the improvement is slight at best. in the record year of 1952. 62.7 percent of the eligible voters went to the polls. but 4 years later. the percentage participating slipped to 60.4 percent. thus. at a time when u.s. policies as formulated- and put into effect by. our elective officials have an unprecedented impact on the future of our nation and the free world. about onethird of the eligible voters in this country can elect a president. because our record of voter participation is generally lower than that of many other major democratic nations in the world. proposals for compulsory voting legislation similar to that enacted in countries like new zealand. belgium. mexico. and australia are gaining some support. several of our states. including th dakota and massachusetts. already have such provisions on their books but they have never been enforced. i do  believe that compulsory voting is the answer. neither great britain  canada have statutes to compel voting. and yet they consistently report that between 7 and 8 out of every 10 qualified persons do go to their polls. at the end of the last century here in the united states 83 percent of our eligible voters took part in national elections. the task before us  is to devise a practical method of increasing the average voters personal kledge about the time. place. and date of registration and elections. and make readily available to. him the information on how to contact those who represent him in the house and the senate. possessing these facts. he will be greatly encouraged to register voluntarily his opinion on major issues by contacting his representatives in congress and by going to the polls at the next election. th6 voters information act of 1959. which i am introducing today. should be a measure of assistance in realizing those objectives. the act provides thatthere shall be posted in a prominent place in each post office information with respect to the qualifications for registration and voting. the places. dates. and times for registration and voting at elections in the area served by such post office. there shall likewise be posted in each post office the names and office addresses of the united states senators from the state and representatives in congress from the congressional district in which such post office is situated.
. on behalf of myself and the senator from illis . i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to amend the tariff act of 1930 liberalizing the definition of "works of art" which may be imported dutyfree so as to include modern art forms. it would also ease restrictions on the importation of articles of educational or artistic value when they are meant for exhibition purposes and  for sale. the proposed legislation has the support of the museum of modern art. the metropolitan museum. the museum of primitive art. all located in new york city. and other museums. institutes. and colleges. for the worlds most modern society the united states retains some of the most antiquated tariff regulations which tend sharply to reduce the number of abstracts. collages. lithographs. and primitive carvings imported for the enjoyment of the public. the existing laws impede the cultural development of our nation and tend to expose us to ridicule in other advanced countries. for example. in 1912. pablo picasso georges braque developed the collage.  a recognized fine arts medium which is frequently composed of unusual materials including paper. cloth. and even manufactured objects such as nails. however. today. 47 years later. the customs bureau. guided by the tariff act. still rules that because a collage is  made from traditional materials it does  qualify as an original work of art and thus must be subject to duty at 20 percent of its declared value. to highlight the absurdity of this situation. an original picasso or matisse painting could be imported duty free but a collage by the same world famous artist on precisely the same subject valued by art experts as high as $20.000. as some are. is subject to a customs levy of $4.000. other outmoded restrictions limit the importation of dutiable sculpture to imitation of natural objects. chiefly the human form in their true proportion of length. breadth. and thickness. the strict interpretation of this definition automatically bans the levyfree importation of many abstract sculptures considered classics. if we do  take steps to grant official art standing to such sculptures. along with collages. lithographs and. even primitive carvings. then we are living in a cultural desert even though same of the most creative and productive talents in the art world were born. raised and trained in the united states. the amendments the senator from illis and i are proposing would greatly increase the number and kind of original art objects imported into this country by u.s. art museums and dealers as well as art patrons who donate sizable collections to art institutions. in addition. they would encourage a much freer interchange of works of art between the united states and other countries. the loss of tariff revenues to the united states due to a more liberal interpretation of the tariff laws. deemed insignificant by authorities. would be more than compensated for by the increased cultural opportunities accruing to the united states. the key amendment proposed would enlarge the definition in paragraph 1807 of the tariff act of 1930 to admit duty free original works of art done in oil. pen and ink. watercolors. and other traditional media and also that "in any other media. including applied paper and other materials. manufactured or otherwise. such as are used on collages." and original sculpture and statuary "constructed from any material or made in any form."  limited to conventional materials and representative forms. other amendments would remove import restrictions on certain printing processes such as lithographs under 20 years old. handwoven tapestries by modern artists. art objects from primitive societies made 50 years prior to the date of their entry. and "models of inventions and other improvements in the arts" used by architectural groups and others. free entry would be granted for the sculptors model and 10 replicas much in demand by museums and collectors. finally. payment of customs duties and the posting of bonds mally required could be waived on condition that the works of art were being imported  for sale but for exhibition purposes in the united states. these objects could also be transferred temporarily to a "commercial gallery or other premises for educational. scientific. agricultural. or cultural purposes or for the benefit of charitable organizations. and  for sale."
. i take the floor today. when we do  have a great deal of active business in the senate. to develop a subject which is very important to the enjoyment of life in our country and in a sense very important even to the conduct of the effort which represents our defense of freedom and our defense against communism in terms of american morale. i refer to cultural activities in the united states. and what we as a government are doing to give to our people support for unity of purpose which comes from element of the spirit and recognition on the national level of our cultural heritage as a nation. toward that end i am today introducing. for myself and for my distinguished colleague from pennsylvania . a bill to establish a u.s. arts foundation. which i  send to the desk for appropriate reference.
 has recently appointed a most distinguished group of men to serve as its trustees. recognition of americas need for frequent performances of theatrical and other works in all parts of our nation and of the peoples unabated desire for such performances prompted me in 1949 to introduce. while a member of the house of representatives. a resolution looking toward the establishment of an american national theater and an american national opera and ballet. on the same basis. some 8 years later. in 1957. in this body. i introduced a bill for a united states foundation with senator clark. that proposal. like the present one. is closly analogous to the british and canadian arts councils. which have done so much in their countries to stimulate the performing arts. i emphasize that here are two of the outstanding democracies of the whole world. one has ever claimed that they are one whit less active in their democratic processes than are we. they are the countries which. in a sense. form the models for my particular bill. i point out that in addition to stimulating and encouraging both study and performance. the emphasis of the arts foundation is upon people and places. rather than upon bricks and mortar. i think this is very important. because there are other efforts to accomplish this general objective. but many of them are very heavily based upon the idea of some memorial. some theater. some structure within which these activities may be housed. i point out that my concept is that of spreading the performing arts throughout the country. reaching places which are   reached. that is the great emphasis. this effort is  especially neededalthough it could do a great deal of goodin new york city. chicago. san francisco. los angeles. and perhaps other cities. but it is certainly vitally needed in many other areas of the country which are  barren of this kind of cultural interest and activity for the people. the money which would be provided under the terms of the bill would cover the marginal difference between success and failure and make feasible a particular activity in the performing arts. in terms of financing. when otherwise it might  be feasible by virtue of what is called the "death of the road" in terms of the theater and music in the united states. furthermore. i believe that the proposed program has great attractiveness in terms of utilizing the musical talent of the country. which is very seriously suffering. as anyone ks who is aware of the problems of the musicians union. by reason of underemployment. one wishes to diminish the attractiveness of the impact of motion pictures. television. radio. and all the other mechanical aids to broadening and fulfilling life. but there is reason why wealmost uniquely among the great civilized nations on earthshould neglect the national responsibiilty for keeping alive the sources of all these artistic endeavors. which are. in the final analysis. the performers. the directors. the writers. the technicians. the scene designers. and all the other manifold artists who make artistic creation possible. however. many of them fall by the wayside today because there is such a narrow area in which they can operate. only the very best. the topflight. the most highly paid performers. can get any real opportunity. i emphasize also that the whole purport of the bill is to apply to profit activities. there is need for giving a subvention to the commercial theater or to the commercial end of music. the dance. or any of the other performing arts. in the wide area of the college theater many of our state universities have magnificent theatrical organizations. which. with a little help could spread their culture. their interest. and their excitement throughout whole states and groups of states. but they can do it today because of the absence of a very modest amount of needed help. i do  recommend a national theater in the old european sense. i do recommend a national appreciation of the arts in the truly american sense. i point out also that. in contrast with the experience of the british and canadian arts organizations. i have omitted from the bill the graphic and mural arts. my reason for doing so is that i believe that we would be more likely to obtain action at this time on a bill such as mine dealing with the performing arts. rather than a bill dealing with various aspects of museums. and artists who are concerned with painting. sculpture. drawing and other manifold arts. that may come. indeed. i do  believe that the entire structure would be complete without it. but i feel that. considering the tentative way in which we have always approached the subject. and the number of fears which have been expressed with respect to the proposal. it would be better to go a little slower rather than to try to go too rapidly. finally. one of the great objections voiced to this entire proposal has been that the program would fall into political hands. i think that is rather an expression of a lack of self confidence. i point out that there are a great number of voluntary activities. from the metropolitan opera to many less glamorous activities. which are being very well carried on. and which have  fallen into political hands. in a city which is so politically conscious as is new york city. there exists the city center. in essence. it is a municipal activity. dealing with the finest kind of performances in the theater. in music. and in art of all kinds. it is entirely free from politics. indeed. it is one of the ornaments of new york city. if such a program can be carried on in new york city. it certainly can be carried on in uther parts of the nation. it is my earnest hope that the present congress will take cognizance of americas need for an active and expanded cultural lifea need which this bill attempts to meet. i close upon the following e. the principal purposes of the foundation would be to. first. stimulate study and advancement of the performing arts and public interest therein. second. encourage presentation in the united states and. in cooperation with the department of state. in other countries of the performing arts. third. encourage professional and amateur groups in the performing arts. fourth. maintain registers of personnel and theaters. fifth. make surveys of the performing arts. and sixth. provide financial assistance out of appropriations and other income to profit groups engaged in or concerned with the performing arts. especially insofar as this will enable such groups to go to parts of our country which ordinarily would  have the opportunity to see their performances. it is authorized to accept donations. collect admissions charges and utilize the services of volunteers. so that a minimum of appropriated funds would be required. the foundation would have an appropriate number of committees composed of professional people and the general public covering the various aspects of the performing arts to remove any danger of uniformity due to governmental assistance. the panels would judge the artistic worth and cultural significance of works to be presented to determine if they are worthy of support by the foundation. an organization functioning in this manner makes baseless the fear of governmental control of the arts and its relatively small cost should cause little anxiety about the level of governmental expenditures. this is indeed one case where a drop in the bucket can quench the thirst of 175 million people. i believe the u.s. arts foundation can enable us to look forward to the day when our nation will be servedas it was in the pastby theater. opera. ballet. and music available in all sections of our land. and the world will ho us for it. the soul of america will in this way be enabled to grow in keeping with the growth of our productive capabilities. we shall soon be seeing in new york city the bolshoi ballet from moscow. i have doubt that it will receive very favorable public ice. yet how many will consider the fact that it represents a governmental effort far greater than i have envisioned in my bill. namely. a modest subvention to help to stimulate interest in the performing arts. the bolshoi ballet represents the full effort of government itself. while the people will enjoy it and praise it. i do  think they will stop to reflect that we could be doing very much the same thing if we gave a little help where help is desired and is so necessary. i make the same observation with respect to sadlers wejls opera. which the british arts council supports. as well as the old vic theater. which is keeping alive in the finest tradition all the great plays of shakespeare. old vic also is helped by the british art council. i believe we are trying too hard to contend in the whole world on many issues without recognizing that there are other weapons in our armoryweapons of a happy kindwhich we can utilize  only for ourselves but for the whole world very significantly and effectively. one of the most significant is the one to which i am referring today. our problem. in a deep psychological sense. is how we shall keep our country great. in keeping with our growth and productive capability. i have tried to put before congress one way. in terms of world experience for centuries past. going back to the days of the greeks. whom we still ho and who have remained world famous because of the drama and philosophy which they authored. i hope very much. therefore. that my colleagues. even my serious colleagues. among whom i include myself. who feel that we are in the grimmest kind of struggle for survival. will agree with me that my proposal is a part of the armament which we need in that struggle. and that a plan such as the one i propose is well worthy of our consideration. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks an article published in the new york times sunday magazine of yesterday. written by me. entitled "plan to aid our lagging culture." in which i outline the plan for the bill i am introducing and my arguments in its support.
i shall be very brief. i merely desire to join in the sentiments expressed by the distinguished senator from wisconsin about this great american. who was responsible for literally a revolution in an art which has been one of the glories of mankind for centuries. i think all of us can well pause a moment to pay tribute to a great american and a creative genius.
i do  believe it is a matter purely of title. i believe there is a basis for a particular kind of activity. if the activity should be eliminated. the law would be obsolescent. i might say that the statute books are full of laws which are obsolescent. such laws go back to the first laws which were enacted in 1789. most laws on the statute books are longer applicable. some of them are laws dealing with runaway horses. they are longer in use. i do  believe the point the senator makes in that regard proves anything.
i have a similar amendment at the desk. we may be able to deal with the whole matter . my amendment relates to section 109 (b). page 21. it gives the right to sue to recover the proceeds of any embezzlement or the like. i had proposed to include. in a very brief way. the right of the individual to sue where a fiduciary responsibilitywhich is the word of art used in the preamble of the bill. and perhaps it is just as well to use the same word of arthad been violated. if we place the language at that particular point. we will have a complete practice set up which will require an ex parte application before suit can be started at any place. i would be perfectly willing to agree to the proposal made by the senator from massachusetts that we accept the provision which the senator has suggested to cover all the questions of fiduciary relationship except the question of remedy. i should like to reserve that one point. so that we may use the same plan for it. whether it be that of the senator from arkansas or mine or some other senators. so long as it deals with the question of remedy. and only that. but as to the substantial question as to what shall be a breach of fiduciary relation. i am satisfied. as the senator from massachusetts suggests. to accept the proposal made with respect to the amendment offered by the senator from arkansas.
i think it probably would if the litigation involved the union in the whole line of business. because the words of art are "employer or employer association." again we have a balance of convenience. neither side ought to trim this. and that is why i have given the legislative history.
. the purpose of the amendment is to conform the bill to the clayton act. that is one of the purposes which was sought to be attained by the omahoney amendment. however. the omahoney amendment had so much else in it that many of us voted against it. there are two things that i believeand have argued for in the discussionshould be incorporated in the bill. i proposed my amendment in committee. where. if my memory serves me. the amendment failed by a very narrow margini believe by only one vote. the two things that should be contained in the bill are. first. ice. we have added that in the amendment offered by the senator from alabama. which was adopted. the other is definition. the word "unduly." even though it does occur in the definition of competition in the interstate commerce act. is  a word of art which has been very widely construed in terms of the kind of commercial activity which is represented by banking. if we do what i suggest. and substitute for the word "unduly" the word "substantially." we shall have a uniform definition both in the clayton act and in the pending bill. i  state the clinching point. as i see it. if this bill were mandatory upon that score. and provided that where there is substantially a lessening of competition. the merger must be rejected. then there might be made the argument that. because of the peculiar institutions which constitute banks. in peculiar situations in different communities. and the possibility of the absolute need for a merger or consolidation. even if competition is substantially lessened. we should  have the same definition. however. i point out that the words in the bill are very clear that the controlling agency over bank mergers is  bound to apply this standard so as to reject a merger. it is only bound to consider the standard. i call attention to the fact that on page 2. line 10. the bill expressly states "shall consider the factors enumerated in section 6 of this act." therefore it seems to me that when we write in this provision. which will make this bill analogous to the clayton act. and we do  make it mandatory upon the regulatory agencies. we are at one and the same time carrying through a standard which gives the attorney general freedom to proceed. if he is so advised. under a clayton act action. and it also provides a guidepost to the regulating agency which is very well understood and very well defined. instead of a guidepost which is relatively undefined and relatively new within the context of commercial transactions.
. thoughts. ideas. facts. are the weapons of freedom in the struggle for mens minds. and books are the means which convey them. the soviets realize the effectiveness of this weapon. and make full use of it. they export half as many more books as we do. many of them in our own english language. the informational media guarantee programimginstituted in 1949. has already facilitated the sale of some $150 million worth of books abroad. at a cost to the taxpayers of $10 million. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an editorial from the washington post and a statement by the mcgrawhill co.. which appeared in the may 30 issue of the saturday review. which depicts the role of books in the cold war. and the vital part the informational media guarantee program is playing in it.
. this sorry and tragic recital only demonstrates the extent of defiance of law affecting  only the negro miity but. with increasing intensity. other religious miities like jews and catholics as well as moderates who are white and even indians. also encompassed are business and industries. too. that must inevitably be vitally affected. the report underlines the need for legislation which has been pending in the senate for almost 6 months  to deal with the bombings of the inent. the lynchings. the dissemination of hate literature and the effort to better safeguard civil liberties and rights. the heritage of all of us. i condemn one. i merely state the fact. i believe that this report presents a real challenge to the leadership of the majority in the senate which has the primary responsibility for bringing measures before this body. it points up the fact that excessive delay is just  tolerable in the situation which faces the nation in the south. though i have illusions about panaceas of law. it is a fact that federal law can at least show that we mean to help within the limits of law. i see two basic reasons for the situation portrayed in this report: first. a widespread disrespect for law when often the most responsible members of a community and those in official positions are in defiance of the law as enunciated by the supreme court. second. the failure so far of the federal government to itself assert the supremacy of the c6nstitution through adequate laws of its own. the most striking example of that is the inability of the federal enforcement machinery to follow through. withstanding a reportedly affirmative fbi investigation. in the mack charles parker lynching. i pay tribute to the gover of mississippi. he did call in the fbi and he has purposed to place the matter before the grand jury. the fact is. however. that the fbi had to be withdrawn because there was law under which it could proceed. this report soberly and seriously calls us to action. it is addressed as well to the people of the affected southern states themselves. it is hard to see how with their traditional respect for law they can tolerate the situation shown by this report. i consider it our bounden duty to act on the needed legislation at this session of congress and i do  see how we can do it unless a bill is brought up before the senate before the 4th of july. the responsibility is particularly that of the senate majority leadership. senator johnson has already shown his attitude by proposing a civil rights bill himself. i think the time has  come to urge that it be brought up. every regard for mal committee procedures having certainly been shown by  considering the exigencies of the situation.
i hope very much that i shall have the opportunity to be here for as long as the senator speaks. or at least most of the time. because i believe the subject of the precedents to which he is addressing himself is vitally important. when the senator finishes his speech i hope to take up from that very point. based upon the precedents. the order of proof and the burden of proof. and whether the burden has been borne in this situation. based upon the specific facts as they have been adduced. i believe that my colleague has done a very fine thing in commenting on the allen drury book. which i have gone through and which i think is important from this point of view. we become encased in these four walls and get the idea. almost. that we are talking to each other. this book gives us some concept of the extent to which the world listens. i may say to my colleague. too. that personally i am  too happy about our performance with respect to the strauss ination. i am  too happy. i may say. with respect to the jockeying that is going on as to when we will vote. i believe we will vote promptly. i do  believe it makes too much difference whether it is today or tomorrow. in view of the time already taken. i do  say that with any discredit to anyone. it is the duty of the leaders to muster their maximum strength. and i believe that is the way the country and the world will look at it. the time we have taken on this ination seems to me to be a little out of order. in view of the fact that such tremendous events are taking place in the world. at geneva and elsewhere. as the senator has said. in referring to the allen drury book. i believe the whole world is looking at the senate.  only as a great deliberative body. but at least. in terms of one part of congress. as the conscience of our country. taking an objective look. what do we ourselves think about all these weeks of discussion about a particular ination of a particular cabinet officer. i hope very much that within some proximate time we will conclude the debate and will vote. i deeply feel that the minds of men generally. and our own in particular. need to be taken up with other and more pressing issues. i mr. keating. i appreciate the contribution to the discussion made by the senior senator from new york. i share his views emphatically that the senate should come to a vote promptly on this ination. but i see reason for sitting here all night. when. off and on. we have been in session already on this ination for many days. as the majority leadership saw fit to bring in one matter or aher ahead of it. it is my recollection that it is  almost 2 weeks since the ination was first made the order of business. whether we vote on it today or tomorrow or the next day seems to me to make very little difference.
what interests me. and i think it is a powerful point to make. is the fact that the soviet union has given us tremendous competition in books. especially in areas where the img program is of such great importance. the place where the informational media guarantee program is doing its work is in countries where we need to spread information as to our own situation and with respect to the study of english. the nations where that program is needed cv728 are austria. burma. chile. france. germany. indonesia. israel. italy. the netherlands. way. pakistan. philippines. poland. spain. taiwan. turkey. vietnam. and yugoslavia. in practically all of those countries we are up against the "gun." in terms of competition with the soviet union. my information is. and i  refer to a letter written by the president of mcgrawhill. which appears in the congressional record of tuesday. june 16. 1959. at page 10898. that the russians exported. in 1957. 30 million books. this represents 10 million more books than were exported by the united states. that is both by private industry and under the informational media guarantee program. i would say to my colleague from texas. if the committee wished to place a restriction on this program and prevent its use for magazines or any other purpose. that is fine with me. all i am talking about . and the thing i have my eye fixed on primarily. is the book program. because in the book program we are in direct and very meaningful competition. with due respect to the committee. we are talking in terms of pennies in comparison with the minds of mankind which we are trying to reach through books. i should like to give the senator a practical example. i have a letter from the international manager of the american book co.. in which he tells me an interesting fact. under the img program. we are printing books for the teaching of english. the russians are also printing books for the teaching of english. senators can imagine the ideas the russians are introducing in their english instruction books. the most insidious and the most subtle. and yet the most welldirected propaganda. faces the people who are studying english in various countries. to the poor person in indonesia. in india. in pakistan. or in other countries. the cheaper he can get the book. and the better the book is printed. the more likely he is to buy it. if it teaches the english language. he does  care about the propaganda in it. although he is absorbing it through his studies. we are talking about $3 million. it is a cut from the budget estimate of $400.000. the program already is only twothirds of what the russians did in 1957. we k their program is growing. i k we have got to guard against it. i understand some members of the committee oppose what has been provided. i understand the position of the senator from texas. i respect and regard with affection my colleague from louisiana. he could be right and i could be wrong about this.
that is why i think this item is important. and why i am taking the time to discuss it. there are  too many areas in which we have the leverage we have in the book program. in defense. we are buying extremely expensive hardware. but in a program of this character. where we are talking about winning the minds of men. half a million dollars gives a great deal of leverage. the program which was carried on last year cost about $10 million. the program for the coming year. according to the estimates we have before us. will cost about $8 million. apparently. in the book field. that means an emous number of books. an emous number of minds to be reached. an emous impact for what is a ridiculously small leverage. it seems to me that we ought to try. even in the interest of ecoy. to be finding the programs in connection with which we have an emous leverage for the dollar. i think this is one of those programs. i have illusions as to what an amendment will produce. i have an amendment to raise the figure to $3.500.000. i may submit it. but i have illusions. frankly. i would much rather have the advocacy of the senator from texas of the program than to offer an amendment which will very likely be defeated on the floor. as the senator from texas and i both k.
. it is important to state what i want done about all this. why am i making this speech. i shall state the things i plead for. first. i plead for an acceptance of responsibility by the majority in this body. i refer to responsibility in regard to the committees. the chairmen of which and the majority membership of which are from the majority party. therefore. every effort should be made on the part of the majority to get the appropriate committee to report a bill. if that is  possible. i plead for the assumption of responsibility by the majority in the discharge of the committee. finally. as soon as we get a bill from the house of representatives. which i believe will occur pretty soon . i plead for the acceptance of responsibility to bring the bill up for consideration. if we have had action by our own committee. those are at least three of the things which could be done. and which would represent accelerated action on civil rights and the acceptance of responsibility for civil rights legislation. there is clearly inadequate civil rights legislation on the books . the program of the distinguished majority leader himself shows it. the program of the administration shows it. the events which are happening in our country show it. the civil rights bill as passed in 1957 was primarily devoted to securing the voting right. yet voting rights have  been universally accorded in southern states where there were the principal difficulties. and as a matter of fact. the progress in adding voters to the rolls has been relatively meager. on the other hand. measures of considerable obstruction have been undertaken. as. for example. in the effort to eliminate macon county. ala.. because it contains tuskegee university. with a very large negro population on a high intellectual level. other obstructions are found in the difficulties and refusals incident to the disclosure of voting lists leading to the need for stronger subpena powers. which is incorporated both in the administrations civil rights package and is one of the proposals introduced by the majority leader. it has been reported that the total number of negro voters in macon county  amounts to 1.100. or under 8 percent of the total negro population in the county. those negro voters come to about onethird of the number of white voters in macon county. although almost 85 percent of the entire population is negro. the tuskegee civic association in an analysis of the situation. has stated: at the present rate of issuing certificates to negroes. it would require 203 years to register the approximately 13.000 unregistered negroes in macon county that are  21 years of age and older. i call attention to markedly eworthy events like those in little rock. ark.. poplarville. miss.. and the barring of any recognition. let alone compliance. with the supreme courts decree on desegregation of the public schools in six of the southern states. we also have a long and tragic list of bombings of homes. schools. churches. synagogues. and places of business. my colleague and i took a trip into certain affected areas toward the close of last year. in order to see personally the situation surrounding these acts of violence and terror. such acts demonstrate the urgent need for legislation at this session in both our national interest and in the interests of our struggle for peace. it is said by some that before we have civil rights legislation we should have a report from the civil rights commission. but even speaking optimistically. the commission is  due to report until this session will have adjourned. a report is due from the commission on september 9. it will go out of business 2 months thereafter. that is one reason why we shall need a civil rights bill to extend the life of the civil rights commission to january 2. 1961.
exactly. i am informed that the september 9 date for a report is extremely optimistic. although i am advised by counsel for the commission that that is the objective of the commission. i entertain grave doubts as to whether we can expect very much of a report by that time.
i do  wish to detain the senate. but i should like to thank the senator from oregon for aher reason. which is that we needed deliberation in this matter. the senator understood that only too well. with perfect propriety the senator from oregon gave us that opportunity. i think the results tomorrow will show our deliberation. the senator has given us a very worthwhile analysis. we will have more analyses. because of the capabilities the senator has placed at the disposal of all of us. i have been looking at the books myself already. although we shall  have too long a time to debate tomorrow. the basis for our decision has been laid. we hope this will prove to be a very fruitful initiative taken by our colleague.
i am very grateful to the senator from new hampshire. who is so celebrated in our own party. for his kind words. of course i am a relatively new member of the senate. for a few years of service here are  a very long time. i hope my colleagues will be as quick to correct me as to compliment me. if they find that i tread an inconsistent road. i am delighted that so distinguished a member as the senior senator from new hampshire is addressing himself to this subject today. i really feel very deeply that one of the very fine things about the position our country takes in dealing with the rest of the worldand certainly by such means we can do the most goodis to be found in the fact that we do  only talk. we act. the more action we takewhether in regard to captive nations week or in regard to making a strong protest against russian types of imperialism. book burning. discrimination against miities. and imprisoning. in essence. religious miities in that countrythe more effective we shall be. as the senator from new hampshire and the others of us read the dispatches from abroad. i believe he will agree with me that the people of various nations are beginning to understand and appreciate the true worth of our position. versus that of the communists. that is happening in india. burma. and other countries where the eyes of the people had been somewhat closed to the real facts in connection with this situation. but as in the case of tibetthey are beginning to open.
 eisenhowers board of ecoic advisers. who has called my attention to the fine work of the academy of american poets and who suggested that it be commented upon a dinner commemorating the 25th anniversary year will be held at the waldorfastoria on ember 4. 1959.  of the dinner. distinguished poets and prominent figures in all the arts and sciences. government and business are expected to attend. may the academy of american poets continue its fine contributions to our national culture in the years ahead.
. i have initiated inquiries upon this subject with mr. george allen. the director of the usia. i hope to have a report on the matter soon. perhaps mr. allen will make the report public. so that we may all k the facts. in the meantime. i think our interest is so great in the idea of communicating directly to the russian people what we believe in. in terms of the books which are public and which are available at the bookmobile. that i ask unanimous consent to have the editorial from the new york times. together with news stories out of moscow of august 6 and august 17. printed in the record as a part of these remarks. i hope to make a report to the senate later. unless mr. allen makes one directly as to the factual outcome of the matter.
i see. that is very important. it was  completely clear. in short. therefore. the rule for the independent contractor is different from the rule for the direct contractor. because he is a resident of that state and may accept within that state. therefore. the word "sales." in subsection (c). is a word of art in connection with that point. is that correct.
madam president. recently i introduced into the record a series of articles by harrison e. salisbury. entitled "khrushchevs russia." relating to developments of life and living in the soviet union. how they pose a challenge to the united states. and an appraisal of khrushchevs russia. i inserted the first five articles from the new york times. i  submit the last two articles.  6. entitled "standard of living found to be rising. but u.s. levels do  seem in sight." and  7. "premier tries a pragmatic approach toward soviet arts and literature." i ask unanimous consent that they be inserted in the record.
i thank the senator. and i shall be glad to give him my views. and i would reserve the right to expand upon those views. as occasion requires. because i am doing it pretty much without having again consulted the individual books and cases. but the authority in federal elections rests. essentially. upon the time. place. and manner provisions of article i. section 4 of the constitution. giving the congress a far more direct route to acting in those cases. congress could pass a law. without provocation. practically taking away from the states the time. place. and manner of the holding of these elections for federal officials. that is. the house and the senate. when we move into the state area. which is the equal opportunity to vote under the amendments of the constitution. which relates to the 14th and 15th amendments. there is a need for some preliminary findings of a wrong which is being done before the congress has a right to implement those particular amendments. therefore. there is a situation in which the congress couldit never has and i believe it never willmove to take over the federal election under the time. place. and manner provision of the constitution. and is aher situation in which there must be a wrong before congress can actan amendment is being violated. therefore. we must do something about it. what my colleagues are saying. reallyand my colleague from new york is on his feet. and i k will speak for himselfis that in this case we have a conjuncture of the two. congress  only could. but should. take over the time. place. and manner of elections in the face of this admitted set of wrongs. and the wrongs having been proved or being easily susceptible of proof. congress may also invoke the application to state elections which arises from the amendments. therefore. though there is a difference in the cases and there is a difference in the constitutional authorities. there is shown such a body of wrong as there is here. so for practical purposes. we can make our remedy applicable to both. that is the answer.
 of the citizens committee for children of new york city. and was engaged in a great host of outstanding activities. many of them concerned with children. i had the ho of serving with mrs. levy in 1955 and 1956 on a state commission on youth and delinquency. which was appointed as a result of my work as attorney general. there was drafted a revised new york state youth commission act which i think put our state in the forefront in dealing with problems of youth. mrs. levy served for a long time on the new york state youth commission. she was also a charter member of the new york city youth board. her work endeared her to the people of new york. because she was associated with a great many organizations in that field. she was also active in the united jewish appeal. which is concerned with the work of resettlement of refugees and others in israel. also. mrs. levy pursued a great many cultural interests as a leader in art. she. herself. being the possessor of a ed art collection in new york city. although her political party was  my own. she was etheless such a distinguished citizen that she was appointed to. and retained. positions of responsibility by both gover harriman and gover rockefeller. gover rockefeller recently appointed her to the state committee for the 1960 white house conference for children and youth. mrs. levy led a tremendously useful and exemplary life. she was a most gracious person and was a tremendous benefactor to her city and state. it is with the greatest regret that i e her passing. and i call this beautiful life. which was of such great usefulness. to the attention of my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent that the obituary ices which appeared in the new york herald tribune and the new york times may be included in the record as a part of my remarks.
i understand. but i believe it very important to point out that. in the final analysis. we must invoke one principle of equityand it is invoked in our present amendment. and i hope very much the senate will  forget it: matter what happens to our amendment or to the registrar proposal or to any other proposal. at least the senate should proceed in recognition of the principle of equity that in lircumstances in which such an act would be futile or in which there would be jeopardy to the one called upon to act. equity will  require him to perform that act. only if we keep in mind that this is established horn book law in equity. will the senate "keep its eye on the ball" and will  allow the voting referee provision to be disposed of until at least that much is done with respect to it.
 would the majority leader entertain the suggestion that we adopt the first amendment. on page 1. line 4. and perhaps the majority leader would consider seriously getting a record vote on the second amendment. which is the first substantive amendment. then we will have the debate pointed toward a specific proposition. i do  ask for it. i simply ask for the majority leaders ideas on that subject.
i think this is one of the essences of our society. people who are dissatisfied with a certain thing stir up the question. and if their position appeals to reason it begins to appeal to us. to other officials of the government. and to people generally. and then something is done about it. i wish to point out. and i am sorry to intrude upon the senators time. but i think it is pertinent to the argumentthat the national defense education act was passed  for the benefit of individual young fellows who are meritorious. the act was passed to obtain the best talent in the united states to help fight the cold war. this is in the national interest and in the national service. i say that the disclaimer affidavit is  worth losing a whole bunch of these young people. who are bright and able. because their stomachs turn at this particular oath. it is  worth it to lose them. for we have on the statute books the smith act. and the smith act says that any person is guilty of a felony if he advocates the overthrow of the government by force. why should we write the provision in this law. where it may deprive us of the very talent which we are trying to win to our side. i think that is the essential argument which has induced na to join in favor of the bill. as it was amended
. the vital role of american cultural expression in the fight against communism  only for the new nations of africa and asia but also for latin america is underestimated and underrated too often in our own country. it is easy to concentrate on the more absolute results of scientific development and to lose sight of the influence and value of music and the other arts as expressions of our culture and democratic civilization. we can allow this to happen. in this respect our exchange activities with other countries demand our best. i believe that a u.s. arts foundation created along the lines of legislation which i have introduced can help substantially in the promotion and wider dissemination of all our cultural expressions. we are only beginning to show our theater and music abroad while the soviet union has been doing it for years. inadequate appropriations plus the lack of a national arts policy limit our own opportunities. an example of the difficulties we meet in this connection is provided by the experience of the new york philharmonic and its conductor. leonard bernstein. during their latin american tour. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record the column describing this and other events. by michael oneill entitled "capital circus" which appeared in the new york daily news. august 2.
 of the broadway theatre alliance. inc.. which shows the remarkable way in which artists are being sent to perform magnificent plays. the list includes many of the most exciting plays on broadway during this and previous seasons throughout many of the cities of the country. a list of the cities is attached.
. i express the hope that the wide coverage from texas to iowa. from california to new england. may induce senators from those states to give sympathetic consideration to the idea of removing the tax on all theater tickets. and also to the idea of some national theater establishment. i close by pointing out that one of the greatest ways in which to encourage the strength and morale and vigor of the american people which are required by the towering challenges which they face in this very critical time is to build up the presentation of our finest cultural heritage. as reflected by the performing arts. the letter which i have inserted in the record shows the way in which. if we would only give it a little government backing. this fine result could be achieved. i also ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in my remarks an article from variety entitled "legits big comeback in sticks." to use the vernacular of variety. which sets forth the work of the broadway theatre alliance.
. we close a magnificent chapter in the life of our theater and in the life of american musical production with the passing of oscar hammerstein ii. that rich and wonderful heritage will go down through the ages in the work which he has given us. some of which i have described. and will be a constant inspiration and example to all artists who can truly follow in his great footsteps.
s commission on national goals has cited the importance of supporting the arts. and there is increasing need for congress to concern itself with the problem of broadening the base of our cultural renaissance. one step in this direction would be the establishment of a u.s. arts foundation. a bill for which i introduced in the last congress with the support of a wide area of professional. professional. and business sources in the field of the performing arts. i have also been a strong supporter of cultural exchange as a means of exhibiting in overseas countries the best in american culture. american artists have rendered magnificent service in sharing our countrys culture and promoting good relations with other countries. as illustrations of the importance of encouraging the arts. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed with my remarks a report headed "vienna theaters stage u.s. plays." in the new york times of january 2. and in the same newspaper. a report on the operations of the arts council of great britain. headed "british aid spurs rise in repertory." and a third report. also dealing with american drama abroad. is an account of experiences directing african. middle east. and south american actors by dr. frank c. davidson. professor of speech and drama at the college of the city of new york. published in equity. january
. i also ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record as a part of my remarks letters of endorsement for this proposed legislation from mr. erich leinsdorf. music consultant of the metropolitan opera. rise stevens. a great operatic sopra and a very old friend of mine who is interested in the arts in new york. mr. symon gould. director of the film guild.
. my proposal for the establishment of a u.s. arts foundation is closely analogous to the arts council of great britain. which has been in operation since 1946- a canadian arts council is also  in operation. the experience and example of the arts council of great britain have considerable significance in any program for the encouragement and diffusion of the performing and visual arts in the united states. headquarters of the british arts council are in london with special committees functioning in scotland and wales. and it operates on a total appropriation of £1.500.000. or 7d. per capita. its annual report is a printed document of 124 pages. and to illustrate its activities i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record significant excerpts which i have made from the "fifteenth annual report. 195960. of the arts council of great britain."
 of the american educational theatre association dated march 7. a letter of march 20 expressing the interest of the mccarter theatre of princeton. n.j.. signed by milton lyon. producer. brooks jones. associate producer. and marguerite mcaneny. manager. a letter of march 23 from prof. willard thorp of princeton university. chairman of the department of english. and the feature article in the dramatists bulletin. march. by the distinguished playwright marc connelly. entitled "things may be looking up."
. the importance of federal participation in a program to help the development of our nations resources in the performing and visual arts becomes especially evident against the backdrop of the cold war. the international aspects of the arts in this context provide a e of urgency that we may ige only at our peril. it is high time that we. as a people. realize that the visual and performing arts are  a luxury but a necessity in the defense of our free society at home as well as abroad. right . for example. our international cultural exchange program has sent abroad the theatre guild american repertory company on a 15week tour of europe and the middle east. with helen hayes as the leading player. this company has met with outstanding success which has emously enhanced u.s. prestige. however. compared with the widespread and elaborate programs of the soviet union and communist china in this field. our effort is very small and inadequate for our country. we need to have many more of our great figures in the theater. music. and the arts participating in our international cultural exchange program so that our country can present the cultural face abroad which befits our position as leader of the free world. i have urged that hearings on legislation for the development of the arts be held by the committee on labor and public welfare at the earliest possible moment so that we can move ahead with this program. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the feature article written by richard l. coe entitled "u.s. troupe passing test." published in the washington post. may 21. and the comments by john crosby entitled "theater in a fix." published in the new york herald tribune of recent date.
madam president. i wish to call to the attention of the senate a brief flurry which apparently has gotten some ice in the press. and which involves helen hayes. the first lady of the american theater. who. as i think everyone ks. is traveling with a company of players. under the auspices of the international cultural exchange program conducted under the presidents fund. she has been performing in three plays. one of which is the thornton wilder play "skin of your teeth." and aher of which is "the glass menagerie." those plays have been shown in many countries of the world. that company is  engaged for a latin american tour which promises to be successful. too. i have put in the record laudatory articles from the press in other countries. as well as laudatory articles by john crosby in new york and dick coe in washington. apparently. in the other body of congress a statement was made yesterday which had some reflection upon helen hayes as an artist and indicated that she was less than patriotic because. it was said. she was getting a salary of $2.500 a week for participating in these plays. mr. lawrence langner. longtime director of the theater guild foundation. which sponsors the plays. has asked me to set the record straight on this matter. i have kn helen hayes for some time. she was the wife of charles mcarthur. with whom i had the privilege of serving in the army. i think it is really unfair to write down her tremendous efforts in the different countries on our behalf. the fact is. i am advised. that she is getting $1.500 a week. which is the figure set for her salary by the foundation putting on the plays. artists generally who appear in this particular cultural program. i am told. have received salaries. and this is. for miss hayes. a modest salary. she turned down. i am told. two firm offers for appearances at the same time which would have brought to her $250.000. in order to make possible the tour which she is taking. and she turned down several offers so that she could take the latin american tour. the tour we are speaking of. which has brought so much credit to our country. would  have been possible except for miss hayes willingness to head it as the leading player. without her it would  have had the viability it has. also. it is perfectly logical that some modest compensation should be given to the people who participate. who generally are  wealthy egh to participate for months without any compensation. it seems unfair to me to criticize helen hayes. the beloved first lady of the theater in america. under the circumstances which i have described. and which perhaps. were  kn before. helen hayes has received ovations and decorations from the heads of government in europe for her great artistry in her travels through many countries as she has performed under the cultural program. which has helped our country so very much. her valiant. tireless efforts on this arduous tour. the energy expended.  only in performances. but in countless meetings with cultural groups in each country. her unfailing attendance at every embassy function. her daily interviews with the foreign press. radio. and television. is a record of cultural ambassadorship for which she should receive great credit. i hope. as both parts of the record are read. the part of the record i have made here today and the reference in the record of the other body. there may be a fair appraisal made of the question in terms of the contributions of helen hayes and her high patriotism.
. everybody loves the theater. and the question is. will everybody do something about it. the theater to which i refer is heavily concentrated in my home city of new york. and yet it is really a national facility and a natural cultural expression. because practically everybody in the united states who comes -to new york makes as one of his principal entertainments a visit to some of our shows. the theater is in a grave ecoic crisis. so much so that the dramatists guild the other dayon may 24. to be exactcame forward with a proposal to cut the writers royalties. the guild is composed of some of the most costly writing talent in the world. their purpose was to help the theater. congress will have an opportunity to do something about the problem. because an effort is being made to eliminate the 10 percent tax on theater admissions. also. i. the senator from minnesota . the senator from pennsylvania . the senator from rhode island . and members of the other body. are doing our utmost to interest our country. in one way or aher. in backing our cultural expressions like the theater. in terms somewhat analogous to the efforts of the canadian and british arts councils. i very much hope we shall have hearings on all of those measures. so it is extremely important. as we can and should do something about it. that we understand the crisis. for that purpose i ask unanimous consent that a series of articles in the new york times. seven similar ones having already been published. be made a part of my remarks and printed in the record.
s fund. which deserves to be one of our major efforts in the international field. again. the idea which i am presenting is the kind of effort which has been manifested by the success of the theater guild. led by helen hayes. which has been having such success in showing three american plays. i hope members of the congress will take this matter very seriously and realize how critical this problem is.
. i am gratified that the senate has adopted my amendment to this bill. with the concurrence of the bills sponsor. senator mundt. as i feel that the addition of further members representing higher education and periodical publishing to the commission will be of great assistance in providing for the representation of all interested and concerned parties. the problem of obscene literature is one which is properly of growing concern to parents. community leaders. and government officials throughout the nation. reaching. as it often does. our youth during their most impressionable years. much of this literature is reported to flow in interestate commerce. establishing a particularly great responsibility in the federal area. on the other hand. careful consideration must be given to those who. in good faith. publish literary materials which may be controversial in character. as well as to the basic principles of free speech and the press. which must be carefully adhered to. i am hopeful that the commission to be established under this bill will give the most careful consideration to all these factors. so that the congress. the executive branch. and the general public may have the benefit of the best and most composite information available in guiding their future actions.
madam president. i wish to address the senate today on a subject which is quite different from the subject so eloquently discussed by our distinguished colleague from oregon. before i do so. i would like to observe that i listened with great attention to what the senator has said. i am one of those who voted for the resolution we adopted yesterday. i do  believe red china should be admitted to the u.n. under present conditions. however. i do believe that the senators resolution should receive a fulldress hearing before the foreign relations committee and should be debated there. certainly. that is a very agreeable and congenial place to air. in the most considerate way. the position of the senator and of many who think like him. as well as the views of an emous proportion of the american people. through eloquent speakers who may entertain different views. it seems to me that if we did pursue the opportunity afforded by the pendency of such a resolution. perhaps in the recess. the senator would get a great part of what he seeks. which is a complete airing of the subject. without the implications of a change in the position of our government. i believe the vote yesterday showed and will continue to show that the sentiment of the country is very much in favor of a rather strong position by the united states. of the kind which it has taken. so i express the hopeand i k the senator is a very influential member of the foreign relations committeethat perhaps there can be an opportunity to make considerable progress in the direction at least of discussion and airing of the subject in all of its ramifications. as the senator has mentioned. in international affairs there is question about the overhanging shadow of the communist chinese. over the whole world in everything we do. a shadow which can be exercised or talked away or forgotten. as is usual. the senator from oregon has made a most provocative speech. and we love him for it. as we k he respects the views of those of us who. though we may  agree with him will nevertheless die for his right to say it.
. the annced cancellation of the metropolitan opera 1961 season. and the decision to break off negotiations with the union on account of a demand. by only 91 members of the orchestrathe met has hundreds of other employeesis a real tragedy and very likely a disgrace for the whole nation. the metropolitan opera. as the new york herald tribune says this morning. is  merely a private theater on the corner of 39th street and broadway: it is a showcase for a side of american life that the world needs to k more about. the metropolitan opera is a theater. it is a real public institution in the truly national sense. the closing of this great national cultural institutionif it does close in 1961. and that would be a real tragedycan be attributed in the national sense to the absence of a program of federal aid to the arts. three major arts proposals are before the senate at this time: the one for an advisory committee. one for grants to states. and my own proposal for a u.s. arts foundation. which is analogous to the british and canadian arts councils. whichever we choose. if we were in that position . as is practically every other important nation in the world. the federal government would have been able to step into the metropolitan opera situation in an effective. affirmative way. and the met would never have had to cancel its season. the bill for a u.s. arts foundation. such as the one i have proposed. would have made it possible to avert this national catastrophe of the metropolitans seasons cancellation. it provides $10 million a year from the federal government for the entire country as subventions for worthwhile performances and showings. it is most important as a first step in obtaining from the federal government recognition of its responsibility for the encouragement of american culture. spent in conjunction with matching funds from interested and producing public or privatebut profitagencies in the performing and visual arts. this modest federal appropriation could stimulate the creation of as much as $50 million in government activity on behalf of the arts. we are behind the times. the gap in terms of culture because of the absence of a national program for that purpose is as great in this field as is our space gap and other gaps. which we are just discussing . but beyond thatand i hope congress will repair that situation. as evidence of the very sad. serious situation of the met--and i speak  through the only forum which i have. which is the floor of the senate. to both labor and management in new york. and to people who respect. enjoy. and revere the metropolitan opera. and all the people of the country who have heard the met. . for 22 years through various types of broadcasts.
if the senator will permit me to finish. who will decide what the people wish to see. i have desire to "tangle with" my friend from connecticut. whom i love and respect. on this subject. the senator is a man of excellent taste. despite that. i should  wish to have the senator. or anybody else. be the arbiter of what represents the best in american art. my purpose in getting the floor. if the senator will bear with me. was  to take issue with the senator at all. i respect the senators desire to keep us apprised of what is thought of our artistic output in the other countries of the world. i invite the attention of the senator to the fact that we are unique in the world in having authority. in terms of the federal government. which deals with our oversea cultural program except the most informal kind of arrangement. under what is called the presidents emergency fund. which goes through a private organization. though it is a profit organization. called the american national theater academy. anta. in new york. i point out to my colleague that what we ought to be doingwhether one would agree with his point is  material to this presentation. though i have the greatest of respect for his point of viewis to be working on some way of developing an agency analogous to the agencies of the united kingdom and in canada. which have arts councils. or in many other civilized countries. which would really give us at the very top level an authoritative look as to what goes out of this country.
. i had the ho to write a book. entitled "discriminationu.s.a.." dealing with the great and. i think. momentous and historic issue of equal opportunity for all americans. whatever be their race. creed. or color. i was requested to summarize the book for the magazine "americas." which is published here in washington under the auspices of the organization of american states. inasmuch as some members or perhaps many members may  have had an opportunity to see the book. they may be interested in the summary. therefore. i ask unanimous consent that an article entitled "the right to equality." which is a summary of the book "discriminationu.s.a.." be printed at this point in the record. the article was published in the september 1961 issue of the magazine "americas."
. the whole issue of government and the arts is dealt with in this publication. and i hope that members of the senate will find the whole edition of great interest. i am convinced that one of the critical aspects of this whole struggle for freedom in which we are far behind the times and very far behind our competition is the matter of some governmental program both for what we send abroad in the way of the artistic expression of our country and its appropriate development at home. i am convinced that this can be done without interfering with that part of our artistic endeavor which is selfsupporting through the box office and through philanthropists and foundations. and that governmental intercession is vital in order to realize anywhere near the full potential of giving as many of our people as possible the benefit of participation in the cultural and artistic development of the country. i believe congress is getting very close to acting on this matter. certainly in its aspects of competition with the communist bloc. it is absolutely critical. and about as critical as anything we have done in our whole national establishment. i hope very much that we may bring that about sooner than those of us. like myself and the distinguished occupant of the chair and others who are sponsoring bills for the establishment of a proper role for a governmental role in the arts. dare hope it will be done. i trust very much that reading this edition of the musical courier. the leading publication in this field. may encourage members of the senate to do some hard thinking about making their selection of legislative measures which are available. including my own. for a u.s. arts foundation.
. the first annual report of the new york state council on the arts offers a record of successful achievement which i hope will encourage other states to adopt similar programs for the encouragement and advancement of the performing and visual arts. new york. under the leadership of gov. nelson a. rockefeller. was the first to pioneer on this level with a wellplanned program. its example should also be encouragement for the congress to take action on legislation  pending for a nationwide program of assistance to the arts. the need for such help is graphically demonstrated in a recent survey by the bureau of statistics of the department of labor which offers a discouraging outlook for our talented young artists. the great benefits that come to our country from artists who participate in our cultural exchange programs in terms of national prestige and the promotion of good relations with other countries is demonstrated in a report on the south american tour of the antatheater guild american repertory co. this is the same company that the state department sent on tour of europe and the middle east last year and which met with spectacular success wherever it performed. these three reports illustrate different aspects of the performing and visual arts where federal aid is necessary for the prestige of our country. legislation. among which is my own bill for a u.s. arts foundation. s. 1250. carrying out the same type of plan as is working so well in new york. is pending in the committee on labor and public welfare and i urge that hearings be held at the earliest possible date. i ask unanimous consent to include in the record with my remarks the report of the new york state council on the arts. the report in the new york herald tribune on january 28 headlined "performing arts found gold mine". and the report on the south american tour. by dorothy sands. entitled "round two." which appeared in equity magazine. february 1962.
. the success scored by the new york state council of the arts in its first year offers a splendid example of the way in which the nation as a whole could be benefited by a program of aid to the visual and performing arts. operating on a budget of less than half a million dollars for the entire state. with experience to serve as a guide and with a staff of only four persons. the new york state council has made a great leap forward in bringing the rich benefits of the arts to areas of the state that have long had to do without them. these benefits are at least equally important for the rest of the country and they emphasize the urgency of holding early hearings on the arts legislation. including my own bill for a u.s. arts foundation .  before the committee on labor and public welfare. i ask unanimous consent to print in the record the assessment of the work of the new york state council of the arts by the ed drama critic. brooks atkinson. which appeared in the new york times. march 9.
i think any of the states which have pauper statutes may be interested in defeating the amendment. it will be argued in more detail in respect to the senators amendment when we reach that part of the debate. assuming that i do  succeed. but it may very well be that those states which have that kind of provision may entertain some doubt about continuing under their laws. they may say. "this is an out on that score because of doubt as to what that may or may  mean". and hence they may find an interest in  ratifying the amendment in order to continue their own laws with respect to paupers.
. the need for congressional action along the lines of my proposed u.s. arts foundation has been evident for some time in the effort to encourage and develop our nations resources in the performing and visual arts. this is a part of our national cultural heritage which is faced by the dilemma of rapidly rising costs at a time of increasing demands. its existence is threatened in some instances by these factors in spite of seemingly outward prosperity. the specter of federal control has been raised by some who oppose assistance. but there is more reason to assume a danger in this respect than in any other part of our ecoy. others have insisted that financial assistance is  necessary. saying this in the face of successful aid programs to the arts by functioning state councils in new york and elsewhere. a bankers study of the needs of our cultural operations convincingly demonstrates why federal aid is necessary. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record tha analytical study entitled "s.r.o. and s 0 s: the performing arts paradox." which was prepared by lawrence c. murdock. jr.. and others in the department of research of the federal reserve bank of philadelphia. and published in its business review. march 1962.
. in ho of a great personality. i send to the desk a bill to provide for the issuance of a special series of stamps in recognition of the 25th anniversary of the death of george gershwin. george gershwin was a man who. in the cultural annals of our country. should have a very unique place. he was born in 1898. and at the age of 21 he had already written his first major musical work for the broadway theaters. a very few years later he was responsible for what history will record as a great shift in musical idiom. if it is  already historic. i think it will be. he showed that jazz could be the subject of serious composition as performed by serious symphonic orchestras. he showed that jazz was an art form in itself. and a form which has since been followed in the world. one has but to mention the rhapsody in blue. concerto in f. porgy and bess. and an american in paris to record some of the great musical compositions of which we are very proud. i had the privilege of attending the 25th anniversary tribute to george gershwin at carnegie hall on march 18. 1962. it was a magnificent celebration. i ask unanimous consent that a list of officers of the concert committee of that great celebration. together with a biography of george gershwin. may be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
i am very grateful to my colleague. i should like to ask one further question. because i believe it is important to elucidate for the country what has occurred. we are engaged in a historic process. whether it fails or succeeds. it is still a conditioner of the world in which we live. even if we fail. others will take heart from what we are doing. they will see in our action an indication of the possibilities of achievement at aher time. provided the issue is laid before the country. i ask the senator one final question: what. in the judgment of the senator. is  the responsibility of the administration. which i think is at least in part. and i think very materially. responsible for the frustration and defeat which the civil rights cause suffers. on the statute books are the civil rights acts of 1957 and 1960. our southern colleagues have said. though we think the plan is completely impractical. that if we were to muster egh lawyers and money and were willing to fill the courts with litigation of the proposed type. we might begin to make some dent over a period of time. withstanding the widespread way in which the literacy tests have been abused. i greatly respect the views of my colleague. can he tell us what  represents the responsibility of the administration in view of the situation which we confront.
. when i requested the appointment of a subcommittee and hearings in the committee on labor and public welfare on bills relating to a national cultural establishment for the nation. i did so in full recognition of the fact that federal participation in a program to help the development of our nations resources in the performing and visual arts is vital to our morale at home and to our leadership in the cold war struggle. i express my appreciation to senator lister hill. my distinguished chairman. for granting this request. and congratulate senator pell on being named as chairman. the image that we project abroad among the peoples of the developing nations becomes an important factor in helping them resist communist infiltration and aggression. and our cultural posture makes up a very essential part of our total position and prestige in western civilization. we can ige only at our own peril the need for a cultural base in depth within our borders. some of the greatest longrange benefits to the united states abroad have come from our cultural exchange agreements in which american artists of e have rendered magnificent service as exponents of our countrys culture and in promoting good relations with other nations. in the forthcoming hearings which have just been annced we shall have an opportunity to get at all sides of this problem and also to make it clear that the principal source of assistance to the performing and visual arts will continue to be private and philanthropic sources as it has been always. it is important to emphasize that the federal governments position will  in any way endanger the traditional freedom of the artist and his form of expression and that the legislation before the senate labor and public welfare subcommittee does  in any way infringe upon this timehoed prerogative of the artist. federal participation and encouragement of the arts is  a new thing. and has been expressed in many ways for over 100 years. my own activity in the congress goes back to 1949 when as a member of the house. i introduced a resolution calling for the establishment of an american national theater establishment. the legislation which i have sponsored in this congress calls for establishment of a u.s. arts foundation to help bring about wider dissemination of the arts and within the framework of free enterprise and voluntary association to help in the development of new talent and expose more people and more places to the best in american culture than any other proposal  before the congress. federal assistance for expansion of the arts is an urgent necessity. and i am confident that the forthcoming hearings will result in a bill which the senate can adopt.
. i should like to say to the senator from tennessee. with regard to the amendment which was tabled. that i am very sympathetic with his fight to do something about these outrageous prices in the drug field. i believe that american business is very unwise in taking the position it has taken. i understand that he has served ice. as the senator from rhode island did. by voting against the tabling and in favor of the amendment. in effect. on the drug industry. this matter has concerned me on many grounds. which are very understandable. they go back to the schechter case. of nra days. in the pricefixing field. it should be stated by senators who. like myself. voted in favor of tabling the amendment. that if this provocation of the american people continues. far more drastic remedies than i am willing to entertain today may very well be necessary. i trust and hope that american business may have egh selfdiscipline to see the handwriting on the wall and that this situation is verging upon the intolerable.
. the opening of the lincoln center for the performing arts in new york sunday night marks a milestone in the cultural history of the united states. and aher pioneering effort by my great native city in the encouragement and advancement of the arts. the impact of lincoln center upon our nation  only on the performing level but also on the teaching level promises to be incalculable. it offers a guide and a pattern which i hope will be emulated throughout the country. it provides a fitting endeavor to accompany the pioneering efforts of the new york state council on the arts. the state agency which is so successfully helping in respect to cultural development and enjoyment in new york in areas of the state  heretofore reached. i hope and very much expect that members of the senate and of the house will come to see and to enjoy this vast center for the development of culture in the united states. it is my fond hope. as i k it is of the distinguished senator  presiding. the senator from rhode island . and others like the senator from pennsylvania that we may make marked progress in this field for the nation as well. it has been done in new york and. i hasten to add. with help from the federal government. in terms of urban renewal. we are deeply gratified. and i think this is a cause for gratification on the part of the whole country. i ask unanimous consent to print in the record the welcoming address of john d. rockefeller 3d. board chairman of the lincoln center. which he delivered september 23. the article by arthur gelb entitled "a deeper significance." in the new york times. september 24. and an article by richard mclanathan evaluating the achievement of the new york state council on the arts. entitled "a venturesome idea." which appeared in museum news. september 1962.
. there is on the calendar. calendar  2222. s. 741. to provide for the establishment of a federal advisory council on the arts to assist in the growth and development of fine arts in the united states. which has been reported by the committee on labor and public welfare. as bearing upon that bill. i have before me a very remarkable analysis of the fact that centers for the arts are rising in all parts of our country. in practically every state. and in a manner and with a plentitude which i do  believe members realize until they see the information on them gathered together. i ask unanimous consent that there may be printed in the record. as a part of my remarks. a complete list of these cultural centers published in back stage in an article entitled "lincoln center sparks 150 cultural centers." the article refers to the survey of cultural activities which was made by william a. briggs for the city of richmond. va.. in his report entitled "night and day" prepared for the city of richmond. which deals with this whole subject.
i realize that this matter is finished. and i realize that it was finished when the motion to adjourn was carried. i feel in all dignity and ho that the facts should be before the country and before the senate. and they will have effect on aher occasion when we make the same effortwhich we undoubtedly will do. in my opinion. in 2 years. and i hope i will still be alive then. all that i did. therefore. in order to end all controversy over the matter. was just to ask that the official reporters transcript be made part of the recordfor whatever it says or whatever it does. i have desireand i think it would  be helpful to the senate or to my own feelingto engage in any controversy with the majority leader or with the vice president. it was a moment of stress. it all happened in the twinkling of an eye. i am delighted that the recordthe transcript. at leasttells the story for whatever it is worth. it gives the chroogy of events very accurately. i congratulate the steraphers. it seemed to me to be precisely theway the matter went. i will say this to the senator. if he will allow me. it is a fact that senator can be taken off his feet. that goes for me as well as for the majority leader. the only thing that i had hopedand i use that word advisedlyi hoped that someone would stop long eghbecause that is the way we generally do things around hereto find out what my point of order was all about. perhaps then the chair would have said. "you are  entitled *to recognition. there is debate. i can entertain it. we are sorry." that one thing was the thing i had hoped would happen. again. i repeat. all i tried to do this morning was actuallyand i think i am very fortunate. in a sense. that the transcript was exactto put into the record exactly what the transcript said. what it said was that upon three occasions. while the majority leader was dealing with a question which was his absolute right. i was seeking recognition. i made it very clear that i was seeking recognition on a point of order. beyond that as we say in the law. "deponent sayeth ." whatever that means. it means. the important thing is that for the purpose of dignity and selfrespect to myself as a senator of the united states. with editorials and news stories all over the country. to look into the congressional record and find  a word about it was something i thought in all fairness i could  let stand. again. i repeat. i am very fortunate that the steraphers transcript is so accurate. the only thing i put into the record is the steraphers transcript.
. the need to provide assistance to the arts and the substantial rewards which america can reap through a program to stimulate cultural development is clearly demonstrated by the experience of the ford foundation. beginning in 1957 it has been spending about $2 to $3 million a year on music. theater. opera. art. and creative writing with -some very important results. the experience of the ford foundation in this field offers guidelines for the kind of national program which i believe a u.s. arts foundation. such as i have proposed. can produce in cooperation with private philanthropy. some idea of the accomplishments of the ford foundation in the arts is provided by a feature article in the philadelphia inquirer. february 4. 1963. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record an article in that newspaper by martin mayer entitled "ford millions foster humanities and arts."
. as a cosponsor of the national arts and cultural development act of 1963 which senator humphrey is introducing today. i believe we can get this bill through the congress. this is the most important question before us as i believe a national program for the arts to be vital to our country at home and in the cold war. this bill combines the proposal for a national council on the arts with my bill to establish a u.s. arts foundation. as far back as 1949. i introduced in the house of representatives a resolution calling for the establishment of an american national establishment for theater. opera. and ballet. last year the senate committee on labor and public welfare on which i serve reported favorably the bill for a u.s. arts foundation which i had been advocating since i came to the senate in 1957 and which also included the program of assistance to the states sponsored by senator joseph clark. i introduced this combined bill early this year with senators clark. pell. and humphrey as cosponsors. an effective government support of the arts consistent with our traditions is essential in the national interest. i believe the time has gone by when the optimum need exists for an advisory committee on the arts as called for by this bill. i believe we are ready for and need a definitive plan like the u.s. arts foundation. but i see harm in the advisory committee and believe it more important to get together on a bill that has a chance. hence i cosponsor this bill. the u.s. arts foundation legislation which i have proposed in the senate. the essential features of which are  incorporated in this bill. would encourage through matching grants and subvention to profit groups. the distribution of live performances and exhibits in cities and towns which could  otherwise receive and support them. it would help stimulate a revival of the arts in entire regions through the work of profit groups. municipalities. and state agencies able to provide cultural services because of the subvention available from the foundation to cover the difference between production and operating costs and admissions. within the framework of free enterprise and with federal control. the foundation would help in the development and training of new talent in the fields of all the arts. and also make it possible for many more people in many more places to see and hear the best in american culture. the foundation would require in its first year an appropriation from the federal government of $5 million for the entire country and $10 million in succeeding years. half of which would be available for grants to the states. this would serve essentially as seed money with the largest amount of its expenditures anticipated to come from funds contributed by private foundations and other benefactors interested in the advancement of the arts. i expect that this modest federal appropriation could stimulate the expenditure of as much as $50 million a year in government support for the arts. new talent as well as going programs in all the arts could be assisted. this proposal has the support of a great many artists of international fame as well as actors equity and many organizations in the academic and cultural world. it would supplement and enhance other federal government activities. such as our international cultural exchange program. and expand the areas served by theater. opera. ballet. musicin fact. all the artsand other cultural resources so that populated place in the united states would have to be culturally starved. this legislation is  the first in which the federal government concerns itself with assistance to the arts. in 1891. the national conservatory of music was incorporated by an act of congress. and men like chauncey depew. fitz hugh lee. john hay. and eh pratt served as trustees. anta. the american national theater and academy. operates under a congressional charter granted in 1935. in july 1956. the senate did adopt a bill providing for the establishment of a federal advisory council on the arts. although the house of representatives took action on it.
. the senior senator from minnesota [mr. humphrey] has today introduced a comprehensive bill with respect to the arts of the country and has done me the ho of including in his bill the text of a bill i have sponsored ever since i have been a member of the senate to provide for a u.s. arts foundation. i wish to emphasize that i k of very few areas of domestic concern which more urgently require the consideration of congress for the benefit of the morale of our people. as well as the fruit of all we are working for and fighting for. than the progress of literature and music in our nation. the bill. which i consider to be a splendid amalgam of what the senator from minnesota would like to see in the form of an advisory committee on arts and what i would like to see in the form of a u.s. arts council. is splendidly combined. i urge upon the senate the early consideration of the proposed legislation. it will be a proud moment in our country. indeed a moment of maturity. when the bill shall be passed. the committee on labor and public welfare reported it favorably at the last session. with the kind help of the senator from oregon . the senator from rhode island . and other senators. but it did  reach a vote because of the lateness of time when the bill was reported. i am hopeful that the bill of the senator from minnesota . which really brings the matter to a pitch of perfection in terms of legislative draftsmanship and a combination of ideas. will again be favorably reported. and i sincerely hope that the senate will consider it favorably this year.
. i wish to call the attention of the senate to the 35th birthday anniversary of the womens league for israel. an organization of 20.000 american women who have made extraordinarily fine contributions to americas interest in israel and have taken many constructive actions for the benefit of the young people who are making their homes and seeking their opportunities there. the womens league has established centers in israel which have been likened to our own "y" centers. and at one time were characterized as "a home away from home. located in the spiritual home of all mankind. israel." by the late mrs. franklin delaroosevelt. during the course of one of her visits to the holy land. i ask unanimous consent to print in the record a recent editorial by the seven arts feature syndicate of new york entitled "memorable anniversary." which summarizes the fine record of this womens group and lauds its accomplishments.
. the opening of a new modern theater for the legitimate drama more than a thousand miles west of broadway marks an important pioneering effort in the cultural history of the united states. especially where it is hailed as such first rate theater as that of minneapolis. the $2 million theater which minneapolis has built under the creative inspiration of producer tyrone guthrie offers a guide and a pattern which i hope will be emulated in cities throughout the country. much of the problem of cultural development which the nation faces exists in the fact that only a relatively small percentage of the rich cultural activity centered in new york and other big cities manages to get out into the other areas of the country. the united states arts foundation which i have proposed would make it possible for the visual and performing arts to make their impact on the rest of the country. tyrone guthries new minneapolis theater is a first step in the direction of providing firstrate theater in an area which has been too long without it. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an editorial which appeared in the new york herald tribune. entitled "the minneapolis idea."
. by designating this week as national actors equity week. the congress has done ho  only to a distinguished american trade union on its 50th anniversary. which we are celebrating on may 26. but to a great profession as well. every free society has cherished its theater and the actors in it who have. in each age. fulfilled their mission "to hold as twere the mirror up to nature." in a living democracy. the living theater is welcomed. the mirror which the free spirits of the acting profession hold before us is often an instrument of valued selfappraisal. totalitarianism rejects a truthful reflection of its own monstrous ways. and so it is. that wherever freedom is to be shackled. it is the actor who is first placed in chains. there is probably group in russia today that is giving mr. khrushchev more trouble than the artists of the stage. of music. of the canvas. the actor is  only an artist. he is also a human being and the treatment of himself and of his profession becomes a reflection of the society of which he is a part. mr. lee strasberg. director of the new actors studio theater in new york. has observed: in the glory of greece. the actor received the respect due to a serious worker in an art sanctioned by the state. but in roman times. only slaves could be actors. and there begins the separation between the adulation shown to the actors art and the condemnation of the actors person and profession. although we model our basic society from the greeks. we have only recently come to realize that the strength of greek thought in the ways of governing men derived from a culture that also understood the value of theater and the other performing and visual arts. it is extremely unfortunate. then. that the american actors lot has  been a happy one. he has had to fight against the apathy and indifference that stems from igance of the role which theater plays in a free culture. actors equity. the union we ho this week. has done more than any other institution in our american life to bring to the actor and to the theater the ho and the dignity so well deserved and so well understood in ancient democracies. last weeks issue of life magazine told the equity story: fifty years ago. actors were thirdrate people. they rehearsed endlessly without salary. they furnished their own costumes and when a play faltered. were abandoned on the road without a smile or a return trip ticket. the actors formed equity in 1913. six years later. the infant union revolted against the hardships it suffered. actors walked off stage. after 30 days of the strike the producers gave in to all of equitys demands. over the next years. the union fought many a bitter battle. winning everything from sanitary dressing rooms to desegregation of theater audiences. but. equity and the american theater have a long road still ahead. for although today we do the actor ho for his spirit and his skill. he still is found most often among the ranks of unemployed in what is the most distressed of ecoic activity in our nation. and. although today the actor and his union have prestige. his government has largely iged his ecoic plight. we persist in taxing his income as if it was steadily earned when. in fact. the actor ks steady income. we persist in taxing the theater as if it was a dispensable luxury. which most great civilizations k it is . we have fashioned unemployment insurance laws that bar the actor from its benefits because he must travel from state to state to bring his art to all our people. we have failed to support the living theater as a civic obligation akin to that of providing libraries and schools. indeed. it is ironic that we admit the need for supporting libraries in which the works of shakespeare. moliere. and other great plays can be offered in bookform. but we close our eyes to the fact that millions of our children are being denied the opportunity to see and hear the classics in the theater for which they were written. i have. together with others of my colleagues. introduced legislation to correct what is an appalling situation in the relationship between the americari theater and the national government. i have addressed this body before regarding the need for action on these matters. i shall speak out again. i assure you. at this time. however. as we observe the 50th anniversary of actors equity association. i think it befitting to call your attention to that scene in hamlet wherein hamlet admonishes his palace lords: will you see the players well bestowed. do you hear. let them be well used. for they are the abstracts and brief chronicles of the time. after your death. you were better have 9294 coi a bad epitaph than their ill report while you live. when we passed a resolution observing national actors equity week. this congress in a sense said to americas actors. "you are welcome. masters." i trust that we will soon see to it that they are also "well bestowed."
s special consultant. after having remained in the post for longer than he had originally intended to stay. we shall  entirely lose the benefit of his counsel and guidance. for i am happy to e that he has consented to serve on the new advisory council. we need his help. in formulating and developing the role of the federal government in the arts which he has so brilliantly summarized in his report. i hope very much that the american people will take this proposal most seriously. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a feature on the subject which was published in the new york times. june 17.
. it is with great pleasure that i join the senator from arkansas and a number of distinguished colleagues in sponsoring this joint resolution to extend an official welcome to the book and music publishers from abroad who will be attending the 17th congress of the international publishers association. which will meet in washington. d.c.. from may 30 to june 5. 1965. under the able leadership and sponsorship of the american book publishers council. inc.. and the music publishers association. inc. the publishing industry in the united states has played an important role in the cultural growth of this country. the industry may well be proud of its leadership in expanding its activities into the international field and in its participation in the challenges and opportunities of international book and music publishing. in may 1962 the 16th congress of the international publishers association was held in barcelona. spain. and was attended by some 800 delegates. representing 24 countries. forty delegates from the united states attended the congress. with respect to the coming 17th congress. the u.s. planning committee of the book publishers congress has suggested that a variety of subjects be discussed by the international group of publishers during the five or six scheduled work sessions. including first. present and future publishing in the emerging countries. second. the position of copyright. third. the problem of translations. fourth. the relation of publishing to the newer media in education. and fifth. the area of graphic arts. the planning committee of the congress has also prepared a tentative program of activity for the visiting publishers. i take particular pride in joining my colleagues in extending welcome to the international publishers congress in view of the fact that the state of new york. which i have the ho of representing. is considered by many the.publishing center of the world and has contributed greatly to the cultural and ecoic development of the publishing industry. i am certain that the meeting of the 17th international publishers congress will result once again in a successful and constructive contribution to the publishing world and to those who benefit from its work.
 of the lincoln center. entitled. "have we culture. yesand " with its emphasis on the development of u.s. artists and arts. which appeared in the new york times magazine. september 22. and an analysis of current state and community progress in the arts by daniel millsap. entitled "appraisal: u.s. arts movement." which appeared in the washington international art letter. julyaugust 1963.
. the problem of communist infiltration. subversion. and other tactics presents a continuing challenge to the united states and other free nations. it exists in latin america and it is present also in southeast asia. the middle east and africa are other regions in which international communism is actively seeking to establish itself. for us to play a vital role in preventing the growth and expansion of communism. all americans must have a real understanding of the ways in which communism operates. because of the great importance i place upon a proper understanding of communist tactics and methods. and the ways in which they can be combated. i am calling attention to an unusual book entitled "the strategy of deception." published by farrar. straus & co. this is a collection of essays which exposes the strategy of communism  only in the united states but also in india. italy. spain. great britain. burma. and other countries. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the publishers description of "the strategy of deception: a study in worldwide communist tactics."
. i invite the attention of my colleagues to a very important breakthrough in the field of art and culture. which seems to be having some attention at long last. and which should have more. by reason of the fact that the citadel of renaissance and other representative art of an established character. the national gallery of art in washington. is  exhibiting "moderns." the modern art museum of new york. which will be closed for 5 months for repairs. has loaned 153 paintings to the national gallery of art in washington. these paintings represent the most outstanding examples of modern masters of the artsrousseau. matisse. braque. picasso. max weber. kandinsky. pollock. motherwell. and de kooning among them. there was once a time. when this issue was raisedand i raised it in the other bodywhen it was considered a laughing matter. or someone would try to present as subversive or communist propaganda the discussion of an art gallery. so it is with great pleasure and pride that i see the recognition which is  accorded to the works of the modern masters. i hope very much that my colleagues will visit this exhibit. i believe they will find it stimulating and provocative. i assure senators that they will  be bitten by any bug of subversion or radicalism. on the contrary. they will see provocative. exciting modern minds in action. developing a culture of which. three or four centuries from . our people. after we leave them. will be as proud as we are today of rembrandt. el greco. and the great artists of the renaissance. i hope very much that this great cooperation between the national gallery of art in washington and the modern art museum of new york will be consummated by the ho of receiving. as viewers of this great collection. members of congress and governmental officials. i ask unanimous consent that the article on this subject published in the new york times of this morning may be printed in the record.
 george washington. which was included in the testimony of the senator from minnesota . in which in 1788 george washington wrote: the arts and sciences are essential to the prosperity of the state and to the ornament and happiness of human life. they have a primary claim to the encouragement of every lover of his country and of mankind. so we have the statement that this is properly a governmental activity. we have the fine arts council. we have the smithsonian institution. we have activities which have never been questioned in terms of constitutional power. i do  wish to delay the senate. but i wanted to make this brief statement.
. a very impressive report of cultural activity has been issued by the new york state council on arts. established in 1960 by the state legislature. in a pioneering effort to determine ways and means of increasing appreciation of the arts and enlarging the circle of participation by audiences and artists. the council has succeeded in setting a pattern for other states throughout the country. it has encouraged greater participation in architecture. the dance. opera. theater. concerts. and exhibitions. its fourpart program points the way to successful development within each state of its cultural resources. the success of the council emphasizes the urgency for a federal program such as the senate adopted last month in s. 2379. the bill for a national council on the arts and national arts foundation. i call particular attention to director john h. macfadyens comment on the role of government. he said: the question of "whether or " there should be government support seems to be academic. the real questions are "when and how." that analysis will show how extremely successful and important to the life of our state is the activity. i ask unanimous consent that excerpts from the report of the new york state council on the arts be printed in the record.
the amendment proposes to take the 10percent tax off theater tickets for the live theater. it has hing to do with the motion picture theaters or any other form of entertainment. it deals only with the live theater and musical performances. this is the amendment which the senator from arkansas sponsored in the finance committee. and which was approved by the finance committee. then. because of the adcx- 137 ministrations feeling that this type of tax should  be removed. it was swept out with other provisions. i propose it as a separate item because. first. i do  believe it fits into the category of any of the taxes with which we can deal. second. because we have already demonstrated. both in the terms of the bill itself. and in the action we took on the amendment of the senator from minnesota . that there is pretense of confining this tax bill purely to the idea of adjusting the rates. so far as either individuals or corporations are concerned. but that this tax bill will deal with other matters. this is aher matter which had very sympathetic consideration in the committee. indeed. egh to be carried in the committee. at least tentatively. and it should have a sympathetic consideration in the senate. man does  live by bread alone. this is the essence of what we understand to be our society. and the theater is one of the great ornaments of our nation. the theater is suffering very materially. indeed. the commercial theater. as we k it. is dying. this is a point which i think needs to be impressed upon all americans. and anything that we can do to breathe some life into it is extremely useful and valuable. the theater industry is probably the best judge of the fact that the 10percent tax on theater tickets is extremely harmful to it. if the burden were lifted from the industry. this would be extremely helpful to its continuance and vitality. as evidence that the theater is in a very bad way. let me say that the amount of the tax. about $6 million a year. is approximately equal to the annual loss suffered by theater productions in the major theater center of the united states. new york city. the tax amounts to $6 million. the annual loss in theater production is figured at about $5.5 million. when the 20percent tax on theater tickets was reduced to 10 percent. the city of new york put a 5percent tax on theater tickets. which was very wrong. the city realized it was wrong and removed that tax in october 1961. in the hope that this proffer on the part of the city of new york might create some feeling in congress that the federal government should remove its tax burden from the theater tickets. when it was annced that the senate finance committee had voted to take the tax off theater tickets. the leaders in the theater. including the president of the new york league of theaters. which represents all the managers. made a public declaration that if the 10percent tax were taken off theater tickets. that saving would be passed on to the theater ticket buyers to stimulate attendance at the theater.
i am sorry. but i have talked with the acting president of the league of new york theaters. and with some of the leading producers. including leland hayward. about it. and the leading managers have assured me by telegram that the savings would be passed on to the theater ticket buyer in order to stimulate attendance at the theater.
i have a letter from the attorney in washington for the league of new york theaters and the national association of legitimate theater. he is joel fisher. i should like to read one section from his letter. he writes as follows: also. i am pleased to confirm on behalf of my clients. the league of new york theatres. inc.. and the national association of legitimate theatres. inc.. that the leading producers and theater owners will pass along to the theatergoers the savings from the elimination of the admission tax. in brief. the theatergoer will benefit from repeal of this admission tax. i might say to the senator from new mexicoand i have. of course. the highest respect for anything he might tell the senatethat it may very well be that some theater manager said that this proposal would assume the continuance of present scales of wages. salaries. and other costs. with which the senator ks the theater is very much concerned. including union and association problems. we would expect that. in other words. we could  expect this commitment to be completely blind. but this is the present design. based upon present financial operations. as expressed to me by counsel for the league of new york theatres. which represents theater management.
i should say in response to both senators that they have pointed up one of the reasons why i have offered the amendment and why i really believe it should be pressed to a vote. i deeply believe that unless we have some cognizance of the significance of the living theater as being. in a sense. one of the real gages of culture of our country. we miss the fundamental point of the amendment. let us consider the motion picture theaters where all admissions below $1 are exempt from the excise tax. the vitality and skill of american moving pictures is very heavily based on what happens in the american theater. that is where actors are developed. that is where scene directors. who try out new ideas and concepts. are developed. it is the legitimate theater that develops playwrights. as a practical matter. the living theater has come to such a low estate that of the roughly 12.000 members of actors equityi am giving the figures off the top of my head. but the order of magnitude is correctonly about 10 percentsomewhere between 1.200 and 1.500held a job within the last couple of years. withstanding the fact that so many are finished actors. one of our colleagues told me a story to the effect that he had paid the way through a college theater course for a particularly gifted young man. but  had him working in his own office because the young man could  obtain work in the theater. for which he had been so superbly trained. so it seems to me that if we do  understand this proposal as being an effort to encourage one of the finer cultural expressionsour stagewe really miss the point. . while a substantial number of senators are in the chamber. and so long as the senate will vote on the amendment. i ask for the yeas and nays.
. a new revival of an old american institution. the repertory theater. is  sweeping across the country at an accelerated pace. this is one of the important evidences of the cultural ferment that is developing increasingly from coast to coast. spons6red by communities. by colleges and universities. by publicspirited citizens and by courageous experimental groups. this new phase of the american theater is reflecting a growing public interest. philanthropic foundations have contributed in substantial measure toward making this cultural growth possible but there are very definite limitations to this kind of assistance. the bill which the senate passed. s. 2379. contains the proposal for a u.s. national arts foundation. which i have sponsored since coming to the senate and for many years before that. it is  pending in the other body. it can become a vital force in helping the development of this and other movements in the performing and visual arts. i deeply believe that a program of education to the need for this kind of legislation will stimulate public opinion to the need for federal action in this field. we are in this respect far behind all the other leading developed nations in the world and have a model for action by us consistent with our traditions in the british and canadian arts councils. an important report on the rise of the new repertory theater has just been published. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the report entitled "the rise of rep." which appeared with copious illustrations in time magazine.
. the reports broadcast here this morning from moscow that nine russian jews have been sentenced to death for socalled ecoic crimes and that their alleged ringleader had been secretly tried and executed 2 weeks ago are egh to send a shudder of horror throughout the civilized world. this time there can be little doubt whatever that jews were deliberately singled out. the official newspaper izvestia made a point. in its report at the opening of the trial. of stating defiantly that the leading defendants were jews. other soviet newspapers have. as an outgrowth of the ecoic arrests and trials. also openly expressed hostility to the jewish people and have used hateful caricatures and malicious language to describe jews. this kind of antijewish agitation by governmentcontrolled newspapers in a country where antisemitism is as deeply rooted as it is in the u.s.s.r. could well be the forerunner of even more widespread oppression and persecution. unless the world appeals and protests loudly egh. often egh. and long egh to make the kremlin call a halt to this inhuman persecution. soviet jews underwent intense suffering during world war ii and under stalins rule. over the past 3 years. soviet press coverage of socalled ecoic crimes has revealed that jews are being jailed and condemned in exceptionally large numbers and with unusual ferocity. between july 1. 1961. and july 1. 1963. 140 persons have been executed for ecoic offenses. and about half of these unfortunate victims have been jews. this is an extraordinarily high percentage. in view of the fact that jews number only 1.1 percent of the total soviet population. soviet persecution of jews is also taking the form of religious and cultural repression. the peremptory closing of synagogues and jewish cemeteries. and the banning of many ritual practices. including the baking of matzoh. or unleavened bread. for the passover. prayer books are printed. and all cultural activity is repressed. from 1948 to 1963. only six books in yiddish have been published. all yiddish theaters have been closed. and there are jewish schools and jewish organizations. there is intense pressure on the jewish community of some 3 million souls. which is isolated from other jewish communities in other countries. emigration is permitted.  even to join families in israel or other countries. soviet jews are restricted by quotas and are singled out in official documents. such as identification cards with a large j stamped on them. they are regarded as a nationality. but are accorded e of the privileges that nationalities enjoy in the soviet union. the current emphasis on jews in the prosecution of socalled ecoic crimes is unmistakable. and the antijewish overtones in official publications is giving strength to traditional and existing antisemitism. soviet jews are being made the scapegoats for the kremlins ecoic blunders. and their position is becoming increasingly dangerous. our protests and those of all organizations and fairminded people throughout the world must continue to be heard loudly and clearly in moscow. chairman khrushchev and his assoctates must be told time and again that the world condemns such persecution for ecoic crimes as a throwback to the days of barbarism. and that it will  stand by idly while a people are being destroyed. i ask that a newspaper article and an editorial in this connection be printed in the record.
. the bill to establish a national council on the arts and a national arts foundation which the senate passed in december is  pending before the committee on education and labor of the other body. there is increasingly widespread support for this bill from all parts of the country. one of the important evidences of this support is the resolution presented by the american federation of musicians and adopted by the aflcio executive council at its recent meeting. i ask unanimous. consent to have printed in the record the resolution of the aflcio executive council. adopted in miami beach. fla.. february 21. on national council on the arts.
is it  a fact that in mississippi there is  only de facto segregation. but also de jure segregation. in that there is a law upon the books of the state of mississippi requiring the segregation of public schools.
. first. sitting in the chair of the "management." as it were. for the debate on this subject this morning. i should like to join the majority leader in emphasizing the importance of tomorrows votes. they will be hailed throughout the press and throughout the country as the first indication of the sentiment of the u.s. senate on the civil rights bill. it is extremely important. in terms of domestic order and tranquility. which is being so sharply challenged  in jacksonville. fla.. and other places. that we let the word go out that the senate intends to deal with civil rights decisively and promptly. for that reason. i should like to emphasize the critical importance of the vote of the senate on the motion to refer the bill to committee. which i hope the senate will  do. had the senate complied with the unanimousconsent request when it was first made 2 weeks ago. we would  have gone as far as we have . the measure would have come back to the senate and still would  have been made the pending business.  we have the opportunity to make it the pending business. there would be point in referring the bill to the judiciary committee. with all the debate that has been going on. with the record on the bill which we have from the other body and from several committees of the senate. and with the forekledge that we are  going to get any particular addition to this debate from the judiciary committee. that seems to me to be indicated by the sharp division which has already been indicated by members of the committee in the debate. and also by virtue of the fact that when the committee did hear the matter of civil rights during this congress. the hearing was taken up. practically every day of the hearings. with the questioning of one witness by one member of the committeewhich was his right. but which nevertheless indicates what the course of the measure in the committee would be. i hope the senate will send word forth to the country by making the bill the pending business. and that it will then reject the motion to refer the bill to the committee by sustaining the motion to table which the majority leader will make. if that is done. the country will then see that the votes in the senate mean that the senate will. at long last. pass a meaningful civil rights bill and place such legislation on the statute books of the united states.
as i recall. this issue was raised in a committee on which i serve. with respect to the socalled union democracy provision. it was covered in the labormanagement amendments adopted a few years ago. the congress decided to have intercession by the federal government in cases in which the interests of the nation require that attention be paid to union administrationfor example. in connection with the maintenance of their books and fundsbut  in other cases.
the senator from washington has almost completed his very fine speech as chairman of the commerce committee. which studied and took testimony on this particular title and then reported a bill on it. his own activities definitively answer the charge that the proponents of the pending bill are trying to have the senate pass a bill without the benefit of committee hearings. consideration. and report. therefore. his statement is of unique importance. i should like to ask the senator from washington to comment on the argument made by opponents of this billmainly senators from the southwho contend that this title of the bill would restrict the businessmans freedom of choice. i point out that in a number of the southern states there are on the statute books segregation laws which prevent local businessmen from serving negroes in segregated areas. are  such laws  only substantial efforts. but also unconstitutional efforts. to control local businessmen. and. therefore. does  the existence of such state or local laws blow completely out of the water that argument by the opponents of the pending bill.
. the denial of religious. cultural. and other rights of jews in the soviet union by the kremlin and the publication of the libelous book by t. kichko by the ukrainian academy of sciences. continues to bring forth protests from american organizations. earlier protests from many parts of the world led to a soviet disavowal of the kichko book and its antisemitic stereotypes. but the repressive acts against jews have  been halted. and continued protests are essential. i ask unanimous consent to print in the record the resolution adopted by the womens league for israel on april 14. and the statement dencing the kichko book issued by the supreme ukrainian liberation council in new york city. april 8.
is the senator from arkansas aware of how new york has been affected industrially and commercially since 1945 by virtue of having on its books an fepc law stronger than the one proposed in the pending bill.
. in many ways and in many places at the new york worlds fair. the work of american creative artists is on display. there are several exhibitions of paintings in the various state pavilions. and numerous pieces of sculpture have been created especially for this occasion by some of americas greatest sculptors. the work of american architects and landscape artists is exhibited in the imposing buildings at the fair. american musicians and composers. poets. and other artists have also made distinctive contributions. in sum it is their impact which helps to give the fair its clearly american flavor. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a release dated may 6. 1964. from the american academy of arts and letters and the national institute of arts and letters listing in detail the artists and their works who are a part of the new york worlds fair.
. further evidence that art reflects the society and civilization in which we live is provided by the new emphasis in the new york theater on plays about negroes and the realistic roles performed by negro actors. the civil rights struggle as it affects the individual is mirrored in these plays. many of them by new negro playwrights. and this ferment is expected to lead to a fresh surge of creative expression which will enhance american culture. the further cultivation of such cultural resources is a national responsibility which should be met by s. 2379. a bill to establish an advisory council and a national foundation on the arts. passed by the senate last year. and  pending in the house. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the report by milton esterow. entitled "new role of negroes in theater reflects ferment of integration." which appeared in the new york times of june 15.
. the increasing number of film festivals which are being held all over the world provide a stage for american cultural expression of considerable importance. american films have a demonstrated impact on people of other nations as a reflection of our life and society. and american festival participation could become a valued instrument in the cold war. the quality of artistic expression is one of the measures of a nations progress. and the federal government has a national responsibility to foster the development of our cultural resources. for this purpose a national arts foundation as provided in s. 2379. which the senate has passedand the general framework of which is  pending in the houseis essential and i have sponsored and supported this proposal for many years. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the article by george stevens. jr.. entitled "a festival for all seasons." which appeared in the journal of the screen producers guild. june. and the article by george w. oakes entitled "federal arts bill endangered in election year tactics." which appeared in the sunday star. washington. d.c.. may 31. 1964.
when the measure came up in the finance committee earlier this year. it was handled by the junior senator from arkansas . i asked him if he would handle this amendment. he felt that since new york city was the center of the theater business. it would be appropriate that i do so. i hope the senate will approve the amendment.
it seems to me that the equities are so very great. that if we are going to do this. we should also accept an amendment to reduce the theater tax. would the senator agree to take such an amendment to conference. if the same cut were made.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the california arts commission. favoring the enactment of house bills 9586 and 9587. kn as the national arts and cultural development act of 1964. and the establishment of a national council on arts and a national arts foundation.
. as a lawyer. i should like to ask the senator a question in order to establish a clear legislative history. i have voted with the senator so far. and i hope to vote with the senator on the pending amendment. i should like. first. to ask whether any effort was made to define the word "realty" in the house debate. i will tell the senator why i ask this question. the house report contains the language. "so far as such property is directly related to surplus real property." as a lawyer. i ask the question. because i am struck by the use of the word "related" instead of the word "appurtenant." a personal property appurtenant to real property is a wellkn word of art and would refer. for example. to personal property attached to the land. it is important tor senators who will vote on the amendment. to have some clear idea of the intention of the draftsmen. so that the executive department itself may be guided in construing whatever we do.
 will appoint the members of this council as soon as possible. the establishment of this council represents recognition by the united states of the arts and of the progress of culture in our country. it is of inestimable importance. the senate passed the bill which would allow a modest sum of money. $10 million a year. to be used to enable cultural creations to reach areas of the country that are   being reached. either by means of commercial effort or for profit. the house saw fit to stand opposed to this proposal. in order to get anything. a part of it had to be stricken out. but at least we  have a beginning in the establishment of a national council of the arts. the author of the article appearing in the new york sunday times. howard taubman. is the drama editor of the new york times. he mentions in the article that we need a bill of rights for the artist himself so that he does  need to feel in any way. either  or in the future. that he is under the thumb of the government. mr. taubman feels that the national council on the arts could well devote its talents to the development of such a bill of rights for artists. i agree with this most laudable suggestion. mr. taubmans article represents such a fine definition of the independence and integrity of the arts and the artists that i ask unanimous consent that this article. entitled "a sign of grace." appearing in the new york sunday times of september 22. 1964. be printed at this point in the record.
. i particularly call attention to mr. taubmans desire that the artist shall express  safe ideas. but new ideas. with perfect freedom. and that the government should encourage.  discourage. any such expression.. mr. taubman points out that it is very important that the artist be in a position in which he feels that he does  have to depend upon government approval in order to win public approval. the fact that the government is taking some interest in the arts will be a positive and  a negative fact. any assistance that is given to artists must be assistance which would let them express themselves more freely in their own personalities. rather than less freely. all of this is so vitally important to the future of this whole movement in which i believe very deeply that i hope senators will read the article with the greatest attention.
as a matter of importance to the agency administering the law. would it have a reasonable right to go ahead and work with the larger counties which . for the first time. come into the program. in the expectation that there is a fair hope. given a good case and hardheaded need for additional appropriations. that the senate would give sympathetic consideration to that concept. as the senator ks. there are great variations among the ways in which a department can work with people. it can listen to them. or it can entertain their plans. or  do so.
 dwight d. eisenhower paid tribute to wendell willkie in boston. mass. the following are quotations from speeches of wendell willkie and from his book "one world." and are inscribed in an open book. made of stone. in front of a cross. with a crusaders sword upon a torch emblazoned upon it. at his grave.
. the new york times of monday. february 15. reports that a central office will be established by arts councils in the united states and canada. since new york pioneered in the establishment of a state arts council 5 years ago. 25 states have followed suit. there are aher 125 private councils throughout the nation and. of course. the national council. established last year by legislation which a number of my colleagues and i had offered. as the number of these organizations increases. so do requests for advice and assistance directed to the arts councils of america. inc. this profit group will establish the central office to keep up with the needs of the expanding arts council movement. the new york times article describes the growth of councils and the achievements of several individual groupsincluding the oswego arts guild in oswego. n.y. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the article be printed at this point in the record.
. in a forthcoming issue of art in america. richard miihlberger. a woodrow wilson fellow in art history at johns hopkins university. sketches the development of public interest in the arts in america. the governments role in promoting the arts reached its culmination. states the author. with the passage of the national arts and cultural development act of 1964. since i had a considerableand longstandinginterest in the passage of that measure. i read mr. miihlbergers article with considerable interest. and recommend it to senators. his plea for the creation of a national arts foundationwhich was voted by the senate. but  by the house. last yearis a logical extension of the historic progress americans have made in our national culture. as a cosponsor of that measure. i am hopeful that it will be passed promptly. i ask unanimous consent that the text of mr. mihilbergers article entitled "john adams had a dream." be printed at this point in the record.
. i heard the rumor. but i did  believe it. t can conceive that there are  six senators who would serve. i am sure that will  be a problem. i personally feel that it would be most demeaning to the senate for anyone to entertain seriously that rumor. i share the hope of the senator from new jersey that the appointments will be made promptly. we have great responsibility for the standing of the senate. it concerns me as much as it concerns the majority leader. i believe senators will find that when we act on this measure. whatever may be the limitations of our action. it will be received with great approval by people generally. the people are very deeply concerned that congress has imposed standards on others which we have been slow to impose on ourselves. it is  too creditable. everything that has happened is past. the senator is laconic. i k that he was  100percent serious. i k the senator considers this matter as seriously as any of us. i hope there will be action within a very short time.
. on behalf of the junior senator from rhode island . i ask unanimous consent that the name of the able and distinguished senior senator from texas be added as an additional cosponsor of the bill. s. 1483. to provide for the establishment of the national foundation on the arts and the humanities and that his name be added as a cosponsor at the next printing of the bill.
. the rockefeller bros. fund. in its report on the arts early this month. observed that "only in our time have we begun to recognize the arts as a community concern to be placed alongside our longaccepted responsibilities for libraries. museums. hospitals. and schools." the report then went on to question how the arts should best flourish and how they are to be supported and maintained. the answer found was increased support by government at all levels. by foundations. by business. and by the public. i have introduced legislation to this end. the national arts foundation act of 1965. s. 310. and have cosponsored the administration bill. s. 1483. which seeks a similar goal. hearings were recently completed by the subcommittee on arts and humanities of the labor and public welfare committee. under the chairmanship of the senator from rhode island . and it is hoped that the proposed legislation will be favorably reported in the  too distant future. i ask unanimous consent that an article printed in the march 13. 1965. saturday review appraising the rockefeller bros. fund report and the assessing needs of the performing arts in our nation. be printed in the record.
. i wish to express my deep appreciation for the graciousness of the senator from rhode island . i am convinced that without him to synthesize the ideas which we had. this great historic moment would   be here. when we take up the bill which is likely to become law to establish for our government the position in the whole field of the arts and culture in general. i am gratified that the senator from rhode island has ackledged my own efforts. which go back 16 years. let me say to all senators that the introduction of this bill represents a movement in this country which can be of the greatest satisfaction and comfort to every american of almost any kind which has ever been presented to congress. i thank the senator from rhode island.
. i approach senate consideration of s. 1483 with a great deal of personal gratification. for i have joined as a sponsor of this bill from the beginning and it is legislation i have sponsored and worked for for 16 yearssince january 1949. having seen these efforts come to partial fruition last year in the enactment of the bill for a national council on the arts which is advisory in character and having seen the senate pass a national arts foundation bill which. however. did  pass the other body. it is a historic day to pass this bill which looks like it could become law. i should like also to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the outstanding stewardship of the present bill by the senator from rhode island . who as chairman of the subcommittee on the arts and humanities of the senate committee on labor and public welfare chaired 7 days of fruitful hearings and shepherded the bill through subcommittee. full committee and onto the floor. he is a true patron of the arts and merits the appreciation of the nation for his role in guiding this bill through the legislative process and making of it the bipartisan success i feel it will be. passage of the national foundation on the arts and the humanities act will materially advance the cultural and intellectual progress of our nation and our people and will appropriately establish the federal government as a leader in such progress. this legislation will supplement private efforts in the field. as our hearings indicated. less than 2 percent of the private philanthropy in this nation from all sources goes to the support of the arts. an insufficient amount which will still fall short of the national need even after the passage of s. 1483. of particular importance in the bill is the provision which i sponsored as an amendment originating from an idea fathered by senator clark of pennsylvania. and myself. wherein each of the states having a states arts agency is eligible to receive an annual grant of up to $50.000 on an even matching basis and those states without such an agency can receive a onetime. atching grant to allow the state to conduct a survey leading to the setting up of such an agency. i direct the attention of this body to the excellent studies of activities on the arts within the states found on pages 19 through 37 in part 1 of the hearings. i also take understandable pride in the outstanding work in this regard performed by the new york state council on the arts whose 1965 annual report is found on pages 487 through 550 in part 2 of the hearings. enactment of the national foundation on the arts and the humanities act of 1965 will. i predict. be for long years into the future a monument to the 89th congress. those senators. past and present. who have played a role in the shaping of this legislation. can well be proud of their achievement in fulfilling the promise of a mature. yet still growing. america.
. i invite the attention of the senate to the presentation last night in new york of the antoinette perry awards. the socalled tony awards. to the most distinguished people in the theater today. in the words of one of the recipients. harold prince. who is one of the nations most successful producers. these awards symbolize that new york is the home of the american theater. a bill which passed the senate a short time ago seeks to communicate the tremendous virtue and value of this art throughout the united states in a way which is impossible without the assistance of the states and the federal government. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a list of the winners of the "tony" awards. including the reference to a special award made to gilbert miller. dean of the theater producers of new york. who is 80 years of age.
also the actors equity association and all the people in the entertainment business will be very much gratified by the effort to encourage patronage which is expected to result and thereby the development of the legitimate theater comes from repeal of the tax. there is a rather substantial understanding of the problems of that particular industry by the committee. i expressed my appreciation to them. i k that the whole theater and entertainment community throughout the country and the whole new york community will feel the same way.
i am extremely grateful to the senator from maryland for his constructive intercession. i k that he would wish to add two additional units. which perhaps have arrived there since my colleague was there. namely. the 1st infantry divisionthe big red 1and the elements of the 25th division which are  there. i assure the senator that everything he says about our military personnel is borne out by those additional units as well as the others. which i also visited. i  bring my remarks to a conclusion. there is question that we have never labored under the illusion here that there is a representative government in south vietnam. therefore we must accept the fact. and live with it. that the united states is likely to be the dominant influence in south vietnam for a considerable period. thus our efforts must be directed toward building up those institutions which can make selfdeterminationand that is all we seek. i do  believe we can ever emphasize that egh. our job must be to build up those institutions which can make selfdetermination viable and visible. and the way to do that is  merely to talk about it or to nibble at the problem. it must be done by giving the country a chance to have peace and more security to produce the personalities and conditions which will improve its opportunities for a representative government. a grave deficiency in the american attitude toward vietnam is the fact that while we have emphasized the grimness of the military struggle and its anticommunist nature. we have failed to emphasize the opportunities of really achieving a success for free institutions in combination with social and ecoic reform. the american people. and the congress. must be prepared for difficult decisions and longrange commitments. the vietnam conflict must be understood as the beginning of the struggle for asia. i hope to address myself soon to a review of our china policy. of which vietnam is but a facet. we must be ready to journey along a very long road. well worth it because it is in pursuit of our national security and the survival of freedom. . the irresistible tide of world events at this time requires. in my judgment. that our action in respect to endeavoring to win the world to a condition of peace and freedom necessitates a continuing deep involvement in vietnam. i k that all of usi think there is exception in the senateunderstand that this is  the way in which we would seek to achieve the great result to which we are dedicated for all mankind. but that it will require a variety of means. mainly the arts of peace. and construction. and ecoic and social development. and the love of those values which are the values of freedom. and that at some time. somewhere. we must be prepared to face the issue of life itself. if the communists count on the fact that whenever casualties are involved. we are going to run. then we are through. sometime. somewhere. somehow. they must understand that they have to face the same thing they are always bragging about. namely. a love of the ideal which is superior to life itself. that is the confrontation which is forced upon us by the circumstances of history. i have described the means as accurately as i can within the competence of this nation. consistent with its other responsibilities. which i believe are worth the national interest to devote to its purpose in south vietnam.
. i introduce. for myself and the senator from vermont . a joint resolution for the establishment of an office of deputy superintendent of the arts within the district of columbia recreation board to develop and conduct a program of the arts for washington and its environs.
. this measure will enable the district of columbia to fully participate in the programs made possible by the national foundation on the arts and humanities act of 1965 and to develop the potential for participation in the cultural life of this city by all the citizens of washington. it will foster the blossoming of washington as a world cultural center. a role well befitting the nations capital which is already very much a world political center but has yet to catch up on the cultural front. the district of columbia recreation board is  the official arts agency for the district of columbia. this resolution designates a single office within that agency to handle present programs and develop new ones. among present district of columbia government arts activities are support for the national symphony orchestra and sponsorship of the annual art fair at the ellipse. the shakespeare. summer festival at the sylvan theater. the childrens theater. the washington civic opera. the oneact play tournament. and music programs at the watergate. the carter barron amphitheater. constitution hall. and the smithsonian. this resolution will serve to enhance these activities and to encourage the development of others. the measure authorizes $100.000 for the next fiscal year and $100.000 for fiscal year 1968 with authorizations for subsequent years to be determined by the congress. these sums are in keeping with previous budgets earmarked for the arts in the district of columbia recreation board.
 of the ithaca board of education. my relationships with him. however. centered around his leadership of the ithaca festival theater. which he served as chairman of the board of trustees. he was one of the early supporters of the idea to create a wellrounded. fully professional theater festival in the finger lakes region. and was often in contact with me during the years we fought for passage of the national arts and humanities foundation bill. it is indeed tragic that he diedat the age of 48just as the plans and financing for his beloved theaterfor which he had worked so hard for so longwere consolidating. the theater itself is scheduled to go into operation next year. and i would like to consider it a lasting memorial to a young man who gave his very bestand this represented a great deal of achievement and talent indeedto his community. i ask unanimous consent to have his obituary. published in the new york times this morning. printed in the record.
. i submit a concurrent resolution authorizing the senate committee on rules and administration to compile a history of the u.s. senate to be printed as a senate document. in 1962. the house of representatives published as house document 246 its own history. however. after considerable searching. i have been unable to find a comparable document in the senate. it appears that anyone interested in the history of this distinguished body must be content with senate document  64 of the 87th congress which is a dissertation on the first 14 yearsfrom 17871801of the upper chamber. i have asked that sufficient quantities be printed so that each senator will have egh copies for interested constituents. the senate has a great history. and i hope that more americans through the reading of such a book could become better acquainted with it.
. history books will record the year 1966 as a pivotal year in the thinking and discussion of u.s. relations with communist china. for the first time since the communist takeover of the mainland in 1949 and the korean war. public officials. scholars. and private organizations are in a serious debate about our future relations with communist china to the american public. without the old fears. americans are once again asking questions fundamental to our foreign policy. freedom house. founded as a memorial to wendell wilkie. a private organization dedicated to an objective discussion of foreign policy and to the education of the american people. has made an important contribution to the advancement of the communist china debate. although i do  agree with all the statements in the freedom house report. i find it on balance a solid and forwardlooking document worthy of being called to the attention of my colleagues. the public affairs committee of freedom house argues that the admission of communist china to the u.n. should meet objection from the united states provided "peking signs a korean peace treaty. rences aggression and subversion abroad. and accepts taiwans independence and continued u.n. membership." in regard to vietnam. and here i have reservations as to the statement. freedom house points out that the problems of that country are so vast and complex that any solution to them will take a long time to be fully settled. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the freedom house report entitled "communist china and south vietnam." . there being objection. the report was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:
 i did . but i have considered this problem many times. those stories are  unusual. this is a real problem in all of american business. twenty states. let me say to the senator. already have passed statutes of this character. plus puerto rico. in new york we have had such a law on the books for 8 years. it has worked quite successfully. it does  promise the millennium. but it does have a tendency to temper the kind of selectivity which the senator so well describes.
. i ask unanimous consent that an article by howard taubman which appeared in this mornings new york times entitled "business and the arts." be printed at this point in the record. this article concerns the contributions of the business community to the growth of the arts in america. and merits the attention of the members of this body.
in the time the senator from massachusetts has been a senator. he has made a most distinguished record in trying faithfully to carry out the mandate of the constitution in this field. i am very much heartened and very much pleased that he should rally to the support of this position. . . that is pretty slow desegregation. considering the fact that the law has been on the books since 1964 and the policy has been on the books since 1954.
. it is elementary that we give the department an opportunity to carry out its obligation to enforce title vi. we should  try to save money in the carrying out of a solemn. moral obligation at a time when we have just recently rejected the civil rights bill and when there is very grave danger of deep resentment concerning this subject among both the white and negro citizens of the country. let us at least enforce the laws on the books in good faith. that is the purpose of my amendment and i hope the senate will agree to the amendment.
. first i wish to reply. with all due respect to the distinguished senator from georgia i wish to point out that i was stating that this provision applied to millions of individuals. rather than to institutions or organizations that have books and representatives. and so on. it is the single individual who is the beneficiary under this program. and there are some 4 million such individuals. so that the administrator is given a burden that ody could carry.
it is my understanding of the precedents of the senate that once a question has been decidedto wit. a point of orderthe chair does  have to entertain aher point of order exactly upon the same ground. that is all i am saying. i am saying hing else.
. i call attention to a magnificent article in last sundays new york times by walter kerr. "an eden without serpents. unlikely." pointing out that even with the tremendous advance in national and state establishments on the arts. which i had the ho to originate in 1949. deep problems still exist. that these problems exist with respect to socalled state theaters abroad. in communist countries. andthat the problems do  differ from the problems experienced by our own theater. indeed. our theater is more fluorishing and far more vital. because it has the protection and security of civil liberties and private enterprise. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed at this point in the record.
. only on the simplest of charts is progress an evenly rising line. just as in the learning and growing process there is both trial and error. so the pathway to progress is  smoothly paved all the way. in a cogent article in the new york times of sunday. march 5. the times eminent drama critic. walter kerr. has examined the new growth being experienced by the theater in the united states. he contrasts our experience with that of the european theater. so often pictured as a model for the united states. and with theater in european communist countries which some in the programsactors. directors. producers. and writerssometimes seek to idealize.
. as one of the sponsors and longtime advocates of the federal arts and humanities found.-tion act. i am glad to bring to the attention of the senate a laudable ination sponsored by the new york state council on the arts. this summer. between july 1 and labor day. the council will present the erie canal sesquicentennial exhibition. commemorating the 150th anniversary of the canal. a twodeck. display. canal boat. featuring multimedia exhibits on the history and operation of the canal. will visit approximately 30 communities between albany and buffalo. this celebration furthers the purpose of the federal act. which is to bring the best in arts and culture to the smaller communities of the nation. as the canal was an important step in the development of new york state. the council hopes all persons having access to the exhibition. which will be free of charge. will be able to appreciate the historic role the canal has played. and continues to play as the new york state barge canal system. begun in 1817 and opened in 1825. the erie canal was one of the largest public works projects to have been undertaken in its day. opening a direct water route to the western frontiers. the canal established new york as the leading ecoic center of the period. the display boat will comprise a motionpicture tour of the canal. printed materials on the construction and early operation of the canal. working models of a canal lock and boats. an arrangement of technical inventions inspired by the canal. and photographs of the system today. the anncement is as follows:
may i say that with the law on the books and the need for aher law to undo it. i do  believe that anybody can have any illusions about the fact that it is an openend situation. i believe it is important for those who feel strongly about the subject that inherent in passing the statute. congress was conscious of the fact that 1972 might be an unfair limitation and that it might very well have to be extended.
. a most significant provision. of which i am proud to have been the sponsor. of the national foundation of the arts and the humanities act of 1965 authorizes federal matching funds for states arts programs and a onetime matching grant for a state to establish an arts program where e heretofore existed. in 1965 only nine states had created state arts councils by law. today every state but two has a statutory permanent state arts agency. the two remaining states have statutory agencies. since 1965
thirty seconds more. "prevent" will  do it. i think "discourage" is too ephemeral. but this is a word of art which is exactly right. and which is exactly in point. and i would hope very much. . i suggest the absence of a quorum.
. buffalo is a progressive center of industry and commerceand the arts. in music and in the contemporary arts. buffalo. n.y.. has achieved nationwide eminence. the buffalo symphony. under the direction of lukas foss. and the albrightk gallery. under the patronage of seymour k and others. are eminent for their quality and their leadership. especially in the blazing of new trails in the arts. the citys second festival of the arts today. presided over by gordon smith. a 16day program of cultural events. including the famous merce cunningham dance company. serves as a center focus of buffalos talent for artistic ination. the festival deserves the attention. the support. and the patronage of all new yorkers and of the whole nation. it is a sterling example of what a fine american city. under highly patriotic municipal leadership. can do to realize its own capability for giving enlightenment and pleasure to its people. time magazine for march 15 treats at length the bright phee of the arts in buffalo. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
however. the greatly improved state of the art of electronics and the sensitivity of the microphones and other material today make it possible to deal entirely with the question of taste which will relate to the appearance of the chamber. i believe it would be a most helpful step to bring the senate procedures into modem times. i hope the rules committee will give this matter its earliest consideration. i point out the broad range of cosponsors of the resolution. . as indicating that it has caught on and that  there is considerable interest in making this reform.
. on february 20 we celebrated the 125th birthday of a great artist from hungary. michael de munk~csy. 18441900. he came from a modest background. and his father died in an austrian prison for having participated in the hungarian war of independence of 184849. led by louis kossuth. his talents. realized by his uncle. enabled him to win a scholarship to budapest and after then. to dusseldorf. to the famous art academy. here he met the american painter. john r. tat. who secured for him the first american commissions. their completion enabled the young painter to move to paris and win the first prize at the salon. an international recognition of his work. among the most faithful american patrons of munk.csy were the wanamaker family and joseph pulitzer. himself of hungarian origin. wanamaker paid $150.000 for "christ before pilate" in 1881 and half a million francs for the next canvas. "christ on calvary." munkdcsy was a critical realist. his message was modern. though the medium was still the traditional biblical themes. one of his best canvases. "milton dictating the paradise lost to his daughters." hangs in the public library of new york and there are about five more munk~csy paintings in new york. one of them at the hungarian cultural foundation. munkfcsys new york connections are many. indeed. upon his arrival in new york in 1886. joseph pulitzer received him with a headline in hungarian in the new york world. he also painted mrs. pulitzer while in new york. at the exhibition of his paintings thousands converged before the canvases and  less than nine new york newspapers commented enthusiastically on them. the new york evening post of ember 25. 1886. commented as follows: christ before pilate is a picture which demands the most serious consideration. to paint such a subject. on such a scale. is to attempt a work of surpassing importance. it is invading the field of the greatest painters our civilization has even seen. tintoretto. 51.(8 paul veronese. raphael. titian. have painted such subjects. and their marvelous creations still exist . . . its merits are great egh to insure it appreciation. and judged on its merits. it will meet with the consideration it deserves. the new york world of ember 18. 1886. published an article by james b. townsend. which contains among others the following evaluation: when the few great artists of our age and time shall have won. by lapse of centuries and art periods and by the power of their work. the title of "old masters." as we  understand the term. michael de munk csy. the hungarian painter. will hold a foremost place among the immortals of the nineteenth century. secured for him by his masterpiece the christ be/ore pilate ... the work is a grandly conceived one. is majestic in its simplicity and tells its dramatic story through tricks of art. but simply by genius guiding the hand which created it ... it is a work which. like the madonnas of the old masters. may be viewed and studied alike. and side by side. by the sceptic. the christian. the hebrew and the turk . . . today. indeed. it is timely to remember this great painter. his subjects included many of the small people of society. people who suffered. he even painted striking workers. yet. he was  an agitator. he tried to enle mans yearning for freedom and give idealism to the suffering human being.
i welcome senator mathias to the company here. he came to congress marked as a progressive. he has  left us in doubt that the transition from the house of representatives to the senate has  changed his profound convictions. his powers of persuasion. or his learning and judgment. : we k that if there is a risk involved we k the direction in which the risk should be taken. as the senator from kentucky has said. we have gerard smith. who. in a negative way. tells us we will  prejudice negotiations with the russians. and we have the scientists who tell us in a positive way that we do have the timein a sense which will  prejudice the national security of the united statesto consider this matter much more deeply and to try the arts of negotiation before plunging irrevocably ahead. we have assurances from both that there is some time. the axe does  have to fall . many of us deeply feel that if we start on this program of deployment. appropriation. and further deployment. the jig is up--it will inevitably go on and on and on. we would then never k whether this possible opening which we have . when everybody wants to negotiate. could have been availed of in such a way as to stop the mad momentum of the nuclear arms racewhich could end in the extinction of the human race if it is  checked. because the question  must be resolved in favor of man. i am delighted that. intellectually. i find myself in this company. i think it will be a source of gratification to me for the rest of my life. and i feel the same way about the very distinguished statement which has today been made by the senator from maryland
aher thing i k the senator would wish to make very clear is that this represents derogation or denigration of the very strong. highlevel. selfdependency which has been shown by the thais and their passionate attachment to their own national integrity and independence. i am sure the senator. like i. would want to do everything to shore that up. to support it and to help it. and  that we in any way entertain any doubts about our stout ally.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at the next printing. the name of the senator from alaska be added as a cosponsor of s. 3238. to amend the national foundation on the arts and humanities act of 1965. as amended.
s food committee. mr. handren has representative works on modern architecture in the museum of modern art and many publications to his credit and has won three of eight armynavy "e" awards given to the industry. the administrator of gsa has indeed obtained the service3 of an outstanding citizen on the public advisory council at gsa.
may i say to the senator that that is the custom in the senate and. somehow or other. ones reputati..n never suffers in the process. i joined with others. after working for 16 years. to pass a bill for the u.s. arts foundation. and it finally got done. similarly here. the majority leader has much ripe experience in the same way. somehow or other. the people discern when a collaborative effort produces results. and one need worry about the fact that he is being denied recognition on the credit. the thing to do is to get it done. so i joined with a full heart and with reservation in the pledge to cooperate with the senator from iowa.
ial commission to review the whole textile import question and to make findings as to "injury." in making this reported qualified endorsement the japanese government apparently was overriding the japanese textile industry which rejected the kendall proposal. i placed the press reports of this japanese industry rejection in the congressional record on april 2. i believe that the japanese government has  adopted a better position in moving tc this "compromise position." i also find the japanese embassys spokesmans statement made at the press conference statesmanlike. reportedly the spokesman stated: so long as both sides are emotionally involved. it is  expected that a reasonable solution can be reached. with this very constructive move of the japanese government. i must  conclude that the next move on the chess board. if a mutually acceptable agreement is to be reached and if quota legislation is to be avoided. longer solely rests with the japanese. but also with the highest authority of the united states. my colleagues will recall that on march 25 1 characterized the initial japanese response to the negotiating offer put forward by the united states in early january as "unfortunate" and concluded that: the tone of the reported e leads me to the conclusion that the next move on this complicated chess board  rests with japan. i am also pleased that the political leaders in japan  have actively involved themselves in the decisionmaking process and that these leaders did differentiate between the national interests of their country as distinct from regional and special interests. i ask unanimous consent that the report on the new position of the japanese government as reported in the washington post on saturday. april 4 be printed in the recordthis report logically follows the insertions made on april 2. march 25. and february 10together with an article entitled "new talks urged in textile battle." written by brendan jones.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at the next printing. the name of my colleague from new york be added as a cosponsor of s. 3238. to amend the national foundation on the arts and humanities act of 1965. as amended.
. i ask unanimous consent that at the next printing the names of the senator from arizona . my colleague the senator from new york . and the senator from alaska be added as cosponsors of s. 3215. the national foundation on the arts and humanities amendments of 1970. which i cosponsored with the distinguished senator from rhode island
. in an address on june 19 to the american symphony orchestras league. at denver. entitled "the political power of the arts." amyas ames. chairman of the board of the lincoln center for the performing arts. has outlined what he terms as "six steps to a new phase in american life" to meet the growing crisis in our culture. the indexes of this crisis are increasingly apparentdeficits threatening the very existence of symphony orchestras. arts institutions curtailing their services to the community. and teaching programs being eliminated. among others. it will be recalled that the british arts council was created and first given life during the darkest days of world war ii. when london was under almost nightly siege. the british truly recognized that at a time of national stress. cultural value become vital means to build higher national morale. this is a valuable and is apertinent lesson for our times. i ask unanimous consent that mr. ames address be printed in the record.
what we will gain is to clear the books of any residual authority given to the president pursuant to the gulf of tonkin resolution. which has termination date except as it may be declared by the president or may be declared by us.
exactly right. so we give him a broad mandate to "assist any member or protocol state of the southeast asia collective defense treaty requesting assistance in defense of its freedom." the other question concerns whether we are  locking the door after the horse has gone. there i say definitely  and for this reason. the president has stated. "i am going to get out of vietnam. but on my own timetable. which i am  acquainting you with in the foreign relations committee. and on certain conditions." those conditions are three. first. progress in the paris peace talksobviously nil. conditions two and three. however. are very trying in a very substantive way. the second condition is vietnamization. the third condition is the degree of force expended against our forces by the th vietnamese or the viet cong. those are two of the three conditions the president has set. vietnamization is the readiness of the south vietnamese forces to take over.  we see them thinned out and spread into cambodia which was never contemplated by vietnamization. this makes it absolutely indeterminable. when will they be ready. are they doing. as we lawyers say. everything reasonably necessary to make them ready. all of these things are left up in the air. even if they are ready. they might decide tomorrow to have an expedition into laos or th vietnam or communist china. they would then be less ready than ever. . concerning the degree of force used by th vietnam and the viet cong against our forces we have never hesitated to bomb the sites of antiaircraft weaponry directed at our airplanes. they can intensify that and we could go back to the bombardment of th vietnam. we would then once again be in over our ears. moreover. the alleged potential threat of a later attack against our forces in vietnam was cited as a justification for attacking into cambodia. we are  under the necessity. it seems to me. of clearing doubts concerning residual authority which. if the president wished to invoke itand he said that he does . but he could if he wished towould leave us in a position of being absolutely unable to determine when to get out of vietnam. it is necessary to clear the books of that. and if we are  satisfied with the pace of the withdrawal. we may be able to do a good deal about it. but so long as this resolution is on the books. it seems to me that we are inhibited. our hands are tied. we have given the president the authority and taken it away from ourselves. we should  restore our ability or capability. in the strict military sense. we may  actually exercise any power. but we would restore to ourselves the right to do so by this concurrent resolution. that is why we consider this matter to be so critically important.
. within the last few weeks a group of distinguished artists from all segmentsof the american arts community. and of art dealers. directors. and educators. met with the chairman of the arts and humanities subcommittee. the senator from rhode island . and with me. the ranking miity member. to express their deep concern regarding u.s. policy in indochina and in behalf of peace. they had the idea that they had to make some demonstration or sitin or engage in some other activity to call this matter to the attention of congress. we told them that was at all necessary. that we would be glad to introduce their views into the record. we were impressed with the depth of the feeling and the sincerity of purpose manifested by this delegation with whom we participated in a detailed and fruitful discussion on the subject. in keeping with their request and the pledge made to them. i am. on behalf of myself and mr. pell. bringing to the attention of the congress the concern which has moved these artists and art dealers and their associates who so fervently feel that u.s. involvement in indochina should be terminated. a petition presented to us eloquently summed up the feelings of the group--a war so senseless abroad can help but tear us apart at home." also. i append two explanatory articles which appeared in the press further detailing their concern and a list of those who met with senator pell and me. i ask unanimous consent that this material appear as part of my remarks.
first. i should like to join in everything senator ribicoff has said. second. i should mention the names of the staff. miity an: majority. of the committee on commerce: art pankopf. mike pertschuk. and lynn sutcliffe. they also helped in this matter. and we are very grateful to them. and the entire senate should be grateful to them. finally. i wish to say that i think my colleague has done superbly. he had a deep feeling about an agency. but he certainly was willing to work it out with deference to the views of many of us. it is a very fitting crown of success to a very difficult job and one which i feel has great promise for the country. i believe that he. as i. will feel that we have an obligation. i am sure the senator from illis. who is presiding. would join us in thatto exercise our vigilance. to be sure that our design and our intention that this should be an agency for the protection of consumers.  an agency for the vexation of american business. should be carried through. i think it is going to be very important that we remain alert to our "child." as it were. as it becomes law. to see that it really performs in a positive and constructive way. i am gratified to have been associated with senator ribicoff. with whom i have been associated in many. many things. especially in this matter. which i regard as an historic milestone in the activities of our ecoy. because. as i have said all my life. this is a consumers ecoy rather than a capitalistic system. and this signalizes that situation. (at this point. mr. spong assumed the chair.)
 of the university of pennsylvania. also spoke at the ceremony. inasmuch as our remarks discussed the imperative of expanded private and government support of the artsand of the theater as an essential element of the artsthey should be of interest to the senate. and i ask unanimous consent that they be printed in the record.
ial medal of freedom for his services to his country. i stated that his work was the work of an entertainer with so much humanity and so much talent that he enthralled peoples of scores of nations and all races throughout the world and he deserved the title "ambassador batch." for that is a measure of the good will for the united states that louis armstrong produced with his trumpet. although satchmo is dead. his soul will live on forever in the music he created and the pleasure he gavea gift he willed to all the peoples of the world. i ask unanimous consent that the new york times obituary on the life of louis armstrong be printed in the record. mrs. javits joins me in extending to lllian armstrong our most sincere sympathy.
a very interesting point is raised by . it seems to me we decided that question. at the very least 30 years ago or more. on the principle that the very first principle of government is that society shall continue to operate. i deeply believe we have to use our brains and great ingenuity to see that the evils which might result from this sort of legislation do  result. that the excesses and corruption which might exist do  exist. we can shatter any precedent that is made. we can pass a bill today and repeal it tomorrow. we are  bound to the extent that we can overrule it or repeal it. if we do  like the way it works. we can cancel it. but we k we need this kind of machinery on the books because the alternative is too dangerous.
 george washington recognized the arts as central to our national wellbeing. the passage of some 200 years has  dimmed this concept. and. as a matter of fact. time has given it new meaning and emphasis. government support for the arts in canada. a nation much like our own. though  as rich. amounts to $1.40 annually per person. in west germany. per capita support is $2.42. it stands at $2 in sweden and in austriabut in our united states such support is at a rate of only 15 cents for each american. a goal of $1 for each americanthat is. $200 million annuallyis a feasible one and one which can be achieved during the bicentennial period. so that the united states will stand as preeminent in the arts as in the sciences and in material wealth. the time has come to begin to plan to achieve that goal. i have begun work on just such a project and will be looking to the community of interest in the arts and for support in this undertaking. our nation has the resources to fulfill the dreams of the founding fathers. we have but to exercise the will. in an address before the convocation on the performing arts at hamilton college in new york on september 13. amyas amos. chairman of the board of the lincoln center for the performing arts. discussed the needs and the opportunity for a new national priority for the arts. his address gives emphasis to the undertaking i have outlined here. i ask unanimous consent that his speech text be printed in the record.
. i think the senator from tennessee has suggested an important reform in the workstudy -program. the workstudy program is on the books as part c of title iv of the higher education act. however. the emphasis on community service is  on the books. because it is generic in terms of allowing whatever work study is directed or permitted by the authority. i believe it is critically important that a greater proportion be zeroed in on community service. young people seek that service because they like it. the federal guidelines and the way in which we advise and suggest to local colleges and institutions that they proceed are very germane to what actually happens. so. i believe it is very materially helpful to point to this as a very good direction. the breakdown in the statement from the department of hew is very helpful. i think it would be useful if the senator from tennessee would allow me to have this tabulation printed in the record.
. i am a cosponsor of the bill. s. 3570. introduced by my colleague from new york (mr. buckley). to authorize the administrator of veterans affairs to convey certain property in canandaigua. n.y.. to sonnenberg gardens. inc.. a profit. educational corporation which has been granted a charter by the state of new york. the many artists and citizens who have joined together to form sonnenberg gardens. inc.. have contributed substantial time and money to the effort to restore and maintain the beautiful and unique gardens and the mansion of sonnenberg. the group has demonstrated that they possess the financial and artistic capability adequately to carry out the purposes set forth in its charter. these purposes are: first. to receive. hold. restore and improve the gardens. grounds. and mansion of the estate kn as sonnenberg. formerly owned by mrs. f. f. thompson. and located at howell street in the city of canandaigua. ontario county. n.y.. second. to display and exhibit for both study and enjoyment numerous and various types and styles of gardens. landscape architecture. and structural architecture. third. to provide a place for the display of paintings. sculpture. and art works in general. fourth. to provide a place for the performance of musical concerts. operas. dance and ballet recitals. arts exhibits. and the performing and fine arts generally. and fifth. to further such ends to act individually. in free association or by contract with others. including individuals. organizations. churches. schools. municipalities and government agencies. and institutions. the former owner of this property. mrs. frederick ferris thompson. commissioned several ed horticulturalists and landscape gardeners to design and construct the sonnenberg gardens. each having a sepadate and distinct theme. such as the italian. the old fashioned. the japanese. this property is currently part of the veterans administration grounds in canandaigua. access to the restored gardens would provide visitors to the finger lakes region an unforgettable and enriching experience. i commend the bill to the senate because it would preserve this art treasure and. i might add. do so at monetary cost to the federal government. a similar bill. h.r. 13780. has been introduced in the house by representative john terry. who represents the district where the gardens are located. and who has taken an active interest in this matter for some time. by mr. schweiker:
. "fiddler on the roof" became broadways longest running production ever on the evening of june 17. 1972. with its 3.225th performance. beating "life with father." which played 3.224 performances. from ember 8. 1939. through july 12. 1947. stars who have played tevye in "fiddler on the roof" since it opened in new york at the imperial theater september 22. 1964. in chroogical order: zero mostel. luther adler. herschel bernardi. harry goz. jerry jarrett. paul lipson. and jan peerce. the play is a triumph also for its director. composer. lyricist. choreographer. costumer. and author. and for its producer. harold prince. of new york. paul lipson. who returned to his starring role may 2. 1972. has played more performances than any other actor. 1.806 as tevye in new york and on tour with the national co. his total performance in "fiddler" as tevye. avram. the booksellerwhich he createdand lazar wolf. is 3.225 performances. it is the exact total of the new york run. but during the 6 months the national co. appeared at caesars palace in las vegas. lipson totaled 14 performances per week as against the new york companys 8. . overseas productions include: finland. 15 separate productions more than any other country in europe. and the first to present it in europe municipal playhouse. helsinki. great britain. london and british touring productions ran concurrently. israel. holland. denmark. sweden. way. iceland. west germany. east germany. japan. spain. czechoslovakia. yugoslavia. austria. france. mexico. turkey. argentina. south africa. rhodesia. switzerland. brazil. australia. and new zealand. upcoming will be productions next season in hungary and greece. in london. "fiddler" ran for 5 years at her majestys. where aher harold prince production. "company." is a big hit. music theater international estimates that the subsidiary leasing in the united states and canada will prcduce 1.015 separate productions in the first 16 months of release through june 1972. a total of more than 2.500 performances were given by professional. community. and academic producers. and more parochial schools played "fiddler" than other schools. total gross in the united states on prince productions of "fiddler" new york and national companies-$51.430.000. plus $12.935.000 for stock and other productions in the united states. capitalized at $375.000. the musical had returned 98 percent profit to its investors and a matching sum to its producer. total profits. which are divided between the producer and 147 investors is $7.402.500. so investment in theater sometimes pays off handsomely. there have been 43 complete score record albums. plus 18 original cast albums in english. dutch. german. spanish. hebrew. yiddish. wegian. swedish. french. japanese. and others. estimate of theatergoers who have seen "fiddler" in live productions around the world: 37.500.000. awards to "fiddler on the roof": new york drama critics circlebest musical. american theatre wing tony awards: best musical. best directorjerome robbins. best choreographerjerome robbins. best scorejerry bock. best lyricsshelton harnick. best actorzero mostel. best costumespatrician zipprodt. best featured actressmaria karnilova. best authormusicaljoseph stein. best producermusicalharold prince. national catholic theatre conferencebest musical. new york newspaper guildpage one award.
. edmund wilson. the celebrated critic and man of letters. died monday. june 12. at his home in talcottville. in upstate new york. where he lived for many years to the age of 77. he was one of the most distinguished of new yorkers and was the dean of american letters and one of the most preeminent literary critics of our time. indeed. mr. wilsons last published book was "upstate. records and recollections of thern new york." mrs. javits and i extend our deepest sympathies to his family. his loss will be deeply felt in the world of literature and of the arts. i ask unanimous consent that the obituary and two articles from the new york times of june 13. 1972. be printed in the record.
 many americans. due to the nature of george washington recognized the arts their jobs in an automated ecoic system. as central to our national wellbeing. find little personal satisfaction in their work ot cent riesal he- g and many are  searching for individual the passage of two centuries has en- fulfillment through the use of free time. hanced.  dimmed. this concept. as a where meaning is  found in either work matter of fact. time has given it new or recreational pursuits. the outcome is likely meaning and emphasis. indeed. as the bi- to be boredom and restlessness. wlether gcncentennial anniversary of the united erated by a search for individual fulfillment. states approaches. the time is ripe for group recreation or sheer boredom. the inthe united states to assert its preemi- creased use of drugs. including marijuana nence in the arts and to accelerate our should come as surprise. national progress in this area just as the bill to provide appropriations for the nation undertook a strong forward the interior department and related movement in the sciences in the 1950s in agencies. including the national foundaresponse to the challenge of sputnik. tion on the arts and the humanities. will i hope. therefore. that in conference to enjoy our parks and wooddowment for the arts and the national lands. and to experience the richness of endowment for the humanities. i am  our arts. these activities are essential to unaware of the financial crisis in which human happiness. and because they are we find ourselves. but it should  be so essential in this age. i e with some forgotten that during the depths of regret that the amount provided in this world war ii. at the time of the battle appropriations bill for arts and huma britain when the very existence of ities foundation programs is $4 million great britain was under dire threat. the below that authorized for the next fiscal british government. beset as it was by year and $2 million less than the amount so many horrendous problems. undertook requested in the administrations budget. an arts support program. a program i sincerely hope that a way will be found which had a highly beneficial effect on to restore these funds to this agency british morale in world war ii and. to which already is handicapped by an the credit of the british. has flourished authorization ceiling which is far too to this day as an example to us and to low. relative to the importance of the the world. we can do less. program.
. todays act is designed to thwart the whole world let alone the small nation of israel. we simply can tolerate it. as men. we must find some way to deal with it. certainly sports event. eminent as it may be. should be allowed to stand in the way of concentrating the attention of the world on this dread calamity. the arab terrorists have desecrated the olympic games concept of brotherhood. any nation that gives them sanctuary or sympathy must be held accountable to all mankind the arab terrorist action obviously seeks to intimidate the civilized world. we can submit to this strategy of of terror. the distinguished majority and miity leaders have expressed the views of millions and millions of americans. and i am hoed to join them in those views.
. in the painful history of persecution and uprooting through history. there are many examples of contributions made by talented men and women to the cultures of their adopted lands. but there are only a few of those whose creative resources were of such power that. like giants. they were able to straddle continentsone foot on european soil. the other on american. past and future merged into their genius. in science one thinks of albert einstein. in music. kurt weillone of this countrys most distinguished adopted sons. who first arrived in new york city. 37 years ago on september 10. considered by many critics to be one of the outstanding theater composers of this century. weill collaborated with some of the finest lyricists and poets ever to write for the musical theater of the western worldbertolt brecht. maxwell anderson. paul green. langston hughes. ira gershwin. ogden nash. alan jay lerner. his "threepenney opera" is one of the most performed musical works in theater history. and few composers have so bridged the cultures of the old world and the new in works ranging from musical comedies. operettas. and operas to symphonies. cantatas. and ballets. weill was born on march 2. 1900. in germany. of distinguished jewish heritage. his musical education was in the rigorous classical tradition. and by the time he was 30. he was recognized as one of germanys foremost musicians. but because his art was in open collision with nazi ideology. and because of his jewish origin. weill was forced to flee overnight from berlin in march 1933. his scores were publicly burned in front of the state opera house. and his music was banned forever by the third reich. together with his wife. lotte lenyathe eminent interpreter of his songs and an actress today admired over much of the world. weill escaped to france. two years later. at the invitation of director max rinehardt. who had come to america also to escape the nazis. weill and miss lenya came to live in the united states. weill spent the remaining 15 years of his life in his adopted country. becoming a u.s. citizen in 1943 and making a major contribution to the american musical theater. in the years since his death in 1950. kurt weills music has grown in popularity. and. indeed. in recent years his genius and international stature have begun to be fully revealed and recognized. at the kennedy center last season. a production of weills last work. "lost in the stars." a passionate protest against racism enjoyed both critical and popular acclaim. on october 1 a new production will open at the theatre delys in new york. paying tribute to weills life and genius. in connection with this production. "berlin to broadway with kurt weill." a series of commemorations are planned. with the participation of miss lenya. distinguished artists of the theater. the christopher street association. the city of new york. and the federal republic of germany. i am hoed to pay tribute today to this distinguished adopted son on the anniversary of his arrival in the united states 37 years age.
madam president. this treaty has never been more desirable than . withstanding that it is over 25 years old. the committee on foreign relations has considered it very carefully. and on both legal and diplomatic grounds has held it valid for ratification by the senate and has. in my judgment. completely negated the fears expressed with respect to its effect upon our domestic situation in terms of law. either of the states or of the federal government. there is really reason. other than those fears. which i believe have been completely dispelled by the record before the committee on foreign relations. to delay the ratification of this treaty. i think it is terribly tragic. madam president. that at a time when terror has produced such bloodshed. we have  and apparently can even consider this particular measure. considering the pressures of time and the denial to the majority leadership of unanimous consent for a reasonable length of time to discuss it. madam president. king the deep feelings which millions of americans entertain upon this subject. and tens of millions throughout the world. i would first like to thank the majority leader for his thoughtfulness. he assured me that he would bring it up before the end of the session. he certainly has tried to do so. as we saw demonstrated in a public way this morning. leadership likes to be rebuffed. senator mansfield has tried in a very hoable. dignified. and sincere way. as is his wont. i deplore and regret the result. i hope very much that. as this treaty will remain pending. and as the president of the united states has. after years. asked the senate to move to ratify it. that if this administration carries on for aher term. the president will renew his request. which i have every confidence he will do. and that in the next session the senate foreign relations committee may again act affirmatively. which i expect it will do. and that then the leadership may bring this matter on at a more propitious time for consideration by the senate. madam president. as senator pzoxmire is absent. i should like again to pay a tribute to him for the indefatigable way over the years in which he has pursued the effort. in which i have joined. to bring about action on the geide treaty. again. i thank the majority leader for his effort this morning
. i introduce for myself and senators pell. eagleton. mondale. and taft. my colleagues on the subcommittee on the arts and humanities. the administrations bill to authorize appropriations for the national foundation on the arts and the humanities for the next 3 fiscal years. this measure also provides for a number of technical changes in the present law. i ask unanimous consent that a list of these technical changes together with an analysis of the proposed bill and its text be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
 nixon symbolize this: art is the most profound and ultimately the most sacred form of freedom of expression that we have. within its depths and its mysteries is the source of new ways of looking at the world and at ourselves. hing we do to foster artistic creativity should tend to directly or indirectly influence artistic content. everything we do to aid the artist and his art should be done to enlarge.  restrict. the area of freedom which is the essence of the artistic experience. the nurturing of federal encouragement of the arts and the nurturing of such encouragement in all the states signals a federalstatelocal partnership in developing our cultural resources which must continue to be encouraged so that it might achieve its full and true growth. this bill seeks to provide that rishment and encouragement. exhibrt 1
 nixons dramatic visit to the peoples republic of china last year. brought about a new chapter in our relationships with china. and we at ton. simon. inc.. are proud to be part of this move toward friendship through understanding. "and so. we are particularly pleased to present the rened shenyang acrobatic troupethe first performing arts group from the peoples republic of china to visit the united states. i first heard of the shenyang troupe when i was in china last ember.  long after. they conducted their first tour of this country. to standing room only audiences. wherever they playedchicago. indianapolis. new york and washingtons kennedy center. where tonights show was taped -the people loved it. and like everyone whos seen the show. i found them fascinating. "chinese acrobatics is one of the worlds oldest art forms. going back to the second century before christ. today. acrobatics are taught in every chinese primary school and virtually every province has its own troupe. the shenyang troupe. which is named for the city in theast china. is the most celebrated acrobatic troupe throughout the world. "it is our sincere hope that the shenyang acrobatic troupe presentation will be just the first in a long series of cultural and educational exchanges between the people of the united states and the peoples republic of china."
the council to which these two members would be named  seeks to be a composite of the highest authorities of government in respect of the arts and humanities. i ask unanimous consent that section 9(b) of the statute with which we are dealing today may be made a part of my remarks.
. i said a minute ago that one of the great virtues of this program is the fact that it stimulates rather than dominates the field. it is interesting that in the years this program has been in effect. since 1965. i have heard of substantiated complaintand i think that i am as exposed to the constituency which would be affected as anyone elseof the political domination of any arts and humanity program. i think that is a remarkable record. i doubt if there is any record comparable with it in any federal aided program. especially when we consider that when they first started. the argument was made that senators and congressmen would be choosing their favorite opera singers. that has proven to be a lot of sense.
 when we originally started in this. the whole idea was to extend the program to those who were  theretofore reached and who could be reached by government help. that. in my mind. included  only geographic restrictions but also ecoic. it is my belief that that has been the purpose and thrust and aim of both endowments. the endowment for the arts and the endowment for the humanities. i thoroughly agree with the desire of the senator from maine to have a new extension of the language so as to make that crystal clear by actually writing it in so many words in the law. i therefore join with the senator from rhode island in recommending that we accept the amendment.
i have aher question. perhaps the senator from pennsylania can be more helpul in this. if the amendment is agreed to and the president signs the bill. that is law. it is  an agreement which we have agreed to quietly with the president. it is  a private understanding or simply something that the white house has communicated to us. is it  our construction of the law as it is on the books of the united states.
. similarly reserving the right to object. i should like to ask the senator a couple of questions. i believe the committee has been very wise in its provision of $6.209.600 for the gateway national recreation area as reflected in the house committee report. i am deeply appreciative of that and i also express my appreciation as one of the major authors in connection with the national foundation on arts and humanities and what they have done in providing $114.750.000 to the national foundation.
i do  feel denigrated egh. i might say to the senator from washington. to relinquish my position as one of its best friends. what i would like to lay before the membership is if in fact they had hard facts to justify the fact that the conclusions that have been made in the committee report are  justified. the people from hew claim this is  so. that the reasons for cutting this appropriation from that which the house has already provided. 50 percentand we will all admit that is a pretty steep cut. i do  k whether there is aher one like itare unjustified and will inhibit a proper educational function which should be played by the u.s. government. what i am going to ask both senators is. will you entertain a review of the hard evidence that they can present. because it will be in conference. i k that the senate conferees might have congenial feelings. or they might be- as hard as rocks. i have been in conferences. including conferences of this very subcommittee. i k the difference. so in deference to what i understand is the understandable feelings of my colleagues. that they do  want any amendmentsand i understand the reason why. and i am sympathetic to themcan we at least feel that there will be a review of the hard evidence the nie presents to bear out their view that they are trying to determine whether they can do this job effectively.
i thank the senator. just to finish the thought. i hope very much we will. in the way in which american law has a way of developingi myself sponsored laws which took many years. like 16 years for the national arts endowment. to become lawpursue our own constitutional authority to produce a fair result to provide for an oppressed major miity in our country. which in any other country would be fantasticand they are among the most patriotic of americansif we let the system work for them. and  let the system. as they feel deeply. work against them.
. in a significant address to the business committee for the arts on april 4. david rockefeller. chairman of the board of the chase manhattan corp.. discussed how business can help the arts. mr. rockefeller pointed out that the arts are in financial trouble despite an increase in funds contributed by the private factor. he urged that corporations should go "beyond philanthropy" in helping the arts become more self supporting through such means as budget and accounting assistance to profit arts groups and through utilizing advertising and public relations skills to help organizations reach larger audiences. mr. rockefeller stressed that the american business community must help hardpressed arts institutions to "create a sounder. lessinflationprone ecoic footing" and also. increase its efforts to "make a case for the arts to government officials at all levels and to the general public." : ask unanimous consent that the text of mr. rockefellers speech be printed in the record as part of my remarks:
it certainly could be. and i would like to call to the attention of my colleague that he. referred to one member of the commission. which is the secretary of state. the other members are the secretary of health. education. and welfare. the chairman of the national endowment for the arts. and the chairman of the national endowment for the humanities. who serve ex officio. then. there are the six members appointed by the president who would be conversant with united statesjapan relations. expert in the field of education. the arts or the humanities. or representative of the general public. the important thing i wish to emphasize is that it opens. up the very situation the senator mentioned. it is aher body with an independent status and independent resources which could challenge the state department as to the quality of its decision. that having been said. i would say to the senator that i am  on the commission so i do  control it in any way.
certainly. i would  expect that this commission would pay the travel fare of a deputy or a minister who could well travel on the diets account or the cabinets account. it should  be programmatic. but a projectoriented commission. because this is a signal opportunity. similar to giving the el prize or other distinguished recognition that give the mark or cachet of a high level commission to a particular activity at a particular time under particular auspices. for example. the japanese complain very seriously that they k a lot about our culture. but we k very little about theirs. in terms of their country. it has a fascinating culture. and it is a very old culture. this is the kind of thing which i hope this commission will devote itself to. for example. i myself bought a book  too long ago. a fantastically beautiful book. it cost several hundred dollars. as a matter of fact. it was printed in japan. it is a book of marvelous color plates. together with historical references to the ideas. dates. the artistic movements which developed these particular arts in japan. the book is a very valuable and beautiful one. i doubt that more than a small handful of americans are acquainted with this kind of artistic and scholarly output. because it is a combination of the two which comes out of japan. we think of them as the makers of things and as fantastic commercial competitors. but i think they would like to be thought of quite differently.
. the appropriation for the arts and humanities endowments was cut $10 million in the house to $145 million. the senate committee has sustained this cut. although the agency sought restoration. i would greatly appreciate it if i could get from the manager of the bill his feeling on the matter. this is a program which has been led in the most gifted way by nancy hanks and dr. berman. respectively. it has aroused a tremendous response in the country. the cost/benefit ratio is emous. considering what is spent and what it engenders in the way of expenditure in the arts.
the lead which we have taken. for example. in prefinancing clean water. with the assistance and powerful support of big bond issues voted by the people. is the kind of enterprise and the kind of leadership which we want in the executive department of the united states. in which gover rockefeller would function. finally. his unusual devotion to education and the arts have made new york a true exemplar of leadership in terms of education. california was miles ahead of us when gover rockefeller took over in 1958. in that intervening period. the state university of new york has been built up into one of the most splendid state educational institutions among all the 50. this is his monument. he made of the new york state arts council a pilot plant operation which has  carried with it our much larger operation in the federal governmentbut when it began. a much smaller operationemously profiting. as we brought nancy hanks to head it. out of new york. from the gifted and enterprising leadership of gover rockefeller in this field. so.  of the united states.
the situation differs as radically as the situation in cambodia differed from those months back. the enemy. as it were. is at the gates. i am  using those terms invidiously. but that is the situation. therefore. a certain amount of discretion and flexibility is necessarythat is all i am sayingat this particular moment. with a situation of the gravest peril kking at the door of saigon. i believe we have restricted it in a very intelligent way. and it is unwise in this situation to restrict it more. that is essentially my argument. i do  think any risk is being run. even with respect to those who entertain the conspiracy theory. because of the final tether we have on this whole proposition. without necessarily the presidents concurrence.
. today i am cosponsoring with senator pell a bill. s. 1800. which extends the funding authority for the national endowment for the arts. and the national endowment for the humanities. as senator pell has indicated in his introductory remarks. there are certain provisions which require further study. the american film institute provision would automatically set aside a percentage of the arts endowment appropriation for their exclusive use. legislation has been discussed to create by statute an independent film institute. hearings were held on this matter last fall. and several alternatives have emerged. the percentage set aside is one alternative. and does represent a middle ground between the current situation and an independent. free standing film institute. but i am concerned about this latter approach. because i believe it will tend to begin a process of fragmentation of the endowment and could lead to lessening of the endowments overall impact of advocacy for the arts. the federal government needs a strong and unified voice speaking for and supporting the arts. this is the hallmark of every great civilization. and should be strengthened in america. i encourage my colleagues to examine this situation carefully. so that the contemporary and vital media of films is assured its appropriate level of federal support and encouragement and the endowment is  weakened in performing its mission. tomorrow. senator pell and i will cosponsor an administration proposal which also extends funding authority for the national endowments. by mr. taft:
. i introduce today. on behalf of myself and senator pell. a bill to amend the national foundation on the arts and the humanities act of 1965. this bill. which is proposed by the administration would authorize appropriations for the arts endowment and the humanities endowment for fiscal years 1977. 1978 and 1979 at the level currently authorized for 1976. yesterday. i joined with senator pell. the chailman of the special subcommittee on arts and humanities of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am ranking miity member. in sponsoring a bill. s. 1800 entitled "the arts. humanities and cultural affairs act of 1975."
 of the mcgrawhill book co.. bears on this subject. although presented. of course. from a publishers viewpoint. it nevertheless encompasses the wide area of interest the nation shares in this subject. and i ask unanimous consent to have it printed in the record.
i thought those figures were critically important. as well as the central point represented to us by the distinguished senator from nebraska that this should have been corrected 2 years ago. and we are just catching up with something that should be on the books . and should have been for the last couple of years.
. today the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. filed its report on s. 1800. the arts and artifacts indemnity act. i commend this legislation to my colleagues. recognition should -first be given to the distinguished senator frbin rhode island. senator pell. the chairman of the arts and humanitiessubcommittee. for his leadership. senator pell and i had the pleasure of cosponsoring s. 1800. as reported to the senate. s. 1800 includes only those sections dealing with indemnity of exhibits in the united states of foreign art and artifacts. other provisions of s. -1800 as originally introduced will remain before the arts and humanities subcommittee for conmideration later this year.
. i today introduce. along with senator buckley. a bill to authorize the construction of the necessary winter sports and supporting facilities at lake placid. n.y.. the designated site for the 1980 winter olympics games. last year. the congress passed. in senate resolution 72. a resolution of support and assistance for lake placids application to the international olympic committee to host the 1980 winter olympics. i am hoed that the international committee saw fit to choose the united states as the host country for the games. and i am especially pleased that the games are returning to lake placid. where they were successfully conducted in 1932. lake placid is an ideal setting for the winter olympic games. its combination of pristine beauty. existing facilities and accessibility make it perfectly suited for the olympic competitions. which attract visitors from around the world and are viewed by many millions more. the organizers of the lake placid games have a keen insight in the need to conduct the olympics for the athletesto provide the finest in competition at the highest international level. moreover. their commitment to the ecological protection of the lake placid area is total and without question. the games are truly being run by the people of the area. who have voted by referendum to welcome and support the towns bid to host the 1980 games. an example of this commitment can be seen in the following document. which is the organizing committees view of the need to return the winter olympics to a small town. with only moderate expenditures and environmental degradation. i ask unanimous consent that the memorandum "keeping the winter olympics in perspective" be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
 because. as i say. in principle i do  approve of a discriminatory amendment in a general bankruptcy law. we say we have to amend chapter 9. that it is impractical. if we have to amend it in the national interest. then it is in the national interest.  in the specialized interest of new york. so i oppose it for that reason. second. in determining whether new york could get outfor example. suppose it could refinance. et ceteraan essential element in that determination could be the rate at which it must buy money. this specialized statute being on the books is  going to help it in that regard. that was my reason. i might say to the senator. and i really feel this deeply. the bankruptcy statutes of the united states are general. they are  cut out around particular cases. that goes for individuals. it goes for corporations. it goes for municipalities in the present chapter. i think we are setting a very bad design to provide a bankruptcy statute for one specific debtor. which is what the senator is proposing. i think that is very unwise in the exercise of the general bankruptcy statutes. i think it is a pattern which could be very dangerous for us and very harmful in many other directions. i do  believe we should adopt it is a matter of principle. if we are going to revise the bankruptcy laws of the united states and use the general bankruptcy power to reach one particular debtor. i believe we are pursuing a very bad role.
i am the author of the national endowment for the arts legislation. with others. and senator pell is responsible for the national endowment for the humanities. what troubles me about this is the issues of fact. it seems to me that this was always pointed out as one of the great dangers of the arts and humanities legislation. that congress would begin to tell them whom to give grants to for artistic and cultural purposes. that is why we set up these panels. there is reason in the world why i should take issue with the senator as to his condemnation. but i am worried about the facts. because of thatand i am a lawyer as is the senatorwe k that often on the facts. there may be a defense or something else. before we move in this direction. would  the senator feel that we ought to inquire into this in the committee which has oversightto wit. a committee of which he is. himself. a member and i am the ranking member on the miity siderather than to just do it on this bill without really giving anybody a day in court. nancy hanks. for example. has done a fantastic job as the director. that is why she is getting much more money for these programs. i really do  k. i do  k what to say to the senator beyond asking him to give our committee an opportunity to have a hearing and look into it. it seems to me that if the senator wishes to stop the practice. or catch some vacant place through which this has slipped in the endowments for the arts and the humanities. we would be proceeding in a much more substantial way. i take what the senator says very. very seriously. just as other members. i am sure. will. but i am very hesitant about passing a kind of bill of attainder without taking some testimony.
in bringing about these statutes which have been so terribly beneficial. especially on the local level. which is the acid test. and also to testify to the excellence of the leadership period of nancy hanks. who has made such an enviable reputation on capitol hill. and ronald berman in terms of the humanities. . in closing. i wish to reemphasize my support of this legislation because it increases funds available to the arts and humanities endowments. i hope that all my colleagues will support this legislation. when and if new provisions affecting cultural activities become law. i hope that the appropriations committee will again turn its attention to the needs of the cultural institutions of our nation. again i thank senator byrd and his colleagues for the fine attitude. cooperation. and willingness to reward excellence which they have shown on this appropriation.
that letter protested very seriously both the diminution of the work moving to artists and the discrimination against artists as compared to collectors or other people who buy art. that letter was signed  only by nancy hanks. the chairman. but by a prominent member of the national council of the arts. jamie wyeth. one of our leading artists. artists have been here to talk to members of the senate respecting the deep feeling which exists concerning this matter. i do  feel this is the kind of thing that is a matter of deep oppositionand i hope it is or anybody getting passionate about it. i hope it will be evaluated in terms of its meaning to the culture of the country. one of the points which has been made to me relates to the valuation which may be put on a work of art which is. under this amendment if it becomes law. gifted to a museum. of course. before 1969 we had very serious trouble with the question of valuation. that was one of the reasons for the 1969 law which tightened up on philanthropic and charitable matters all along the line except. i think. in this case. it really was retrogressive. it backtracked on itself. but valuation was a problem.  the department of the treasury advises me that very material progress has been made in the matter of valuation. and an art advisory panel of a very high order has been developed to advise the irs commissioner. i have a list of the members. and it is certainly one of the premier lists in this country. the panel meets 3 times a year. and does the evaluation under the general supervision and jurisdiction of a representative of the treasury department. i have before me a charter for the art advisory panel of the commissioner of internal revenue. which lists the work which they do. and which is dated march 3. 1975. included in the list of those on the art advisory panel. for example. is adelyn breeskin. the curator of the national collection of fine arts. and a whole list. from kansas city. new york. cleveland. washington. boston. los angeles. toledo. ohio. of curators and directors of the leading museums of art in the united states. 23360 coil i am assured by the treasury department itself that they are perfectly satisfied that the question of valuation is  very tightly handled. and that we need have worry on that score. to me. this is a very major point advocating my amendment. one other very interesting point which should especially interest us as members of congress is that  only the museums around the country have suffered from this dearthand as i say. i think probably most members have heard from museums on this subjectbut the library of congress has suffered from it. because the library itself collects literary. artistic.. and musical donations in the way of original manuscripts and scores. i ask unanimous consent that the charter and the membership list for the art advisory panel of the commissioner of internal revenue to which i referred be printed in the record at this point.
. if this same artist died and the work of art which we are talking about his giving were a part of his estate. his estate would be taxed to the full value. exactly what we are talking about in terms of a deduction. as to the loopholes which were closed in 1969. i voted for them and i advocated them with the greatest of devotion. sometimes. we go too far. in this particular case. we did. experience indicated that we went far beyond where we should have gone. all i am asking the senate is. let us pull back a little bit in order to help our museums. our libraries. and our universities. period. that is what it is all about. it is big precedent. big deal. it does  involve any great amount of money. we give this to any member on the floor. in any appropriation bill. without blinking an eye. if he really asks for it. it is a very. very. helpful thing to highly desirable cultural institutions in the united states. that is the way i hope. very much. that the senate will look at it.
. i shall just take 2 minutes because really i am deeply disheartened by this debate. we are talking at the outside. by the treasurys own estimate. of $5 million a year. their very outside estimate. senator ribicoff just gave some very interesting figures showing that the total gifts to the museums. which are the principal beneficiaries. are estimated to be approximately $500.000. so we are  dealing with any very material proposition. it is easy egh to try to damn something with the word "loophole." but. my friends. does the word "loophole" fit in our mouths when we look at oil and gas and 1 million other things in these tax laws. including charitable deductions as a whole. why are they  loopholes. everything described here applies to all sorts of charitable deductions. they are a loophole. too. if a man buys a share of stock and it costs him $10. and 10 years later it it worth $20.000. and he makes a gift to a hospital. he gets a $20.000 deduction. let us look at what the present parliamentary situation is. senator allen wishes to table this amendment. whether he tables it or . he is going to give us an amendment which will really sink every art institution in the country. to wit.  only will the artist  be able to contribute his original work but the people who mally contribute the great works to museumsand  you are talking about tens of millions of dollars. you are  talking about the $550.000they too are going to be wiped out by this amendment. so. as i say. that is pretty disheartening when you balloon something into that size. the factual situation is uncontroverted. museums did get important gifts from artists themselves. those gifts have dried up. and an effort is being made to revive the practice because it is considered to be highly useful in the public interest. the artists themselves want it this way. they think this will be a real inducement for what they wish to do. you have the best evidence of that. which is the letter of the national endowment of the arts signed by most of the members of its council. the leading name being jamie wyeth. who is himself one of the leading artists in the country. artists have been lobbying down here. as members k. this is because they feel this will produce a flow of art to the museums. finally. we are asked to pass this amendment here. the principal conferee in respect of the senate is going to be senator long himself. my colleagues. i k senator long very well. i have served with him a long time. i can guarantee you that whether his figures: right or wrong. when. as and if t amendment comes back to the sena artist will be able to collect more making the gift than for selling this a the last point. and then i am rea through. is that when artists give. tl give young. when art is new and. the fore. when prices are low. the apprai will be low. there is challenge h to the fact that the irs  has b( thoroughly and effectively equipped honest appraisals. they have an a panel of leading museum directors the countryand they themselves that. it is  anything that i have ventedwhich is an established unit business. which meets three times a yi for 2 days. and appraises everythi so there is getting away w valuations. the encouragement is to an artist give early rather than to sell or h until such time as his art does e preciate into astroical figures. tt is the kind of thing we want encourage. other than those factors. i think colleagues from connecticut. minneso and washington. and certainly sena goldwater. have made the wh argument.
. i shall just take 2 minutes because really i am deeply disheartened by this debate. we are talking at the outside. by the treasurys own estimate. of $5 million a year. their very outside estimate. senator ribicoff just gave some very interesting figures showing that the total gifts to the museums. which are the principal beneficiaries. are estimated to be approximately $500.000. so we are  dealing with any very material proposition. it is easy egh to try to damn something with the word "loophole." but. my friends. does the word "loophole" fit in our mouths when we look at oil and gas and 1 million other things in these tax laws. including charitable deductions as a whole. why are they  loopholes. everything described here applies to all sorts of charitable deductions. they are a loophole. too. if a man buys a share of stock and it costs him $10. and 10 years later it is worth $20.000. and he makes a gift to a hospital. he gets a $20.000 deduction. let us look at what the present parliamentary situation is. senator allen wishes to table this amendment. whether he tables it or . he is going to give us an amendment which will really sink every art institution in the country. to wit.  only will the artist  be able to contribute his original work bu the people who mally contribute the great works to museumsand  you are talking about tens of millions of dollars. you are  talking about the $550.000they too are going to be wiped out by this amendment. so. as i say. that is pretty disheartening when you balloon something into that size. the factual situation is uncontroverted museums did get important gifts from artists themselves. those gifts have dried up. and an effort is being made to revive the practice because it is considered to be highly useful in the public interest. the artists themselves want it this way. they think this will be a real inducement for what they wish to do. you have the best evidence of that. which is the letter of the national endowment of the arts signed by most of the members of its council. the leading name being jamie wyeth. who is himself one of the leading artists in the country. artists have been lobbying down here. as members k. this is because they feel this will produce a flow of art to the museums. finally. we are asked to pass the amendment here. the principal conferee in respect of the senate is going to be senator long himself. my colleagues. i k senator long very well. i have served with him a long time. i can guarantee you that whether his figures are right or wrong. when. as and if this amendment comes back to the senate. artist will be able to collect more for making the gift than for selling this art. the last point. and then i am really through. is that when artists give. they give young. when art is new and. therefore. when prices are low. the appraisal will be low. there is challenge here to the fact that the irs  has been thoroughly and effectively equipped for honest appraisals. they have an arts panel of leading museum directors of the countryand they themselves say that. it is  anything that i have inventedwhich is an established unit of business. which meets three times a year for 2 days. and appraises everything. so there is getting away with valuations. the encouragement is to an artist to give early rather than to sell or hold until such time as his art does appreciate into astroical figures. that is the kind of thing we want to encourage. other than those factors. i think my colleagues from connecticut. minnesota. and washington. and certainly senator goldwater. have made the whole argument.
. when the senate considers s. 3735. i ask unanimous consent that the following staff members have the privilege of the floor: jay cutler. nik edes. jon steinberg. allan fox. art silverstein. margaret heagarty. patricia bauman. peter harris. and don eilisburg.
. i am very pleased to support the work of the conferees on this bill. s. 2184. which will make it possible for the united states to host the 1980 winter olympic games at lake placid. n.y.. with dignity. i introduced the original s it has been a completely bipartisan effort with cooperation from interested senators and congressmen as well as the invaluable assistance of the administration. the funding authorized by this legislation will make possible the construction of winter athletic facilities. such as ski jumps. ice skating sheets. a luge run. and a winter sports arena. these facilities will  only make the 1980 winter olympic games an event that we americans can be proud of when they are held. but also they will provide a permanent amateur winter recreation area where our young athletes can train and longer be placed at a great disadvantage in international competitions because of a lack of adequate training facilities. there is absolutely reason why this great nation should  have the winter athletic facilities capable of producing world class athletes in every olympic event. the recent staging of the summer games in montreal showed us what a great source of national pride our young athletes can be. but up until  they have been denied adequate training facilities in many of the winter events. this legislating. once and for all. remedies that deficiency. i have witnessed the beginnings of the work being undertaken by the deeply committed people on the lake placid olympic organizing committee. . finally after more than 2 years of work here in the congress. and similar efforts with the administration. the federal government is joining hands with the organizing committee. the locality. and the state of new york to insure that these 1980 winter olympics befit the united states.  that this partnership has been completed. the games should be a great success. primarily for the athletes of the world but also for every american who will take pride in hosting these games at what will be one of the finest winter sporting facilities in the world. i believe also that the environmental character of the adirondack region will be preserved in accordance with our intent. i urge my colleagues to support this excellent conference report which should pay dividends on the investment for generations to come.
. if i can have the attention of the senator from louisiana. i will be very brief. i wish to direct his attention to page 55 of the conference report. section 280 (a). the issue there. because of the language which is expressed. does  take into consideration the problems of artists. sculptors. actors. dancers. musicians. or writers. for this reason. those people mally. many of them. have two jobs. they work for a living and they work in their art. in the case of actors. they have had a little problemand musicians. et ceterathey are constantly practicing at home. the points which are left in the air by these provisions respecting the use of a home as an office. which they practically all do. are two. one. suppose the person is employed. let us say he is a salesman in a store and does  use the home for that. but he uses the home for his art. for practice and activity. et cetera. the question then is whether the word "employee" does  apply to that person. but that person will be charged for his art activity as a unit business. in other words. if he uses his home for that particular type business. then he would qualify. provided he met all the other considerations. to get a deduction for using his homeif he met every other consideration. so that would be one type of activity. the other type would be the person who gets a job as an actor. let us say. or a singer or something. for 3 weeks or a month. loses it. but must continue his practice. et cetera. using his home for that purpose. what is his situation. i asked those questions of the distinguished senator from louisiana and he told me he might or might  be able to answer them. he might wish to answer them in writing. the reason i raise them  is. should the senator choose to answer them in writing. i would ask unanimous consent for two things: one. that this colloquy m~y be part of the record before the vote on approving the report. and i ask the colloquy be made part of the record before approving the report.
. i have the ho to sponsor senate joint resolution 7 to the same effect. i think the language is identical between the two. marian anderson is so well kn that it is almost a matter of supererogation again to account her services to the singing arts with which she is identified or her services as a patriotic american to her country in all of its finest character and quality and. indeed. in terms of the cultural attainments of the world. marian anderson is practically a household word in this country. she has been associated in this way because of an extremely distinguished career. about half a century. it is a great ho and a pleasure to see her hoed. i think it reflects great credit upon the house and the senate that it has taken action with such celerity. i thank. very much. the leadership here. i also express my gratification to the speaker of the house that he has similarly recommended that action be taken today. when miss anderson can get the most joy out of it. as she will be hoed on sunday night at a great carnegie hall concert.
that letter protested very seriously both the diminution of the work moving to artists and the discrimination against artists as compared to collectors or other people who buy art. that letter was signed  only by nancy hanks. the cdxiii766--part 10 chairman. but by a prominent member of the national council of the arts. jamie wyeth. one of our leading artists have been here to talk to members of the senate respecting the deep feeling which exists concerning this matter. one of the points which has been made to me relates to the valuation which may be put on a work of art which is. under this amendment if it becomes law. gifted to a museum. of course. before 1969 we had very serious trouble with the question of valuation. that was one of the reasons for the 1969 law which tightened up on philanthropic and charitable matters all along the line except. in this case. it really was retrogressive. but valuation was a problem. moreover. very material progress has been made in the matter of valuation. and an art advisory panel of a very high order has been developed to advise the irs commissioner. i have a list of the members. and it is certainly one of the premier lists in this country. the panel meets 3 times a year. and does the evaluation under the general supervision and jurisdiction. of a representative of the treasury department. i have before me a charter for the art advisory panel of the commissioner of internal revenue. which lists the work which they do. and which is dated march 3. 1975. included in the list of those on the art advisory panel. for example. is adelyn breeskin. the curator of the national collection of fine arts. and a whole list. from kansas city. new york. cleveland. washington. boston. los angeles. toledo. ohio. of curators and directors of the leading museums of art in the united states. i have been assured by the treasury department itself that they are perfectly satisfied that the question of valuation is  very tightly handled. and that we need have worry on that score. to me. this is a very major point. one other very interesting point which should especially interest us as members of congress is that  only the museums around the country have suffered from the dearthand as i say. i think probably moat members have heard from museums on this subjectbut the library of congress has suffered from it. because the library itself collects literary. artistic. and musical donations in the way of original manuscripts and scores. i ask unanimous consent that the charter and the membership list for the art advisory panel of the commissioner of internal revenue to which i referred be printed in the record at this point.
this clearlv illustrates that the very. very drastic fall off in donations is attributed to this particular change in law made in 1969. also. the music division of the library of congress reports as follows: it is estimated that some 35 wellkn composers have ceased making gifts to the library of congress. including samuel barbour. aaron copland. and walter piston. likewise. the prints and photographs division of the library of congress reports that a number of leading artists have ceased donating their original works to the library of congress since 1969. . this is simply a way of demonstrating the results since 1969. the facts speak for themselves. who will be benefited and who will be hurt if we pass this particular measure. as i said. the order of magnitude is very small: $5 million a year. the national endowment for the arts. for example. will give grants to museums for acquisition. that is federal taxpayers money. and yet. when it comes to facilitating the giving by the artist of his own work. we seem to be holding back. would we rather pay for it with taxpayers money. that is what it comes down to. especially with the very tightened up procedure regarding valuation which i have described. the other people who pay for it are students. students are very much interested. and the letter from the national endowment on the arts makes that very clear. students are interested in the sketches and other preliminary works which go into the development of a major work of art. this is the very thing that the artists will  give on the present basis. but would be very much interested in giving on the basis of some ability to at least get the value of the gifts applied on their artrelated income. i believe that this bill would be of great value to the cultural institutions of our country and to the general public. i am hopeful that it will be enacted into law this year. this is an effort which has gone on for some time and i believe  is the time to address this problem in an equitable manner. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record at this point.
i beg the senator to read the section carefully. and he will find that i have done everything i can in the legislative art to weave together a check and balance system of the secretary. the president. and congress. and if the senator can find a deficiency in that check and balance. or a better way. i hope and pray he will recommend it.
. nancy hanks has annced her intention to resign at the completion of two terms as the chairman of the national endowment for the arts. all americans who love the arts owe nancy hanks a profound debt of gratitude for her devotion and her accomplishments. the national endowment for the arts will greatly miss this leader of colossal talents. and the federal government will shortly lose a successful and gifted administrator. cxxiii- 1870--part 23 miss hanks came to these responsibilities at nea following a distinguished career in new york. her effectiveness as a spokesperson to the congress. to private dos and to the nation at large has been almost legendary during her 8 years of federal service. i am sure that the arts endowment will continue to build on this great foundation. the legacy of success which it achieved under nancy hanks leadership. continued success will be built in large measure on her achievements over these past 8 years. this leadership has brought the benefits of artistic endeavors to millions of americans previously untouched by the arts. on behalf of the people of my state of new york and the nation. i express to nancy hanks our deep gratitude and congratulations on her accomplishments. the arts have always relentlessly pursued excellence. as our national leader for the arts. nancy hanks has fully met this standard. the washington post has recently published an editorial which comments on her service at the endowment. i ask unanimous consent that this editorial be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point an editorial that appeared in the new york daily news. december 18 of last year. and two pages of introduction from a book entitled "new york selfhelp handbook."
. the editorial heralds the publication of the handbook. calling it "the years most important book for new yorkers." i heartily concur with this assessment. though i would  be so restrictive in my endorsement. i believe this book. the concept that lies behind the book. is important to every american interested in preserving and enriching our older cities. washington can alone revitalize cities in distress merely by legislation. state governments alone can be expected to shoulder the emous burden. and we have seen that local governments do  have the resources to provide all the services all the people want all the time. the key to rejuvenating city neighborhoods lies also with community volunteers. one ks better the needs of a neighborhood than do those who live there. one can provide the energy and enthusiasm required to see the job done right than can those who directly benefit from the work. reating a city block by block is the key to continued revitalization of the city as a whole. new york is stranger to this concept. throughout the city. especially after our financial crisis of 1975. new yorkers have joined hands to fight back against blight and decay. they have formed approximately 10.000 block associations and civic associations to help improve the quality of life on their streets and in their communities. they are working together in a spirit of cooperation to find solutions to problems because they really love their neighborhoods and because they k the grass is  greener somewhere else. this book is an outgrowth of that spirit. it is published by the citizens committee for new york city. inc.. a profit organization which i worked to bring into being and of which. together with senator moynihan. the gover of new york. the mayor of new york city and the chairman of the new york congressional delegation. i am an hoary cochairman. the committee coordinates and provides information to projects involving thousands of new yorkers interested in helping themselves and each other. it recruits volunteers for city and private agencies. helps to line up funding for selfhelp projects. runs dozens of workshops. and much more. its chairman is osborne elliott formerly deputy mayor of new york city and its executive secretary is sandra silverman. the new book is a cornucopia of ideas for transforming depressed neighborhoods from "war zones" to communities only to provide requisite security. but to add amenities like parks. day care centers. and recreation arts and sporting events that add the human touches to make city living a pleasure. the books most extensive chapter is devoted to safety and crime prevention. for. admittedly. you can  have growth without security. through years of experience. new yorkers have tried and proved such programs as parent safety patrols. whistle programs. and patrols to prevent false fire alarms. and this book covers them all. from there. the handbook offers an abundance of plans for sanitation improvement. open spaces. projects in city parks. programs for children and seniol citizens. preserving houses. consumer organizations. and projects for improved health and education. to name a few. new yorkers have proven there is a future for selfhelp in the city and that the spirit of cooperation is infectious. with doomsday reports from the financial experts and finger wagging from around the country. new yorkers could have thrown up their hands in despair. instead. we rolled up our sleeves. swept our streets. planted our vegetables. painted park benches. and went to work on some of our toughest problems. this book tells how. copies are available to any interested member.
. i am pleased to introduce today. with my colleague senator pell. the chairman of the subcommittee on education. arts and humanities. new legislation which will enable americas gifted and talented children to receive educational services commensurate with their needs. this legislation does  add yet aher separately administered program to the long list of education programs. instead. it proposes to incorporate an expanded effort for gifted and talented children into an already existing and more efficient delivery system: the consolidation framework constructed in title iv of the 1974 elementary and secondary education amendments.
. i have only had a brief opportunity to meet with our british colleagues. but i welcome them on behalf of the miity. as i k that the leader and other senators on the republican side would wish me to do. i have attended one of these meetings in bermuda. i consider them very enlightening and very important. while it would be improper to speak about our relations with britain. as compared with other nations in the world. in terms of any special relationship or any such patronizing idea. it is fair to say that we share a heritage. in culture and literature and history in the institutions of freedom. which is so illustrious and so le that it is a special pleasure to welcome our colleagues from the british isles.
