. many of our universities rely on foreign graduate students to fill teaching positions in areas such as engineering and computer sciences when american graduate students are  available to fill those positions. for example. brown university in my home state of rhode island has been hiring foreign graduate students over the last few years to fill teaching positions in the field of computer science. thus. brown and other academic institutions across the country are concerned about the provision in s. 2222 which requires all foreign students to return to their countries for 2 years upon completion of their education unless they marry an american citizen. i share the universities concern and i believe that the provisions of s. 2222 affecting foreign students of exceptional merit are too restrictive. therefore. i support the amendment proposed by the distinguished senator from massachusetts. mr. kennedy. which would permit students of exceptional merit and abilitywho are participating in essential academic. professional and industrial programsto remain in the country upon completion of their education. the adoption of this amendment is essential to help our universities deal with the problem of critical shortages of teachers in high techogy areas and i urge the adoption of the amendment..
. improving the ability of american industry to compete in the rapidly changing field of high techogy is one of the most critical challenges confronting our nation today. i was recently pleased to have the opportunity to chair hearings on this subject in the senate finance committee. several steps can and must be taken in an effort to bolster our ability to respond to the needs of high techogy industries for skilled manpower. e of these steps could be more crucial than to insure that our future supply of skilled laborscientists. engineers. and computer specialistsis met adequately. in order to accomplish this. it is absolutely vital that our young people receive a strong foundation in mathematics. science. and techogy. while the demand for a scientific and engineering work force has risen dramatically. there is considerable evidence that the capacity of our education system to meet this demand is falling. i have been deeply disturbed by recent reports which reveal an alarming decline in the number of mathematics and science instructors in our secondary schools.  only are teachers in short supply. but many required retraining to improve their skills in this critical field. we must make a serious effort to reverse the trend of declining student test scores by bolstering the ability of our education. system to improve the scientific and technical skills of our young people. the legislation which has been introduced by my distinguished colleague from new mexico. senator domenici. represents a timely and significant step forward in demonstrating the federal commitment in this important area. and i am pleased to join him as a cosponsor. in establishing a system to award scholarships to those committed to becoining instructors in mathematics and science. the bill will provide a crucial incentive to attract talented people and help meet the acute shortage which exists. the bills provision for the establishment of an award program for outstanding teachers will help to provide public recognition of the importance of their role and to motivate others to enter the field. the bills provision for scholarship selectionsenabling state commissions to approve those selected by the national science foundationaddresses the need for the joint participation of state government and the education community along with the federal government in this process.* by mr. packwood (for himself. mr. bentsen. mr. symms.
. improving the ability of american industry to compete in the rapidly changing field of high techogy is one of the most critical challenges confronting our nation today. i was recently pleased to have the opportunity to chair hearings on this subject in the senate finance committee. several steps can and must be taken in an effort to bolster our ability to respond to the needs of high techogy industries for skilled manpower. e of these steps could be more crucial than to insure that our future supply of skilled laborscientists. engineers. and computer specialistsis met adequately. in order to accomplish this. it is absolutely vital that our young people receive a strong foundation in mathematics. science. and techogy. while the demand for a scientific and engineering work force has risen dramatically. there is considerable evidence that the capacity of our education system to meet this demand is falling. i have been deeply disturbed by recent reports which reveal an alarming decline in the number of mathematics and science instructors in our secondary schools.  only are teachers in short supply. but many required retraining to improve their skills in this critical field. we must make a serious effort to reverse the trend of declining student test scores by bolstering the ability of our education. system to improve the scientific and technical skills of our young people. the legislation which has been introduced by my distinguished colleague from new mexico. senator domenici. represents a timely and significant step forward in demonstrating the federal commitment in this important area. and i am pleased to join him as a cosponsor. in establishing a system to award scholarships to those committed to becoining instructors in mathematics and science. the bill will provide a crucial incentive to attract talented people and help meet the acute shortage which exists. the bills provision for the establishment of an award program for outstanding teachers will help to provide public recognition of the importance of their role and to motivate others to enter the field. the bills provision for scholarship selectionsenabling state commissions to approve those selected by the national science foundationaddresses the need for the joint participation of state government and the education community along with the federal government in this process.* by mr. packwood (for himself. mr. bentsen. mr. symms.
. jean was born on a farm in sioux falls. sd. and graduated from goshen college in indiana and later received a masters degree in education from george washington university. after serving as a school teacher in puerto rico. jean joined the envirornment committee staff in 1974. jean has been with us ever since. anyone who ks her also ks that she is the undisputed expert in the senate on federal- highway issues. jean and the committee have been through scores of pieces of legislation over the past many years. there have been some great successes: the surface transportation act of 1987. the socalled istea bill of 1991. just to name two. there have been scores of tough battles. as well. on transportation safety issues. demonstration projects. and billboards on our highways and byways. over the years. i have doubt jean has seen it all. yet. after all the hearings and all the bills. the meetings in room 468 dirksen and s211 of the capitol. what we will all remember nrrst about jean is her unflappable professionalism. her extraordinary kledge and memory. and her dedication to doing a good job for republicans and for democrats alike. without question. jean is one of the most extraordinary staffers that i have had the pleasure to work with. so it is with great admiration that we wish jean and her husband. hesston. and their son. jason. all the best in their future endeavors. i might add that jean and her family are off to a new challenge. and that is owning and operating a bed and breakfast in goshen. in. if jeans service to the senate is any indication. you can be sure that the prairie manner b&b in goshen will be top ch. i am tempted to give a telephone number of the new b&b. but that might be considered advertisement. for anybody that is interested. i have her telephone number for the b&b they are establishing called the prairie manner in goshen. in. i k all senators join with me in wishing jean good luck and thanking her for her dedicated service to the senate and this nation of ours. jean. we say thank you. i urge the adoption of the resolution. and i ask unanimous consent for its immediate consideration.
. this week the institute for certifying secretaries released a list of names which should be of interest to each of us here in the senate as well as to every businessman throughout the country. this list contained the names of the secretaries who. this year. have earned the coveted key of the certified professional secretary. but. in many cases. one will ice. as the cps is the least knand one of the most scarce--of all professionals. comparatively speaking. the percentage of secretaries who even qualify to sit for the examination is minimal and. of those who do qualify and sit. the percentage who pass all six parts is minute in relation to the number of secretaries working throughout the world. several years ago research indicated that one in every 4.000 secretaries in america earned the cps key. why is it so unkn. why is business  aware of this precious qualification. there could be many reasons.  the least of which is that the cps is usually just thata professional who feels it would be somewhat unprofessional to have to say "look. i reached the top." aher reason may be the fact that all clerical personnelincluding typists. ste. receptionists. and so forthare referred to as secretaries. and the "professional secretary" is  separated from the "progressional secretary" who is using the secretarial position as a stepping stone to "bigger and better things." to the professional secretary. the "bigger and better things" is the cps key. the cps program was instituted in 1951 when 281 executive secretaries sat for the 2day examination. sixtytwo were certified and since that time there has been a total of 6.801 recipients of the cps key. only 12 male secretaries have thus far been certified. that includes the 50 states. canada. puerto rico. the virgin islands. and hong kong. other foreign country has yet produced a cps. statistically that is about 125 certified professional secretaries per state. the washington area is quite fortunate. as there is a generous quota of cpss present and five members of the district of columbia chapter. national secretaries associationinternationalappeared on the recently released list of new certified professional secretaries. the examination is a 2day 6part test and a candidate is permitted 5 years to complete all six parts. after 5 years. the unfortunate secretary who has  passed all six parts must begin the series all over again. however. there is reflection of inefficiency when any or all parts are repeated. the time element involved in each test part can prove quite a pressure factor. thus making the test more difficult. the candidates are tested in the following areas: environmental relationships in business. business and public policy. ecoics of management. financial analysis and the mathematics of business. communications and decisionmaking. and office procedures. various colleges  grant up to 2 years college credit for the cps rating. however. to both business and government the cps is still an infant and in many instances. "the doorstep waif" who will only be discovered when someone opens the door. in bringing the cps rating to the attention of my colleagues today perhaps my remarks will help to open the door through which we here in the senate. as well as the members of management throughout the business world. will come to recognize the difference between the professional secretary and the progressional secretary. only then will the certified professional secretary attain the recognition so rightly earned.
. during the disturbances in washington last week. i heard many stories of unsung heroism. many examples of the generosity of washingtonians. as well as of volunteer aid. time will reveal many of these stories. i am sure. but one contribution toward returning the city to peace and orderwhich we are so hopeful about  attainingwas made by a public personality. in a public. way: jamie brown. wellkn soul singer. who is very popular in the negro community. voluntarily appeared on. network. television to urge a return to violence in the spirit of martin luther king. jr.. whose funeral i attended yesterday in atlanta. ga. speaking of his own rise from very humble beginnings. jamie brown emphasized that the most effective black power is brain power. he counseled youngsters to stay in school and urged families to stay off the streets. to return to their homes and live up to the ideals of martin luther king. jr. what was done by jamie brown. the way in which he did it. and the earthy quality of what he said. was so important that i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a transcript of his statement over nbc on april 6. 1968.
. mr. sidney davis. discovered that there was an appreciable number of high school educated men and women in state and federal institutions across the country. since the need for computer programers far exceeds the present supply. it occurred to him that there was a way to match two critical needsjob openings and vocational rehabilitation of prison inmates. mr. davis proposed the ecpi computer training program and it was accepted. basic entrance requirements were a high school diplomaor its equivalentand a rigid aptitude test. of 33 inmates who applied. 14 were accepted in ember of 1967. i think the value of this program is most dramatically illustrated by what happened to those who participated. of the 14. 12 were graduated on may 17. 1968. at the ceremonies at which i was hoed to make the commencement address. of these 12. two men have been released. one is presently employed full time by a leading data processing firm. the other has since left his job and was just recently awarded a full 4year scholarship to a leading academic institution in the east. this was based in part on the training he received and on his excellent employment record. among the remaining prisoners there have been reported violations on their records." four will be shortly paroled. with guaranteed job opportunity. and the six still confined are presently assigned to project work for ecpi and the state of new york in assisting in payroll computations. it is evident that this is a program whose rewards are relevant to the needs of modern society as well as to the needs of these men. a second class of 20 sing sing inmates is  entering the fourth month of training and other state correction authorities have expressed interest in the ecpi program. new courses are under consideration in minnesota. iowa. and california. in sum. the program has been a remarkable success. it represents the kind of constructive result that can ensue from imaginative cooperation between private enterprise and government agencies. i ask unanimous consent to insert in the record a speech i delivered on may 17. 1968. at sing sing prison. in ossining. n.y.. and the accompanying newspaper articles.
. we are all deeply concerned that the elderly in our society should  be cut off from community and social activities. as well as from friends. because of their lack of mobility and personal funds. i am gratified to learn that one of new yorks outstanding educational institutions. mount sinai school of medicine of the city of new york. has designed an inative response to this critical problem. the mount sinai school of medicines department of community medicine has developed a cable television project to reach out to the elderly in their own homes. over their own tv sets. to inform them of the happenings in their own communities. and to 4nvolve them in the production and programing. funding for this unique demonstration program. which reaches 330 tenants. with a median age of 76 in the gaylord white house. at second avenue and 104th street. in new york citys manhattan was provided by the lister hill national center for biomedical communications. i commend to my colleagues attention an article on the project by edward wallerstein. coordinator. and carter l. marshall. m.d.. chief of the mount sinai schools division of communications of the department of community medicine. in the periodical "perspective." published by the national council on the aging. and ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.-
