. in grappling with our daily problems. we are apt to forget that great and truly historic events sometimes take place before our eyes. one of these events. a truly unique one. is the resurrection of the jewish state after an interval of two millenia. today. may 4. marks the first anniversary of the establishment of that state according to the ancient hebraic calendar. a state is that form of community which has been shaped by mankind to give expression to the needs and desires of organized society. a state is neither .necessarily good  necessarily bad. it is an instrument.  an end in itself. if the people of the state seek the common good. if the statesmen and politicians. the active workers of the state. are faithful to their mission. then that state can become a tremendous force for freedom. for welfare. and for progress.  all peoples have been inspired by these ideals. and  all states have been a force for good. but even where peoples err. and where the governing powers commit grave mistakes. we still believe in the right of every people to govern itself. to have a state of its own. to exercise the right of selfdetermination. for. in the long run. the remedy against governmental abuse lies in tile hands of the people themselves. it is indeed a tragedy that the jewish people has been denied that right of selfdetermination for many centuries. the price for this was an endless saga of martyrdom and suffering.  that this state is a reality. we rejoice to greet and welcome it. we should assert its right to retain its independence. and we should defend it against every attempt to rob it of that independence. we have reason to believe that israel will develop into a great instrument for good and that it will seek always to bring human liberty. higher standards of living. and enlightened concepts of social welfare to all its citizens. we are entitled to believe that this will be the constant purpose of this new state and of all its nationals. the same passionate searching for truth and justice which characterized the jewish prophets of old will. i sincerely hope. be once more the paramount characteristic of the new state of israel.  only the people of israel but the peoples of the neighboring countries and the world at large stand badly in need of such an example. the cause of freedom. the cause of justice. the cause of a decent attitude toward our fellow human beings. are undergoing a difficult struggle all over the world against the forces of greed and selfishness. the middle east. that part of the world in the midst of which israel is to live. presents a particularly unattractive picture. its social. ecoic. and hygienic standards are pathetically low. its political framework is archaic. modern conceptions of liberty and selfgovernment are either unkn or perverted. more than anything else. that part of the world. in its own interest. needs to be awakened to the great opportunities which freedom. decency in social relations. and modern ecoic methods can bring in their wake. i am able to understand the resentment which many arabicspeaking peoples of the middle east hold toward israel. conflicts between nationalities based on geographic and political rivalry are a frequent phee in history. but wherever. it has been possible to overcome those conflicts and rivalries and wherever peoples have learned to live in peace with one aher on the basis of mutual respect and tolerance. the result has been of -lasting benefit to all. i hope. therefore. that the day will come when  only the world at large but also the immediate neighbors of israelthose who will be able to profit most from its examplewill be united with the new state by bonds of mutual friendship and respect. the ideal of many farseeing men and women of our age does  remain focused on the ultimate existence of a large number of mutually independent sovereign states. to many the ideal of selfdetermination and the right of every people to organize a state of its own choosing is only part of the peaceful and just organization of humanity. the ultimate aim of many is that all these states should freely surrender some of the privileges that go by the name of sovereignty and voluntarily unite in a great and peaceful federation of mankind. though this happens to be a very modern conception. it is also a very ancient one. e other than the ancient prophets of israel preached the gospel of a united humanity in which there should be more war and in which one universal order should assure life and freedom to all. in greeting the state of israel on its first anniversary i am confident that this new state. faithful to these ancient traditions. will be in the forefront among those who will fight for international peace. cooperation. and a better world order.
. i wish to. say a word tonight about the ecoic opportunity act. the amendment to which will be up for votes tomorrow. and the responsibility which we have in enacting this measure. let me emphasize first that i am a friend of the program from its very inception. i believe the war on poverty was long overdue. i can only say about the title of the program that i wish we had thought of it first. it is quite proper. we should have a war on poverty in this country. but i do  believe we should bedazzleit is a clever slogan and can be so used in political termsthe american people. or those who are poor. into forgetting the great dangers inherent in the program. the tremendous waste for which it could be a coverall. the powerful political machines it could feed. the way it could affect politics on the municipal level. it would be a shocking tragedy if we. in our responsibility to avoid all these dangers. were to let them become so serious as to blacken the name of the program in the eyes of the american people and cause it to be abandoned. with all the frustration and despair which that would engender. it is therefore my view that the senate would be very well advised to pay sympathetic attention to the amendments which the committee has written into the bill. there are a number of very good ones. i am very proud that the miity. from a constructive standpoint. was responsible for a number of those amendments. the senate should also give sympathetic attention to amendments which members of the miity will be proposing on the floor. i very much hope that the majority. which has the votes and therefore the power in* this body to ride over any amendments proposed by the miity members. will look with understanding on those amendments. recognizing that the adoption of some of them may very well be indispensable to protecting and safeguarding the program from what i have just outlined as its greatest dangers. doing so may save the program from a reaction which. if strong egh on the part of the peoplewithstanding the heavy voting strength on the majority sidemight cause the program to be eliminated. i shall have something to say tomorrow about the terribly tragic los angeles riots. they are evidence of what people like myself have instinctively felt were involved when we have had before us civil rights bills. antipoverty programs. and similar matters. that is. unbelievable strains. which are almost impossible to sustain in terms of orderly society. are imposed on people who are in such despair that they feel. "what difference does it make what happens in the community. to us the situation is so desperate as to offer hope or alternative. anyway." as i have said. i shall deal in more detail with that subject tomorrow. for the moment. i call attention to the fact that in committee we have written into the bill a strong effort to provide that individual private profit organizations. which feel that they have been overlooked or bypassed in communityaction programs by citywide "umbrella" organizations. may turn to the director as a sort of final court of appeals before whom they can make their case. i refer to section 16. amending section 209 (e) of the act. it is an amendment i had the ho to offer. i call attention also to an amendment offered by the senator from vermont . which he described in his very interesting address. making the national advisory council under the act really meaningful. i call attention also to a very important amendment. sponsored by the senator from california and the senator from vermont rmr. prouty]. with respect to the possibility of political manipulation. which extends the political activity restrictions of the hatch act.  applicable only to state and local officials operating under the act. also to private persons whose salaries are paid predominantly by the federal funds under the antipoverty act. the senator from arizona offered an amendment specifically including consumer education. which is a crucial lack among the poor. in the list of areas which community action programs are encouraged to cover. i call attention to aher amendment which i had the ho to propose. under which the public is given a greater degree of information on the local level than the house provided. it is found in section 9 of the bill amending section 202(a) (5) of the act. it permits public hearings at the request of appropriate local community groups. as well as opening books and records of a participating agency to the light of day of the press. radio. television. and other agencies of public information. which can zero in on what is being done in the programs. this is the best cathartic i k of to deal with excesses and inequities. aher amendment which i had the ho to offer calls for continuous consultation with state antipoverty agencies at every stage of the planning and conduct of community action programs. and is to be found in section 14 of the bill amending section 209(a) of the act. too often. the office in washington has annced approval of programs which the states have  seen before. this is clearly unreasonable in those states which are fully cooperating in the antipoverty effort. we have  at all done what we ought to do about the right of a gover to veto a proposed program. i feel that we made a great mistake. in wiping out altogether the provision for a govers veto. it was done by a close vote in the committee. the vote was 8 to 7. we should have left in the bill an effective procedure. under a modified version of the house provision. a gover should be given the opportunity to express his disapproval. as he has every right to do. if the director wishes to override him. there should be a public hearing. which would put the director of oeo in washington to his proof. in short. the gover should  be permitted to kill a program. but neither should his disapproval stand if the director. in the court of public opinion. can prove his case. that subject will probably be the most serious one we shall have to deal with tomorrow and the next day in considering additional amendments with respect to this legislation. my colleagues. who also proceeded on such amendments in the committee. will be offering cuts in the authorizations of funds. whether or  i favor such cuts. i believe the senate should give them serious attention. because it is true we must  be profligate if there is opportunity to retain control over the program. in addition. there are other amendments with which we shall have to deal. finally. as i annced last week during consideration of the conference report on the peace corps. it is my intention to offer an amendmentand this will be my final effort in this regardto confine the director of the antipoverty program. sargent shriver. to one job. namely. his direction of the antipoverty program. i feel that this subject should  be labored unduly. but i feel we must decide it in respect of how we want this poverty program to operate. senators should bear in mind. if we get into a discussionand there are many openings for onein which it is found that the administration of the program was at fault. that we should understand that we had an opportunity to correct the situation. and that we either did or did  do it in an advised way. i have grave concern as to the propriety and wisdom of continuing to let sargent shriveran excellent public servantcarry both jobs. i deeply feel that it will result in a serious diminution of capability in bringing about success in both jobsand most likely it will be felt most in the antipoverty program. i therefore hope very much that the senate will express itself firmly and finally on that subject. i shall be prepared to argue the question of constitutionality of such action taken by the senate. as i believe it is entirely constitutional and entirely in accordance with the powers and authority of the senateindeed. its dutyin this matter. i look forward. therefore. to disposition of the amendments and the bill in the spirit which i have described. the spirit of being very much for the war on poverty. and of understanding the pitfalls which are involved and therefore endeavoring. by every means open to us. to avoid them.
. i would point out this question and then deal with the whole report. speaking  as a lawyer. just as the senator from mississippi is a lawyer. i wish to say that the real issue is really court appearance in the cases which are cognizable under the jurisdiction of the committee on labor and public welfare. they are cases for veterans and servicemen that are cognizable under the following headings and are committed to the committee on labor and public welfare: vocational education and reeducation of veterans. medical and training for veterans. soldiers and sailors civil relief. and readjustment of servicemen to civilian life. those are the four categories which give veterans affairs jurisdiction. which is headed in the other body by the veterans committee. the real gist of the problem. however. was  in the bill. and i do  think we would have had it if it had  been raised in conference. that is the inability of military officers to appear in court in civil cases and to be acceptable to the court. because often they are admitted in different states. or for other reasons are  acceptable in the particular place where the veterans problems or those of his family occur. according to the figures of the oeo. 25 percent of their legal services cases are court cases. that means that onefourth of their caseload is in the courts. this bears very materially. therefore. on the letter which was written by the general counsel of the army which has  been printed in the record. he admits that the real place in which there is a lacuna or interspace is the limitation with respect to the military officers who are limited in many cases to providing office advice. it is fair to say that we are trying to provide an interim plan under which certain legal services would be provided and this missing element would be supplied until such time as the army services catch up with the requirements of their personnel. as to the compensation which is involved. i think the senator is absolutely right. it would have been better since we are rendering all the legal service to the poverty program. to have an autoous poverty program financing the arrangement. the difficulty arose through the fact that neither the poverty budget  their budget for legal services  the incidence in our billand there we get into the timelag which the senator from mississippi mentions of appropriations preceding. as it were. the final authorizing legislationhad caught up with each other. again. as an interim proposition. we had to place reliance on the resources which might be available to the department of defense. if both the secretary of defense and the director of the oeo are really satisfied that there is an area which does  include courts martial and does  include the status of the soldier as a soldierand i confirm that on the part of the miity. as the chairman has on the part of the majoritybut in which there is a lack of justice or equity in respect of the serviceman and his family as to which something ought to be done. then they can proceed to fill that vacant place. if they find that is  so and that the superior public policy requires that it be denied for the time being because the armed forces have  quite caught up with that particular problem. i assume then that the secretary of defense will say. "i am sorry. i am  going to act." i think that might be a little better than taking some absolutely rigid stand and saying under all circumstances. however. if they agree that there is an extraordinary need and something ought to be done about it. we can expect and hope that they will do their utmost to do it. i hope very much that that may be a reasonable reconciliation of the points made by the conference report and. also i think. the quite proper concern expressed by the chairman of the armed services committee that we do  want to introduce aher echelon of litigation that will embroil the military service and adversely affect military morale. and military discipline. i can assure the senator. having signed the report as the ranking miity member. that we had such thought in mind in doing so.
