. what i am attempting to do by the amendment is. i believe. perfectly -obvious. the proposed amendment would strike out that subdivision of the pending bill which would automatically decontrol properties on which rental of $225 or more per month is being charged. i have been considering this matter for a considerable period of time. i have considered whether to try to limit it to a given figure. or whether to propose what i am  proposing. we want to be perfectly fair about the whole thing. it seems to me there should be ceiling whatever of this type. restriction whatever of this type. what is fair for one should be fair for all. and it is with that thought that i have submitted the amendment. i realize the purpose of trying to place the ceiling at $225. i realize that there are many who " consider apartments renting for $225 or more to be luxury apartments. presumably rented only by those possessing wealth. however. as conditions are today. that does  happen to be the fact. i have had dozens of letters from persons who are in that class. who are paying rent from $225 to probably $350 a month. whose earnings appear to be in the vicinity of $9.000 to $12.000 a year. they are situated as they are for reasons of necessity and for others. under  mal conditions they would  be so situated. and if the decontrol here proposed were to become effective.  a few of these people would find themselves literally out in the street. i realize our concern for those people who are going to be thrown out of living quarters. regardless of the amount of money involved. but primarily those people in the lowrental income group. but. by the same token. it is as serious for persons in the middleincome group who would be without living quarters. it is difficult for them to obtain new living quarters as it is for anyone else today. in fact. probably more difficult. for that reason i feel very strongly that there is a great deal of justice in the amendment which i am offering. it may be recalled that last year one of the bills passed by one of the houses contained a limitation of this kind. but it was removed by the conference committee. it was removed. i understand. for reasons more or less along the lines which i am presenting at this time. the condition  is approximately the same as the.one existing at that time. if it was the policy of the congress at that time to have limitation. it seems to me we should have the same policy today. and that we should continue the policy so long as basic ecoic conditions are as they are. for those reasons i offer my amendment and hope that it will meet with the approval of the senate.
under the old wagner labor relations act. there was an understanding which existed between the national board and certain state agencies that the national board had authority to grant jurisdiction over certain cases to such state agencies. in new york state. for example. the new york agency used to step into cases the national board would  take. and would assert jurisdiction. it was a friendly sort of arrangement which existed. of course. since the tafthartley act was passed. that can be done. especially since the court decisions the senator has referred to.
ial veto. but in this case i shall. i have given the measure before us a lot of thought. and i do  think that this bill is a "quota bill." it may  be perfect. but it is a good bill. and i do  believe that it will cause employers to adopt hiring quotas. i hope we will be able. even in this 11th hour. to work out a compromise. regardless. i will be voting to override this veto. the conference bill before us is needed to counteract the harmful and cramped 1989 supreme court decisions. it is a solid bill. and it will help ensure  quotas. but fairness. in the workplace.
i am sure the senator will win many points here. everyone agrees that a fraud and illegality took place. that it was a worker from the democratic campaign headquarters that at least started this chain of events going.
. the gurney amendment was objectionable for many reasons. although the reopener clause has been deleted. the revised gurney amendment  offered by the senator from michigan remains objectionable. it is still what i believe to be a cynical attempt to circumvent the law of the country and to bring about a constitutional confrontation. we are within a day of the 20th anniversary of the brown decision. i shall read a statement which was issued by mr. george meany. the head of the aflcio. relative to this anniversary. i think it is appropriate at this time. i could continue to discuss the individual sections of this amendment. but i believe that my remarks yesterday covered them thoroughly. and i think that the senate is well aware of the meaning and the import of the griffin amendment which. as i have said. is the gurney amendment with just one major exception. i think it is important to show what americans and the labor unions think about this amendment and about the progress which the nation has made since the brown decision was handed down in 1954. mr. meany says: the benchmark of the struggle for equality of opportunity in the united states was the may 17. 1954 decision of the united states supreme court in the case of brown v. the board of education of topeka. kansas. that decision. which discarded the infamous doctrine of separate but equal that had prevailed since 1897. was hailed by the american labor movement. indeed both the afl and the cio. then separate organizations. had filed amicus briefs with the court urging that it declare once and for all that segregation by race was inherently unequal. as we mark the 20th anniversary of that momentous decision. it is a time for a national assessment of its impact. frankly. we are  happy with what we see. there has. of course. been tremendous progress in many fields. as evidenced by the achievement of blacks and other miities in the areas of housing. employment and in the political life of the country. yet. many of our fellow americans remain. to a large extent. in the vicious cycle of substandard housing. education and employment.
. the world has changed a great deal in the last quarter century. in 1941. very little was kn about the soviet union. some considered the russians our friends. opposed to a common enemy. few foresaw the deviousness and callous behavior of the soviet government. but the small. defenseless baltic states were already aware of the soviet scheme. by june 14. 1941. the soviet government had already been occupying lithuania illegally for nearly a year. and on that date began the first mass deportations from lithuania. latvia. and estonia. thus. these formerly independent nations were among the first to k communist oppression. large numbers of these people are still imprisoned in soviet labor camps. many others died while imprisoned. on this tragic anniversary. it is appropriate for us to remind ourselves of their fate. and to renew our dedication that justice will surely triumph over tyranny. and that someday these small countries will again be free.
. once again public confidence in the integrity of our government has been shaken by reports reflecting on a top official of the government. in this case a member of the nations highest tribunal and most revered institution. the u.s. supreme court. and. i believe. confidence will  be\ restored until congress makes it mandatory for supreme court justices and all other members of the federal judiciaryas well as members of congress and high officials in the executive branchto make full. regular. and most importantly. public reports on their income and financial activities. on april 29 the senator from michigan and i introduced s. 1993the casehart billto require such disclosure by members of the legislative and executive branches. joining us as cosponsors were senators cook. hatfield.
i ice that the committee reports that this bill comes before us with the concurrence of the employees. the committee refers specifically to the fact that the employees believe the collective bargaining associations would be complicated by the present situation under the supreme court decision. does the gentleman have any information on that.
inasmuch as we are clarifying the facts. i think one thing needs to be added about the risla guardia act. and that is that in 1947 congress. in effect. repealed what it had done in the risla guardia act. by enacting the tafthartley law. which provides that labor injunction cases shall. in the main. be brought by the united states government. it did  repeal that section of the law which provided that when the united states government was a party complainant and there was ensuing contempt. there would be jury trial. so the most recent deliberation by the congress as an expression of intent continued the situation in which the united states government. as a complainant. despite the fact that the law applied to labor injunctions. should  have a jury trial in an ensuing contempt proceeding. with respect to the original enactment in 1914. it is also a fact that this capped a considerable number of decades in which there had been jury trial whatever in contempt cases. further. in respect to labor injunctions. the senator from oregon . i think. made a very unusual and discerning analysis of that subject the other night. he pointed out that the great difference between an injunction in the risla guardia act cases and in the cases we are discussing is fundamentally thisand this was undoubtedly the reason why congress acted as it did: in the labor act cases. when the judge issued an injunction. that was the end of the matter. because the strike was broken or ended then and there. the minute the injunction was issued. that is  true in the cases we are discussing. hence. there is special overriding reason for setting aside the idea of the government  having a jury trial. i think congress evidenced its real intent on that subject in 1947. in addition. there has been a great deal of loose talk to the effect that there is constitutional or civil right to jury trial in a contempt case. i think it has been shown that there is. if we are straightening out the facts. let us get that one straight.
. a critical issue in the american ecoic structure is our ability to deal with the unjust and unreasonable discrimination against older workersthose over 45. and in some instances only over 40in opportunities for employment. such discrimination deprives the nation of a most important resource of experienced. often highly skilled employees. adds materially to the number of persons requiring public assitance. and deprives mature citizens of the dignity and status of selfsupport and continued participation in constructive ecoic activity. this is especially important . in an ecoic downturn. traditionally. employers continue to maintain age barriers. and as a result older workers are the first to be laid off. excuses used are that they are more accident prone. slower. less dependable. have poor attendance records. turn out less work. and are less compatible with other employees. this is rash generalization. unjust and untrue. while the whole problem of unemployment for those 45 or over can be solved by law. a suitable basis for solution can be brought about by law. since age discrimination in employment has unfortunately become widely prevalent in modern times. in meeting this problem. the federal government can and should exercise leadership in an area where it has already done much to banish discrimination in employment against individuals because of race. religion. color. or national origin. because of the great opportunity for the federal government to exercise leadership in this area. i am introducing this bill as a companion measure to the bill i introduced last year. the national act against age discrimination in employment . which would make it unlawful for employers engaged in interstate commerce to discriminate in employment because of age. the bill i am today introducing. by limiting the scope to contractors and subcontractors of the federal government and the district of columbia. offers a starting point from which we can proceed to reach the ultimate goal. barring age discrimination in employment wherever it exists. and provides the government leadership so necessary if such progress is to be made. the davisbacon act has provided federal standards in the areas of wages. hours. and conditions of employment. under the terms of the bill. contracts with the federal government and the district of columbia would contain written stipulation against age discrimination in employment. violation could result in cancellation of the contract. to define age discrimination. the bill states that it would be a discriminatory employment practice to refuse employment or to discharge a person because of his age "when the reasonable demands of such employment do  require such an age discrimination." the legislation provides that the secretary of labor shall "prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this act and to assure uniform application of such provisions by contracting officers." the discriminatory practice is determined by the government only after ice and a hearing by the government contracting officer. the findings of the hearing officer are subject to court review. and in all other respects. too. due process is observed.
. in the brief time i have. i should like to pur.sue one point which i shall make. and which we have just been discussing. the question is asked. why do we  give the courts in the 38 states which have state agencies the jurisdiction given to state agencies. the reason we do  is that we can. because of the general judicial power of courts. we can limit their jurisdiction in the way we can limit the jurisdiction of an agency. and in view of the fact that we can repeal the constitution and take away the interstate commerce clause which is in it . every state agency designated under this amendment would become an arm of the national labor relations board. subject to the same restrictions as the board is subject to. we can do that with a court. a court can issue injunctions against doing certain things in the presence of the court which it deems to be against its dignity. that power we can restrict. it is inherent in the power of the court. hence. if we give jurisdiction to the courts in the other 38 states. which do   have agencies. we shall be opening the door to exactly what the tafthartley law was designed to prevent. namely. the unrestricted injunctive power of the courts. that is the essence of the problem. there is way of getting around it. the way we have handled the problem is by giving an open invitation. on reasonable terms. to every one of the other 38 states. saying to them "designate an agency. and it will become an arm of the national labor relations board. fully able to occupy the mans land which is  vacant." it seems to me that is reasonable. it opens up the entire question. and makes it susceptible to solution. in reply to those who say that such a procedure can be made effective in less than 2 years. i say. first. that a special session of any legislature can be called. second. we have been living with this condition for 12 years. and have  been able to do anything about it. i believe we are  in a position to make a measurable beginning.
i should like to state that i shall vote against these amendments. for the same reason that led me to vote against the bill of rights to the tafthartley act which was submitted by the distinguished senator from arkansas . and which we subsequently refined and made into an instrument of law for which it was possible for the overwhelming majority of the members of this body to vote. . i shall be specific in connection with this matter. for i have very great regard for the proponent of these amendments. in the first place. let us make clear that labor organizations are specifically included under section 610 of the tafthartley act. and it already is illegal for a labor union to make a political contribution. however. these amendments seek to confine the activities of labor unions to political activities within the unions. that is really the fundamental purpose of the amendments. otherwise. there would be point to them. they also would tighten up somewhat the penalty. but i do  believe that is their main purpose. their main purpose. in my opinion. is to determine what a union may do in respect to its own members. with regard to funds to be used in dealing with political questions. political issues. or political candidates. on that point i am concerned with two things. first there are items of definition which are contained in this amendmentand let us remember that a violation would be a criminal actwhich i think jeopardizes. because they are  precise egh. the question of due process. or possibly the question of constitutionality. i should like to call the attention of my colleague to the use of the word "impartial." again. as i said. the amendment is designed to deal with intraunion affairs and intraunion activities with respect to the unions own candidates. i point out that the application of the word "impartial"-that is. an impartial statement of the issues in the election and an impartial news program. which is called for in the amendmentleaves me in great doubt as to whether we could expect any jury to decide any criminal statute on the basis of whether a particular statement on a highly controversial political issue is impartial or whether the presenting of a news program is impartial. i have appeared on labor union news programs. such as the one mr. edwards has. i do  k whether they were impartial. i was on it. and so was a democratic party senator. i do  k whether that made it impartial. because often we agree. so. for those reasons. because i think it is designed to prevent intraunion activity. and because i have great doubt whether it ought to be prevented. and also because the standards are hardly those that can be administered with due process in a criminal statute. i think the amendment is unwise. there is aher point to which i should also like to call attention. it is said the same rules are made applicable to corporations as are made applicable to unions. i have read the amendment very carefully. i do  find. with respect to corporations. there are these specific provisions as to whether they may or may  publish or whether they may or may  distribute. if there were doubt about whether statements of issues in news programs would be considered impartial. i would oppose it on that ground. because i feel many corporations are beginning to become interested in political affairs. and they ought to have the right to comment on them. so long as they do  run afoul of the contributions restriction. in the statewide election. both for attorney general and the senate. i was opposed by the trade unions. nevertheless. i am interested in trying to see that when justice is administered it is administered in a fair way. i am sure my friend has that thought in mind. it is for the reasons i have given in the analysis i have made that i oppose the amendment
. a minimum wage could  "hinder or obstruct." therefore. this definition comes as close as possible. as regards dealing with the subject on which we are  legislating. to the labormanagement reporting and disclosure act. which we passed  long ago. i believe. as a lawyer. and although i think i am a competent lawyer. i realize full well. i hasten to add. that there are nine lawyers on the supreme court bench-
i shall require only a minute. when one refers to the attorney generals opinion. one finds it says. "the regulations you have in mind can be said to be in themselves unreasonable as imposing undue or arbitrary burdens upon employers who desire to obtain farm laborers through the interstate system of recruitment." it seems to me that is as strong a statement as any court would make in a case in which the regulation power of a particular public official was called to question. the court would  strike it down. that is as strong language as one could get in any legal opinion which would sustain the rulemaking power of a public official. the secretary of labor. as being properly exercised. i think. therefore. that the opinion of the attorney general. with which i find myself as a lawyer in complete accord. is an answer to this question. we should  in this ex parte way. upon a minimum wage bill. strip the secretary of labor of that authority
. the national association for the advancement of colored people. at its 53d annual convention in atlanta. ga.. recently. with 1.227 registered delegates in attendance. adopted a resolution with regard to the delay in confirmation of the ination of judge thurgood marshall to be a judge of the court of appeals for the second circuit. my colleague from new york. as a member of the committee. and i. as one of the sponsors of judge marshall. have done our utmost to bring about prompt action with respect to the confirmation of judge marshalls ination. i compliment my colleague from new york for the vigorous position which he has taken in that regard. i ask unanimous consent that the operative part of the resolution with respect to judge marshall. unanimously adopted at the naacp 53d annual convention. in which they indicate that they will wage a strong campaign to help bring about this justly deserved confirmation. be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
walter a. gordon. to the u.s. district court. virgin islands. inated january 17. 1959. and confirmed september 2. 1959. i do  say president eisenhower was any more sympathetic to this matter than president kennedy. i think both men have the same desire and wish. but i only give those facts. first. in answer to the presidents feeling about what happened in the previous administration. about which i think he was wrong. and. second. and far more important. to show the comparison with the record on thurgood marshall. i hope the administration and the majority leader in the senate will  wait until the final days of the session. for that would be unseemly. i think the time for action on the marshall ination is later than the week of labor day. which is sufficiently in advance of the time when the senate apparently will adjourn. i have doubt that the confirmation will take place. but this has been a hard fight and is a very key question in connection with our national policy. i join with my colleague in the struggle.  only as to judge marshall. but to show that we practice what we preach. and that when a man who is a negro has the eminent and distinguished qualifications to receive this kind of backing from the american bar association and the bar of the city of new york. he should get prompt justice at our hands. that is what we have been trying to do. . i have aher subject to discuss. but i shall  do so at this time.
i should like to join with the senator and many other colleagues who have complimented the president on this appointment. and i compliment him. too. i have kn arthur goldberg for 20 years or more as a distinguished labor lawyer. and i have kn him in his work as secretary of labor. i worked with him in the settlement of the metropolitan opera labor dispute. he has been a very effective secretary of labor. probably one of the best we have had in the history of the department. in comparison with great secretaries like our own jim mitchell. who i think was also a great secretary. i shall vote for the confirmation of mr. goldbergs appointment. and i feel certain that the senate will confirm the ination. and very promptly. what is more. arthur goldberg will be a judge on the u.s. supreme court of whom we shall have every reason to be proud. i k his character. he will lay aside any previous representation. any previous ideas he had in advocacy. and he will bring to the bench a pure. clear. and lumis legal mind. anxious only to dedicate itself for all the days .of his years to justice under the constitution of the united states. he will be. in my view. neither liberal  conservative. any more than cardozo or brandeis were liberals or conservatives. he will be a great judge in the great constitutional tradition of our country. with courage. and complete dedication. i think it is most important. in speaking of arthur goldberg. that these facts be emphasized to the country by persons like myself who have had the great privilege of king him so well for so long and meeting him.  only as secretary of labor and in political life. but as a practicing lawyer for trade unions and other clients. i am delighted to be able to pay this very welldeserved tribute to him.
a limited precedent. rather than a broad general law using this measure as the vehicle. i point out to the senator and to the senate that though the printed amendment is listed as a substitute. the amendment as i have offered it would be an addition to the joint resolution. in short. i am proposing to leave the joint resolution as it is. as it has been voted so far. but also to give to the president the residual power to keep the country operating. come what may. come what may at the end of a 6 months period. or come what may in the interim. if the compulsory arbitration should fall on its face. or come what may in the future. the president would be given an additional powerthe power to keep the country operating. that is what this amendment is all about. if i do  get that point across to the senate. i have  made my point at all. i feel that in a situation of this character the president should have the ultimate final power to keep the country in business. come what may. whoever falls down on the job. whatever events occur. whatever accidents occur. in the final analysis. the president can keep the country operating. that is the ultimate point which i think. in all good conscience and responsibility. must be added to the bill. i add an interesting fact for my fellow republicans. this is  a new idea with me. this is the idea of the late senator robert taft. in connection with the original national labor relations act of 1949. in the miity views which were filed in the senate on may 4. 1949. senator taft. for himself. senator smith. and senator donnell. proposed precisely what i am proposing to the senate today. he proposed. too. that if there were to be a complete scheme of labormanagement relations. there should be a seizure provision. i should like to read to the senate the seizure provision that senator taft wrote. it is a clear and unequivocal argument for what i am advocating today. it represented at that time section 304(a) of the bill. and it provided as follows: after issuing a proclamation pursuant to section 301 the president may direct the attorney general to petition any district court of the united states having jurisdiction of the parties to enjoin such strike or lockout or the continuing thereof or for authority for the president to take immediate possession and through such agency or department of the united states as he may designate to operate such industry. or boththat is. injunction or seizureand if the court finds that such threatened or actual strike or lockout(i) affects an entire industry or a substantial part thereof engaged in trade. commerce. transportation. transmission. or communication among the several states or with foreign nations. or engaged in the production of goods for commerce. and (ii) if permitted to occur or to continue. will imperil the national health or safety. it shall have jurisdiction to enjoin any such strike or lockout. or the continuing thereof or to authorize the president to take immediate possession and through such agency or department of the united states as he may designate to operate such industry. or both. and to make such other orders as may be appropriate. i have read the language of senator taft as to what he conceived to be the required labormanagement policy of the united states. before i sum up. i would like to make one further observation. i have said many times that i am proud of the designation "liberal." although in the republican party we generally like to think of ourselves as progressive rather than liberal. it is always an idea on the part of those who would debate with us. or take different viewpoints. that we are merely moralists. this is perhaps the best illustration of how wrong is the opinion. because if the congress wants to be really realistic. if the congress really wants to rise above groups of ecoic or social interest. if the congress really wants to address itself to fundamental problems. which alone give us the right to be in the labormanagement situation. and which should address itself to this question. our responsibility is to keep america operating. and we k that a strike on the railroads could immobilize the nation. therefore. it is our fundamental duty. whatever we do about the dispute. in the hope that it will be settled. by action of the arbiters. by action of the courts. or by collective bargaining. to provide for what may happen if hing else works. this is our duty. if hing else works. we should make provision for that contingency. do we come back to the congress and say. "it has failed. give me aher remedy". or does the president. as he does with respect to defense and national emergency. have the power to do what is necessary for the country. in this case. he does  have the power unless we give it to him. that is precisely what the supreme court decided when it threw out the efforts of president truman to seize. the court decided the president does  have that right unless congress gives it to him. president truman thought he might have that right under a national emergency. as he was advised in good faith. by the attorney general. that he did have. but he did . and the supreme court said so. so this is a real vacuum in american public life. and it is a real vacuum in terms of the internal operations of the country. whether or  we fill the vacuum today. i k we will have to fill it one day. it is my purpose. in offering this amendment. which i have thought about a good deal. to give congress the opportunity to begin to face its responsibility. just a word of summary on the presentation of this amendment and why i believe it is sound. first. let us remember that it is governmental intervention in either case. it is governmental intervention in arbitration. it is governmental intervention if we use the remedy of seizure. let us remember that our genial and delightful friends on the commerce committee who. in their additional views. said they wanted to steer between two unthinkables. strike and seizure. on the one hand. and the unacceptable. compulsory arbitration. on the other. have  steered at all. they have frankly. and quite properly. admitted on the floor of the senate that they have adopted the other hand. which is completely unaccepable. compulsory arbitration. and that is what is incorporated in this measure. i would rather adopt the unthinkable. if the unthinkable gives the president the power to survive this difficulty. over what members of the committee rather euphemistically called the unacceptable. in other words. the unthinkable may become acceptable. but the unacceptable can hardly ever be acceptable. that is what is being argued for in this measurethe unacceptable. namely. compulsory arbitration. that is the first point. we are intervening as a government. matter what we do. second. we have a duty to the nation to see that the railroads operate at least to the extent required by the public health and safety. there is other way to assure that that duty will be discharged except by giving the president the ultimate remedy. third. the pending measure lacks the ultimate remedy of finality. if we are to deal effectively with this dispute. we should deal with it in a final way. the measure before us lacks finality. the amendment which i have proposed gives it finality. in any case. the nation can be frustrated. the president can always act. and act decisively. fourth. it is  unfair to the workers. it gives the courts jurisdiction. and a man can quit if he does  like the situation. without the penalties involved in the pending measure. under which he would have to work under compulsion. therefore. there is compulsion for him to worry about. there is compulsion to work under the seizure provision. he is protected by rights of appeal. in addition. so far as management is concerned. my amendment makes it very clear that the government has the right to survive. to protect itself. and that railroads. like any other piece of property. are subject to eminent domain where the public interest requires it. it is well kn that we have exercised that power. fifth. it does  freeze the status quo. by making it very unromantic for management and labor. it gives opportunity for collective bargaining under the pressure of having an unfavorable situation for both. so it does  freeze the status quo. sixth. it does  lead to government ownership. in fact. there seem to be greater reasons for government ownership in the path we seem to be in a mood to follow. because it is untried and will affect every collective bargaining contract in the country. whereas seizure has been tried and has  represented government ownership. but has represented a situation in which the properties were turned back to their private owners when the reasons for seizure had been dispelled. for all these reasons. and as a matter of high responsibility in terms of the public policy of the nation. i have offered the amendment as an addition to the joint resolution. i deeply feel that the senate would be well advised to adopt it in discharging its ultimate responsibility. which is the responsibility of continuing the functions of the nation. come what may.
. first. i wish to identify myself with everything that has been said by the senator from michigan . i shall  repeat what has been said by him and other senators. but i wish to add a few additional points on this subject. we all recognize that the advertisement referred to is hing more than a jumping off place for the debate that is in progress. we wish to reveal what is wrong in its description of the bill. the advertisement states: "federal inspectors would dictate to"-and then the advertisement carries a long list. including labor unions. banks. schools. hospitals. hotels. states. and others. there is  one word about the fact that the courts would rule in cases of enforcement under this bill. what has been the most solid rampart for the south in the protection of its constitutional rights. it has been the courts. its representatives have been urging time and time again that these questions must be reviewed in the courts. yet there is  one word in the advertisement about the fact that the bill calls for court enforcement. the public is told that it will be harmed if the bill is passed.  one word is said about what protections are in the bill. i thoroughly agree with senators who have branded this advertisement as a misrepresentation. it is our duty to show what it is. and to brand it for what it really is. that has been done by other senators. except for one point. which has  been made. and that is the charge against the state of mississippi. that has  been mentioned. it is a very serious and pernicious fact which faces us. money of the state of mississippi is involved in this kind of advertisement. the senator from mississippi has  denied it. it is wrong. it can be justified.
. i submit. for appropriate reference. an amendment to h.r. 1153. the act which passed the house on august 11. 1965. and which would permit employer contributions for joint labormanagement product promotion programs or to joint labormanagement committees empowered to interpret provisions of collective bargaining agreements. the amendment i propose contains essentially the same provisions as are found in my bill. s. 2352. to provide for regulation of employee benefit funds. h.r. 1153 would amend section 302 of the tafthartley act to permit employer contributions to yet aher type of joint labormanagement fund. i am in sympathy with the objectives sought to be achieved by the bill. but recent hearings before the senate permanent investigations subcommittee have demonstrated that the regulatory aspects of section 302 are wholly inadequate to prevent unscrupulous persons from misusing a funds assets for purposes other than those for which the fund was established. i hasten to add that the overwhelming majority of labormanagement funds are administered honestly. it is our job to protect such funds---and workers and employersagainst the depredations of the unscrupulous by closing kn loopholes if we can. the fundamental weaknesses of section 302. which have been demonstrated in the recent hearings are: first. that being basically an antibribery statute. it covers only payments into the fund. what happens afterward is seemingly irrelevant. consequently. section 302 does  regulate what becomes of assets of a fund which is liquidated or terminatedthe money may end up in liberia. or a private bank account. or elsewhere. second. section 302 does  cover conflicts of interest. there is effective prohibition in it against the possibility of padding the funds payroll.  against the trustee misappropriating the funds assets. third. section 302 presumes that joint administration of the fund will insure proper management. while in actuality in some cases only one of the trustees runs the fund. with a proxy from the other. fourth. section 302 does  cover those unilateral funds established solely by management or by a unionand these funds comprise a majority of the welfare and pension funds  in existence. fifth. finally. section 302 does  provide an adequate procedural remedy for violationsit is a criminal statute which can be a proper vehicle for regulation. indeed. even when the criminal is apprehended. the assets themselves may be lost. this amendment would provide that all funds established pursuant to section 302. as well as all other employee benefit funds. would be subject to a new section 306 of the act. section 306. in turn. would define in detail how a fund must be administered. padded payrolls and other diversions of assets would be prohibited. joint administration would continue to be required for joint labormanagement funds. but the trustees would be prohibited from divesting themselves of responsibility by giving their proxies to an administrator who may be only a dummy for one side or the other. officer or employee of the union or the company would be permitted to draw a salary from the fund. and the new requirements would be enforced by a battery of procedures. including authority for the secretary of labor to bring suit to compel compliance with the new requirements and to petition a district court for appointment of a receiver to take possession of the assets and conserve and administer the fund until any violations of the statute have been remedied. if we are  to extend further the type of joint labormanagement fund which is permissible under the act. then surely we ought to make sure that this new type of fund. as well as the many funds already permissible under the act. are administered according to the high fiduciary standards we have come to expect of trustees generally. it is for that purpose that i introduce this amendment.
. in march of 1959. the government of red china completed the suppression of the historically autoous country of tibet. tibet has always been a country of peace. a nation of deep religious principles. a buddhist people following the teachings of the ruling dalai lama. red chinas rape of tibet 7 years ago was  only a violation of every law of international decency. but a breach of peipings own promise. signed in a treaty of 1951. to respect tibets autoy. and a complete disregard of peipings pledges at the bandung conference to practice interference in the internal affairs of other countries. * as a result of the chinese communist takeover. the dalai lama was forced to flee to india. to keep the hopes of his people alive. eighty thousand refugees followed the dalai lama into exile. the life of the refugees is  a happy one. but they prefer it to life under communism. their brethren who have had to remain in tibet have been subjected to forced labor and widely reported geide. the free world has  forgotten the people of tibet and should commemorate their hopes for religious freedom and peace.
. it is clear that title vii dealing with equal opportunity in employment of the 1964 civil rights act. which has  been in effect for 8 months. is very much in need of strengthening due to the complexity and immobility of its provisions. as many of us in congress well knew when we supported its enactment as the best that could then be enacted under the gun of a 3month filibuster. the lnterlvening period shows that much more needs to be done to insure equality of opportunity in employment. this is the point of the bill i am  introducing with senators clifford p. case and thomas h. kuchel as cosponsors. as part of the background for this bill. i have initiated what appears to be the first comprehensive survey by questionnaire of all state and local fair employment practice commissions and agencies to determine how effectively they operate. the equal employment opportunity commission is cooperating with me in this survey. i am most pleased to say. and has stated in its most recent newsletter to state and local agencies that these questionnaires will eliminate the necessity for eeocs requesting similar information in the near future. the responses from the agencies are being received and analyzed and should be a valuable source of otherwise unavailab.e data for the subcommittees consideration in conjunction with the bill  being introduced. on june 14. 1965. i introduced s. 2134. a bill to amend four of the worst of these provisions: providing cease and desist order power. expanding coverage. strengthening investigatory power. and requiring a continuing survey of apprenticeship programs. a similar bill. h.r. 10065. has since been reported out of the house education and labor committee and is on the house calendar. however. there has  been time to evaluate the first 6month report of the eeoc. and the commissions experience to date underscores dramatically the critical need for additional amendment to its basic charter in a number of important respects: first. the basic orientation of the eeoc was never intended to be merely complainthandling. throughout the legislative history it was made clear that the commission had to carry out an effective program of industrywide surveys and affirmative action.  merely react to complaints on a casebycase basis. this was the reason for placing such great reliancei believe too great relianceupon enforcement in individual cases by state fair employment practice commissions. and for providing federal enforcement power only over patterns of job discrimination. but in the first 6 months the eeoc was swamped with 3.263 individual complaints. almost half of which required investigation. far more cases than the commission expected. far more than it could possibly handle with its fiscal year 1966 budget of $2.225.000 and staff of approximately 160. and far too much to leave it with any time or manpower to undertake any affirmative program. thus. a major feature of the measure i am  introducing is a strong link for the eeoc with the nationwide resources of the department of labor. particularly the investigative manpower of the vast existing network of its wage and hour division local offices. which  handle compliance surveys of some 30.000 companies each year. aher provision would also increase the resources of the commision by authorizing acceptance of volunteer assistance. particularly from business and industry. commissioner richard a. graham has stressed the need to use this latter resource. second. the commissions affirmative action efforts are broadened by giving it the power to order the establishment of manpower training programs. commissioner samuel c. jackson has sought to establish this link under present authority and a liaison has been initiated with the manpower administration. but it requires a firm statutory base. particularly in the context also of giving the eeoc the power to issue cease and desist orders. third. once the commission has cease and desist order power. there will be the danger that its complainthandling function will be seriously hampered by the kind of dilatory technical proceedings which often plague other regulatory agencies. in the field of equal employment opportunity. justice delayed can be justice at all. to paraphrase the maxim. since the ecoic pressure upon a miity group complainant will often require him to take whatever job he can. often making his case moot and. worse. often underutilizing his abilities. accordingly. a number of proposed amendments would reduce the opportunity and incentive for delay during the administrative proceedings. such as the power of the commission to seek interlocutory. or interim. relief in the courts in the case. for example. of dilatory tactics or repeated violations. the power of the commission to award damages when such relief is called for. and the power of the courts to impose a civil penalty in appropriate cases. finally. even where the housereported bill. h.r. 10065. takes a step forward. it does  do so strongly egh. for example. in extending coverage to employers of eight or more employees. the house bill delays the extension for still aher year. title vii itself was  operative for an entire year after enactment of the 1964 civil rights act and. because of the delay of the administration in appointing the commissioners. was  really in operation until some months after its july 1. 1965. effective date. there is reason to delay the extended coverage for still aher year. this is particularly true in view of the fact that the extended act would cover 700.000 employers employing 40 million employees. or 21 percent of the nations employers and 54 percent of employees. whereas at its widest coverage25 employees or more. on july 1. 1968the existing law would include only 259.000 employers. or only 8 percent of the total. and 29 million employees. or only 40 percent of the total. equally significantly the housereported bill entirely neglects the highly important area of coverage of state and local government employees. the u.s. commission on civil rights. in its ember 1965 report on law enforcement in the south. made this recommendation: in order to help assure that justice is administered in a discriminatory manner. employment in lawenforcement agencies should be available to all persons. regardless of race. color. religion. or national origin. title vii of the civil rights act of 1964. providing for equal employment opportunities. does  cover public employment. although discrimination in public employment can be challenged in private lawsuits. administrative and judicial remedies also should be provided. the commission recommends that congress consider amending title vii to extend its coverage to public employment. i am very hopeful that hearings will be held on this bill in the very near future by the senate employment and manpower subcommittee of the labor and public welfare committee. of which i am the ranking miity member. i have repeatedly requested such hearings on my earlier bill. s. 2134. and senator joseph s. clark. subcommittee chairman. has assured me that they will be held this session. i e that he has this week reintroduced for consideration by our subcommittee the measure which our committee reported to the senate with a large. bipartisan majority in 1963. s. 1937 of the 88th congress. 2d session. as well as the title vii provision of the omnibus civil rights bill. s. 2923. introduced by senator douglas. of which i am also a cosponsor. i look forward to the full discussion of the various provisions of these bills and the house bill. h.r. 10065. which hopefully will soon be considered and passed by the other body. it is also my hope that the administration will include a strengthened title vii in its expected omnibus civil rights measure. and that this proposal can also be considered by our subcommittee. the bill i am  introducing makes the following amendments to title vii of the civil rights act of 1964: first. gives the eeoc the power to issue cease and desist orders which all other regulatory agencies have. but also retains the power of the attorney general under the existing title vii to initiate civil suits against patterns or practices of discrimination in employment. h.r. 10065 would permit such suits only at the request of the eeoc. second. expands the coverage of title vii to employers and labor unions which have eight or more employees or mem-
 would be to veto the whole thing and put us back where we are today. we are in the position of many courts which do  seem to be afraid of the proposition when they have a record that is replete with detailed findings of fact and other evidence. the courts have said they will accept it unless there is fraud or gross impropriety in the findings which come to them. we would be in exactly the same position. the only ground on which we would have cause to veto itand it is inconceivable that we would do so otherwisewould be if there were gross fraud or impropriety or anything which would be shocking to the conscience. this is something that labor ought to have. labor ought to have this last resort and assurance. if necessary.
. in the bill is a provision i had the ho to include which seeks to deal with this problem. it does  deal with the problem exactly the same way that the senator from vermont does. but it deals with the problem. and in a very effective way. i should like to go into that matter. because it represents an important point with respect to the question of whether or  we should adopt this new approach. it will be found at page 32 of the bill and represents one of the provisions for eligible job training activities under the bill. this authority as contained in the bill is forand i read from page 32. line 15 through page 33. line 10: (8) programs to provide incentives to private employers. other than profit organizations. to train or employ unemployed or lowincome persons. including arrangements by direct contract. reimbursements to employers for a limited period when an employee might  be fully productive. payment of onthejob counseling and other supportive services. payment of all or part of employer costs of sending recruiters into urban and rural areas of high concentrations or proportions of unemployed or lowincome persons. and payments to permit employers to provide employees resident in such areas with transportation to and from work or to reimburse such employees for such transportation: then. there is a proviso relating to minimum wages. in this way we are seeking to open up the whole job givingjob training private function to private firms under contract with oeo. this would do precisely what the senator from vermont seeks also to do. except he provides a specific percentage for the employee training expenses. to wit. up to 15 percent. whereas the bill would cover a variety of expenses which would be negotiated. including transportation. i mention this because we learned in the case of watts. calif.. that transportation was one of the large and complicated problems. even in new york i found in my investigation that there are parts of the city where in order to get people to move and go elsewhere for training and the hope for a job. provision has to be made for some of the very rudimentary and elementary costs of transportation of the person from place to place.
. commissioner jackson served as a member of the equal employment opportunity commission for 3 years. those 3 years were the first 3 years of the commissions life. they were years when the commission was called on to face and overcome innumerable problems. woefully underfunded since its inception. the commission has been forced to cope with an everincreasing backlog of cases. each one of which involves difficult and delicate issues. with commissioner jacksons help during this period. the commission has. i believe. compiled an excellent record. withstanding these difficulties. throughout his term of service. commissioner jackson performed the duties of his office with unrelenting zeal. and with the highest devotion to the cause of equal employment opportunity. he has earned the most profound gratitude of all of us who are interested in that cause. i am extremely pleased to e that although commissioner jackson will longer be serving as a member of the equal employment opportunity commission. he intends to remain in the forefront of the fight to achieve racial and ecoic justice in this nation. he has been appointed as the director of a most promising new service being developed by the american arbitration association. the aaa. which has pioneered in the voluntary settlement. through arbitration. of disputes in the commercial and labor relations area. will attempt to offer the same type of services in hope of promoting voluntary resolution of the disputes on racial and ecoic matters in the ghettos of our cities. the aaa is certainly to be commended for the spirit which has motivated it to embark on its new experiment and for its acumen in choosing a man of the stature of samuel jackson as the director of the project. i am sure that the experience commissioner jackson obtained while a member of the eeoc will prove invaluable in helping to resolve the disputes arising out of the tensions of ghetto life. i feel that i express the feelings of many senators in wishing commissioner jackson the best success in this important new program.
. i am pleased to join with the senator from new jersey . who is the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee on labor. in sponsoring a bill to give the equal employment opportunity commission the power to enforce. by way of ceaseanddesist orders. the guarantee of equal employment opportunity contained in title vii of the civil rights act of 1964. the bill introduced today is in many respects similar to s. 3465. the bill reported out of the committee on labor and public welfare last year. that bill. unfortunately. was  called up for action by the senate. this year i am hopeful that the committee on labor and public welfare will complete its consideration of the bill promptly and in time for the senate to act during this session of congress. this bill is a piece of unfinished national business. in title vii of the civil rights act the congress guaranteed to every american the right to be free from racial or religious or sex discrimination in employment. we also established a commission to administer the law but. unfortunately. as the result of compromises necessary to overcome a filibuster. we had agreed to strip the commission of any effective power to enforce the act. thus. under present law if the commission is  successful in inducing voluntary compliance with the act. it is up to the person who was the subject of the unlawful discrimination to institute his own lawsuit against the employer or union guilty of violating the law. unless it can be shown that a pattern or practice of discrimination exists. in which case the justice department has the power to sue. as a result of lawsuits brought by private parties and the justice department under present law. several important victories have been won in the courts. accordingly. i believe that it would be unwise for us to eliminate entirely the right of private litigants to institute their own lawsuits to redress violations of the act. yet lawsuits can be expected to take the place of effective governmental enforcement of the provisions of title vii. i am. therefore. in full accord with the provisions of the bill introduced today which would give the commission ceaseanddesist order power similar to that given to the national labor relations board. but would also preserve the right of private parties to institute their own actions. i am also in favor of the provisions of the bill which would expand the coverage of title vii to the employees of state and local governments. a similar expansion of coverage was included in s. 1667. the bill i sponsored in the last congress. but i was  successful in having these provisions incorporated in s. 3465. the bill reported out last year by the committee on labor and public welfare. had the bill been taken up. i intended to offer an amendment bringing state and local government employees under the act. and i ask unanimous consent that my individual views concerning this questiion. * which were printed as part of the committee report last year. be reprinted in the record.
. i have joined in fashioning the pending bill. we are about to be presented with quite a dilemma in respect of it. that dilemma is unnecessary. but it will etheless be real. the dilemma is going to be on the motion to table the dominick substitute. which i believe will probably be made. an issue. which is  really an issue. will be posed to the senate. if the tabling motion prevails. any senator. including the senator from colorado. can amend the bill. i am sure that the senator from colorado will have a considerable number of amendments as he is a man who follows through and we ho him for that. if the tabling motion should succeed. as i see it. the bill will be amended. if the tabling motion fails. the dominick substitute will be amended. because even if it should later fail. senators will  wish to be caught short on the fact that their ideas have failed of incorporation in the bill. i assume that if the senator from colorado were to have nine amendments to the committee bill. the senator from new jersey might have 15 or 20 to the administration substitute. that will get us to exactly the same place. it only illustrates the tragedy which will be involved because. unhappily for all of us. this will be construed as a vote for or against management or labor. as the case may be. i think it is very unfair and simply distorts the legislative process. but there it is. and we have to take account of it. there is hing much we can do about it. i am egh of a lawyer to k that it is  what the facts are. but it is what the judge thinks they are that counts. analyzing the situation from that point of view. i wish to make it clear that this vote. if it comesand i believe it willis  going to be determinative of the controversy. because either way the senate will have to face up to the issue. this is simply a climatic test vote on the situation. it is a fact that there will be more amendments to the substitute to conform it to the committee bill than vice versa. the administration really objects to five things in the committee bill. and they can. of course. be tested fairly promptly. those five things are the question of promulgating standards. adjudicating enforcement cases. the imminent danger orders. the requests for inspection. the penalty for the unauthorized ice of inspection. and the general duty. those are the fundamental problems which will be faced. my inclination at this time is to endeavor to perfect the committee bill. i believe that the majority here and in the other body are very much likely to push for occupational health and safety in this session of congress. i believe we should work on the committee bill. the committee bill was subject to all the negotiation and compromise and the input of the miity. in which the senator from colorado had such a very hoed part. and to revise it and to discard all that work. it seems to me. would be rather unfortunate. the situation we face shows the real lack of critical importance of the issue upon which that motion will turn. because if the secretary of labor promulgates standards. he is subject to the administrative procedure act. he can create a board. if he wishes to. to deal with the promulgation of standards. if a separate board is established under the substitute bill. that board will be subject to the administrative procedure act. just as the secretary would be in exercising the same functions. similarly. in enforcement. there is court review. the secretary of labor can cause enforcement and there will be court review. other secretaries faced with similar enforcement responsibilities have appointedand i think very properlypanels or commissions of their own to handle enforcement procedures. i regret to state that whether we like it or . it is an issue which i think will be pictured as the most important issue in this legislation. the motion to table the dominick substitute. i regret it. i deplore it. etheless. there we are. i hope very much that. having swallowed that dose. whatever it may be. whether the dominick substitute is successful or fails. we will go on and perfect a bill and that there will be hard feelings. whichever way it goes. but that we will have a preservation of rights for those who feel strongly for the administration and for those on the other side to amend the bill as they choose and get a bill. the purpose of my speaking  is that very point. i hope very much that there will  be such a concentration of attention on the issue of where this bill comes from. whether from the republican administration or the democratic majority in the senate. on the first day we are back so that a signal will  go out to the country that action on this bill is an indication of the way legislation will go. i hope that whichever side wins or loses will take it in stride and that we can then perfect the measure. the substitute or the committee bill. so that we may arrive at whatever legislation the senate in its judgment determines to be appropriate.
ially appointed with the advise and consent of the senate. it is most regrettable that the dispute over this issue should have become so bitter as to jeopardize seriously the prospects for enactment of this bill during this session of congress. especially since either approach has both merits and demerits. i. for one. believe that in the light of over 30 years of utterly dismal performance by the department of labor of its safety and health responsibilities under the walshhealey act. labor has little reason to expect. or business any reason to fear. overly energetic administration of this act by the secretary of labor or disregard by him of the legitimate concerns of business. justice holmes famous aphorism. "the life of the law has  been logic: it has been experience.". applies as much to the process of shaping legislation as it does to deciding questions of common law. conversely. our experience with multimember independent administrative agencies (e.g. the national labor relations board). especially in the area of quasijudicial adjudication. has been neither so uniformly bad  so uniformly good. or favorable to business. as compared to our experience with administration by cabinetlevel officials.that we can assume that the use of such an agency would seriously weaken (or strengthen) this legislation. cabinetlevel officials are. it is true. more sensitive to political influences and can be held accountable for the failure of their departments. but political influences are. at best. a twoedged sword. and completely improper. in any event. where adjudication is concerned. attempts at compromise of the basic issue in an attempt to resolve this obstacle to agreement by the committee on a bill. i suggested a compromise amendment under which the secretary of labor would promulgate standards and a threeman independent panel (similar to that provided in the administration bill) would adjudicate enforcement cases. unfortunately the committee. after first expressing interest. rejected the compromise by a vote of 10 to 7. since the same issue may well arise again when this bill is considered by the senate. i believe a brief statement concerning my compromise amendment is appropriate. in the area of adjudication. there are several reasons for preferring an independent panel approach. especially in the form proposed by the administration and embodied in my amendment. first. under the procedures established by the amendment. speed of enforcement would be greatly increased. in most contested cases. between six months and two years would be saved under the provisions which provide for true selfenforcing orders and discretionary review of trial examiner decisions. under the committee bill. enforceable order to correct a violation would issue until the completion of all administrative and judicial review proceedings. this would involve. at a minimum in a contested case. (1) hearings by a trial examiner. (2) mandatory review of the decision by the secretary or his designee. and (3) review by a court of appeals. it is doubtful that this process could be completed in less than 18 months (two years would be a more realistic estimate) in a seriously contested case. under my amendment. an enforceable order would issue at the end of the administrative review stage. rather than after judicial review (unless the court of appeals issued a stay). furthermore. the administrative review stage itself would be shortened by three to six months in many cases by making review by the panel of trial examiners decisions discretionary. if review were denied. the trial examiners. decision would automatically become the final order of the panel and enforceable as such. second. hearing and determination of enforcement cases by an independent panel more closely accords with traditional ions of due process than would hearing and determination by the secretary. in the latter case the secretary is essentially acting as prosecutor and judge. any finding by the secretary in favor of a respondent would be essentially a repudiation by the secretary of his own departments employees. while this type of enforcement has been used in connection with other statutes. is contemplated by the administrative procedures act. and is  jurisdictionally defective on due process grounds. the awkward mechanics it imposes upon heads of departments who wish to exercise their adjudicatory power personally in order to preserve due process has  generally been appreciated. what happens is that one official of the department (e.g. the deputy solicitor) will take the position of prosecutor and aher official (e.g. the solicitor) will take the position of a neutral in order to advise the secretary. more important. because of the awkwardness of this procedure and the heavy burden of personally reviewing hundreds of enforcement cases. it is highly likely that the secretary of labor will  even exercise his power under the committee bill personally. but will delegate it to a panel of officials within the department. that is precisely what the secretary of interior has done under the coal mine health and safety act of 1969. the net result will be enforcement by a panel anyway. but  one which is independent. and without the benefit of the shortened procedures which my amendment would provide. these considerations. it seems to me. outweigh any possible benefits which might be gained from the better "coordination" which would allegedly occur if the adjudicatory power. as well as the prosecutorial and standards setting powers were given to the secretary. such coordination as is necessary would seem just as readily attainable with a panel as with the secretary. it is the prosecutors upon whom this burden will primarily fall and under either approach they will be under the secretarys control. in short. the adjudicatory scheme of the committee bill can be made to work. and due process can be preserved under it. but the independent panel approach would do the same job faster. preserve due process more easily. and thereby instill much more confidence in the whole program in workers and businessmen alike.
. that represents 4.300.000 workers. it points out. too. that this is  a fanciful matter on our part but that there are critically important evidences of discrimination in these institutions. senators are invited to read on. on the next page of the report. which indicates the tremendous disproportionthe courts have held that that is a perfectly proper item of evidencebetween the percentages of positions held by blacks and other miities and the percentage which they represent in population. in addition to the discrimination on the ground of color. there are tremendous evidences of discrimination based upon the same criteria against women. bearing in mind that sex is also covered as an important item of discrimination in this bill. for all those reasons. because we are dealing with emous numbers of peoplea worker for an educational institution or a religious institution is still a workerwhile we understand the responsibility of dealing with respect for the establishment of religion as suchand we very amply safeguard them in the exemption to 702 contained in the bill at page 33there is reason for allowing those cover words to take out of the operation of common justice and equal opportunity for a job. which is the essence of this bill. some 4.300.000 workers. yet. that would be the effect of this amendment. so. for the reasons i have stated. plus those eloquently stated by the manager of the bill. senator williams. i hope very much that the senate will reject this amendment.
 to monitor the states performance and to render the states assistance in complying with the commissions recommendations for substantive changes. if the states do  update their programs sufficiently by 1975. then the commission recommends that federal legislation be enacted under which employers would be required to provide benefits in accordance with federal standards. if employers refuse to comply. they would be subject to fines and suits in the federal district courts by injured workers. with the assistance of local u.s. attorneys. these implementing recommendations of the commission are obviously designed to mute the controversy that has historically accompanied any attempt to have the federal government become involved in workmens compensation matters. in my judgment. history and the commissions own report demonstrate the futility of relying on the recommendations alone as sufficient incentive to produce required changes in state laws. thus. despite the recommendations of the department of labor. despite the recommendations of the international association of industrial accident boards and commissions. and despite the prestigious model code developed by the council of state governments. benefit levels today replace less income lost by injured workers than they did in 1940. it is true. as the commission points out. that there have been a number of desirable changes in state laws in recent years. particularly since the commission itself began to function. this should come as surprise. and the commissions report itself es that many of these changes were probably attributable to the threat of federal action implicit in the establishment of the commission. it seems to me that we should take advantage of the momentum created by the commissions report to enact federal legislation  which will give the states a reasonable time to comply with the commissions substantive recommendations. but at the same time make it clear that if the states do  comply. the federal government must cure the default. i support the commissions conclusion that we ought  to scrap the existing state system in favor of a totally federally administered system. there is too much that is good in the present system to justify starting all over and i have quarrel with the recommendation that the states should be given a reasonable period of time in which to act to bring their laws into compliance with the minimum standards recommended by the commission. but these considerations hardly dictate against federal action. on the contrary. we can and should act  to spur the state action that is required. furthermore. i also think it is clear that if a state does  comply with the minimal recommendations of the commission. we ought  to relegate injured employees to court actions and bring criminal proceedings against the employer. there is a much more simple. direct approach available which we have already utilized in connection with the coal miners black lung compensation program. if the states do  comply with the minimal recommendations within a reasonable period of time. then a federal workmens compensation law should go into effect for the benefit of employees working in those states. i intend to introduce legislation along these lines in the very near future. and i intend to do all i can to see to it that it is given the highest priority. it may even be possible to include appropriate legislation to implement the commissions recommendations as an amendment to the longshoremens and harbor workers compensation act  being considered by the committee on labor and public welfare. through the years. millions of injured workers have been forced to suffer the consequences of disabling injuries under state laws. of which over 50 percent. according to the commissions own findings. provide maximum limitations on benefits which are less than the amount needed to escape poverty under officially accepted standards. in the face of the commissions superb documentations of the inadequacies of the present system. i do  think that the american people or congress should be willing any longer to let archaic ions of states rights stand in the way of bringing elementary justice to workers who have become injured or diseased on the job. finally. while i differ with the commission in that i favor immediate federal legislation to implement the commissions recommendations. i would like to emphasize my admiration for the commissions report as a whole. the commission has done a superb job of analyzing the deficiencies in the present system and in formulating its recommendations for substantive changes. i am certain that. whatever happens in the way of federal legislation. this report will have a profound effect in causing needed improvements to the existing systems by which we compensate and treat injured workers. i have personal kledge of the sincerity and dedication of all the members of the commission and i  publicly reiterate what i have previously said when i appeared before the commission: this report is  going to just gather dust on some shelf.
i do  k whether senators understand that. the senator from louisiana is washing out the roth ceiling. what the senator from louisiana is doing is providing the $1 billion already in the bill. and  he is putting a ceiling on family planning and child care of $600 million. it is  a tougher situation than it was in the committees bill.
. in my particular relationship. first as a lawyer and second as the ranking republican member of the committee on labor and public welfare. on the legal side. i might say to the senator from indiana. that the concept of a special court has been very creative. our experience in the environmental field indicated what a mess can be made of the best laid plans by a diversity of legal proceedings all over the nation. with different theories canceling each other out very often. and  resolvable until you get to the supreme court. and sometimes  even then. here. by exercising the authority we first exercised in the judiciary act of 1789. we have provided for consolidating these proceedings and appointing a special court for the purpose. i think it is very. very gifted position. for which the committee is entitled to great credit. second. as the ranking republican member of the labor and public welfare committee. i have studied with great interest the problem of the displaced workers. and how they were dealt with. i have great sympathy for the views of our colleague. the senator from maryland . who felt it was altogether too costly in proportion. his humane views and his love for his fellow man and the worker. i am sure but he just felt that in relation to the financial obligation being dealt with. it was just too heavy a burden. it is a fact that these are. on the whole. very broad provisions. and they are going to be very costly. but etheless. there is creativity in  continuing on a salary basis. with the overhead which is incident to it. and the artificiality of having people work when there is work. such as we had for years with certain operating railroad employees. which is very debilitating to them and debilitating to the whole labor system. so. although it is expensive--and it is very expensiveexperience has shown that a oneshot termination operation is. on the whole. most ecoical. rather than to continue a framework within which people allegedly work but really do .
. i oppose the amendment offered by the distinguished senator from nevada. this amendment would add a provision to h.r. 5900 which would enlarge the scope of the hobbs act to  only provide for criminal penalties of up to 20 years imprisonment and/or $10.000 cxxi- 2356part 29 for the obstruction of commerce by robbery or extortion. but also to include. within the scope of the act. willful conduct arising during an otherwise lawful labormanagement dispute. the supreme court. in 1972. held in its decision in united states against enmons. that the hobbs act does  apply to violence related to attempts to attain legitimate union objectives such as a wage increase. this conclusion was reached by the majority of the court after a thorough and thoughtful examination of the legislative history. and i believe it to be a correct one. the federal government should  be put in the business of policing the orderly conduct of strikes and picketing. i would also e that the present law under the hobbs act strikes what i believe to be the proper balance between federal and state authority. this amendment would upset this balance and negate the supreme courts decision in san diego building trades council against garmon. where the court affirmed the principle of federal preemption of national labor policy. the court. however. ed that the "maintenance of domestic peace" was a narrow exception to the federal preemption doctrine and is primarily the responsibility of the states. this bill is  the vehicle for this amendment. and that this is  the time to debate this issue. as i have stated earlier. h.r. 5900 is narrowly focused to address only the issue of the primarysecondary dichotomy in construction site picketing. moreover. the hobbs act. as it would be applied under this amendment. provides a penalty of imprisonment of up to 20 years and/or a fine of up to $10.000. neither the federal law or any state law as far as i am able to determine. prescribes such penalties for what may be in fact hing more than malicious mischief. as mr. justice blackman added in his concurring opinion in the enmons case. "application of such penalties to violence during a legitimate strike. necessarily means the legislation would be enforced selectively or. at the least. would embroil all concerned with drawing the distinction between major and mi violence." this would  further the purpose of federal labor relations policy. the sum of the matter is that. at the present time. federal law already regulates the direct misuse of the strike weapon while reserving to the states their historic function of maintaining domestic tranquillity. both in general and during labor disputes. this represents the optimum balance between federal and state authority. i wish to also point out to my colleagues that the floor of the u.s. senate is  the appropriate forum for the initial consideration of legislation concerning criminal law. i offer this observation for two reasons. first. thnughtful and full consideration is essential whenever we are asked to enact legislation which carries with it the possibility of heavy criminal penalty. second. this proposal represents an intrusion into a legislative area which has traditionally been reserved to the states. if it is necessary to expand the federal criminal law beyond its present border. it should  be done until full consideration has been given to such an expansion by the appropriate committee.
this is  a select committee. i think what the senator recalls is that the committee on government operations through its investigations subcommittee sought assistance from the committee on rules and administration to undertake a very broadscale investigation of racketeering kickbacks. et cetera. more or less the criminal phases of what might or might  be going on with respect to the teamsters. the instant proceeding relates to the fiduciary standards of erisa. that is. the employment retirement security act. that is the act under which the department of labor is conducting its investigation of the teamsters central states fund. while this investigation has been going on in coordination with the department of justice. the irs. according to the press is supposed to have revoked the tax exempt status of the teamstem central states pension fund. that would be a tremendous blockbuster of an action. because it could involve  only taxes from the pension fund. it could involve taxes from the employers who paid into the pension fund. it could also involve taxes from the employees for whom contributions have been made. we in the course of our legislative oversight over the erisa. that is the statute which essentially came out of our committee. have been supervising. in a sense. the actions of a joint task force of the department of labor and the department of justice which has been looking into this matter. we are conducting a hearing tomorrow in order to receive a status report from this particular task force. so that the public would be apprised of the general scope of work of the task force. yesterday. the news of the purported irs action was widely reported in the press. some reports stated that the chicago office of the irs has confirmed the action. senator williams and i immediately felt that we had to inquire as to what this was all about. and how it affects the work of the task force. we called in the irs authorities. they pointed to a section of the law which prevented them from giving us any information. and also from telling us whether the letter reported in the press had or had  been sent. the law in question is section 6103 of title 26 of the united states code. subdivision d. entitled "inspection by committees." upon review of the law we felt that the best way to handle the situation. was to utilize that provision of the statute which makes an exception for those committees specifically designated by the senate to receive the information in question. we are  asking the senate to give us only egh authority to deal with this particular case. namely. the irs action with respect to the central states pension fund.
. that the outreach to these civilian technicians insofar as they are civilians and the failure of the armed services to take them in. if that is the way they want to deal with them. made a fatal defect in the bill. i hope very much the house of representatives will correct it. i just could . as the ranking member of the labor committee here. in my judgment. take any other position. i realize the votes were very few and in that sense  meaningful to the final enactment of the bill. but the only reason for speakingand one should never explain votesis in this case i hope very much that the house of representatives may consider it as an element of protest as far as i am concerned because i am all against unionization of the military and had fully intended to vote for this bill. but i hope it may be considered a gesture of protest which hopefully may induce them to take a very hard look at this technician question and perhaps make whatever revision in the bill that would be dictated by elementary justice in that regard. i thank the chair.
