. the kind of sabotage that resulted most recently in the loss of 47 inent lives onboard a swissair plane destined for israel. and endangered those on an austrian plane transporting mail to israel. is an outrage and a tragedy. the horror of which needs embellishment. what it portends for the continuing conflict in the middle east. and for the future of world aviation. however. can be understated. it is the responsibility of the international community to take steps to insure that such tragedies do  happen again. this involves more than improving inflight security. it calls for a concerted and firm agreement. making it clear in the most definite terms that all governments of the middle east will be assigned clear responsibility for controlling the activities of individuals and organizations operating in or from their territory. members of the arab guerrilla groups which have undertaken such terrorist activity in the past and are suspected of instigating the latest attacks. can longer remain unclaimed by the governments which have tolerated their actions and issued passports for their travel abroad. the world can allow them to remain aloof from law and justice. neither should israel be penalized for being so victimized. the security of international airlines must be reassessed and improved. but services must be fully reinstated to israel. to do otherwise would be to place a premium on such terror tactics. it would. as the following editorial in the february 24 boston globe states. "contribute to the toleration of murder and the disruption of international travel" by the international community: how to stop sky murders the arab guerrilla sabotage which on feb. 21 destroyed a swiss airliner flying to israel with the loss of 47 lives. and on the same day almost destroyed an austrian plane carrying mail to israel. confronts the civilized world with a challenge that must be met headon. and immediately and decisively. hing could be less convincing than the denial of responsibility issued by an arab guerrilla organization. in the light of both its earlier claim that it had engineered the disaster. and a record of similar guerrilla terrorist attacks that date back to july 23. 1968. when an el al airline plane was hijacked to algiers after taking off from rome. since then. and until last weekends two atrocities. there had been two other attacks on el al planes at airports in athens and zurich with the loss of three lives. two more attacks by grenade on el al offices in brussels and athens with a 2yearold greek boy killed. and still aher attack on el al passengers at the munich airport only last feb. 10 in which an israeli was killed and 11 persons were injured. almost as difficult to understand as these shocking acts of arab guerrilla sabotage has been the reaction of most of europes major airlines in canceling freight and mail deliveries to israel. to be sure. the ban was described as temporary. but it was precisely what the arab terrorists have wanted to achieve by their hideous acts. and can only encourage their repetition once air deliveries have been resumed. also contributing to the toleration of murder and the disruption of international travel was last weeks indefinite postponement by a criminal court in athens of the murder trial of two arabs who attacked an israeli airliner there almost 14 months ago. the answer to these terrorist attacks does  lie in postponing punishment for the culprits or in cutting off air deliveries to israel. rather it lies in the sternest of reaction from all civilized countries. they must apply sanctions against those arab countries which encourage and finance the terrorists. instead of cutting off flights to israel. the international airlines should act jointly to boycott these arab states which are the source of the international murder and piracy in the air and on the ground. hing less than such sanctions can stop these atrocities.
 kennedy said: in the event of aggression or preparation for aggression. whether direct or indirect. we would support appropriate measures in the united nations. adopt other courses of action on our own to prevent or put a stop to such aggression. which. of course. has been the policy which the united states has followed for some time. the united states also has a more specific commitment to free access to israels crucial southern port of elat. on the gulf of aqaba. on february 1. 1957. secretary of state john foster dulles said in an aide memoire to israels foreign minister. abba eban: with respect to the gulf of aqaba and access thereto. the united states believes that the gulf comprehends international waters and that nation has the right to prevent free and inent passage in the gulf and through the straits giving access thereto. we have in mind  only commercial usage. but the passage of pilgrims on religious missions. which should be fully respected. in the absence of some overriding decision to the contrary. as by the international court of justice. the united states. on behalf of vessels of united states registry. is prepared to exercise the right of free and inent passage and to join with others to secure general recognition of this right. i would hope that our government would explore. at the highest possible level with the soviet union. means of helping to defuse the situation while there is yet time. second. i would hope that the mission of the secretary general to cairo will help to reduce tension and to establish what the intentions of cairo might be. in the interim i think it important to state that this is of small moment and that the unef forces and their deployment be watched very closely. and hopefully that the unef deployment at sharm el sheikh will  have to be changed in the near future. it is very clear. i think. that should there be any overt act by the united arab republic interfering with the freedom of shipping and israel ships in the gulf of aqaba. it could result in a very prompt response from israel. i hope the u.n. forces presently at sharm el sheikh commanding the strait of tiran will stay there pending the efforts of the united states. the u.n. and other countries to reduce tensions and to move back toward a more peaceful situation in the near east.
. a serious problem which deserves our immediate attention and that of all law enforcement agencies is auto theft. according to the u.s. department of justice. auto theft is the third most frequently committed felony throughout the nation. following only burglary and grand larceny. moreover. i am informed that in measurable financial loss. auto theft is second only to burglary. according to the federal bureau of investigation and the national automobile theft bureau. half a million cars were stolen in this country in 1965. a 12.5percent increase over the figures reported for 1964. statistics indicate that the number of auto thefts has doubled since 1955. with a continued increase expected by law enforcement officials. the fbi reports indicate the ratio of stolen cars per 100.000 inhabitants of the united states in 1960 was 179.2. in 1965 the ratio increased to 251 per 100.000 people. the increasing problem of auto thefts is particularly disturbing to me because there is already such a high incidence of crime committed within the new york city area. in 1960. according to the fbi. there were 24.325 car thefts in manhattan. in 1962 this figure jumped to 27.366. or 246.4 cars stolen per 100.000 people in the metropolitan area. in 1964 there were 39.638 car thefts in the new york metropolitan area as contrasted with 49.228 thefts that year in all new york state. in other words. in 1964 there were 348.9 cars stolen per 100.000 people in new york city as compared with 274.8 cars stolen per 100.000 inhabitants of new york state. it should be ed that the figures supplied to the federal bureau of investigation for auto thefts prior to 1965 by the new york city police department are considerably less than an accurate reflection of the actual number of stolen cars. commissioner howard r. leary discovered upon assuming duty as the new york city police commissioner on february 22. 1966. considerable inefficiency. and a failure by the new york city police to report all of the auto thefts which had occurred in new york city. thus. the more recent figures. which are the product of commissioner learys commendable institution of a new system of accurately reporting and recording car thefts. indicate that 34.726 cars were stolen in new york city in 1965. moreover. during the first 6 months of 1966. 15.459 auto thefts were reported in manhattan alone. the figures above have been of real concern to law enforcement officials in new york as well as to commissioner joel j. tyler of the new york city department of licenses. and district attorney nat h. hentel of queens. who have been the leaders in the fight to retard the dramatic increase of auto theft in new york city. while experience indicates that most stolen cars are eventually recovered. research shows that the average financial loss for each such recovered car is approximately $200. in addition. millions of dollars are lost each year as a result of stolen cars which are  recovered. statistics from the federal bureau of investigation indicate that more than 60 percent of all auto thefts are committed by youngsters under the age of 18. the alltoofamiliar pattern experienced by law enforcement officials is that of the "joyride." where the car is stolen. used. and then returned or left for the owner or police to find. aside from the serious consequences of an arrest. trial and conviction of our youth. "joyriding" presents a real threat to all those who use the nations streets and highways. the young drivers unfamiliarity with the stolen car. together with his apprehensive state of mind and lack of pride of ownership in the vehicle serve to insure a reckless drive. thereby creating a hazard to inent motorists. aher problem auto theft poses. is that of the theft rings. which are composed of groups of professional thieves. usually adults. generally employing stolen cars to carry out other crimes which they have conceived. by stealing the car used to execute their crimes and then later disposing of the vehicle. criminals are able to reduce the likelihood of being apprehended. one of the ways in which thieves are able to disguise the stolen automobile is to grind the serial numbers off the engine while at the same time repainting the car a different color so that it may be disposed of on the open market. the difficulty with this procedure. however. is that it is time consuming. and time is a precious ingredient to the successful operation of the auto thieves ring. also. it requires technical resources. therefore. a much faster and therefore safer means is generally employed by the professional auto thieves to dispose of their hot cars. the cars are simply shipped. trucked or driven out of the united states to be sold in a foreign country close to the united states. or in many cases. overseas. unfortunately. the federal bureau of investigation has figures or even estimates as to the number of stolen automobiles which are being exported each year. this is so. withstanding the fact that the fbi and justice department have been aware of the increasing problem of stolen vehicles being transported in interstate and foreign commerce for the past several years. this method of disposition of the stolen vehicles is made considerably easier for the thieves primarily because. under present law. there is absolutely requirement that the u.s. customs service make a check to ascertain proof of ownership of any motor vehicle being shipped. flown. trucked. or driven out of the united states.  is it their policy to do so. at present. the u.s. department of commerce. operating under the authority of the export control act of 1949. as amended july 1965. authorizes the customs department under the u.s. treasury. which administers the act. to file an export declaration certificate on quantities of exported goods. this declaration certificate is intended to provide statistical data to the department of commerce regarding amounts and descriptions of goods leaving the country. but in way is concerned with proof of title or ownership of the goods beeing exported. on the contrary. the u.s. department of commerce and the customs department are more concerned with goods coming into the country because of the imposition of u.s. duty on these items. the reason the export control service and customs are generally only concerned with a statistical check on the description and amounts of goods leaving the united states may be found in the purpose of the export control act itself. the export control act expressly provides (50 u.s.c.. pp. 20211032. 63 stat. 7. ch. 11) that it is the purpose of the united states to use export controls to the extent necessary to protect the domestic ecoy from the excessive drain of scare materials and to reduce the inflationary impact of abmal foreign demand. it further provides for export control when necessary to further the foreign policy of the united states or to exercise the necessary viligance over exports from the standpoint of their significance to the national security. it would seem that as long as the customs officials and the export control service under the department of commerce. presently require a declaration for statistical purposes as to the description and quantity of vehicles leaving the united states. they could also seek some evidence of ownership or lawful identification of any motor vehicle or motorcycle under the holders direction or control which is about to be removed from the united states. to require some evidence of ownership or lawful identity in addition to the routine statistical check made by customs officials of those seeking to export vehicles at our borders would be a far less hardship than to continue to allow the felons who steal our motor vehicles and endanger our lives to rapidly and successfully complete their plans by simply removing the stolen vehicles from the country. accordingly. i have today introduced a bill which would provide that it shall be unlawful for any person to transport a motor vehicle or motorcycle out of the united states without first making a satisfactory showing of proof to the secretary of commerce regarding the ownership or lawful identification of the motor vehicle or motorcycle being exported. authority presently exists in most. if  all states in the united states. for law enforcement officials to request. at least upon probable cause. such proof of ownership. moreover. in new york state. as well as in many other states. every person operating a motor vehicle shall upon request of a law enforcement officer produce a certificate of registration for the vehicle being driven. (new york vehicle and traffic law. title iv. art. 14. sec. 401(4).) new york law further provides a sanction of suspension or revocation of the drivers license of any person who prevents lawful identification of any motor vehicle or motorcycle under the holders direction or control. (new york vehicle and traffic law. art. 20. sec. 510 (3) (2).) routine checks made by local and state law enforcement officials continuously turn up stolen cars which may or may  have been reported as stolen. a similar routine check by the federal export control authorities at customs. when crosschecked against lists of reported stolen vehicles. could doubt lead to the discovery of auto thefts and seriously cut down the number of stolen or "hot" vehicles presently being dumped outside the country. aher way in which we can reverse the current climb in the number of auto thefts in the united states is to recognize and stop a new means employed to accomplish this crime which has recently developed with alarming speed. i refer to the fact that thousands of car thieves are aided each year by the use of socalled master keys. master keys are designed to fit some or all makes and models of cars and are usually ordered and sent by their manufacturers through the mail. indiscriminate sale of these keys allows them to fall into the hands of juveniles and professional criminals alike. and are perfect instruments to enable them quietly and quickly to steal a car and to remove its contents or valuable parts. such as engines and radios. without being discovered. new york state senator simon j. liebowitz expressed concern over the growing menace to life and property from auto thefts by the use of master keys during a recent hearing of the u.s. senate subcommittee on executive reorganization on the subject of traffic safety. state senator liebowitz pointed out that inasmuch as these keys are ordered and sent through the mail there is way a single state can effectively prohibit their purchase and receipt by one of its residents. senators jacob k. javits. robert kennedy. and abraham ribicoff have recognized the master key problem as a serious one and have recently introduced in the senate a bill. s. 3176. designed to deal with the problem of master keys. in discussing the master key problem in the july 1955 issue of popular mechanics. senator ribicoff said: while some key manufacturers conscientiously try to confine their sales to legitimate users. others make attempt whatever. and do. in fact. solicit businessby mall and advertisingfrom anyone wholl pay their price. senator ribicoff said the number of auto thefts has jumped 20 percent in the last 2 years and. that if the trend continues. more than a million cars will be stolen every year by 1970one every 30 seconds. with the exception of largescale auto theft operations in which the thieves tow or truck the car away. the majority of automobile thefts are accomplished by starting the engine and driving the vehicle away. the emphasis should be. therefore. upon restricting the ease with which this can be done. by stopping unauthorized master key traffic and usage. and by encouraging manufacturers voluntarily to take steps to improve car design by adding the small items necessary by automobiles being manufactured. and. thereby insuring more theftproof qualities. millions of dollars and numbers of lives could be saved. a simple preventive measure which car manufacturers could adopt would be to place a lock on the hood latch of the automobile and cause it to operate from inside the car rather than continue to manufacture the simple opening devices presently being designed to operate from under the hood on the outside front of most cars. i would strongly urge our nations automobile industry to cooperate in. what i hope will be. a massive national effort to reduce auto thefts. one way in which they could help would be voluntarily to improve the lock mechanisms of the ignitions of the automobiles so that they will be more difficult to pick. aher method would be to make it more difficult to obtain master keys. to accomplish this. i have today introduced legislation which would prohibit the interstate mailing of master keys to all unauthorized individuals or groups by making it a federal offense to use the mails to sell master keys except for legitimate uses. there is a particular need for such legislation in order to take away the incentive which master keys presently provide for teenagers to take joy rides. according to senator ribicoff. the frequency of auto thefts by teenagers runs to 92 percent in some areas. moreover. the national auto theft bureau. which has gone on record as violently opposing the indiscriminate sale of master keys as potential burglar tools. reports that nationwide. more than 60 percent of juvenile crimes are auto thefts. i believe it is imperative that the federal government take action  to come to the aid of local and state law enforcement officials in their struggle to effectively deal with the growing menace of auto theft. a copy of the bill which i have introduced today follows: h.r. 16657 a bill to reduce thefts of motor vehicles by prohibiting the exportation of unidentified motor vehicles. and by prohibiting the unauthorized possession and transmission in interstate commerce of motor vehicle master keys be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled.
. i join the distinguished chairman of the environment and public works committee in opposing this amendment. which would exempt the highway in hawaii from section 4(f) of the department of transportation act. section 4(f) is an extremely important environmental provision. it has been part of our law since 1966. 20 years. what this provision does is it requires that the transportation secretary reject a project. such as a highway. which uses publicly owned land from a public park unlessand there is an escape hatch and the escape hatch is as followsunless there is feasible or prudent alternative to use of such land. this requires an analysis of alternatives which is similar to that which is required under the endangered species act or the water dependency test of section 404. largely because of section 4(f). which is the section we are discussing here. federally funded highways have been planned and built over the past 20 years in such a way as to avoid the unncessary destruction of parks. unnecessary destruction of wildlife refuges. or of recreational areas. these valuable public lands may be destroyed only. and this is the point that we wish to make. when neither a feasible  prudent separate design for routing of a highway can be found. that does  mean you can never go through a park. you can go through a park. but only if there is feasible or prudent alternative to going through. in this case. the park. in the case of interstate h3 in hawaii. the ninth circuit court of appeals held that the department of transportation failed to meet the stringent reqirements of section 4(f) because sufficient consideration was  given to two alternatives. the supreme court upheld this finding in denying certiorl. this is  something that has just come up all of a sudden. this thing has been debated and carefully debated and has gone up to the circuit court and the circuit court said. " you can do that. hawaii. you have to go back and search these prudent alternatives. to see if there is a prudent alternative. and come to us and prove that these alternatives are  the way to do it. in other words. you have  done your homework. absent doing that.  you can go through this park." instead of conducting these alternative analyses the hawaii department of transportation  seeks through the congressthey passed it in the house and they  come to the senateto overturn the courts ruling and to exempt h3 from the provisions of this very important 20yearold statute. it has been pointed out there is massive public support in hawaii for this. i do  doubt that. i suspect there is. here is an $800 million highway that is going to be built and it is going to cut down timeand true it does go through a park. it skirts a park. it is against the law as it  existsit is going to cut down the drive time. that is the way it is in all too many instances. but thank goodness this congress passed 4(f) some years ago and that has protected a host of parks throughout the country and wildlife refuges and recreational areas. thank goodness that is on the books. all we are saying is. "hawaii. abide by the rules. do  try and shortcut. examine these alternatives and see that those are  prudent  feasible." it has been mentioned. "do  worry about the precedent. that is all right. this will  happen again. we will do this and that is the end of it." but i think there is a risk of precedent in dismantling the effectiveness of this statute when aher state has the same situation. they are going to say. "go to the congress. they will fix it up. they will show you a way around this law." so for these reasons and because i think we are all interested in less damaging alternatives. a search for less damaging alternatives as the way to go. as a means of protecting vital national resources. i would hope. as much as i do respect the proponents of this amendment. that it would be rejected.
. i join the distinguished chairman of the environment and public works committee in opposing this amendment. which would exempt the highway in hawaii from section 4(f) of the department of transportation act. section 4(f) is an extremely important environmental provision. it has been part of our law since 1966. 20 years. what this provision does is it requires that the transportation secretary reject a project. such as a highway. which uses publicly owned land from a public park unlessand there is an escape hatch and the escape hatch is as followsunless there is feasible or prudent alternative to use of such land. this requires an analysis of alternatives which is similar to that which is required under the endangered species act or the water dependency test of section 404. largely because of section 4(f). which is the section we are discussing here. federally funded highways have been planned and built over the past 20 years in such a way as to avoid the unncessary destruction of parks. unnecessary destruction of wildlife refuges. or of recreational areas. these valuable public lands may be destroyed only. and this is the point that we wish to make. when neither a feasible  prudent separate design for routing of a highway can be found. that does  mean you can never go through a park. you can go through a park. but only if there is feasible or prudent alternative to going through. in this case. the park. in the case of interstate h3 in hawaii. the ninth circuit court of appeals held that the department of transportation failed to meet the stringent reqirements of section 4(f) because sufficient consideration was  given to two alternatives. the supreme court upheld this finding in denying certiorl. this is  something that has just come up all of a sudden. this thing has been debated and carefully debated and has gone up to the circuit court and the circuit court said. " you can do that. hawaii. you have to go back and search these prudent alternatives. to see if there is a prudent alternative. and come to us and prove that these alternatives are  the way to do it. in other words. you have  done your homework. absent doing that.  you can go through this park." instead of conducting these alternative analyses the hawaii department of transportation  seeks through the congressthey passed it in the house and they  come to the senateto overturn the courts ruling and to exempt h3 from the provisions of this very important 20yearold statute. it has been pointed out there is massive public support in hawaii for this. i do  doubt that. i suspect there is. here is an $800 million highway that is going to be built and it is going to cut down timeand true it does go through a park. it skirts a park. it is against the law as it  existsit is going to cut down the drive time. that is the way it is in all too many instances. but thank goodness this congress passed 4(f) some years ago and that has protected a host of parks throughout the country and wildlife refuges and recreational areas. thank goodness that is on the books. all we are saying is. "hawaii. abide by the rules. do  try and shortcut. examine these alternatives and see that those are  prudent  feasible." it has been mentioned. "do  worry about the precedent. that is all right. this will  happen again. we will do this and that is the end of it." but i think there is a risk of precedent in dismantling the effectiveness of this statute when aher state has the same situation. they are going to say. "go to the congress. they will fix it up. they will show you a way around this law." so for these reasons and because i think we are all interested in less damaging alternatives. a search for less damaging alternatives as the way to go. as a means of protecting vital national resources. i would hope. as much as i do respect the proponents of this amendment. that it would be rejected.
let me finish. that is the first point we want to make clear. the second point. there is some discussion that the kerry amendment is a return to present law. . under the current law. epa has approved plans that require ract only on 100ton or larger sources. under the kerry amendment. epa could  approve a plan unless it controls all sources of vocs or . matter how small. i would call everybodys attentioni do  think they k what is in this amendment. i really do . i can believe that they have brought up this amendment. if you will look on page 51 of the amendment of senator kmmy. it provides that within 12 months of classificationin other words. within a year of an area being classified as serious or above. that that area must implement ract [reasonable available control techogy]. for all sources. all stationary sources. and require them to make a reduction of 80 percent or more. we had a discussion yesterday about doing something about small business. and it was pointed out that to make a reduction in small business below 100 tons. why. the local dry cleaner was going to have to put in equipment that might cost $80.000. under this amendment. they bring them down to 1 pound. i mean there it is. read the language. it is absolutely clear. i wonder if they k what they have in this amendment. they have thrown out the language that we had of a 100ton minimum and 50 tons in severe or other areas. they eliminate that. let me just read the language. "within twelve months of classiflcation"-namely being listed as a serious area-"a revision to require implementation of reasonably available control techogy"-ract as we call it-"for all stationary sources"-there is exception here-"of volatile organic compounds that are  covered." et cetera. "such provision shall require the implementation of such techogy later than two years after classification and. in the case of volatile organic compounds. shall provide that reductions of 80 per centum or more from uncontrolled levels be achieved unless the state determines for a category sources that such level is  techogically or ecoically feasible." in other words. they are meant to go down by 80 percent. . you can squeeze up a little bit if there is some excuse. but all sources are covered. we have  had anything like that in this bill before. i wonder what the national federation of independent businessmen is going to say when they find out about that one. . secondly. about what are we arguing. we are trying to achieve clean air. we have had a system where if a state is  in compliance. the federal government can come in and do the whole plan. epa can. epa has  wanted to do that. frankly. they do  have the manpower to do it. so they have dragged their feet. finally. they can be forced to do it by court suits. but as the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee and the floor manager of this bill has pointed out. never voluntarily since this act has been in effect has epa come in and done a state plan. done a federal implementation plan in place of the state plannever. at some point we are going to realize the system does  work. there have been all kinds of analogies to police departments around here. if there is a problem. just have more of it. that is  the solution. let us step back and look and see what is going to work. under this system that we have proposed in the agreement. we provide what you might call a rifleshot approach rather than just a shotgun approach. just laying down a barrage. what we provide is that epa will come in and levy sanctions on that state unless they come up with its plan. what are we talking about. sanctions. are we talking some slap on the wrist. this has to do with one of the following four sanctions. and these are  little petty measures at all. what are the four sanctions. the highway funding for that state or area must be directed toward enhancing air quality. you can build additional highways. you may be able to work out something where there is ride sharing. parking lots. greater use of single automobile by more people. that is a stiff provision. second. they can. remember. levy a prohibition on drinking water hookups. in other words. you can attach any freshwater to newly built houses. that is what i call a pretty stiff provision. there are  going to be any more outlying suburbs because you can get the hookup with the freshwater. what else. there is a reduction in federal air pollution grantsmore air pollution grants which are. important to carry out the very provisions of this bill. finally. there can be a construction ban. you want a new factory.  you can have it. that factory is going to emit pollutants. and you just can have that factory built. i will tell you. those are stiff provisions. every single one of them. and epa must implement one of those provisions and can implement more if it wants. so that takes care of the first year. the state does  still come into compliance. what happens next. have them submit a plan or a corrected plan. then epa must impose controls that reduce the voc emissions by 3 percent. and they can require them all. and if they do  do this. a citizen can sue. this is  any complicated suit. this is a simple suit. far simpler than a state requiring the federal government to impose a federal plan on the state. so these are provisions that are going to get the job done.  the argument has been presented that cost waivers under the agreement will permit one area to induce business to migrate from a highcost area to aher one because of lesser regulations. well. it is this senators view as one of the chief sponsors of the agreement that took place and delved with this matter that we are concerned with today that a cost waiver can only be granted if the costs are higher than are incurred anywhere else in the country. in other words. you can only give a cost waiver. say. this is too expensiveit is more expensive than elsewhere in the country. anywhere else. i will tell you that is a tough hurdle to get over. so. . i hope this amendment will be rejected. i think it is a setback. i might say it gets states into areas they have never been in before. going down with limitation on pollutant emissions. and the tonnage. that is going to be restricted. we have never had anything like that before. sure we have gone to 100 tons. in some cases to 50 tons. and the states can go in and go to 25 tons or 5 tons in very rare cases. but this mandates it. they have to impose reasonably available control techogy on every single source of pollutants of vocs in the whole state. if that is what people want. i would be very. very surprised. several senators addressed the chair.
. george mitchells accomplishment in thern ireland makes us all very proud of him and proud of american values and ideals. in anncing the good friday agreement. he stated. "it doesnt take courage to shoot a policeman in the back of the head. or to murder an unarmed taxi driver. what takes courage is to compete in the arena of democracy as these men and women are tonight." senator mitchell ks the value of this competition of ideas from his days in this institution. he recognizes that a government which upholds this competition of ideas serves its people best. the people of thern ireland have recognized this basic truth as well. we salute george mitchell. a true statesman who has helped begin the end of one of the worlds most intractable conflicts.
. george mitchells accomplishment in thern ireland makes us all very proud of him and proud of american values and ideals. in anncing the good friday agreement. he stated. "it doesnt take courage to shoot a policeman in the back of the head. or to murder an unarmed taxi driver. what takes courage is to compete in the arena of democracy as these men and women are tonight." senator mitchell ks the value of this competition of ideas from his days in this institution. he recognizes that a government which upholds this competition of ideas serves its people best. the people of thern ireland have recognized this basic truth as well. we salute george mitchell. a true statesman who has helped begin the end of one of the worlds most intractable conflicts.
the senator has every right to be. and so do i. but if we want to see what they are doing. i think it indicates  only mismanagement but close to criminal activity. in 1968. after the merger. penn central lost $2.8 million. but paid its stockholders $54.5 million in dividends. in 1969. the railroad lost $82.8 million. but paid dividends of $43.4 million. i mean. that is just incredible. it obviously is a part of the mess that has been left on the stage for others to clean up. i might add. i think it is a very sad chapter in our private enterprise system. it doer  speak well for that portion of the business community who engaged in that type of activity.
. i do  mind responding to a question. but  we are obviously getting to an argument on busingwhich again. i repeat is  the substance of my amendment my amendment goes to the issue ol whether or  the justice departmen can enforce the 5th or 14th amendment.. to the constitution. the matter of busing which the senator is addressing car properly be addressed in the amendment of the distinguished senator from south carolina. mr. thurmond.
. i rise today in support of a bill to amend the federal aviation act of 1958. i am pleased to cosponsor this legislation. along with senators dole. byrd. and several of my distinguished colleagues. for it serves to correct an injustice that has been wrought against the disabled citizens of our nation. it seems matter how much progress we make to heighten public awareness. and to facilitate the full community integration of persons with disabilities. there are those who work to counteract our efforts. and to set the clocks back to the time when individuals with disabilities were excluded from many enriching aspects of american life. on june 27. the supreme court held in department of transportation versus paralyzed veterans of america. that section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 covers only those entities that actually receive direct federal financial assistance. and that therefore most commercial airlines are  covered by its discrimination provisions. congress intended that section 504 correct discrimination which has kept handicapped individuals from jobs. from education. and from the mainstream of society. one of the specific wrongs it was intended to right was that created by architectural barriers and transportation inaccessibility. yet in dot versus pva. the supreme court limited the accessibility of airlines to handicapped persons. a limitation which we seek to correct with this legislation. the legislation i support today amends the federal aviation act to make clear that air carrier may discriminate against handicapped individuals in the provision of air transportation. the definition of "handicapped individual" used in this bill is based on the widely accepted definition set forth in the rehabilitation act. as the supreme decision was specifically limited to the application of section 504 to commercial airlines. our legislation is similarly limited to the airport and airway system. including air carriers. we read dot versus pva very narrowly. and the legislation we introduce today should  be read in any way to limit the broad interpretation of the reach of section 504. further. since the supreme did  specifically address the application of grove city college versus bell to section 504. neither does this legislation attempt to resolve the issue posed by the grove city decision. we have been given yet aher opportunity to publicly display our commitment to persons with disabilities. and until all branches of our government equally share this commitment. i urge you to join the fight so that we may continue to set the right examples. and distinguish ourselves as a body with an abiding concern for our disabled fellow citizens.
. discrimination of any kind is wrong and goes against the american grain. individuals who practice it must answer to their own conscience. but when institutions that depend on the federal government for support discriminate. the constitution and its guarantees come into play. a generation ago. the civil rights movement forced us to face up to this fact. and as a result. the nation made some important promises. one of them was contained in the civil rights act of 1964. it stated that "person shall. on the ground of race. color or national origin i * * be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance." in subsequent years. this promise was extended to women. by way of title ix of the education amendments of 1972. to the handicapped under section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973. and to the elderly via the age discrimination act of 1975. congress made it plain: there will be government subsidy for discrimination. these pledges. together with the enforcement provisions which provide the statutory teeth. represent our most powerful tools for doing away with a separate and unequal existence for any american. unfortunately. these tools were taken out of our hands in 1984. the supreme court. in the decision grove city college versus bell and later rulings. wrongly interpreted what congress sought to do in these statutes. it determined that the discrimination ban applied merely to the specific program or activity receiving federal money.  the entire organization or entity. although the grove city ruling applied to title ix and education programs. it clearly contracted the scope of coverage of all four laws. the same day the supreme court handed down grove city. it issued consolidated rail corp. versus darrone. a section 504 case involving employment discrimination by a railroad against a disabled worker. in that ruling. the court explicitly held that its narrow interpretation of "program and activity" in grove city applied with full force to section 504. for nearly 4 years . recipients of federal fundshospitals. nursing homes. corporations. local governments. and universitieshave been able to take government money with one hand and discriminate with the other. and they continue to get away with it.
i thank our colleague. court i have thurmond williams zorinsky read the excellent brief prepared in sup voting5 port of the ination of judge bell. abourezk hathaway metcalf i call the attention of the senator from bartlett mcintyre indiana to that portion which deals with so the motion to recommit was re- intelligence operations. accountability jected. and control. beginning on page 1 and (subsequently the following occurred:) extending through page 2 and parts of
 if. in his opinion. that would leave the litigation about which there has been so much discussion here. the socalled case of air transport association et al. against the atchison. topeka & santa fe railroad et al. exactly as it is  pending or about to go to the circuit court of appeals and subject to whatever appeal might be taken to the supreme court of the united states.
this is all very clear. i suggest. . as to the construction of many useful local projects such as port facilities. terminal facilities. city halls. police stations. and so forth. although i would very much find it to be true for the purpose of construction of schools and other specific things. i very much find it to be in the interest of the united states when loans are made abroad in the interest of keeping independent countries free and independent. for the security of this country. even though the things built in the foreign country may be dams. roads. or sewer facilities.
. thousands of rail commuters in thern new jersey have been inconvenienced by the recent curtailments in the erielackawanna railroads intrastate passenger service. . at the state supreme court hearing on a petition to stay the cutbacks. the court indicated there is a serious question as to the justification for the service reductions permitted by the state public utility commission. it was brought out at the high court hearing that the els morris and essex division is an apparent moneymaker which stands to lose revenue under the pucordered cuts. as chief supreme court justice joseph weintraub put it: why reduce the service. if the result is a loss in net revenue to the railroad. why hurt the railroad. it doesnt make sense. indeed it does . the court decision gives the public a new opportunity to make its case against the discontinuances. it also underscores once again how existing rail transportation law is weighted against the public. for years i have worked to change these discriminatory laws which. in the case of interstate rail passenger discontinuances. does  even afford the public the right of a hearing at the federal level. in intrastate cutbacks. such as in the erielackawanna case. the right of a statelevel hearing is given. but the public is severely hampered by the shortness of time4 monthsin which it must prepare and present its case. four months may seem like a long time. but it is hardly sufficient in the circumstances. the chief problem is that the railroad is the prime source of information about its operations and it can provide this information .in the form. detail. and at the time that best suits its needs.  the publics. for example. the erielackawanna filed its application for discontinuance with the state puc last january 5. yet it was  until march 12only a few weeks before the agency ended hearingsthat the railroad had supplied the last of the data on its operations. even with a 7dayaweek effort. the states consultant found that his staff could examine only about half the documents provided by the el. this is hardly a fair opportunity to prepare an adequate case for the public interest. it also places a severe handicap on .the regulatory body which must evaluate a long and complicated record and arrive at a decision within the 4month period. - in an effort to ease the problem facing -the public. last april 14 1 sponsored a bill to amend the interstate commerce act to lengthen the time for public. proceedings.at the state level to from 4 to 6 months. my bill wouldprovide the piiblic.with a more. adequate opportunity to prepare and present its case. the bill was referred to the senate commerce committee which i regret to say has over the years shown little interest in the problems faced by the commuting public. the recent action by the new jersey supreme court contrasts with the attitude of the senate committee and the courts decision could have farreaching consequences as regards existing law and the iights of the commuting public.
. i was told a few minutes ago that there would be an amendment offered by the senator from texas and the senator from new york. that the senator from mississippi felt i should be advised of. with his customary understanding. courtesy. and sense of fairness. . he asked that i be ified. it took me. i expect. 10 to 15 minutes at the most to get over here. at that time. without a quorum call..and without a record vote. the amendment had been adopted. i expect that it would have been adopted whether i had been in this chamber or . it was a most unfortunate reversal of a decision of the senate taken yesterday aftern on my amendment. that is  to suggest that there is anything wrong with expenditures which. by negative implication. the yarboroughjavits amendment sanctions. there is hing wrong. in itself. in spending money for subscriptions to newspapers. for travel back home. and for the other matters specified there. but. on the other hand. there is hing inherently right about it. either. what the amendment will do will slough off and blur the question of whether we should permit sanctions or perhaps have ever sanctionedand the public will  sanction--expenditures in unlimited amounts in what are. really. the public relations operations of a member of the senate. yesterday. we came pretty close to making a decision that these matters should either be real expenses in connection with an office. with the holding of an office. and the performance and the functions of a senator. in which event they should be paid for by the public. or they should be. frankly. recognized as intended to enlarge the image of a senator. his standing with his constituents. and with other possible. wider constituencies. in which event they should be recognized. in effect. as being for that purpose. expenses of the nature implicitly sanctioned by the yarboroughjavits amendment might very well be either of these things. it is  the kind of expenditure. it is the purpose and effect of the expenditure which is involved here. i think it was most unfortunate for the senate to have adopted that amendment because it gets us further away from the time when we all have to recognize it. it is up to the committee on rules and administration. i hope very much it will do this: take up the matter of what it really costs to run a senators office and to allow proper amounts for that purpose. also. to take up the question of what is a proper amount to be spent for a senators public relations and to put limits on that. whether the money comes from contributions. or whether the money comes from his own resources. it is agreed that there is justice and it is  intended to permit a man. whose family may have $100 million or $200 million. to spend any amount for public relations for the purpose of electing a member of that family to public office. i think it is time we met and faced these hard questions in the right way. i am afraid that this amendment is just putting off the time when we come face to face with those problems.
to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate disagrees to the amendment of the house to the bill entitled "an act to promote fair practices in the conduct of election campaigns for federal political offices. and for other purposes". agrees to a conference with the house on the disagreeing votes of the two houses thereon. and appoints mr. pastore. mr. hart. mr. hartke. mr. jordan of th carolina. mr. can. mr. pell. mr. baker. mr. cook. mr. stevens. and mr. scott to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate had passed bills of the following titles. in which the concurrence of the house is requested: s. 1362. an act to authorize the commissioner of the district of columbia to enter into contracts for the payment of the districts equitable portions of the costs of reservoirs on the potomac river and its tributaries. and for other purposes. s. 1367. an act to authorize the commissioner of the district of columbia to lease airspace above and below freeway rightsofway within the district of columbia. and for other purposes. and s. 1975. an act to change the minimum age qualification for serving as a juror in federal courts from 21 years of age to 18 years of age.
i appreciate very much the fact that the gentleman is  going to object and feel he is exercising a statesmanlike attitude by  doing so. i appreciate all of the qualms and reservations he has in mind and i appreciate the thought he has given to this matter. the only thing that has  been said that needs to be said is that this measure does  provide for a crime commission or an authority. it deals with a specific situation that exists upon our docks in new york which is of the most serious character. i think the gentleman from new york. being a new yorker of such long standing. is letting that. the dominant situation on the docks. guide him more than anything else. we are deeply concerned here with the question of trade through our greatest port. the evidence before the new york state crime commission and the new jersey law enforcement council upon the basis of which the measures for regulation of the port were adopted by both states and are the subject of the compact before us. is unmistakable and extremely serious to public order. pilferage. crime generally. corruption. racketeering. nefarious political influence and other evils were disclosed by these hearings. commerce has been suffering and so too have the shipping companies and others concerned with the port as a business. but the greatest sufferers have been the workers themselves who have been confronted with uncertainty in the ability to earn a living. arbitrary hiring and firing and pressure upon every individual to be a party to the iniquities which beset the port. investigation has succeeded investigation since the beginning of greater new york at the turn of the century and e has resulted in real remedial measures such as are before us . under the leadership of gov. thomas e. dewey. of new york. and gov. alfred e. driscoll. of new jersey. and the high patriotic service rendered by the new york state crime commission under the chairmanship of the hoable joseph m. proskauer and the new jersey law enforcement council under the chairmanship of the hoable richard j. congleton. there has finally been a real result and a real opportunity to establish the whole port situation on an hoable foundation. it is real statesmanship that the regulation to be undertaken of the port will treat it as a unit located in two different states and this is an excellent augury for the success of these measures as well as for the best interests of the port. questions have naturally been raised about some features of the proposed regulation. particularly is this true of employee registration but it has been pointed out that seamen who work in generally the same industry. have for a long time been under the necessity of receiving seamens papers from the united states coast guard and therefore of registering. care and solicitude of the rights of the workers gained through collective bargaining has also been assured in the operation of the employment information centers provided for. with a real effort being made to encourage employment on a steady basis of as many dock workers as possible. the point has also been made that the provisions of the regulations with respect to those with records involving a serious crime should nevertheless give opportunity for the constructive rehabilitation which is the pride of our social system. also care has been taken to provide for constant oversight on the operations of the proposed waterfront commission of new york harbor so that at all times there will be progress toward mal business operation and employeremployee relations in the port of new york with a minimum of governmental control or intervention. this is a real landmark in the history of our national trade and commerce and of the port of new york and it is most constructive that the congress shall have a part in bringing it about through approving this compact between the great states of new york and new jersey.
my being apprised of this situation is attributable to two factors. first. i was a member of the committee on the district of columbia before this session of the senate. second. roy chalk. who is a new yorker. has gone to some pains to present to me. because he comes from my state. his side of the case. i. too. like the senator from indiana. can see some justice to the situation. i am well aware of the ardent desire of senators from the states of virginia and maryland to have the compact approved. as the senator from oregon ks. we in new york have had experience with compacts. in fact. we are  having a legal problem concerning the extent to which congress may or may . through the house of representatives investigate the port of new york authority. all that that shows. whatever may be the merits or demerits of that particular situation. is that at least compacts are very difficult to handle properly. all of us are deeply interested in metropolitan transportation. we believe that the establishment of a metropolitan authority is a highly desirable step in terms of the whole metropolitan area. many problems and difficulties arise and it is necessary to accommodate to the strains and stresses of the situation before such compacts are entered into. i am glad to see that the senators amendment is  so strong and stiff as was proposed in the first instance. i think it is much more equitable to have. at least. a standoff. if the parties can agree. on the part of the district of columbia and of the states of maryland and virginia. i think the amendment commends itself. according to the statement. the state legislatures moved in this matter with considerable celerity. there were  overly extended hearings. therefore. the proponents of the compact might find that the senators solution. which is a reduced solution. proposed by the operator of the d.c. transit system. would create a climate. when they enter into it. which would be most propitious for the success of the commission. i believe the senator from indiana has put his finger on the point. ordinarily speaking. the district of columbia is a city. maryland and virginia are states. as the senator from indiana has pointed out quite properly. the district of columbia is the seat of the federal government. it is the hard core of the whole metropolitan system. therefore. it is entitled to unique consideration. there is only one seat of the federal government in the united states. my purpose in interrupting the senator from oregon is to state to the senate the reason for my interest. and to express the hope that in the interest of comity. in the interest of starting the commission under the most auspicious possible circumstances. senators from the states concerned might themselves think it were appropriate to start the commission most auspiciously and to accept the senators amendment withstanding that the formal steps of ratification by the respective state legislatures might be delayed.
 the senator from new york will . because he does  think it is fair or just to the people involved. the senator from florida may offer the amendment. he has as much right to offer the amendment as i have. but the senator from new york. in justice to the people he is trying to protect. thinks it would represent a diminution of equity. the people would receive absolutely consideration under the amendment suggested by the senator. i am trying to present an analogy between people who are displaced by highway construction and those displaced by urban renewal. and i am trying to assure them equivalent treatment. so far as i am. concerned. i must maintain the integrity of my own position. therefore. i can accept the amendment
madam president i wish to develop with the senator from oklahoma the situation on aher matter which has been of great interest to me. i gave ice yesterday i would go into it. this matter concerns the fact that a great many airports in the southern part of the nation are segregated on the ground of color. and that. by whatever strategem this design is carried through. it etheless remains the fact that international travelers and interstate travelers are deeply offended by a situation of this character in our own country. withstanding all of our federal laws and everything we have been able to do on the federal level so far. i ice the tempest which has been stirred up in new york by an alleged assault by a policeman on a diplomat from one of the new african countries. madam president. this is so unusual. because it rarely happens in new york. but in the airport situation. we have a builtin. accepted pattern of segregation. withstanding all the laws that we apparently have on the books relating to airports of the country. we can do something about it. madam president. it is my deep conviction that the government agencies concerned can do something about it. including the faa. with which we are dealing today in this measure. which gives it the money to help build airports. i say the agency can do something about it. and i say it can be done very specifically. because the law today is completely adequate to enable a vigorous administration in the faa. and through the white house. to put an end to airport segregation. may i repeat that new law is necessary one line. the faa itself. with the backing of the president. can eliminate segregation in the airports of the south. that is the reason why there is need for me to submit at this time an amendment to the bill. the law is complete on the subject. the point is. it is  being effectively administered. i have in my hand a letter from the faa which is only 1 day old. sent to me on august 31. 1961. at my request. which makes that fact crystal clear. why do i say that the law is adequate. let me refer to section 11 of the federal airport act. which provides as follows: as a condition precedent to his approval of a project under this chapter. the administrator shall receive assurance in writing satisfactory to him that the airport to which the project relates will be available for public use on fair and reasonable terms and without unjust discrimination. if that were  egh. we have section 404 of the federal aviation act of 1958. which reads as follows. and i invite members of the senate to follow the reading of this section closely. because section 404 is exactly the same provision as is contained in the law which covers railroad or bus terminals. about which the supreme court has just ruled in a case. in so many words. which i shall refer to. bear in mind that the provision i shall read is precisely in the same terms: air carrier or foreign air carrier shall make. give. or cause any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to any particular person. port. locality. or description of traffic in air transportation in any respect whatsoever or subject any particular person. port. locality. or description of traffic in air transportation to any unjust discrimination or any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever. madam president. precisely upon this particular provision. in exactly these words. the supreme court of the united states. in the case of boynton against virginia. decided in october 1960. reversed the supreme court of virginia and held that segregation was prohibitable in every one of the bus terminals. exactly as it should be in every one of the airport terminals. the icc is  moving into this area. hearings are being held. and the icc is going to invoke criminal sanctions. as should have been done years ago. the boynton case certainly made clear. with respect to the operation of bus terminals. that the operation of the terminal related to any part of it. and that included the restaurant or the restroom. as it does in an airline terminal. it is made very clear that is one and the same entity for the carrier or owner of the airport. in toto. including the runways. and so on. the mere fact that the restaurant or the restroom is part of a general system of transportation makes it susceptible to precisely the law i have read. etheless. despite that. there is still segregation in our airports. when we argued this question with respect to the appropriation bill. i had the rightindeed. the needto offer an amendment. because i was trying to cut off the money. since the federal agency was . in my opinion. enforcing the law. when that was argued i was told. "we have made contracts. we have to go through with those contracts. that is fundamental to our jurisprudence. we should go through with those contracts."
. i wish to invite the attention of senators to an extraordinarily important ruling by the u.s. supreme court which. by a tie vote. sustained a judgment by the federal court in boston eliminating the preferential rates for traffic from the west. primarily from the middle west. which had been enjoyed for approximately 80 years by the ports of baltimore. philadelphia. and hampton roads or folk. that had resulted in making higher the freight rates. and therefore the costs to consumers. than they had any right to be on a competitive basis for shippers who chose to use the port of new york. it is a differential that dates back to 1877. it required about a decade of legal struggle. very heavily engaged in by the port authority of both new york and new jersey. in order to win this battle in the supreme court. the decision represents a victory for fair competition. it represents a recognition of the fact that the new york port has lost very unfairly a major amount of its traffic to other ports. for example. the percentage of the nations imports and exports handled in the port of new york has shrunk from 33.8 percent in 1953 to 20.4 percent. a drop of more than onethird. i believe that the whole country has a deep interest in the fact that we should go back to the path of more. effective competition. so far as the railroads and great installations like ports are concerned. the supreme court has  helped us to do that. the way will be cleared for the thern railroads. such as the new york central and others. to reduce their rates to the level of southern companies. incidentally. that is something they have been trying to do for years and have been prevented from doing by the differential kept in effect by the interstate commerce commission. a differential which has  been held to be unlawful. the decision is a real landmark in the ecoic history of our country. i hail the supreme court. and especially hail those who fought the battle so valiantly under the leadership of the port authority and the thern railroads. incidentally. the effort was characterized by what i understand to have been an unusually brilliant presentation by former gov. thomas e. dewey before the u.s. supreme court. special counsel of the state of new york. the new york central railroad. and the port authority. our state has every reason to be proud of having waged the fight successfully. the decision will be of great appeal to new york. but even more so to the country. as establishing the idea of competition. proposed legislation is  pending to help the railroads by allowing them to become competitive. the supreme courtas. for example. it has done in the civil rights caseshas shown that it ks how to take the lead in that regard where the law will allow it to do so. we would be very wise to follow up on that subject in the congress. the best prescription for the railroads is to let them streamline and become competitive. if it takes government help in order to allow them to do thatfor example. in dealing with their employees whose jobs may have become obsolescenti am all for giving it. this is the most effective prescription of which i k for the maintenance of the private enterprise system. again i hail the supreme court. our state. and other agencies engaged in that great and successful fight. i ask unanimous consent that newspaper articles reporting the decision be printed at this point in the record.
 and i urgently request the attention of the senators who have asked these questions. because i believe this amendment is demonstrably. unsound on its face. i believe i can demonstrate that to the senate. the senator from new hampshire and the senator from kentucky have just developed. in a colloquy. that anything that creates a presumption in law with respect to a criminal act will  stand up under the constitution. i beg my colleagues to read from line 25 on page 2 to line 2 on page 3. it reads as follows: * * * at any place within the united states. and at any time within 15 days after (1) his travel ... if we look at what has been left in and if we accept that amendment. we say that is prima facie proof that the defendant has violated this law and is subject to a fine of $10.000 and imprisonment for up to 5 years.
. we come to the broomfield amendment. which was finally compromised as between the two bodies. and here again we have an absolutely flat. automatic stay of any order until appeals have been exhausted. at least. if you take the language for what the house sponsors say it meansand i will discuss that in a momentyou have an automatic stay for 18 months of any lower court order which would seek either to transfer or to transport students in respect of what again i say the amendments house sponsors claim is an effort to desegregate in order to comply with the constitution. i might point out that that is exactly the point made this morning in the colloquy between senator pell and the senator from tennessee. i can understand perfectly why the senator from tennessee would expect that the interpretation put upon this provision by the members of the other body would be the interpretation which he would expect to be carried out.
 is obligated to spend money which we have appropriated for specific purposes. i have supported s. 373 and i continue to support because the congress needs a mechanism whereby it can prohibit impoundments across a wide variety of programs without the necessity of court action in particular areas. however. i would like to point out that the courts over the last year have ruled that specific impoundments and terminations are illegal and have clearly shown that when congress says that it wants funds obligated and spent that is the law. on june 19. 1972. judge becker of the u.s. district court for the western district of missouri in the case of state highway commission of missouri against volpe ruled that the secretary of transportation had authority to withhold highway funds under the federalaid highway act and issued an injunction prohibiting such action. the judgment was based on section 101(c) of title 23 united states code which provided as follows: "(c) it is the sense of congress that under existing law part of any sums authorized to be appropriated for expenditure upon any federalaid system which has been apportioned pursuant to the provisions of this title shall be impounded or withheld from obligation. for purposes and projects as provided in this title. by any officer or employee in the executive branch of the federal government. except such specific sums as may be determined by the secretary of the treasury. after consultation with the secretary of transportation. are necessary to be withheld from obligation for specific periods of time to assure that sufficient amounts will be available in the highway trust fund to defray the expenditures which will be required to be made from such fund." the decision in the volpe case was upheld by the u.s. court of appeals for the eighth circuit on april 2. 1973. in aher case local 2677. the american federation of government employees et al. against phillips. decided april 11. 1973. judge jones of the u.s. district court for the district of columbia. ruled that howard phillips. the acting director of oeo could  take any further action which went toward the termination. abolition or dissolution of oeo or the community action agencies. this case was decided on the basis of the wording of the ecoic opportunity amendment of 1972 which showed the congressional intent to continue oeo and community action at least through june 30. 1974. the fact that money had  yet been appropriated for these activities for fiscal 1974 was  held to justify termination of the agency in the face of express language in the authorization law. finally on tuesday may 8. 1973 in the case of city of new york against ruckelshaus. judge gasch of the u.s. district court for the district of columbia ruled that the full amounts under the federal water pollution act of 1972 for sewage treatment facilities must be allotted in accordance with the congressional intent. from these cases it is evident that when congress intends that funds shall be spent or programs carried out. the courts will enforce that mandate. however. this bill will give us a chance to deal with this problem under a well regulated procedure and it should owe a more useful purpose. i ask unanimous consent that copies of these decisions be placed in the record.
. in recent yearsand particularly since both the devastating bombing at laguardia airport in 1975. and the tragic death of my former assistant hal rosenthal in a terrorist attack at istanbul airport in 1976i have been concerned about the growing problem of international terrorism. during the past decade alone. thousands of men. women. and children have been killed and maimed by international terrorists. civilized and conscientious governments have spent scores of millions of dollars to protect lives and property. including an extraordinary investment by the u.s. government and private u.s. industryparticularly the airline industry. we must continue to take every precaution and every measure necessary to suppress terrorist violence. an unclassified research study of the central intelligence agency. released last year. entitled: "international and transnational terrorism: diagis and progis concluded: the phee of widespread internationalized terror is  only likely to persist for at least the next several years. but also to evolve in ways that could pose a more substantial threat to u.s. interests. in december 1977. the federal bureau of alcohol. tobacco. and firearms reported that criminal bombings and other explosive incidents rose to record highs. year end explosives statistics showed 1.339 criminal bombings reported during 1977. an 11.8 percent increase over 1976s. 1.198 during 1977. 112 deaths and 298 injuries were attributed to criminal bombings and accidental explosions. compared to 73 deaths and 272 injuries in 1976. atf director rex d. davis said he was "deeply concerned" about these upward trends. while comprehensive study is being given to all aspects of federal antiterrorism policy in hearings being held this week in the governmental affairs committee. i believe my amendment addresses a significant gap in current federal criminal law. it would provide yet aher federal weapon and deterrent against explosives offenses at u.s. airports. at precisely the time when we are asking nations around the world to strengthen their own airport security. we likewise must do everything possible to give federal law enforcement agencies. the faa. the airline industry. airport operators. and the traveling public every advantage in preventing and detecting such violations. i hope very much that the managers of the bill will look favorably upon this amendment.
