 john f. kennedy in 1961. today. volunteers are providing assistance to developing nations around the world. working to find ways to address huge global challenges such as the need for hiv/aids prevention. and are embarking on other missions to further our diplomatic goals across the globe. i also applaud the domestic efforts of the crisis corps volunteers. in their assistance with relief in regions damaged by hurricane katrina. members of this special unit of peace corp volunteers were also deployed to sri lanka and thailand to assist with rebuilding tsunamidevastated areas. today. i am proud to ho 27 rhode islanders currently serving in the peace corps. i wish them. the very best in all their endeavors und i thank them for their service to our country in this important time in history. their names are as follows: catherine m. alexander. courtney e. briar. anthony j. cabral. mayerlin caridad mejia. rebecca l. champlin. caroline c. cutting. jennifer s. doo. shayne e. doyle. catherine farrell. amanda h. fogledonmoyer. heron e. greenesmith. geoffrey l. jones. jesse b. joseph. anna d. karolyshyn. maria k. kasparian. christopher a. kelley. caroline n. klein. marie a. kobayashi. mark a. lange. andrew j. moulton. leana a. dstrom. david m. reyds. ralph w. riccio. christi m. turner. evan r. usler. deborah l. vittner. and erica k. zaiser.
 john f. kennedy in 1961. today. volunteers are providing assistance to developing nations around the world. working to find ways to address huge global challenges such as the need for hiv/aids prevention. and are embarking on other missions to further our diplomatic goals across the globe. i also applaud the domestic efforts of the crisis corps volunteers. in their assistance with relief in regions damaged by hurricane katrina. members of this special unit of peace corp volunteers were also deployed to sri lanka and thailand to assist with rebuilding tsunamidevastated areas. today. i am proud to ho 27 rhode islanders currently serving in the peace corps. i wish them. the very best in all their endeavors und i thank them for their service to our country in this important time in history. their names are as follows: catherine m. alexander. courtney e. briar. anthony j. cabral. mayerlin caridad mejia. rebecca l. champlin. caroline c. cutting. jennifer s. doo. shayne e. doyle. catherine farrell. amanda h. fogledonmoyer. heron e. greenesmith. geoffrey l. jones. jesse b. joseph. anna d. karolyshyn. maria k. kasparian. christopher a. kelley. caroline n. klein. marie a. kobayashi. mark a. lange. andrew j. moulton. leana a. dstrom. david m. reyds. ralph w. riccio. christi m. turner. evan r. usler. deborah l. vittner. and erica k. zaiser.
. however. it was the judgment of the committee that contributions to two prominent latin american organizationsthe organization of american states and the pan american health organization should  be deferred. the full amount of our assessment for these two organizations is included in the bill. it is the judgment of the committee that the withholding of payment of our obligations for these organizations might call into question our commitment to this important area of the world. i ask unanimous consent that a table indicating the amount provided for each international organization be printed at this point in the record.
this differs from. say. a medical scholarship. where the medical student. after graduation. would have to spend x number of years in the military service. in this case. a pool of foreign service people would be created. and they may or may . depending upon the availability of jobs. come into the foreign service even after they have received education totally at the expense of the federal government.
. i call the attention of the senate to a most important address by the chairman of the first national city bank of new york. george s. moore. at the 72d annual meeting of the national association of manufacturers. in which he described his views. as the executive head of the third largest bank in the united states. on the critical danger which we face  with respect to the international monetary situation rising out of the raid on gold. the threat to the dollar. the devaluation of the british pound. he expressed the strong feeling that many of us have in mind that action--domestically and in the international sphereis essential and eminently required at this time. he urges that those steps be taken in the interest of our nation and of the ecoic health of the world. and be taken without delay. i commend the reading of this address to all of my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article from the new york times this morning concerning this address as well as the full text of mr. moores remarks.
. if i might be permitted to answer that question. i think the issue depends entirely on the security of the united states and the forces of the united states. the united states did have a commitment with respect to israel in regard to the 1957 settlement. three powers were involved. the united states. the united kingdom. and france. who gave assurance that the borders would  be changed. that may have been even earlier. however. since that time it has been said authoritatively and generally that those assurances given have become obsolescent. because of the passage of time. i do  believe that the israelis would invoke any such assurances. i think there is grave doubt that it is viable in terms of diplomatic agreement. thus. i think that we can leave out the question of obligation based on a commitment or assurance of old standing. the question becomes a matter of the security and the interest of this country. in my judgment that simply can be decided until one sees the capability of israel to defend itself. until one sees the jeopardy. if any. to the u.s. fleet in the mediterranean and the thrust. extent and intent of any soviet effort. i do  believe we can lay down any such prescription in advance. i believe if we tried to do that. it would only make more difficult the settlement of the conflict in the mideast and commit the united states to a job to which it should  be committed. this is a suggestion that the fine amendment of the senator from washington has certainly implemented. to give israela very heroic people who have shown every effort to defend themselves -an opportunity. if any effort is made to snuff out the life of israel. the united states will have to determine its policy based on the situation in the light of the facts at that timein my judgment it can be done in advance. it may very well also involve action by the united nations. which would include israel. in view of the fact that israel is really a creature of the united nations. again. under the united nations charter and under our other treaty obligations. we have. according to our constitutional process. the right to decide what we will do about using armed forces of the united states. in summary. i might say to my colleague from vermont that i do  believe it is desirable or necessary to make any commitment with respect to the reaction of the united states in advance.
exactly right. and the commission reported also exactly the corollary to the 25 percent it wantednamely an increase in the u.s. voluntary contributions. the exact words of the commission were: with respect to multilateral instrumentalities for international assistance. the commission recommends that the united states increase its contribution ... for example. to the biggest one. the u.n. development program. the administration asked for $100 million. the commission recommended $200 million. and so on down the line. . . i heard with great interest what the senator from colorado said about the u.n. fund for drug abuse control. by the way. we contribute  98 percent. but 78 percent to that. but be that as it may. he said there are lots of other nations that are heavily impacted by drugs. sense. we are the nation most heavily impacted by drugs in this world. i wish and pray there were other nations so heavily impacted. great britain. with 55 million people. has 3.000 addicts. the united states. with 200 million people. has an estimated 300.000 addicts. and where are they. half of them. at least. are in the greatest city in the country. which is being strangled and brought to its knees by narcotics. what would we  pay. above the $2 million recommended. we would gladly pay $200 million. or $2 billion. if we could thereby eliminate the drug traffic. i understand my friends. i have quarrel with their intentions or their purposes. i k how they feel about foreign aid and have for years. but i hope there is a residual of what senator aiken so aptly and feelingly called decency left among us. and that in our contributions to these voluntary organizations we will  tie them to the standard of participation in u.n. administration. but that we will tie them to the decent. humanitarian instincts in ourselves and the rest of the world. and that we will resist the temptation. as we did last night. to legislate out of resentment. petulence. or anger. i hope the senate rejects the amendment.
i hope very much that members may be helped by this reading because it represents the first stepi beyond the staff and questionnaires of a study which the government operations committee. of which i am a member. has undertaken. of some 73 international organizations to which the united states adheres. with a view toward determining their efficiency. the way in which they are being run. our contribution. and the value of that contribution. and other comparable questions. by the way. i was very pleased with the assistance of ambassador dale. who was about to retire from his post in geneva as our ambassador to all these organizations as well as other members of his staff. during a recess of the senate for the democratic convention. in my capacity as a member of the foreign relations committee. i visited geneva. rome. and madrid. my trip to geneva was for the purpose of visiting the headquarters of four international agencies as an element in the beginning of the study of united states participating in international organizations being conducted by the government operations committee. my visits to rome and madrid were undertaken in connection with my responsibilities as a member of the foreign relations committee. out of personal. political conviction. i never visited spain during the many years of the franco regime. despite the fact that i have frequently worked in western europe on congressional affairs during the 30 years since my first election in 1946 as a member of the house of representatives. i was actively involved in the senates recent consideration of the spanish bases treaty and i was favorably impressed with king juan carlos during his recent visit to the united states. i was. thus. prompted to visit spain under the new political conditions there. and in view of my belief that there is  developing an important new opportunity for spain to achieve membership in two of the international institutions of the western democraciesnato and the european ecoic communityeec. my decision to visit rome was prompted by my interest in. and concern over. the unsettled political and ecoic conditions of italya nation with especially close ties to the united statesand a key member of nato and the european ecoic community. whose wellbeing is important to the security and prosperity of the west. generally. and of the united states. geneva a detailed report on the organizations which i visited is attached as annex a. i was in geneva on july 5 and 6. during that time. in addition to extensive briefings from ambassador dale and his staff respecting u.s. participation in the major international organizations headquartered there. i visited the headquarters of the general agreement on tariff and trade. gatt. the international labor organization. ilo. the world health organization. who. and the united nations fund for drug abuse control. unfdac. my discussions were with gatt deputy .director general gardiner patterson. and. at the ilo headquarters. with deputy director general mcdonald and legal adviser wolf. at the who headquarters. i met with acting director general rivero and dr. flache and mr. furth. at the unfdac headquarters. i met with unfdac executive director debeus. in addition. i attended a working lunch on july 5. hosted by ambassador dale. the participants included mr. mcdonald. ilo. mr. furth. who. mr. patterson. gatt. and mr. wellman. unfdac. during my discussions in geneva and my calls at the headquarters of the various international agencies there. i obtained a great deal of information and material which i am submitting to the government operations committee for use in preparation of the committees study. in this interim report to the senate. i shall confine myself to preliminary and general impressions. upon senator ribicoffs return from visiting several of these organizations later this month. a more comprehensive report will be filed in the senate. i also wish to report that while in rome. i took the occasion to meet with high officials of three international agencies which are headquartered in rome. in this connection. i met with dr. edward saouma. director general of the food and agriculture organization. fao. tom robinson. executive director of the world food program. wfo. and harry walters. assistant executive director of the world food council. wfc. as my inquiries on international agencies on this trip were primarily from the viewpoint of the study of some 73 such organizations being undertaken by the government operations committee of u.s. participation in those agencies. the central focus of my discussions. and my preliminary remarks concern the efficiency and efficacy of those agencies as i was able to observe them from the perspective of the value of continuing participation by the united states. and the equity of our share of their support. gatt
. on behalf of myself and 11 cosponsors i am today submitting a concurrent resolution. and will ask for its immediate consideration. requesting that the united states join with other nations and international organizations and with public and private groups to help alleviate the suffering that has befallen the romanian people as a result of the recent. disastrous earthquake they have experienced. this calamity. according to recent reports. has claimed over 1.387 lives in bucharest alone. some of romanias most outstanding writers and artists were killed by the earthquake. as of march 10. 10.500 people were counted among the injured. and more than 7.000 romanian families had been made homeless. in addition. some 20.000 housing units had collapsed or sustained serious damage. the countrys ecoic losses have been severe and probably will exceed $1 billion. despite this blow. the romanian people already have demonstrated their resilience and resolve. i hope that. with our continued assistance and that of many nations. should that prove necessary. those that hav6 survived this terrible event will overcome the losses they have sustained. together with other nations. international organizations. and private groups. the united states has taken steps to aid romania. i feel a great sense of sorrow for the romanian people and am certain that the american people. through our federal government and private organizations. will continue to do all that is within our power to ease the suffering in romania. the united states always has come to the assistance of those who have been the unfortunate victims of natural disasters. this is a fine tradition. and one of which we all can be proud. the u.s. government has sent a plane loaded with medical supplies to romania. and a team of structural engineers and seismologists has been dispatched to help analyze the effects of the earthquake and the likelihood of additional major tremors. the preparation of a large shipment of powdered milk is about to be completed and should reach romania by the end of this month. additional assistance to romania has come from a large number of countries including austria. belgium. bulgaria. canada. denmark. france. the german federal republic. east germany. greece. italy. jordan. the netherlands. way. switzerland. and the united kingdom. the united nations relief and disaster office and the united nations international childrens emergency fund have donated $20.000 and $25.000 respectively to romania. offers of assistance also have come from various private organizations throughout the world such as the red cross societies of the united states. belgium. canada. and several other countries. caritas. world vision. oxfam. and the seventh day adventists. money. food. field hospitals. ambulances. medical supplies. and even the services of rescue dogs have been contributed by the international community. i have cleared the resolution with the distinguished majority leader and with the distinguished miity leader. i ask unanimous consent for its immediate consideration.
