why have we forced ourselves into a position of having to consider cutting funds for the sick but  egh of an increase to even pay for the same number of research grants as in 1987. do you .want to k how bad the problem is. let me give you two institutes that most people do  talk about: the institute on aging and the child care institute. everybody goes around saying: i am for the elderly. i am for the elderly. protect our senior citizens. we k that the over85 population is going to double by the year 2000 and the over 65 by the year 2010. and what have we done about it. hing. about two or three medical schools in the united states of america have courses in geriatric training for young physicians. that is out of 142. so you are  going to have the personnel. we have a small amount in this budget to encourage geriatric training for physicians. so we will have an adequate corps of men and women to help this everincreasingly graying nation. but the budget for the institute of the aging is only a miniscule amount considering the problems ahead. i k what is going to happen. in the year 2000 when we are confronted with the various ailments and problems of growing old. we will scramble. oh. there will  be egh money out here then. we will shovel it out by the bucketload. there are certain things you just can catch up on by shoveling the money out. one of -them is science and research. that has to be consistent over a long period of time. what are you going to do. take some more money out of. the institute for the aging. for instance. take the money out of the institute for the aging. but always vote for social security and you are all right. i think it is great to get a social security check. but if there is quality of life. either in terms of your health or in terms of being warm in the wintertime. i suggest to you that the social security check is really  affording the level of life that any of us can be proud of in this nation. how about the institute for children and child care. child care. child development. that is aher institute in the national institutes of health. this is a great nation. you always say. you k. we are supposed to live for our children. what are you going to do. take the money out of the child care institute to pay for lowincome energy assistance. is that what you want. i have  even gotten into the big killers: heart disease. cancer. the crippiers such as arthritis. diabetes. never mind all the various afflictions that are the daytoday job of the national institutes of health. some big. some small. such as for kids with the skin peeling off their faces. epidermolysis bullosa. there are only a few hundred of them in the united states but the work goes on at the national institutes of health. are you going to go ahead and cut that research to fund this program. . or brittle bone disease. these are .only a few. hundred out there. but the one institution that cares is the national institutes of health. how about all of you that gave through the muscular dystrophy campaigns and telethons. cystic fibrosis campaigns and telethons. that is a great volunteer effort. but. believe me. the principal effort is at the national institutes of health. so. all of these budgets. as i said before. are below 1987. are we going to cut them a little bit more. . community health centers are frozen at the same level they have been frozen at for years. maternal and child health services received the first increase in funding it has received in years. do you realize how bad our statistics are on infant mortality in this nation. i might add. two of the five highest cities in the most affluent of cities. hartford and new haven. are among the highest in infant mortality. why. because of the cutbacks that have occurred. the first time a doctor sees a baby is when that woman is wheeled into the hospital in labor. for those of us who are  touched in the human sense. let me point this out to you: just compare the cost of a low birthweight baby to that of a healthy baby. it is  a question that there is  a price to be paid. there is an emous price to be paid. and i suggest we start paying some of these prices up front to avoid the resultant costs that come later down the line. never mind the tragedy of this emously high infant mortality rate among this most affluent. civilized of .nations. special education programs are funded below their authorized levels and well below the federal contribution congress committed in public law 94142. the landmark legislation that guaranteed a free and appropriate education to all handicapped children. do you k what congress promised when we passed that law. it promised that we. the federal government. would take care of 40 percent of the cost. that is what we told all the states who have to do the educating. forty percent. do you k what our present level is. it is 8 percent. that law has been on the books  for 11 years and we are at about 7 or 8 percent of the cost. we said it was going to be 40 percent. what do you suggest we do. take some money from there. a little 1 percent cut and go 1 percent further down. how about vocational and rehabilitation programs for the disabled. i could go on and on as to what it is that we have done or have  done relative to these elements of our society. but then i hear the suggestion. "let us have lowincome energy assistance and let us go right across the board. let us peel off i or 2 percent. whatever is required." instead of saying that the poor of the nation are as important as all the rest of the people that i have been talking about. we have gotten a lot of communica.tion over the years as to what it is the federal government should or should  do. and there are a lot of people who have done so well by themselves they forget to look behind.i suggest to you that it is good government that anticipates rather than reacts to crises. especially since we are here with a great bunch of fiscal managers. how in heavens name can they be satisfied when they k as a matter of common sense and- reading the paper every day as to what is happening in energy prices. with the budgetary exercise that puts this program. insofar as the paperwork is concerned. in a position where it can work. it can work. i suppose the other point is. "do  worry. senator. we will do this on a supplemental. a little emergency funding. let us use what we have and then cover it with the supplemental." that is  good egh. either. in light of what confronts us both as to the people who need the energy assistance and in terms of the oil. crisis. our job is to be out front of the issue. i have tried to describe up front how i plan to come at it. the amendment calls for the same funding as. last year. and then obviously i have to ask for a budget waiver on which we will have the yeas and nays. that is a pretty dif_.ficult task. i need 60 votes. i do  need 51. i need 60 votes for that budget waiver. but. look. this is  anything to filbuster about. this is something for us to stand up and get counted on in terms of what our national priorities are. i am proud to raise it. i do  have anything up my sleeve. i k some of the people who are on the same side as i am fighting for. who say. "senator. you better  go out there. you will get beaten." i do  k whether i will get beaten or . maybe some of the words i have spoken might stir up egh votes to get this through. but i k that all of us who sponsor this amendment k that we are right. i do  have any more maneuvers or tricks up my sleeve. this is it. this is it. this is the point of return when the entire u.s. senate gets counted. and if it does  get counted or it goes down in defeat obviously the whole program is in jeopardy. . i.am  arguing. as i said before. just for the people of the state of connecticut. but rather for the states who will be affected. i want to say one more word. people will say. "let us use the exon money from the lawsuit." those in connecticut have used their money for lowincome energy assistance. we are one of the highest in the nation using that money  for anything else but lowincome energy assistance. but it is  egh to go ahead and do the job for the entire nation. therefore. i offer this amendment in the style in which it is presented. i hope e of my colleagues will press me to the point of having to be for this program but at the expense of the young. of the elderly. the sick. whoever. let us do it up or down and i will take my chances on the budget waiver
