 roosevelt suggested was good for good americans to follow. these treaties do touch on themes that stir our memories. i recall that my own response to the canal goes back to 1921. when. as an ordinary seaman. in my freshman year. on vacation from college. i went through the canal on a lumber boat from new york. the old bush terminal. up to vancouver. i recall the great thrill that one feels. after a couple of weeks of sailing and seeing hing. to see the canal. with the american flag flying over it. it is a very striking and touching thing. i do  in any way belittle feelings of that sort that people have. i think they are good feelings. little did i think. when i went through the canal that first time. or later as a tourist. that it was going to stir such a controversy in my lifetime. i just thought it was a fixed thing. it was ours. i understand that feeling. yet. talgia is  the most useful framework through which to view the treaties. at the same time. we who support the treaties as well as those who oppose them should take into account the psychological aspects of this dispute. it would be a mistake for those of us who support the treaties to dismiss the oppositioni do  think any of us really doas emotionalism or some sort of outdated chauvinism. my office. as i am sure every other office in the senate. has had thousands of letters and postcards and telegrams. communications of all sorts. from those who oppose the treaties. some of that is organized. admittedly. some of it may be illinformed. in fact. the barrage started even before the treaties were signed and published. but the concern can be dismissed on any grounds such as that. there are real and deep concerns beneath the opposition. and they should be addressed. the foreign relations committee. as our chairman has told the senate. held extensive hearings here. and a number of us made trips to panama. we have been criticized as doing this a little too often. i do  think that criticism is very well justified. i would much prefer  having taken the 2 or 3 days we did take to go down there. it would have been much more pleasurable to stay home. the companionship of my colleagues is most enjoyable. but i had many other things to do. however. those trips were useful and they sharpened many points in my mind that helped me arrive at a conclusion. there is the question of concern  related to specific provisions of the treatyrather. the general idea of giving up this piece of america. as many people have come to feel about iti am  talking technically about sovereignty . i am just talking about our returning the zone to panama and turning the canal over to panama. i think that many people subconsciously feel it is aher evidence that america is withdrawing from the world and that this is a very important factor in the trauma that the canal controversy has dealt us.
