i wonder if i might finish. then i will be glad to take any questions. i will  be long. this has all kinds of possibilities. what if the canadians were to unilaterally decide to impose import restrictions on united states potatoes from idaho farms because those farmers use fertilizers that the canadians have decided are harmful. that is an environmental matter. clearly. fertilizers have to do with the environment. if that amendment were adopted by the canadians. they can say. "that is perfectly fair. look. you adopted an amendment that says if we do  meet your air pollution control standards. you can restrict your importation of our electricity. so what is good for the goose is good for the gander. perfectly fair." so. . at this time i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a letter to me from the canadian ambassador dated today.
. this week as. chinese people around the world celebrate the anniversary of the founding of the chinese republic under dr. sun yatsen. it is also an appropriate moment to e the departure of ambassador ding moushis. the representative of taiwan in washington. ambassador ding moushis has served with distinction during an important period in united statestaiwan relatioris. in the course of his tenure. taiwan has completed some of the most fundamental political changes achieved by any society in east asia. including the democratization of its political processes. culminating in changes in law requiring the popular election of every major officeholder in the country. the diversity and vigor of the print media also attests to the health of the democratic process which is  established there. mr. ding is succeeded by mr. benjamin c. lu who is kn to several members of this body from his days as the head of the ecoic section in the representative office here in washington. mr. lu comes to the capital from his previous post as the representative of taiwan to the european community. an assignment with many of the difficulties and complexities that have prepared him for the responsibilities he  takes up in the united states. ovef the last two decades. mr. lu has served with distinction in a succession of posts: his first assignment in the united states was as auditor at the foreign exchange and trade commission of the united nations from 1964 to 1966. he became a consultant to the ecoic commission for asia and the far east. also at the united nations. until 1969. thereafter he was appointed deputy director at the board of foreign trade of the ministry of ecoic affairs in taipei in which post he served until 1977. becoming deputy director general of the board until 1982. that year he was selected to be the director of the ecoic division at the coordination council for th american affairs here in washington where he served for 6 years. in 1988 he assumed the office of director of taiwans office in london and belgium. where he was responsible for ecoic relations. in 1991 he became the representative of the taipei ecoic and cultural office in belgium until his assignment to washington this fall. we welcome representative lu with the hope that relations between the united states and taiwan will continue to strengthen.9
i thank the chair. and i thank the distinguished manager of this bill. madam president. i wish to express my wholehearted support for ambassador barshefsky. in my dealings with her over the years. i have found her to be a skilled and certainly an expert trade negotiator. who has worked tirelessly on behalf of u.s. interests. i have doubt as to her integrity and her commitment to this job. and i believe that view is shared by every single member of the finance committee. all of whom have worked closely with her. thus. i urge my colleagues to support her ination with a strong show of support in the upcoming vote. before we vote on the ination. madam president. we must first vote on the amendment to senate joint resolution 5 offered by the distinguished senator from south carolina. senator hollings. the amendment requires that any trade agreement that in effect amends u.s. law must be approved by congress. i must say that this amendment puzzles me. trade agreements to which the united states is a party and the call for changes to u.s. law. have force of law whatsoever until implementing legislation is passed by congress. congress always has the final say.
i thank the chair. and i thank the distinguished manager of this bill. madam president. i wish to express my wholehearted support for ambassador barshefsky. in my dealings with her over the years. i have found her to be a skilled and certainly an expert trade negotiator. who has worked tirelessly on behalf of u.s. interests. i have doubt as to her integrity and her commitment to this job. and i believe that view is shared by every single member of the finance committee. all of whom have worked closely with her. thus. i urge my colleagues to support her ination with a strong show of support in the upcoming vote. before we vote on the ination. madam president. we must first vote on the amendment to senate joint resolution 5 offered by the distinguished senator from south carolina. senator hollings. the amendment requires that any trade agreement that in effect amends u.s. law must be approved by congress. i must say that this amendment puzzles me. trade agreements to which the united states is a party and the call for changes to u.s. law. have force of law whatsoever until implementing legislation is passed by congress. congress always has the final say.
 has sent us a special message on the subject. let me say to the many who question where foreign aid is going. that they certainly should pay attention to world trade. because that is the only thing that offers any hope of replacing foreign aid. if we wish to save on the foreign aid budget. we should be supporting world trade. in which we have such a great interest. yet there does  seem to be very great interest in the congress in approving our membership in what is really a trade association to encourage export and import trade. of which we would be the greatest beneficiaries. the international trade organization. which i supported in the house of representatives. failed completely. the subject was  even debated. the same fate seems to be in store for the organization for trade cooperation. i think we are somewhat blind to our own interest in this connection. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks an editorial entitled "the importance of otc." published in the new york herald tribune of april 13. 1957. the editorial points out one of the reasons why there is so much difficulty in furthering this program. it says. in practical effect. that the united states is being prevented from joining the organization for trade cooperation because it is felt that it would encourage imports. on the contrary. blocking united states membership only hurts american exporters. it means hing one way or the other with respect to our imports. so far as concerns those who think themselves adversely affected. united states membership in the organization for trade cooperation would have a great deal to do with the general prosperity of the country. at a time when so many people desire foreign aid to be placed on a world trade basis. rather than a government grant basis.
. if my memory is correct. in latin america americans have some $9 billion in private investment. our export and import trade is very great. both in terms of the production we send to latin america and the production they send to us. there is. a great network of american companies and individuals engaged in every phase of operations. both the oversea operations of american business and the local operations of local business. there is a real problem of a burgeoning middle class and the great influence which that could have upon the path of development which we propose to follow. it seems to me there should be. in so bold a program as the alliance for progressit is a bold program. and i think it is a very important program. and i want very much to see it enacteda clear blueprint as to how we intend to proceed so as to link our private enterprise system and the indiges private enterprise system into the total effort of the alliance for progress. the other aim which i have in respect of the amendment is to tie in the problems which we have in getting the european community. which is  becoming far more prosperous. to lend a hand in respect of latin america. both on the governmental and on the private level. in that connection. it may be recalled by some of my colleagues that i have strongly urged a private enterprise conference. which would tie in the private and public sectors of the oecd countries in respect of our alliance for progress. we all k that even the amounts which are called for in the bill. large as they are. will  be adequate for the emous push forward which is required for the ecoy of latin america. therefore. we must proceed in two ways. first. by enlisting the aid of the private enterprise systems concerned. and. second. by enlisting the aid of our allies in europe. it seems to me there is hardly aher prospect in the world for enlisting the oecd countriesthe 18 european countries plus the united states and canadaand. through the development assistance committee of the oecd. japan as well. there is other area in which they are more likely to be able to cooperate together fruitfully in order to put up the resources which are required for this effort in latin america. all have common interests in this territory. which really is  virgin territory since various countries have been operating there for a long time. the private enterprise concept is  by any means alien to the latin american countries. it is for these reasons that i hope very much that the senator in charge of the bill. after studying the amendment. will see fit -o accept it. because actually. without in any way dictating or directing. it would encompass a practical technique for placing the whole private enterprise effort in cooperation with the government effort in the extremely important alliance for progress program. i hope that after submitting the amendment with my explanation to the senate tonight. the senator in charge of the bill will have an opportunity to study it. i shall. of course. explain it further in the hope that it may be found acceptable. it is hardly a subject that we ought to fight about. i hope it is the kind of thing that will be considered constructive and useful in the totality of the effort.
in the letter. secretary dillon answered five questions put to him by me on june 19 regarding allied burden sharing for western defense. u.s. tourist promotion programs. the administrations position on direct incentives to u.s. exporters aiid the further broadening of international financial institutions and results obtained under the "gold budget" procedure. i have already referred to points made by the secretary in my statement on the u.s. balance of payments on july 10. i believe. however. that as the secretarys letter contains important statements of administration policy. it should receive the serious attention of my colleagues. in connection with the same subject. i would also like to call the attention of the senate to the article which appeared in the new york times on july 12 regarding the annual meeting of the oecd in paris. according to the article. this top level meeting of the atlantic nations failed to produce any new remedies for the chronic deficit in the u.s. balance of payments. i believe this is a significant development. particularly since secretary dillon. during the recent hearings of the jec. preferred the consideration of the u.s. balance of payments problem in the private atmosphere of a forum such as the oecd in contrast to the broader. public forum of a world monetary conference that i have proposed.
the senator is correct. the senator also ks that the balanceof -payments impact of the u.s. contribution will be limited as the administration already ified the bank of its intention to tie our contribution to the purchase of american goods and services. i am sure that the senator from arkansas will deal with this point effectively. we are talking essentially about a 10 percent spread. or at the most 15 percent. between what will be spent here and what will be spent abroad. i would be well in favor of being convinced on that point before i voted "yea." because that is what we are doing. essentially. with foreign aid everywhere. certainly the rules should be different for latin america than they are anywhere else. i justify this flexibility on the further ground set forth in the report. we can have preclusive buying where it is unecoic. therefore we are dealing. in contribution to the imbalance in international payments. with something between $25 and $371/2 million per year. i would justify it. i do  regard this as inconsistent with what the president has done. on the ground that there are many things that contribute to what is the imbalance. there are many things made up for by the $6 billion export surplus. in short. we are  at anytime going to give ourselves a firm balance of payments. we are lucky to get our imbalance down to $1 billion. and we can afford to carry it for 5 or 10 years. as the secretary of the treasury himself feels.
 of the united states would put his arm around britain . and stated to the world that we recognize the tremendous implications of the british crises to the whole world ecoy. that we intend to do something about it with palliatives to support the pound against speculators but by substantial longrange actionthe job could be done effectively and would help britain emously in this crisis. i feel that only new and imaginative longterm moves by britain supported by the united states and other industrialized nations to modernize the british ecoy can prevent the steady recurrence of runs against the pound and sagging confidence in britains ability to help herself. the forthcoming visit of prime minister wilson provides a unique opportunity to open discussions on major and constructive arrangements for. the modernization of the british ecoy. the u.s. willingness to rescue the pound every time a crisis arises. while temporarily helpful. has  and will  deal with britains fundamental problems. i. therefore. recommend the following steps which. in my view. provide the basis for the revitalization of britain and which i hope would become part of the discussions between prime minister wilson and the administration: first. there should be established a sizable "modernization fund" by the united states. the other oecd nations to help industrialized countries. such as the united kingdom. with longterm structural ecoic problems. assistance from the international monetary fund is available only to countries which have shortterm balanceofpayments problems. the international bank for reconstruction and development today makes occasional loans to industrialized nations for electric power stations. ports and railroad construction but these represent only a small portion of its total loans. i would place this "modernization fund" in the ibrd and have the united states contribute at least onethird of a multibilliondollar fund over a 5year periodi would estimate that a fund of $10 billion would be requiredother industrialized nations or international agencies to contribute the rest. the purpose of this "modernization fund" would be to provide a source of capital for the modernization of british production and for the development of programs to effect such modernization. these funds would  be used to finance social welfare programs or to nationalize basic industries. second. i also propose a treaty for trade and ecoic cooperation between the united states. the united kingdom. other eec and efta nations. canada. new zealand. australia. and other industrialized countries of the oecd which agree to adhere to the rules of trade of such a free trade area. this trade treaty would take the form of a commitment for lowering tariff and tariff barriers on an acrosstheboard basis by 5 percent per year for manufactured products over each of the next 20 years. the aim of the treaty would be to achieve substantially free trade. subject to national security exceptions. on manufactured products among the industrialized countries by the end of the period. associate membership should be offered to the developing countries. giving them the right of access to this market after a transitional period during which they would be permitted to retain. with appropriate safeguards. protection for infant industries. the logical place for britain is within the common market and it should make every effort to obtain entry into eec and become part of an integrated europe. however. should it become apparent within the foreseeable future that this effort would  bear fruit. the united kingdom must decide on a realistic alternative. which i believe is the plan i propose. due to the relative competitive advantages of the united states in industrial production over that of the other prospective members. and due to the complicated problems involved in the reduction of trade barriers in the field of agriculture. this process would have to be gradual and special arrangements would have to be made to cushion the injury caused by adjustments that would be made in the process. to accomplish this. a multinational adjustment assistance fund could be established with financial participation by all members on a proportional basis. third. the united states and the united kingdom should continue to press for the early convening of an international monetary conference to effect a basic reform in the international monetary system. the united states is already on record that it would participate in such a conference. the united kingdom and the united states should  make a new and urgent commitment to an international conference at an early date to assure that procedural arrangements do  become an excuse for interminable delay. the ecoic and security problems facing the united kingdom today are serious ones. the need to modernize british industry and the heavy costs which this and maintenance of a modsern defense establishment place on the - british pound and its balance of payments can be but major concerns both for the united kingdom and for its other transatlantic allies.
i thank the senator. and we do  ask these things lightlyto take remedial steps within 60 days "against the european ecoic community." that would be a pretty formidable order. as i say. if this were legislation. but it is a sense of the senate resolution. and it does bring before us a very grave question. the grave question is this: the united states is  committed to join in a scheme of generalized preferences to the manufacturers and semimanufacturers of the developing countries. or are we going to stand on the sidelines as the europeans and japan implement a generalized preferences scheme that the last two u.s. administrations helped pioneer and promote. it is my fear that if the u.s. congress does  authorize the united states to live up to the solemn commitment the u.s. government made in the oecd and the united nations. that we will have played into the hands of those europeans who favor proliferating regional preferences schemes. who favor protectionism. and who favor an inwardlooking common market. in addition to their recent decision to implement a reciprocal. discrimatory tariff preferences scheme. the european ecoic community also has made recently special deals with african and mediterranean countries which seem to the united states to very strongly to transgress upon the general policy of mfn to which the european ecoic community is a party in the gatt. there seemingly is a contradiction here. it seems to me that where we have an admitted grievance which carries the seeds of danger of disturbing the worlds trade. this resolution  before the senate is symbolic of the issues that the countries of the free world will face in the years aheadnamely will the free world split into regional and warring trading blocs or will an open trading world be maintained with all this means for u.s. exports and the exports of other countries to the united states. i have decided  to interpose any objection to the sense of the senate resolution. i support the idea of causing the european econdmic community to rethink its future trade policies particularly  as the negotiations with the uk are underwayjust as we are rethinking our policieseurope can continue negotiating specialized preferential arrangements to the world that it wants a system of generalized preferences. in order to bring up our friends and trading partners rather sharply and to point a finger at what is contributing to the protectionist mood in the united states. i have decided  to interpose an objection to the resolution.
. in summation. what i said is that the time frame for working out an interim agreement which would result in taking off the 10percent import surcharge was so narrow that we had to take action of a shortterm character and i was convinced congress would  change the gold clause within a short term. therefore. some other way had to be found to bring about an interim agreement before the end of this year which would allow the united states to lift the surcharge before it became fixed in concrete. this interim agreement in my view would involve a satisfactory realinement of currencies including the acceptance of wider bands of currency fluctuations and an agreement to negotiate the issues  capable of a shortterm solution such as the establishment of a permanent new international monetary system. an agreement of defense burden sharing and a reordering of the worlds trading relationships. in turn. devaluation of the dollar which does require congressional authorization is a longer term consideration which could  be accomplished in the time frame necessary within which the surcharge must be lifted if ecoic catastrophe is to be avoided. my additional interim suggestion which would partially meet the european demand for the devaluation of the dollar and which would positively indicate that the united states is in the ball game and is willing to make some concessions to create a new. viable international ecoic order. is for the imf to use its authority to widen the points determining gold transactions to 5 percent on each side of $35. it is my view that such action by an international agency would be acceptable and could be accomplished within the narrow timespan open to the nations of the world if a trade war and the return to ecoic nationalism is to be avoided. i hope that is the course that will be followed by the administration to assure itself of success of its excellent august 14 initiative. provided they do  so persevere as to be counterproductive.
. walter b. wriston. chairman of the first national city corp.. in a speech before the bankers association for foreign trade on may 9. 1972. has made a most useful contribution to the debate that is presently underway on the future of the international monetary system and the role of the dollar within this system. the points that mr. wriston so eloquently made and which deserve the attention of senators include the following: 1. the world must live from  on with the reality that the dollar is just aher currency. like other currencies. it is  immune to pressures.  is it immune to devaluation whenever our external accounts are persistently out of balance. 2. the time has come for greater exchangerate flexibility. this could help solve a multitude. of problems. if currencies were exchanged at their true market values. there would be massive balance of payments surpluses or deficits. adjustments would tend to be taken care of by the market. 3. what i suggest to you today is that neither fixed exchange rates  the convertibility of the dollar into gold represent very realistic options in todays world. unfortunately. the choice before the world is either to go back to the jungle of exchange controls. nationalism and momentary trade advantage. or. alternatively. to accept a greater exchange rate flexibility between the dollar and the other major currencies in the world. 4. it is a time for a new beginning of a new international monetary system. it is  the time to go back to yesterdays mechanism  for the nations of the world to turn inward and to rebuild a network of controls. the ability of the free markets to adjust to the realities of the world is emous and exceeds even the confidence of their greatest advocates. we should urge it along. the dialogue has already started. today. more than ever. there is an urgent need for the highest degree of international cooperation. both at the governmental and the private level. i ask unanimous consent that the complete text of mr. wristons address be printed in the recoad.
. i am most concerned that our entire foreign aid program is being damaged irretrievably at the very time that the worlds developing countries face their most critical situation in decades. hing illustrates this better than our inaction in the face of a potentially catastrophic world food shortage. we have seen the food for .peace program so distorted by political considerations that over half of it goes to vietnam. where there is starvation. leaving the rest for the entire world where millions may starve. wonder people have reacted so strenuously to these distortions in our aid program. nevertheless. it is clearly wrong to think that we can avert our eyes from the tragedies  being played out on the global stage and fail to help adequately to meet the needs of mankind. it is astounding that even at this time we have developed national food policy. we have export licensing system for agricultural products in short supply. and we have reserve program to prevent our stocks from being dangerously depleted. in fact. even my amendment to the export administration act. to require the secretary of agriculture to develop a plan to cope with agricultural shortages. was deleted in conference. our secretary of agriculture insists that everything will be okay if we just trust him. but we have seen the weather play an unending series of tricks on his estimates. so that even the secretary is forced to admit that food prices are likely to increase by 10 percent in the next year. indeed. if food prices increase by more than 10 percent while we continue to follow our present policies. it will be little short of a miracle. in 1 month the world food conference. called at the initiative of secretary kissinger. will open in rome. this meeting is a unique attempt to focus attention on world food problems. and comes at a time when action is urgent. will the united states be prepared to meet the challenges of this conference. which we called for. by a willingness to participate in a world food reserve system and by joining in the farreaching proposals necessary to meet the crisis. i am  encouraged by the preparations for the conference thus far. and i hope my colleagues will treat this issue with the seriousness the issue merits. i think all of us will have to pay a great deal more attention to this issue in the future. i commend to my colleagues two articles that appeared in todays newspapers: an editorial by jonathan power in the new york times and an article by mary bralove in the wall street journal. i ask unanimous consent that they be printed in the record.
the article points out that. sure. a major loan of rougly in the $200 million to $250 million range to jamaica was conditioned upon some very difficult conditions for jamaica. a very poor country indeed. this is the very critical point i would like to make. this is speaking of the fact. for example. that prices have had to be put up 30 percent since early may for a country which is very. very poor. and that staples of the most elementary character very materially increased in price causing great hardship to the people in jamaica. the poor people in jamaica. and most of them are poor. the article goes on to say: admittedly. terms or terms. almost everyone in jamaica agrees the hardship would have been a lot stiffer if the imf had rejected jamaicas loan application. without the imf money. a high jamaica official says. private banks would have curtailed their lending and foreign exporters would have cut off shortterm credit. stifling needed trade. i continue to quote: with problems of that magnitude. the remedies would have been harsher. "to try to go it alone would have meant operating a seige ecoy." a finance ministry official said. "youd virtually have to retire from international commerce. which would be next to suicide for a country that has to import as much as we do. and that would mean serious political upheaval. there really was choice." in short. the adoption of this amendment would be unbelievably harmful to the very poor people whom the amendment ostensibly is designed to help. and would be completely counterproductive. it would make the country poorer. less able to do anything for its poor. than it would be with the conditionality and the tough conditions. but getting the help. etheless. of the imf. one other things is important. the imf in setting conditions does  write the conditions for a country but it presents to the country the ultimate objective. financial objective. which has to be attained. that is. what money it can spend compared to what it can take in and how the loan which is coming from the imf is to be used in an effort to improve its conditions. improve its production. and enable it to attain the goals for which the loan is made. the purpose of the loan being to put the country. over a period of time. 3 to 5 years. into a viable ecoic condition. these goals are . as the ecoists. say microecoic goals. that is. some specific regulation about the price of this or interest rates or how to handle exports. what to do about tariffs. the objectives are the ultimate balance of the country in terms of its foreign exchange and in terms of its domestic operations. its creditworthiness. its ability to export and its ability to import. to get the necessary accommodation with respect to its imports. and also to determine the value of its currency. so conditionality often imposed by the imf goes to the matter of devalution of currency which is overvalued. that was the case in respect of jamaica. how the country does it are the macroecoic goals. how the country does it is up to the country. in short. it is the country itself which will determine whether this is going to be done through the price mechanism. through the interest rate mechanism. through the currency devaluation mechanism. or any combination of those factors. again. i quote from this same piece which is so revealing because it relates to a very vivid case in point. to wit. jamaica: was the imf. then. too tough on jamaica. by a wide majority. both government officials and private sector spokesmen insist it was . "the negotiations were tough. but the imf people werent unfair." says richard fletcher. the number two man in jamaicas embattled finance ministry. "there was only one technical matter on which we disagreed. for the rest. we made the key decisions ourselves." in short. the mechanism which is going to be used to attain the result of beginning to put the country back on the road to viability. financial viability. is the choice of the country. again. i say the developing countries. and this amendment is very much directed to the developing countries. it is  that the amendment says developing countries. but on page 2. line 25. it refers to "especially as it relates to the poor majority within those countries." which clearly indicates that it is directed to the developing countries. the question is what that country. including a majority of poor people. determines is best for it to do in order to put itself on some kind of a viable road. . i suggest the absence of a quorum.
