. voter participation is the lifeblood of a democratic system of government. this bill does  reach the broader problem of those vho have never taken the time and effort to register and to vote. but it does provide a simple and easy method of helping states maintain their voter registration lists and retaining on the rolls those who move but fail to reregister. it is my hope that this legislation will receive speedy and favorable consideration.e by mr. stevens (for himself..
. voter participation is the lifeblood of a democratic system of government. this bill does  reach the broader problem of those vho have never taken the time and effort to register and to vote. but it does provide a simple and easy method of helping states maintain their voter registration lists and retaining on the rolls those who move but fail to reregister. it is my hope that this legislation will receive speedy and favorable consideration.e by mr. stevens (for himself..
i thank my distinguished colleague from th carolina. . i rise to state that i support dr. sullivans ination for secretary of hhs with enthusiasm. and i am pleased that our distinguished chairman of our committee. senator bentsen and senator packwood. the ranking member. have been able to work out with the administration the fact that dr. sullivan will be able to retain the severance pay that he was originally apparently forced to give up. that struck me. as it did other mem. bers of the committee. when dr. sullivan came before us. as an extremely onerous requirement upon dr. sullivan. certainly. e of us expects somebody to come into the administration as a pauper and go out a wealthy person. likewise. we do  expect somebody to come in with moderate wealth and go out of the administration a pauper. that was a requirement that was about to be levied upon dr. sullivan. it appears that this matter will be worked out. and should dr. sullivan choose to retain that severance pay or that particular fund that we previously have discussed. it would be possible. and i certainly hope that he will do it. because there is possible conflict of interest in that. dr. sullivan appeared before our committee. as previously stated. and greatly impressed all of us. in addltion. he made personal calls on us. we had a chance to interview him and go over his record. and the administration and the nation are lucky to have obtained the services of a man such as dr. sullivan. so we look forward to a happy administration. a successful one. he confronts all kinds of challenges. i stand exactly in the same position as senator packwood does as regards roe versus wade and the abortion issue. etheless. dr. sullivan is the man for the job. and despite all these differences. i believe his ination should be confirmed. i was extremely impressed with dr. sullivans concern fur and emphasis on the issues of access and prevention. to me. this suggests that he has.  just the background. but also the vision required to do the job.
ial election. first. let me point out two concerns i have had about some of the election assistance proposals that have been entertained in the past few months. much ink has been given to reports that the administration would ask congress to allow covert assistance to the nicaraguan opposition parties. or to approve direct financial support for an opposition campaign. in my view. neither of these would have been a good way to proceed. certainly. i hope that violeta barrios de chamorro is victorious in her election bid against daniel ortega. i think her success would be in the best interests of the nicaraguan people. ntevertheless. as a democracy. we shoud respect the right of those pcople to zonduct their elections in the open. we would demand less for ourselves. as far as throwing our financial weight behind a specific candidate goes. i think it is unwise to take so clear a side in the nicaraguan elections. as important as it is to u.s. interests to have daniel ortega removed from power. it is more important to give the seeds of democracy p. chance to grow. thus. our role is to do what we can to ensure that the will of the nicaraguan people is expressed on election day.  to ensure the victory of the candidate we favor. because it shows the nicaraguan people that we stand firmly behind democracy in their country. i support this aid package. it contains $9 million in previously appropriated funds to help level the playing field so that all nicaraguan candidates will have a shot at getting their message out to the electorate. five million dollars will go to the national endowment for democracy to support groups involved in voter registration and education. polling. training poll workers. election monitoring. civic education meetings. information media representations. getoutthevote campaigns. and international observer programs. the other $4 million will be used for partisan. technical support of the elections process. since the sandinistas are permitting voter registration only during the four sundays of october. it is essential that we approve this legislation without delay. i hope other senators will agree that a strong showing on our part for the electoral process in nicaragua will go far toward ensuring its ultimate success.
. i would like to take a few moments to dicuss s. 874. the national voter registration act of 1989 and the cloture vote that wil occur. s. 874 would require states to offer three means of voter registrationthe socalled motor voter. mail registration. and agency registration programs. the purpose of this legislation is to increase registration of eligible voters and therefore improve participatton in elections. voting is a fundamental right. and i agree that we should encourage people to exercise this right. i am unsure. however. that s. 874 is an appropriate way to achieve increased voter participation. currently. each state sets its own rules or guidelines for registering people to vote in federal elections. many states have taken the initiative and already have implemented voter registration programs that would be mandated by s. 874: 15 states have agency voter registration programs. 28 states have mall registration programs. and 13 statesncluding rhode islandhave some form of motor voter registration. i commend these state efforts to facilitate voter registration. each of these states carefully developed programs to meet the needs of their populations within the availability of their financial resources. some states found that motor voter registration and agency registration are effective for them. other states have all three voter registration programs in place that s. 874 would require. i believe that states have a better understanding of their individual needs with regard to voter registration programs. the proponents of s. 874 obviously do . in addition. . 874 does  include any financial provisions to assist states in implementing the mandates of the bill. yet the congressional budget office ecbo] estimates that compliance with s. 874 would cost states $20 to $25 million in each of the first 5 years of enactment. so in essence. s. 874 would remove the flexibility states currently have in determining their voter registration needs. require them to offer three types of programs that could exceed their needs. and  offer them any financial assistance. i also would like to discuss aher difficulty i have with s. 874fraud and its relation to mail registration. some people claim that most fraud does  occur at the time of voter registration. that it happens at the time of the vote and usually results from the actions of corrupt election officials. that is  entirely true. in california. mail registration led to fraudulent filings through a phee called "creative writing." the state experienced fake and duplicate registrations because of paid registration drives in which registrations were filed. often without the kledge of the applicant. simply to fill a quota. states that utilize mail registration often have requirements such as arization or authentication of potential voters signatures. alaska. for example. requires that all registration applications received through the mail must be authenticated by the signatures of two adults. s. 874 would end efforts in alaska and other states. such as new york and illis. to reduce the incidence of fraud because it prohibits mail registration forms from having "any requirement for arization or other formal authentication." i am aware that an amendment may be offered to allow states to use their own mail registration form. this would do hing to reduce fraud. even though states may be able to use their own forms. the form still would be sabject to the prohibition on arization or authentication. if congress approves & 847. with the prohibition. states would have few methods to detect fraudulent registrations. increases fraud could result from this statute. i want to illustrate this point by discussing public law 97205. the voting rights act amendments of 1982. that law incorporated a new section--section 208into the voting rights act of 1965. section 208 states: any voter who requires assistance to vote by reason of blindness. disability. or inablity to read or write may be given assistance by a person of the voters choice other than the voters employer or agent of that employer or officer or agent of the voters union. the purpose of section 208 is to ensure that those who need assistance to cast their vote receive it. let me tell you what has happened in my state as a result of this loosely written provision. a headline in the september 20. 1990. providence journalread. "election chief assails voting assistance law." the article begins by citing the chairman of the board of elections: calling it "the most bizarre situation youll ever see." joseph r. distepha chairman of the state board of lection. said yesterday that the state can do hing to stop candidates and their supporters from going into the voting booths with voters * * * the possibility of mischief is very great. rhode ialand enacted a law that requires people who request assistance and those who help them to sign affidavits. the purpose of the affidavit is to keep track of who seeks assistance and. more important. who is helping them. over 500 voters requested assistance in a recent primary in providence. in ward 6. 79 out of 109 people who requested help were assisted by a certain candidates supporters. one voter said that the person who assisted her cast votes in several races she decided  to vote in. that is blatant election fraud. requests by states to change this statute have been unsuccessful. if rhode island and other states had  taken action to monitor who assists voters. the extent of abuse of this provision might  have been exposed. my point is that the federal government enacted a statute that is being abused. states can take some precautions. but these precautions do  eliminate the "possibility of mischief" or the outcome--election fraud. s. 874. as i previously mentioned. would prevent states from requiring arization or authentication of mail registration applications. states would be denied the ability to correct and reduce potentially fraudulent situations. this does  make any sense. i believe we should encourage states to continue their efforts to facilitate voter registration. while allowing them to keep their systems of application verification intact. i can support legislation that could lead to increased election fraud and will therefore vote against cloture.
. we have required the wic offices to undertake an emous list of highly beneficial activities. on top of these requirements.. we have added registering clients to vote. there is doubt in the mind of kathleen a. stento. chairwoman of the rhode island wic advisory board. that the requirements of the national voter registration act would have a detrimental effect on the quality of the services provided at rhode islands wic clinics. the advisory council represents the 23 local wig clinics in rhode island. ms. stento wrote: on this matter. we are united: we do  want to give up any of our nutrition education time (nutrition education is. the key to our program * * * it is what makes the program unique to any other food assistance programs. and it is what makes the program work). the national voter registration act is worthwhile. but it. is . fair to burden the wic program with its imprementatiom i ask unanimous consent that the full test of the letters frm mr- smith and from m. stento be printed in the recor in their entirety.. i do  believe that this is the appropriate time to debate the national voter registration act. but. i do believe. that we should take the appropriate step or relieving wic clinics of this terribly burdensome requirement by supporting the mcconnell amendment.
i thank my colleague. . let me say first that the senate established a dangerous precedent in january when it refused to seat the person whom state officials had named and recognized as the official winner of the new hampshire senatorial electionlouis c. wyman. the immediate consequence of that unfortunate decision was to deprive the state of new hampshire of equal representation in the senate. new hampshire has  been denied that equal representation for more than 5 months. without question. the mal procedure in this body has been to seat the certificated senatorelect on a conditional basis. without prejudice to the rights or claims of the contestant. after that action is taken. the senate ordinarily proceeds to conduct a careful inquiry of the claims of both parties. unfortunately. thebe inquiries sometimes last more than a year. it is true that there have been instances in which the senatorelect has  been seated during the senates review of an election. but these cases involve serious charges of corrupt practices or election fraud. such charges were made in this case at the time we considered the issue in january. mr. durkins only charge was that state officials had made errors of fact and lawjudgmental errorsin reviewing certain ballots.
. i submit amendments. intended to be proposed by me to the bills. 2426to revise the federal election laws. to prevent corrupt practices in federal elections. and for other purposes. which i ask to have printed and lie on the table. the amendment would bar literacy tests for voting registrants who have at least a sixthgrade education. it was introduced as a bill by me in both the 86th and 87th congresses. both the republican and democratic platforms in 1960 contained pledges to eliminate literacy tests as requirements for voting. the republican platform specified a sixthgrade provision. . after extensive hearings and investigations. the federal civil rights commission in its report of september 9. 1961. has published its finding: a common technique of discriminating against wouldbe voters on racial grounds involves the discriminatory application of legal qualifications for voters. among the qualifications used in this fashion are requirements that the voter be able to read and write. that he be able to give a satisfactory interpretation of the constitution. that he be able to calculate his age to the day. and that he be of good character (bk. i. p. 137). accordingly. the commission unanimously recommended: congress enact legislation providing that in all elections in which. under state law. a "literacy" test. an "understanding" or "interpretation" test. or an "educational" test is administered to determine the qualifications of electors. it shall be sufficient for qualification that the elector have completed at least six grades of formal education (bk. i. p. 141). the amendment is designed to carry out the pledges of both political parties and the unanimous recommendation of the agency charged by law to investigate this problem. there is certainly general agreement that the voting right should be assured and we  have an authoritative and unanimous finding that this measure is needed.
i support the amendment because i think it is extremely desirable. it is part of the omnibus amendment on foundations which i have introduced.  340. the theory of that amendment is to eliminate certain aspects of the bill which are highly deleterious to philanthropic activities. including the 40year lifetime provision and the question of voter registration activities. i intend to see what is done and what is  done by the senate and then to present a composite amendment to the senate on the subject and to authorize the establishment of a presidential commission to take up from that matters we delete from the bill. the scottyarborough amendment is desirable. because it is an activist answer to the alienation of so many people from government. this applies especially to the young. this provision would permit a foundation to proceed in an area in which government can proceedin voter registration drives. we would hardly expect the government to engage in a voter registration drive because it would appear to be trying to exert political influence. the most conclusive argument is that it will be worse to have the government engage in this activity than for the foundation. it is argued that foundations should  engage in this activity. for they then become too much involved in politics. and that if the foundation can do it. then the government will have to do it. i reject this argument. and i think the senate should reject it also. for these reasons. . i hope that the amendment will be adopted.
