the point i was trying to make was  one of splitting a hair but of our sovereign obligations under the treaty. here. wherever we can do it. it seems to me we should practice consultation and  just talk about it. i was  trying to talk about the question of timing solely but of what has been built into our diplomacy and our relations in latin america. i would say to the gentleman that the .information i have been. given by the white house very simply was and isand i may say also by the department of statethat we could have informed the oas prior to the action we took. i think it might have taken only one telephone call to the secretary general of the oas.
. the 1976 olympics have given us a further reason to examine the trend toward converting international events and institutions into political tools. from the playing fields of montreal to the meeting rooms of san jose. costa ricasite of a recent unesco conference on the pressthere have been renewed efforts by some governments to corrode channels of international exchange which should  be clogged by politics. the governments responsible for turning athletic games into political games and news coverage into political coverups should take a hard look at where they are heading. the same mentality which has been seeking to misuse the educational and cultural efforts of unesco for political purposes would similarly pervert the olympic games andfar more seriousthe institution of a free press. the resolutions adopted by the recent unesco conference on the press in san jose and the attitudes expressed in some of the discussions point to a growing attempt to censor the flow of news and information. under the guise of fighting "cultural imperialism." some of the developing countries reflect  just a misunderstanding of how news organizations operate. but a basic rejection of the value of the truth in ultimately helping their causes and the cause of justice and peace throughout the world. we all want to help the developing nations reach their potential. but development can justify destruction of the institution of free speech which has been forged at such great cost. yet the unesco conference heard such statements as that of the agencys director general. amadou mahtar mbow who said: when mass communications media instill standards of value alien to any given region they threaten to eradicate or nullify that regions own values. with mr. mbows speech setting the tone. the unesco conference passed a resolution calling for government control over the kinds of information distributed in the latin american and carribean region via communications satellites. aher resolution called for the creation of a news agency for the region. earlier. there had been discussions of proposals to make third world nations responsible for control of news dispatches from their area. these ideas call for a curb on the flow of information to suit the convenience and political comfort of incumbent governments. already. in some nations. all incoming news agency reports have to go through a governmentcontrolled news agency before being distributed to newspapers and broadcasters. these systems. combined with tightening controls on reports from such countries as india which until recently had been considered a leading democracy in the developing world. reflect a disturbing trend toward censorship. contrary to mr. mbows impression. the mass communications media do  attempt to instill valuesthey try to report what is happening. their only treat is the impact of the truth upon a dictatorship which does  want its people or the outside world to k what is going on.  only is this evil in itself. it works to the disadvantage of the developing countries in the long run. unless correspondents are able to compile their dispatches from more than just a governments selfinterested version. there can be confidence that the government is telling the truth. who believes uganda radio for example. in losing their credibility.- the censoring governments also can hurt their financial and political support from other countries. thus it can be to the longterm disadvantage of the governments of developing nations to use the press for their political purposes. the world already has egh political forums. the disrespect into which the united nations has fallen. and the cheapening of the value of its resolutions. should be a warning sign that efforts to turn nearly every international activity into a political assertion only undermines more serious efforts to advance worthwhile causes. i ask unanimous consent that several articles on the issue be printed in the record.
. it is monumental. but it is  beginning to be seen as monumental in a very different way from what general secretary brezhnev believed. because the soviets. being fantastically able propagandists. k it is much more dangerous to them to have a great amount of dissidence in the soviet union and the satellite states than it is to have disagreement on borders which country -will try to settle by force anyway. that is exactly what has happened. and basket 3. on which there was an emous measure of unanimity between the united states and the soviet countries. is going to turn out to be one of the greatest and most monumental achievements in world diplomacy we have ever seen. 5828 cc this is very deeply gratifying. because it is a characteristically decent approach by the united states. and carries out. indeed. the fundamental beliefs upon which we all stand.
