 wisely carried out the continued massive withdrawal of ground forces. but these withdrawals were offset by our escalataion of hostilities through the mining of haiphong harbor and the dramatic increase in the air war over th vietnam. equally alarming was the exposure of the fact that our air force had  fully observed the restrictions placed on its activities. the domestic ecoy showed significant improvement in 1972. although unemployment remains disturbingly high. the nations output is at an alltime peak. and new jobs are being created at a record rate at a time when the labor force is expanding very rapidly. the administrations program for controlling prices and wages had considerable success in stemming inflation. in addition. the december 1971 adjustment in the value of the dollar relative to foreign currencies gave impetus to the domestic ecoic recovery and strengthened the american competitive position at home and overseas. a number of urgent domestic problems did  receive sufficient attention in 1972.  nearly egh progress was made in the critical domestic areas of reducing crime and drug abuse. combating hunger. disease. and poverty. restoring our cities. and providing justice and equal opportunity for all americans. the historic passage of the revenue sharing act will certainly help to focus more resources in the areas of greatest need. but far greater federal efficiency is still needed in focusing resources on the right priorities and managing the government to obtain maximum benefits for the dollars spent. i continue to feel that my responsibilities in the senate allow me to help to move us toward the solution of a number of our major contemporary problems. i currently serve as ranking republican member of the labor and public welfare committee. the joint ecoic committee of the congress. the select committee on small business. the second ranking republican member of the select committee on equal educational opportunity. and the governmental operations committee and as a member of the foreign relations committee. i look ahead with hope and confidence to 1973 as a year in which we will make further progress in world peace. social justice. and general prosperity.
