ial jetplane. air force i. the funeral was held at n. and for that reason those of us who attended missed the opening of our session today. however. i am sure we will be excused for that. and we were back at 3 p.m. today on the house floor. among others who attended the funeral were mayor john v. lindsay. of new york city. whom i succeeded as congressman from the 17th district. new york. i am certain the sympathy of all members of the house is extended to congressman celler on his bereavement and on this day of his sorrow.
. i thank the distinguished senator from kentucky. i wish to associate myself with the purpose of his remarks today. i was privileged to support him in his attempts to delay the deployment of this abm system in the last session of congress. this morning i was at the pentagon. and i asked about the cost of this thin system. the figure that was given me. as late as approximately 10 oclock this morning. was $5.8 billion. i was rather surprised. then. to hear the distinguished senator from missouri give a figure this aftern of $9.4 billion. which would be an extraordinary increase in such a short period of time. i think there are certain questions that must be carefully considered before so costly a system is deployed. of course. one question is the effectiveness of the system. i think that evidence has really been supplied by any scientists which would indicate that this system can be effective. the pentagon itself said the system is designed to defend against the potential of communist china in the next decade. they admit it will  give us defense against the soviet union. the second question pertains to the potential arms race with the soviet union. i read the report of the senator from rhode island and the senator from tennessee . when they returned from their mission to the soviet union. one of the passages in that report stated that in conversations with premier kosygin. the premier indicated he was anxious to enter into talks for mutual disarmament. i took great heart from that passage. and i think many people took great heart that perhaps we were entering a period in which we could begin to talk about mutual disarmament. and thereby avoid aher arms race with the soviet union. so i explored the possibility that the soviet union had responded to our thin antiballisticmissile system and had begun to build a more sophisticated system themselves. i found there is evidence that the soviets responded at all or that communist china responded at all. it would seem to me the only reaction we have had is a desire on their part to talk about mutual disarmament. certainly we all want to bring about peace in the world and we do  want to do anything that would trigger aher arms race with the soviet union or even communist china for that matter. we have had a very serious problem in reading and in lynnfleld in the commonwealth of massachusetts. the residents of those areas have been up in arms about the construction of a missile site right within their neighborhoods. i have been deeply concerned about it and after we failed in the last session of congress to delay the deployment of this system. i hoped to have the site 1cated. for instance. at westover air force base. which is in the western part of our state. but the engineers said there were too many mountains between the densely populated area of boston and westover field. i pursued this matter this morning in the pentagon. with respect to the fact that these sites will be built in densely populated areas because they are designed to protect densely populated areas. further interrogation indicated they had made certain concessions in some of these sites. perhaps at lynnfield. perhaps in chicago. and other places across the country. which might mean there would be a buffer zone or landscaping to make the sites as palatable as possible if the people knew they had alternative and that the installation could be constructed. i asked if the costs of these modifications were included in the projected costs of the system. it would appear they are . we do  k how much the costs will be. as the distinguished senator from missouri indicated on the floor of the senate today we do  even k what the costs are likely to be in 1972 or 1974. when this system is to be completed. because we k that costs are ever rising. and. worst of all. even when completed we do  k that the system will  be obsolete. as the senator from illis
. it is important for us to understand the reasons why the israeli government felt compelled to order the army to move on the terrorists. therefore. i ask unanimous consent that premier meirs official statement concerning the terrorist attack at maalot be entered into the record at this point.
. let us  for one moment assume that the mere fact of passage of the greekturkish aid bill assures democratic and constitutional government in greece. we are forcibly reminded of this again in a news dispatch from athens quoting former premier sophoulis. leader. of the opposition liberal party in the chamber of deputies and greeces grand old man. he demands the end of the civil war in greece and calls for new elections with the participation of the leftist parties  out of the government. amnesty and social reforms for the poorer classes to seal up important sources of dissatisfaction. this. he says. will deprive greeces thern communistdominated neighbors of any pretext of interference in greece. it confirms what i saw in greece myself only 5 months ago. obviously.  money alone but policy and management together with money will make our effort for democracy in greece successful. the constant watchfulness of the c6ngress and the people is  essential to see that we do our part effectively and well. for greece will be to us and all the world a pattern of our success or failure and democracys success or failure in a position of world responsibility.
. should be criticized for turning down a communist chinese offer to the united states to join in a mutual declaration against the firststrike use of nuclear weapons. i was  here last week. hence i am  in a position to speak authoritatively as to what occurred. but i did hear what occurred this aftern. and i have done a little checking_ on it. because i did  want to break into the discussion until i had done a little checking. it is apparently a fact that the united states did turn down a communist chinese offer to join in this declaration. but standing alone it seems to me that we do  have to join in every propaganda effort of communist china in order to make us seem logical. the soviet premier would have had the united states enter into a paper aggression and disarmament agreement some time ago. which we rejected because it failed to provide assurance to the people of the united states that it would be upheld by the u.s.s.r. long experience with dictators. including those of the soviet union and communist china. have taught us that. while democracies keep to their agreements. dictators. when it suits their purposes. regard treaties as if they were scraps of paper. on that ground. this country should  be criticized for having turned down such a paper proposal. but i do think. that perhaps the proposal could have been explored. to see whether peking and moscow would be willing to agree to more realistic arrangements. also. there is hing sacrosanct about the geneva disarmament conference. that conference is composed of an ad hoc membership of 18 nations. carefully balanced. after careful negotiations. so as to have a certain number of neutrals and a certain number of superpowers and others. i do  think the conference would collapse if there were 19 nations instead of 18 at geneva. if communist china were to participate in it. i do  think we should oppose it. i think the united states has shown rather good intentions in respect to disarmament. this incident of the communist chinese offer would seem therefore to be a departure from the m. therefore. i ask unanimous consent to include as a part of my remarks the explanation made by the administration on this incident. the arms control and disarmament agency has furnished me the following information on the matter of the chinese offer and similar proposals by the u.s.s.r.
one other point. if i may add. the dutch delegate. who was by that time the mayor of amsterdam andhad replaced van der stoel. even heand we k their attitude respecting nuclear weapons in europehas as his e. chapter 2. pargraph 14: mr. samkalden abstains from accepting or rejecting the text of paragraph 14 following the first sentence. in short. even they were unprepared. to take off against us because this committee was analyzing deployment of the whole defense apparatus of nato and decided survival was superior even to their deep antipathy in talking about orthinking about this kind of action.
