. i am today introducing three bills to meet the clear and growing problem of aircraft se and air pollution caused by jetpowered aircraft. the seriousness of this situation is becoming daily more apparent. especially in the area surrounding the busy new york airports. and. more recently. here in washington. specifically. one of my bills states that it is the finding of the congress that: the impact of aircraft generated se upon millions of persons beneath or near the flight paths of such aircraft interrupts and disturbs the peace and quietude of homelife. interferes with public assemblies. and. in general seriously disrupts the community life. further. it states that: the extensive operation of jetpowered aircraft is contributing to the pollution of the air. thereby creating a hazard to the health and welfare of the public. to meet these problems. one bill empowers the secretary of transportation and the administrator of the federal aviation administration. consistent with the primacy of air safetyto prescribe and amend standards for the measurement of aircraft se and to prescribe and amend such rules and regulations as he may find necessary for the control and abatement of aircraft se. including the application of such standards. rules. and regulations in the issuance. amendment. modification. suspension. or revocation of any certificates authorized by this title. in addition. the second bill authorizes the administrator to reimburse domestic air carriers and the owners and operators of any airport for up to 30 percent of the cost of modifying their equipment to comply with such regulations. and to reimburse the states or municipalities for up to 90 percent of the cost of acquiring necessary land and making other adjustments to comply with such regulations. my third bill would amend the national aeronautics and space act of 1958 to authorize nasa to "conduct research and investigations. including the investigation of complaints. cooperate with local civic organizations and municipalities. and coordinate and consolidate current research projects" with regard to aircraft se abatement. among the specific duties that would be assigned to nasa are the measurement of se as it relates to the "distress of people on the ground". the development of quieter aircraft through research in airframe and powerplant designs. and the development of a comprehensive body of kledge of methods and devices for se abatement. gen. william f. mckee. the faa administrator. indicated last year that authority to prescribe and amend standards for the measurement and control of aircraft se "is needed to assist us in alleviating a most serious problem." the congress can longer ige the major inconveniences. discomfort and hazards to health that result from excessive aircraft se. it is incumbent upon the 90th congress to take initial action to combat this problem before techogical advances. such as the supersonic transport. compound its effects. i am hopeful that the committee on interstate and foreign commerce will make these bills its first order of business.
. i support h.r. 15963. the department of transportation act. as a necessary advance in the ever increasing struggle to meet the complex demands for improved transportation. as i stated in the congressional. record of august 16 at page 19568. during the debate in the house on the mass. transit billh.r. 14810we live in a modern age. but with an archaic and chaotic transportation system. there is little question that with the techogical khow of our country we can meet the transportation problems of tomorrow. our first order of business. however. is to meet the pressing needs. of today. one of the most pressing needs of today which we have failed to recognize is for the abatement of excessive se. whatever the source. it has been suggested by some of my colleagues that the proposed legislation before us today is deficient in that it fails to deal with the subject of aircraft se abatement. i concur with and commend those who would take active steps to abate aircraft se. i would be remiss. however. if i failed to caution my colleagues against being somewhat nearsighted about what they hear. aircraft se is a serious problem. it is. however. one of a whole series of complex sources of excessive se. to the city dweller. for example. the din of the helicopter flying overhead and the din of the air compressor and pneumatic drill outside his apartment window at 7 a.m. are both serious. on april 21. 1966. i introduced a billh.r. 14602which appears in the congressional record of april 21 together with my statement and related studies and articles at pages 8745 through 8768 to provide a comprehensive study of the complex se situation in the united states with a view toward a better understanding of the detrimental effects of excessive se. my bill would establish an office of se control within the office of the surgeon general. the office. headed by a director and assisted by a se control advisory council. would provide grants to the states and local governments to research ways and means of control. prevention and abatement of se. the office of se control would cooperate fully with existing federal agencies presently working in the specific field of jet aircraft se abatement. and would prepare. publish and disseminate educational materials dealing with control. prevention and abatement of se. i am pleased that there has been considerable response to my se pollution june 2 at pages 12191 through 12205 and august 4 at pages 18233 through 18257. i have set forth editorials and letters on the subject. together with additional studies and articles of interest to those concerned with se. presently. faa is primarily concerned with se research from the perspective of where and how the planes fly. nasa seems to be primarily concerned with the mechanical generation of se. it is my firm belief that the able research and admirable work being carried on by the faa. nasa. and chabacommittee on hearing and bioacousticsshould be centralized to insure greater efficiency and more benefit to all those interested in the general field of se abatement. we can longer afford to go off in several different directions in our effort to reduce excessive se. we must develop a central unit or "se information clearinghouse" where the efforts of all the present agencies working with jet and helicopter se can be combined and coordinated. if we were faced only with se from vehicles and planes used in transportation. it would seem logical to place a central office of se control within the bill to establish a national department of transporation. before us todayh.r. may 2 at pages 9470 through 9477 i set forth detailed studies relating to excessive se caused by trucks and automobiles on our nations highways. the fact is. however. that excessive se is coming from several sources which have hing to do with transportation as such. as i stated in the congressional record of may 3 at page 9679 during the debate on congressman wydlers excellent amendment to the nasa appropriation to provide $20 million toward jet aircraft se reduction. we must be careful  merely to appropriate a blanket amount of money to be used for jet aircraft se abatement without definite criteria. a wellplanned program. and a systems approach with respect to controls. one of the many types of controls which should be employed. for example. is the prescription of standards for accurate measurement of aircraft se. i have today introduced a bill which would provide that the administrator of faa be empowered to prescribe such standards. rules and regulations with respect to aircraft se abatement in the issuance. amendment. modification. suspension or revocation of any certificate. a copy of my bill is included at the end of that statement. i would stress. however. that this is only one small example of the overall program of needed controls. the committees decision to include in section 4 of the transportation bill a provision that the secretary of transportation conduct research on the problem is a good idea but little more. what we need is an immediate and allout effort to launch a vigorous and imaginative program to deal with the general problem in all areas of se pollution. a copy of my bill on the question only of setting federal aviation aircraft se standards. follows: h.r. a bill to amend the federal aviation act of 1958 to authorize aircraft se abatement regulation. and for other purposes be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that title vi of the federal aviation act of 1958. as amended (49 u.s.c. 14211430). is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
 the senator has stated the case admirably. except for one thing. which to me is superior to almost any other he has mentioned. and that is consumer frauds. this amendment would omit the ability of this agency to deal with most consumer frauds. except where they involved health and safety. the whole misrepresentation field would be out. even if a tort were being committed. it seems to me that if anything would show that this amendment simply would drown this bill. that would be it. i was attorney general of new york and had the privilege of starting our consumers program in new york. the big thing for the daybyday consumer is the tv repairman. the automobile repairman. the fellow who fixes your icebox. and so on. ad infinitum.
