s fiscal year 1980 budget recommendation which provides funds for the rprwe will be even further from having the security from supply interruption that is mandated under epca and vitally needed in new england. as you may recall. the senate rejectc a proposal last year that said regional reserves should be stored at a cost higher than that for salt domes in the gulf coast. at that time the senate agreed that cost alone should  determine the location and size of the rpr. using a price ceiling of the least expensive storage site available to define where the rpr can be located is incongruous with the intent of the programwhich is to protect our national security from oil supply interruptions. studies have been conducted on site alternatives for the reserves. the latest one. sponsored by the department of energy and prepared by the evaluation research corp. of virginia. concludes that a combination of sites inside and outside of new england could be made available at roughly similar costs. those sites include combinations of melville. r.i.. (1.38 mmb). otisfield. maine (20 mmb). chatham annex. va. (1.15 mmb). and strait of canso. canada (1020 mmb). a combination of sites in new england and on the east coast could provide storage for up to 20 million barrels of product reserve at similar costs to storage in the gulf salt caverns. in fact. the latest erc analysis names melville. r.i.. as the best value of all the sites they analyzed. cost considerations aside. there are excellent reasons to locate the rpr inregion. rather than in only the gulf. as presently planned. first. there is the proximity factor. the new england and east coast storage sites are considerably more accessible to the population needing the oil in a time of emergency. commonsense tells us that the response time between ordering oil from the reserve and delivering the oil to those who need it in new england is shorter when the oil is stored in melville. r.i.. rather than in louisiana. how can we be assured. in a time of national emergency. that sufficient tankers would be available to bring the oil up from the gulf to providence or boston. the jones act. which requires that all oil transported between u.s. ports be carried in u.s.-flag carriers. would have to be waived in order to get the oil to us as it is needed. even then. the reliability of that response would be uncertain at best. we must be conscious of the cost of all government programs. but at any cost. we would be irresponsible to agree to a reserve plan that could  guarantee that we would receive the emergency oil when it is needed most. i am all for saving money. but i would  want the famous adage "you get what you pay for" to ring true when we desperately need home heating oil to keep our citizens warm. second. there is the psychological security factor. i have spoken with my constituents and others about the location of the oil reserve. the utilities. heating oil dealers. small businessmen and homeowners uniformly believe we need inregion storage. they all cite the strong psychological feeling of security in king that the oil. vital to their everyday needs. is close at hand in a time of emergency. inregion storage will build confidence in government among new englanders. it will demonstrate that the government is aware of their regions vulnerability to an oil supply disruption and has taken the necessary steps to protect them. to me. this is extremely important. i urge the committee do whatever is necessary to insure that the rpr plan is completed. let us start by putting the money back into the budget for it. keep on top of the energy department to follow through on inregion storage. most of all. we have got to move forward with the whole reserve programwe need the protection before it is too late. i think it is important. in talking about any facet of the energy crisis. to avoid becoming too abstract. this is a human crisis.  an abstract puzzle. i am terribly concerned. for instance. about what i see happening to lowincome americans because of the energy crisis. homeowners in new england have seen the price of heating oil rise from 50 cents to 62 cents a gallonan increase of over 20 percentin only 6 months. this increase is double the size increase we used to experience in a full year. and the future looks even bleaker. the new england fuel institute estimates that home heating oil will cost 70 cents a gallon by the time the heating season begins next winter. let me relate the stories of just two rhode islanders trying to cope with the energy crisis: miss g. is an elderly woman who owns her own cottage in cranston. in 1974 her income was $120 a month. . it is $160 a month. in 1974 her home heating oil cost 35 cents a gallon. so a fillup of her 200gallon tank for an average winter month cost $69. of her total income. that left her $51 a month for all her other expenses. this year. miss g. is paying 54 cents a gallon. since 1974. her income rose by 33 percent. while the cost of oil rose by 54 percent. she  pays $108 to fill her tank each month and has $52 left overa $1 increase in disposable income since mrs. k. lives with her one young child in an apartment in rhode island. she is on welfare. in 1974 she received $184 a month in welfare benefits. her rent costs $125. while her oil costs $66 a month. today. she receives $274 in welfare benefits. but her rent has risen to $175. and oil  costs $110. in 1974. mrs. k. was behind $7 every month on rent and fuel alone. today. she is behind by $11 every month. she has gone here but down. thanks to 5 years of inflation and a deepening energy crisis. we have a situation here where the heavy burden of paying for higher priced oil falls disproportionately on lowincome persons. a recent study entitled. "analyzing impacts of energy costs on residents of new england." done by the energy systems research group in boston. puts into writing what lowincome new englanders have kn all alongthat energy costs are taking up more and more of the low income familys budget. the study found that. energy costs are higher in new england than they are in the nation as a whole. and that energy costs are regressive. they fall proportionately more heavily on low income households than on typical households. the energy research group study shows that at the present time. the average lowincome family in new england (with $3.318 annual income) spends 27.5 percent of its household budget on energy costs. the typical middleincome new england family (with $16.582 annual income) spends only 9.6 percent of their household budget on energy. as energy prices increase. so does the proportion of household expenditures a low income family must make for energy needs. a 25 percent increase in energy costsclose to what we have experienced this winterwill require a low income family to spend over a third of its budget on energy. under similar conditions. a middleincome family would contribute just over a tenth of its budget. clearly. it is the lowincome family that bears the brunt of increased energy prices. some people say that poorer families and those on fixed incomes should conserve more. in order to lessen their costs. but traditionally it is  the family with a low or fixed income who uses great amounts of energy for "luxury" purposes. while all can conserve by lowering thermostats and using public transportation. the lowincome family usually has fewer opportunities to significantly cut back on consumption. they dont have extra rooms to close off. they cant afford insulation or storm windows. and. as supplies dwindle. they see more and more of their household budgets being used to simply keep warm. in addition to conservation measures. which are essential. we need to increase domestic production of oil. i recognize that in the short run. energy prices will rise as we provide greater incentives for domestic exploration by our companies. but. if we can help soften the impact of rising prices on those who can least afford it and help produce more domestic petroleum. it will be well worth our efforts in the long run. i would like to put forth a proposal to help these families cope with the rising cost of energy. as well as to spur on our oil companies to produce more domestic oil. first. let us put into effect a phased decontrol of oil prices. the tangled mess of pricing regulations has inhibited domestic production of oil and helped to increase our reliance on imported oil. for example. let "new oil" rise gradually to the world price by 1981 and let "old oil" reach that mark by 1983. by decontrolling oil prices. the oil companies will receive more perbarrel than under current price regulations. although their costs for producing that oil will only rise at the rate of inflation. therefore. the amount that the companies receive in excess of the present controlled price should be taxed at the rate of 75 percent. these newly acquired funds should then be returned to the states with high energy costs. the states would distribute the funds to lowincome persons. thus helping them cope with rising energy prices. the oil companies would be permitted to retain 25 percent of the difference between the current controlled price and the new deregulated price to invest in increased energy production. the tax would also phase out when oil prices are entirely decontrolled. in my view. it is the federal governments responsibility to insure that the burden of higher energy costs is distributed in as equitable a way as possible. but this does  mean that we need to create a whole new federal program and bureaucracy to meet every crying need. let the federal government do what it does bestcollect taxes. then. let us give the revenues to the states. who can best determine who is in need of extra assistance in meeting energy costs. the revenues generated from my suggestion of an "excess revenues" tax will help lowincome families adjust to the increasing energy prices which reflect the realities of todays market. at the same time. we will encourage additional domestic energy production. which in the long run. is our only key to energy security.
 carters crude oil equalization tax. proposed as part of the national energy plan. included a rebate to home heating oil customers. heating oil customers would receive a dollarfordollar reduction in price when they bought fuel oil from dealers. both the house and the senate accepted versions of a heating oil tax credit last year. unfortunately. these measures were dropped in conference. the bill we are introducing today demonstrates our commitment to help those who bear the brunt of higher oil prices. just like we helped residential users of natural gas. the bill directs assistance to lower- and middleincome persons. since both are seriously affected by higher heating oil prices. those who do  file tax returns would remain eligible for energy assistance through direct payment programs. the credit will hopefully provide an additional incentive for homeowners to invest the money gained from the credit in making their homes more energy efficient. conservation is our surest. safest. and least expensive route to energy security in the short term. the tax credit we are proposing today is the most equitable way we can help heating oil users meet the higher prices and have egh money to invest in the futureconservation.*
. the bill i am introducing today is. i believe. a sound. sensible approach to one of the most difficult dilemmas we face today. i urge my colleagues to join me as cosponsors in the first step in a decadelong commitment to achieve energy security. i request that the technical explanation of my amendment. prepared by the joint tax committee be printed in the record.
. i point out that the senator from wyoming has raised a problem we struggle with whenever we deal with tax credits. particularly in connection with the energy matter. always. the feeling is that. in giving a credit. we will eventually save fuel. therefore. why give the credit. we have to balance. this is a 15percent credit. in the judgment of this side. it is worthwhile going forward with. so we have objection.
. the resolution i introduce today complies with the procedures included in the windfall profit tax bill for congressional disapproval of any oil import fee. i hope my colleagues will join in support of this effort. by mr. bentsen: s.j. res. 161. a joint resolution proposing an international code of business conduct. to the committee on foreign relations.
 does  have the authority to impose an import fee solelyfor the purpose of raising revenues. congress should  act to impose an oil import fee for the simple reason that the costs to consumers outweigh any revenue benefits. i urge my colleagues to support this resolution to send a strong message to the members of the finance and budget committees that an oil import fee is  an acceptable revenueraising measure.e
. i am happy to join with the other members of congress who are joining in the celebration of solar day and demonstrating their support for energy conservation and renewable energy programs.  more than ever we need to strengthen our commitment to promoting efficient energy use and developing alternative sources of energy such as solar. wind. and hydropower. my efforts to achieve those goals have been targeted in three specific areas. the first area is the energy investment tax credits. i have opposed the elimination of the business and home energy tax credit. additionally. i have supported inclusion of woodburning stoves in the energy tax credit. this change is particularly important to residents of my home state of rhode island where the use of wood as a home heating fuel increased by 30 percent from 1977 to 1980. the energy tax credit is also essential to the development of solar energy in this country. the second area that i believe to be of vital importance. particularly to new england. is the lowincome weatherization program. last year. i successfully opposed the administrations proposal to eliminate the weatherization program. i intend to continue that fight this year. nearly onethird of the eligible homes in rhode island have been insulated as a result of the program. this has produced a savings of 18 cents per dollar of energy costs. the third area is the energy conservation and renewable fuels budget itself. the administrations fiscal year 1983 budget sharply accelerates cuts in the conservation and renewable energy programs. for example. the budget proposes a 74 percent reduction in solar energy funds. i am committed to an overall reduction in the level of federal spending. but i do  believe that the reductions in energy conservation and renewable fuels programs are equitable. particularly in light of the fact that the funding for these programs was cut by over half in fiscal year these are the areas where i have focused my efforts to promote efficient energy use and develop safe alternative energy sources. a great deal of work remains to be done. and my commitment remains strong.* limits
am i correct in assuming that $434 million of the $1.5 billion in deferrals has been added back into the budget resolution aper. a very cifically to fund department of energy activities. er is a du- . i ask unanimous con1.92.1 ... . ...... 1.228 -- sent to have printed in the record the 20.7 material to which i have referred. 159 121. there being objection. the mate1.420.0 64 2 ......._ rial was ordered to be printed in the 202 record. as follows: 28.6 --. 1.533.2 113.2
. it is secret that i am opposed to s. 1300. the rural electrification and telephone revolving fund. it does  solve the problem of the funds impending insolvency. were the rea fund in immediate crisis. there might be some rational for this emergency legislation to be acted upon a day or two before adjournment. however. there is such emergency. the rea was granted direct assistance to resolve its shortterm cash flow problem in the last two agricultural appropriation bills. in the fiscal year 1984 bill. the rea was granted $198 million and for fiscal year 1985 rea was granted $215 million. these additional revenues push back the day of reckoning until the mid1990s. i further oppose s. 1300 because: cancellation of the $7.9 billion debt owed by the rea to the u.s. treasury is  justified. cancellation of the $7.9 billion would i- provided outside of the budget/apbropriations process and would constitute.backdoor financing. the downward financing provision of s. 1300 could cause the refunding of the entire portfolio of approximately $3.5 billion of certificates of beneficial ownership [cbo. this provision provides substantial benefits to the fund at the expense of the federal financing bank [ffbi and the u.s. treasury. the u.s. treasury does  have a refinancing option with its investors in treasury debt and. therefore. could  transfer this additional cost on to others. rea guaranteed borrowers can fund projects with rollovers of shortterm 2year debt during the up to 35year period when an advance is outstanding. this action was confirmed in an agreement between ffb and the rea on ember 7. 1983. therefore. the language proposed in s. 1300 is  as flexible as the language  in use in the guarantee program. experience with federal credit programs demonstrates that fixed interest rates produce perverse and unintended variations in interest rate subsidies as market rates of interest vary. this results in inequities among borrowers using the program at different times. at the current cost of longterm treasury borrowing of about 12% percent. the cost of making a typical 35year loan at 5 percent for $3 million is the same as the cost of providing an outright grant of $1.6 million with the remaining $1.4 million being paid at the 12/ percent rate. the treasury has long maintained that the benchmark interest rate for federal lending programs should be the current cost of treasury borrowing for a period comparable to the maturity of the loan. this is the best measure of the cost of the loan. s. 1300 reqires the guarantee and subordination of rea direct loans at the request of the borrower which substantially increases the governments risk. eligible borrowers include states and municipalities. the guarantee and/or subordination of these loans would result in the federal guarantee of taxexempt obligations. since 1970. congress has enacted at least 24 statutes which preclude federal guarantees of taxexempt groups. placing the credit of the united states behind a taxexempt obligation creates a security that is superior to direct obligations issued by the treasury and is contrary to the spirit of the public debt act of 1941 which prohibits direct issuance by federal agencies of obligations which have interest which is exempt from federal income taxation. federal guarantees of taxexempts have adverse effects on the municipal market because they create securities which are superior to all other securities issued by state and local entities. consequently. such guarantees add to the pressures on the municipal bond market. crowd out other. less creditworthy municipal borrowers. and increase the borrowing costs of all municipal borrowers. the cops have benefited from a wide range of subsidies including subsidized direct loans. 100 percent loan guarantees. and retention of essentially taxexempt status. they have also benefited from taking advantage of tax incentives available to fully taxable entities such as safe harbor leasing. additional subsidies include taxexempt municipal bonds for pollution control equipment and preferential access to low cost federal power. the fund was created in 1973 when congress loaned it as temporary assets $7.9 billion. the revolving fund was also granted all of the interest that would be paid to the government on these treasury loans. as well as all the principal and interest that would be paid into the fund for loans it would make in the future. and  (even with these generous provisions) only 11 years after the funds creation. it is on its way toward insolvency. s. 1300 calls for the cancellation of repayment of the $7.9 billion debt owed by the rural electrification administration to the u.s. treasury. this provision is unjustified. rea administrator harold hunter. states that forgiving the repayment of the $7.9 billion will  bring the fund solvency. furthermore. cancellation of the $7.9 billion debt would be provided outside the budget and appropriations process and would constitute backdoor financing. this policy of forgiveness would create a very dangerous precedent for other offbudget credit programs to defer. reduce. or cancel their debts to the treasury. the permanent forgiveness of $7.9 billion is questionable particularly considering that the revolving fund is capable of repaying its obligation. currently. the $7.9 billion is required to be repaid to the treasury over a 25 year period beginning in 1993. it is a little premature to think of forgiving a debt that is  due to begin to be paid for aher 9 yearst approximately $1.1 billion in rea loans are made each year at a 5 percent interest rate. while the funds are borrowed at an 11.4 percent interest rate. this is one major cause of the revolving funds problems. the fund does  generate egh earnings to repay its loans. although s. 1300 would raise interest rates as a means to assure the selfsufficiency of the fundrates would still remain well below projected borrowing costs. according to the congressional budget office (cbo). the funds receipts would increase. but interest expenses would overtake the funds income before the year 2010. at that time. congress would again be asked to come to the rescue of the revolving fund. instead of passing s. 1300 congress should reexamine the role of the rea. remember that the original purpose of the 1936 act was to distribute electricity and telephone service to farmers and rural areas. today 99 percent of rural america is electrified and 95 percent receives telephone service. 0/ october 10. 1984 1 con obviously. the goals of the original act have been met. and the coops longer need interest subsidies. much also has changed since the 1930s. much of rural america is suburban or. urban. often. coops provide much of the taxpayer subsidized power to suburban. commercial. and industrial users to small farms and rural households that the rea was created to serve. in a 1979 study conducted by the environmental policy institute. lines across the land. it was found that some coops sold huge blocks of power to large industrial and commercial users. the study found that while coop electric sales to large industrial and commercial users nationwide average about 22 percent. in 11 states9 of which are in the westindustrial and commercial users consume between 25 percent and 67 percent of rural electric sales. some of the coops electric power is going to some of the nations largest companies at bargain basement rates. this is an outrage. for example. the environmental policy institute found in alabama. coops selling power to service pumping needs in the oil and gas fields. in arizona. to phelps dodge and anamax mining for mining and milling. in colorado. to shell and chevron for pipeline pumping. to union carbide for uranium milling and to others for coal mining. throughout th dakota. montana and wyoming. coops serve strip mines. oil and gas operations and some uranium mines. in texas. coops provide power to el paso natural gas. the correct solution. that of bringing rea loan rates closer to the actual cost of borrowing money from the treasury. would have a small and in many cases. negligible effect on the cost of electricity to the average rea consumer. interest rates are but a small part of the costs of generating and distributing electricity. estimates by the congressional research service suggest that nearly 84 percent of the cooperatives would charge their average ratepayers less than $1 a month above their current bills. if the funds interest rate were to rise 4 percentage points from 5 to 9 percent. for more than 7 percent of the cooperatives. there would be virtually effect on ratepayers bills given the 4 percentage point increase in the revolving funds interest rate. there are. of course. regions of the country that would feel a greater impact. however. the rea administrator already has the necessary authority to grant special relief in these cases. s. 1300 is a classic case of special interest legislation. rural electric coops operate in 46 states and have an obvious impact on the legislation before us today. s. 1300 is the national rural electric cooperative associations wish list. it does everything except address the problem of insolvency. unfortunately. it will become a nightmare. in summary. i oppose the bill because. the bill will  solve the funds financial problems. it only delays the day of reckoning at the expense of the taxpayer. the administration estimates that if all sections of the bill are implemented it could cost the treasury as much as $20 billion. the budget implications are serious. the bill would increase the borrowing and taxing requirements of the treasury and raise interest rates for all americans. the bill will create an extremely damaging precedent for the many other offbudget loan programs that will also expect to request forgiveness: the bill will continue a major means tested subsidy to some special interests. any legislation passed this congress ought to address the funds pending insolvency by: placing rea activities on budget. raising the rea lending rates equal to the treasurys cost of money. and requiring all borrowers to pay user fees to cover the administrative costs of the loan.
. when our exports have a $14 billion gap in june a $170 billion gap for the year. that is just  some industry that is hurt. those are human beings. those are american jobs. if the oil industry is suffering. and indeed. we recognize this. then let us specifically target something for that industry as we have attempted to help the agricultural industry in our nation. but let us  impose a burden on all the rest of american industry. some have suggested an overall btu tax. some have suggested a gasoline tax. all of these perhaps should be up for consideration. but  a tax that imposes a burden on the balance of american competitiveness. that is directed more onerously to one section of the nation more than others. that is a poor way to raise revenue.
. it is secret that i am opposed to s. 1300. the rural electrification and telephone revolving fund. it does  solve the problem of the funds impending insolvency. were the rea fund in immediate crisis. there might be some rational for this emergency legislation to be acted upon a day or two before adjournment. however. there is such emergency. the rea was granted direct assistance to resolve its shortterm cash flow problem in the last two agricultural appropriation bills. in the fiscal year 1984 bill. the rea was granted $198 million and for fiscal year 1985 rea was granted $215 million. these additional revenues push back the day of reckoning until the mid1990s. i further oppose s. 1300 because: cancellation of the $7.9 billion debt owed by the rea to the u.s. treasury is  justified. cancellation of the $7.9 billion would i- provided outside of the budget/apbropriations process and would constitute.backdoor financing. the downward financing provision of s. 1300 could cause the refunding of the entire portfolio of approximately $3.5 billion of certificates of beneficial ownership [cbo. this provision provides substantial benefits to the fund at the expense of the federal financing bank [ffbi and the u.s. treasury. the u.s. treasury does  have a refinancing option with its investors in treasury debt and. therefore. could  transfer this additional cost on to others. rea guaranteed borrowers can fund projects with rollovers of shortterm 2year debt during the up to 35year period when an advance is outstanding. this action was confirmed in an agreement between ffb and the rea on ember 7. 1983. therefore. the language proposed in s. 1300 is  as flexible as the language  in use in the guarantee program. experience with federal credit programs demonstrates that fixed interest rates produce perverse and unintended variations in interest rate subsidies as market rates of interest vary. this results in inequities among borrowers using the program at different times. at the current cost of longterm treasury borrowing of about 12% percent. the cost of making a typical 35year loan at 5 percent for $3 million is the same as the cost of providing an outright grant of $1.6 million with the remaining $1.4 million being paid at the 12/ percent rate. the treasury has long maintained that the benchmark interest rate for federal lending programs should be the current cost of treasury borrowing for a period comparable to the maturity of the loan. this is the best measure of the cost of the loan. s. 1300 reqires the guarantee and subordination of rea direct loans at the request of the borrower which substantially increases the governments risk. eligible borrowers include states and municipalities. the guarantee and/or subordination of these loans would result in the federal guarantee of taxexempt obligations. since 1970. congress has enacted at least 24 statutes which preclude federal guarantees of taxexempt groups. placing the credit of the united states behind a taxexempt obligation creates a security that is superior to direct obligations issued by the treasury and is contrary to the spirit of the public debt act of 1941 which prohibits direct issuance by federal agencies of obligations which have interest which is exempt from federal income taxation. federal guarantees of taxexempts have adverse effects on the municipal market because they create securities which are superior to all other securities issued by state and local entities. consequently. such guarantees add to the pressures on the municipal bond market. crowd out other. less creditworthy municipal borrowers. and increase the borrowing costs of all municipal borrowers. the cops have benefited from a wide range of subsidies including subsidized direct loans. 100 percent loan guarantees. and retention of essentially taxexempt status. they have also benefited from taking advantage of tax incentives available to fully taxable entities such as safe harbor leasing. additional subsidies include taxexempt municipal bonds for pollution control equipment and preferential access to low cost federal power. the fund was created in 1973 when congress loaned it as temporary assets $7.9 billion. the revolving fund was also granted all of the interest that would be paid to the government on these treasury loans. as well as all the principal and interest that would be paid into the fund for loans it would make in the future. and  (even with these generous provisions) only 11 years after the funds creation. it is on its way toward insolvency. s. 1300 calls for the cancellation of repayment of the $7.9 billion debt owed by the rural electrification administration to the u.s. treasury. this provision is unjustified. rea administrator harold hunter. states that forgiving the repayment of the $7.9 billion will  bring the fund solvency. furthermore. cancellation of the $7.9 billion debt would be provided outside the budget and appropriations process and would constitute backdoor financing. this policy of forgiveness would create a very dangerous precedent for other offbudget credit programs to defer. reduce. or cancel their debts to the treasury. the permanent forgiveness of $7.9 billion is questionable particularly considering that the revolving fund is capable of repaying its obligation. currently. the $7.9 billion is required to be repaid to the treasury over a 25 year period beginning in 1993. it is a little premature to think of forgiving a debt that is  due to begin to be paid for aher 9 yearst approximately $1.1 billion in rea loans are made each year at a 5 percent interest rate. while the funds are borrowed at an 11.4 percent interest rate. this is one major cause of the revolving funds problems. the fund does  generate egh earnings to repay its loans. although s. 1300 would raise interest rates as a means to assure the selfsufficiency of the fundrates would still remain well below projected borrowing costs. according to the congressional budget office (cbo). the funds receipts would increase. but interest expenses would overtake the funds income before the year 2010. at that time. congress would again be asked to come to the rescue of the revolving fund. instead of passing s. 1300 congress should reexamine the role of the rea. remember that the original purpose of the 1936 act was to distribute electricity and telephone service to farmers and rural areas. today 99 percent of rural america is electrified and 95 percent receives telephone service. 0/ october 10. 1984 1 con obviously. the goals of the original act have been met. and the coops longer need interest subsidies. much also has changed since the 1930s. much of rural america is suburban or. urban. often. coops provide much of the taxpayer subsidized power to suburban. commercial. and industrial users to small farms and rural households that the rea was created to serve. in a 1979 study conducted by the environmental policy institute. lines across the land. it was found that some coops sold huge blocks of power to large industrial and commercial users. the study found that while coop electric sales to large industrial and commercial users nationwide average about 22 percent. in 11 states9 of which are in the westindustrial and commercial users consume between 25 percent and 67 percent of rural electric sales. some of the coops electric power is going to some of the nations largest companies at bargain basement rates. this is an outrage. for example. the environmental policy institute found in alabama. coops selling power to service pumping needs in the oil and gas fields. in arizona. to phelps dodge and anamax mining for mining and milling. in colorado. to shell and chevron for pipeline pumping. to union carbide for uranium milling and to others for coal mining. throughout th dakota. montana and wyoming. coops serve strip mines. oil and gas operations and some uranium mines. in texas. coops provide power to el paso natural gas. the correct solution. that of bringing rea loan rates closer to the actual cost of borrowing money from the treasury. would have a small and in many cases. negligible effect on the cost of electricity to the average rea consumer. interest rates are but a small part of the costs of generating and distributing electricity. estimates by the congressional research service suggest that nearly 84 percent of the cooperatives would charge their average ratepayers less than $1 a month above their current bills. if the funds interest rate were to rise 4 percentage points from 5 to 9 percent. for more than 7 percent of the cooperatives. there would be virtually effect on ratepayers bills given the 4 percentage point increase in the revolving funds interest rate. there are. of course. regions of the country that would feel a greater impact. however. the rea administrator already has the necessary authority to grant special relief in these cases. s. 1300 is a classic case of special interest legislation. rural electric coops operate in 46 states and have an obvious impact on the legislation before us today. s. 1300 is the national rural electric cooperative associations wish list. it does everything except address the problem of insolvency. unfortunately. it will become a nightmare. in summary. i oppose the bill because. the bill will  solve the funds financial problems. it only delays the day of reckoning at the expense of the taxpayer. the administration estimates that if all sections of the bill are implemented it could cost the treasury as much as $20 billion. the budget implications are serious. the bill would increase the borrowing and taxing requirements of the treasury and raise interest rates for all americans. the bill will create an extremely damaging precedent for the many other offbudget loan programs that will also expect to request forgiveness: the bill will continue a major means tested subsidy to some special interests. any legislation passed this congress ought to address the funds pending insolvency by: placing rea activities on budget. raising the rea lending rates equal to the treasurys cost of money. and requiring all borrowers to pay user fees to cover the administrative costs of the loan.
. when our exports have a $14 billion gap in june a $170 billion gap for the year. that is just  some industry that is hurt. those are human beings. those are american jobs. if the oil industry is suffering. and indeed. we recognize this. then let us specifically target something for that industry as we have attempted to help the agricultural industry in our nation. but let us  impose a burden on all the rest of american industry. some have suggested an overall btu tax. some have suggested a gasoline tax. all of these perhaps should be up for consideration. but  a tax that imposes a burden on the balance of american competitiveness. that is directed more onerously to one section of the nation more than others. that is a poor way to raise revenue.
. this provision is a backdoor approach to helping one specific segment of the nationthe depressed domestic oil industry. the protectionists strategy behind it is clear. it iges the fact that curbing trade will hurt the consumer. hurt employment. hurt the gross national product. increase inflation and overall be damaging. extensively damaging. to this nation of ours. so i urge our colleagues to join the rest of us in supporting the amendment to remove the energy security provision from this bill. i want to thank the manager of this side and thank the chair.
if i might just finish. in 1986. when we passed this legislation. there was opposition from the trade associations and others who are  complaining about this requirement. in those days. in 1986 they did  complain because. as has been pointed out. a massive federal cleanup fund was established by a certain percentage of every cent of the gasoline tax going into it.  it is time for those who own the tanks to make a contribution. and they want an exemption and shift the whole load to the federal fund. i do  think that is right. i think they should clean up their act. i think they should get on with it.
 i do . the senator who is controlling the time has plenty of time. but i have 15 minutes. so. if the distinguished senator could perhaps correct me if i am wrong without perhaps. an elaboration. so. therefore. my understanding is correct: coal miners are the only ones who receive these unique benefits. the next point i would like to make isand if i am in error. il will be glad to be correctedthat the ccal miners will receive in the first year 70 percent of his. let us assume it is a male. his previous years base pay. plus fringe benefits. the next year. 60 percent. and the- next year. 50 percent. taxes would still be applicable to the benefits received.
. this is one aspect of this budget agreement that i hope we will revisit once the commissions report is received and can be reviewed. i also oppose the agreements provision extending the diesel dyeing requirements to kerosene. since 1995. there has been substantial debate about the proper tax treatment for kerosene. more than 90 percent of kerosene consumed in the united states is used for aviation purpose. accordingly. the fuel is currently classified and taxed as an aviation fuel. kerosene is also blended during cold weather with diesel fuel and home heating oil to prevent those fuels from congealing. and it is treated. for tax purposes. as the fuel into which it is blended. thus. if kerosene is blended with undyed diesel fuel. it is taxed as diesel fuel. if it is blended with dyed home heating oil. it is exempt from tax. this bill imposes a 24.3 centspergallon excise tax onkerosene when it is removed from the terminal. classifying it as diesel and subjecting it to the same tax and dye program. because tankage in the theast* is limited. terminals are likely to have space only for undyed kerosene. such fuel is subject to tax when it is pulled from the rack. and. dealers who sell it directly as a heating fuel or as a blandstock for distillate. and farmers blending it as an offhighway fuel will be forced to apply for refunds of taxes paid. this proposal also raises safety concerns. the new england association of fire marshals and the consumer product safety commission have raised health and safety concerns about the use of dyed fuels in unvented heaters. most kerosene heaters have been certified by the united laboratories and similar organizations as safe only if they burn clear. undyed fuel. accordingly. there is little information available about the effects of dyed fuel on these heaters. and it would take several years to have them retested and recertified to burn dyed fuel. in closing. i would liketo express my appreciation and admiration to the chairman of the finance committee. senator roth. who did a wonderful job of guiding this legislation to this point. without his willingness to work with all members of the committee. and indeed the entire senate. this bill would have had little chance of success.
." i am trying to understand the implication here. setting aside the merit of the administrations ccti request. voluntary domestic activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. including tax incentives and research funding for energy efficient techogy and renewables. are consistent with the existing 1992 rio climate treaty that the united states has already ratified. while some use ecoic arguments to oppose any form of government subsidy. prudent investment along these lines does  constitute regulation and is in way a form of kyoto protocol implementation. therefore. i ask my friend and colleague from new mexico. senator domenici. if he and other members of the budget committee are arguing in the committee report that we can take steps to try to increase energy efficiency and advance renewables unless and until the senate provides its consent to the kyoto protocol.
. this is one aspect of this budget agreement that i hope we will revisit once the commissions report is received and can be reviewed. i also oppose the agreements provision extending the diesel dyeing requirements to kerosene. since 1995. there has been substantial debate about the proper tax treatment for kerosene. more than 90 percent of kerosene consumed in the united states is used for aviation purpose. accordingly. the fuel is currently classified and taxed as an aviation fuel. kerosene is also blended during cold weather with diesel fuel and home heating oil to prevent those fuels from congealing. and it is treated. for tax purposes. as the fuel into which it is blended. thus. if kerosene is blended with undyed diesel fuel. it is taxed as diesel fuel. if it is blended with dyed home heating oil. it is exempt from tax. this bill imposes a 24.3 centspergallon excise tax onkerosene when it is removed from the terminal. classifying it as diesel and subjecting it to the same tax and dye program. because tankage in the theast* is limited. terminals are likely to have space only for undyed kerosene. such fuel is subject to tax when it is pulled from the rack. and. dealers who sell it directly as a heating fuel or as a blandstock for distillate. and farmers blending it as an offhighway fuel will be forced to apply for refunds of taxes paid. this proposal also raises safety concerns. the new england association of fire marshals and the consumer product safety commission have raised health and safety concerns about the use of dyed fuels in unvented heaters. most kerosene heaters have been certified by the united laboratories and similar organizations as safe only if they burn clear. undyed fuel. accordingly. there is little information available about the effects of dyed fuel on these heaters. and it would take several years to have them retested and recertified to burn dyed fuel. in closing. i would liketo express my appreciation and admiration to the chairman of the finance committee. senator roth. who did a wonderful job of guiding this legislation to this point. without his willingness to work with all members of the committee. and indeed the entire senate. this bill would have had little chance of success.
." i am trying to understand the implication here. setting aside the merit of the administrations ccti request. voluntary domestic activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. including tax incentives and research funding for energy efficient techogy and renewables. are consistent with the existing 1992 rio climate treaty that the united states has already ratified. while some use ecoic arguments to oppose any form of government subsidy. prudent investment along these lines does  constitute regulation and is in way a form of kyoto protocol implementation. therefore. i ask my friend and colleague from new mexico. senator domenici. if he and other members of the budget committee are arguing in the committee report that we can take steps to try to increase energy efficiency and advance renewables unless and until the senate provides its consent to the kyoto protocol.
. there is much debate throughout the country on how best to manage the growing volume of solid waste that flows from our homes. offices. factories. farms. and institutions. there is question about the fact that effective solid waste management is one of the major domestic needs of our times. it is unfortunate that some in both public and private life believe that the refuse problem can be solved by piecemeal and retrogressive approaches--that. for example. we can reduce the solid waste fallout to manageable proportions by outlawing the use by consumers of just some of the items that end up as refuse. or by forcing deposits on bottles and cans. or by placing burdensome taxes on some and  other products because they end up as trash. * fortunately. there are others in this countryand i believe they are in the majoritywho look forward in seeking solutions to our solid waste crisis. the people of the state of connecticut speaking through their legislators. their gover. and their department of environmental protection. are among those who believe in progress rather than retrogression in protecting the environment of our beautiful state. they believe that we can move forward to our objectives by harnessing modem techogy to the effective and hopefully profitable management of solid waste in connecticut. i wish publicly to congratulate the people of connecticut. their farsighted legislators. and the enlightened members of the executive branch of the state government for their part in making connecticut the first state in the nation to tackle the problem of solid waste on a statewide basis. at the same time. i believe my colleagues in the congress will be interested in king how the people of connecticut plan to solve their refuse problems. the program i am about to describe implements public act 845 enacted last year by the general assembly giving the commissioner of environmental protection responsibility for statewide solid waste management. this act requires a statewide solid waste plan by july 1. 1973. with implementation to follow. it is interesting to k that some 7 million tons of solid wastes will.be generated in connecticut in 1972. by 1985. wastes from homes. businesses. institutions. farms. and other sources are expected to total some 10 million tons. like the rest of america we have a refuse problem pretty much in proportion to our population. the states 15 regional planning agencies and 169 cities and towns will play active roles in the planning and implementation process. a number of solid waste advisory committees. made up of municipal representatives. already have been formed and regional meetings with local officials have been held. a major corporation. with outstanding management. planning. development and technical capabilities. has been selected to develop and manage connecticuts statewide system for disposing of garbage. trash and other solid wastes with maximum recovery of materials and energy. the firm was chosen from among 22 organizations that submitted proposals to dan w. lufkin. commissioner of the department of environmental protection. in seeking these competitive proposals. the department of environmental protection documented the states solid waste management policy. which in broad terms calls for: 1. maximum material reuse or recycling either through separation at the source. using separate collections where feasible or recovery of material after combined collection and volume reduction. 2. resource recovery through use of refuse as a source of energy to the extent materials recycling is  feasible. . 3. maximum volume reduction of materials  recycled or recovered as energy so as to minimize landfill requirements. 4. equitable distribution of the costs associated with the system among its users. it was further stated that it is the policy of the state to accomplish these objectives with maximum participation by private enterprise in planning. construction. management and operation of facilities and the systems required. it goes without saying that the system to be developed jointly by the state and industry must be environmentally sound and ecoically feasible. the program consists of several phases. including design. construction and operation of the facilities for recovery. reuse and diposal of refuse. the first phase will be design of the system. which will include compatible existing and proposed facilities. it will require about a year to complete and is valued at $1.115.000. of this amount. $450.000 are in contract funds from the state of connecticut and the federal environmental protection agency. the balance will be in the form of work performed by members of the project teamthe prime contractor. the states department of environmental protection and two local utility companies. the program being developed will be flexible. commissioner lufkin has emphasized- that we can lock ourselves into any one process of resource recovery and/or disposal. the state of the art is changing so fast that we must remain open to techogical and social inations. the commissioner believes that such an approach based on the efficiency of the new machines and processes for recycling wastes from mixed refuse. the application of ecoic incentives and changes in laws and customs will make maximum resource recovery feasible within just a few years. a major goal of the first years effort will be to determine the best ecoic and environmental mix of solid waste processing. recycling and disposal in relation to facilities and markets which exist or can be developed in the different geographical regions of the state. connecticut within a year will begin building a $100 million statewide solid waste management system that will salvage all metal and glass for recycling. generate electricity from trash and extract gas and fuel from garbage. the department of environmental protection has stated that starter units of the system will be built in hartford. new haven. and new britain. although initial construction costs may be as high as $8 million just for the starter units. revenue from recovered resources and energy is expected to offset the operating costs. the three municipalities in which the starter units will be built are reported to be putting up more than half of the cost. with the state providing the remaining money. gov. thomas j. meskill. commenting on the statewide program. cited the "failure of piecemeal* solutions in our race against environmental degradation." he added: statewide planning for resource recovery. implemented regionally. in concert with local government. offers great potential benefits to the people of connecticut. it will help to create a more liveable human environment. while conserving natural resources and providing additional jobs* for connecticut citizens. we in connecticut will be happy to share our experiences with the members of the congress and the governments of the several states as our program develops through the planning and implementation stages. we believe we are on a progressive. forwardlooking. ecoic. and socially beneficial course that once again will enable the state of connecticut to set the national pace in the constructive resolution of a major national challenge.
. i would like to go back just one moment in time. if i might. to where we started all this business. i am talking  about the inflation and the recession. this crisis started back in october 1973. with the first arab oil embargo. since october of 1973 the congressnever mind the presidenthas made legislative response. there has been legislative response to the energy crisis which first confronted us in october of this is  a matter that occurred after the first of the year. 1975. it has been well over a year. when the embargo hit and the price of fuels and other items related to fuels went way up. that is when inflation took a big jump. i would say there were probably two principal factors for inflation. one. the lifting of wage and price controls in this country. and the other the rise in fuel costs. inflation came  just with increased costs to the automobile driver. but with higher utility bills and with higher prices for everything associated with oil. then when this inflation soared. that is really where the recession began. costs of everything from automobiles to plastic straws went through the ceiling. everything became too expensive. and was out of the reach of most americans. so. really. this is all one problem. it is  just a recession and an inflation and an energy crisis. it is an econenergy crisis. an ecoic crisis born of energy. and until we crack the nut on energy. there is way we can make permanent. realistic progress toward solving inflation. we can compartmentalize these elements. we can arrive at real solution until we crack the energy nut. the world is  going to tolerate. 6 percent of its population consuming 35 percent of its energy. or it will allow us to do -that. but at prices that will ecoically whip us. that is the problem. pure and simple. . just tell me. how are we going ahead to reduce consumption. how are we going to do it unless we enter into a program of conservation. we can. well. if we are going to have conservation. is it fair it be conservation on behalf of all americans. or is it just a few that are going to be kicked out of their automobiles and will have to lower their heating. et cetera. this is the problem which i believe confronts this body today. it is foolish and it is  right to tell the american people anything other than the fact that. yes. there is going to have to be rationing for at least 5 years. and maybe even longer. while we put the longterm solutions into place. ody argues.  the president.  the congress.  the republicans.  the democrats. on the necessity for mass transportation. we need it. but we can build it tomorrow. ody argues about the development of solar energy or nuclear energy. but it can happen tomorrow. ody argues about more efficient automobiles. but that can happen tomorrow. we are  arguing about the longrange solutions. as these are agreed upon by all. but. rather. about what is going to be done in the interim period. the short term. it means. at least as i see it. that all americans are indeed going to have to go ahead and sacrifice. but if i am asked to sacrifice. or if my constituents are asked to sacrifice. then i think it only fair that we promise them something real at the end of the experience. we can just give symptomatic relief. in order to achieve that something real. it is necessary that we go ahead and reduce our consumption of fuels. that we change our life styles. i have said it many times before and i will say it again: the united states is the worlds biggest oil junky. what is involved here is withdrawal. withdrawal is  an easy thing. i just do  k how to sugar coat it to make it palatable. . how much time do i have left.
in the past month i certainly have received inquiries from my constituents about the joblessness in this country. i have received inquiries about the inflation. i have received inquiries about recession problems. and about the energy crisis in this country. and. yes indeed. insofar as our transportation is concerned. about the penn central crisis. i have  received one questionthough i am  saying a few will  come in.  that the issue is before usasking me to take my time and the time of the senate to debate rule xxii. i do  k if it seems as strange to the distinguished senator from alabama as it does to me. that with all this important business backlog we spend this amount of time with something that might be satisfying intellectually to a great many of our colleagues. and maybe there is a time for that. but we are in a crisis in so many areas that i really would hope the senator from alabama would agree with me our time is better spent on very real problems of this nation rather than getting into this philosophical and academic dialog right  about rule xxii. it is really one of the reasons i think that make us look irrelevant to the business of the nation when. at this particular time. we once again drag this out additionally. there just does  seem to be any sense of urgency in this chamber as to what the real problems of the country are. i gather this is basically the essence of what the senator from alabama said. which is that this is an important problem even though he has a differing point of view from mine. so it is a matter of importance that should be debated and voted upon. we are all hung up on this philosophical exercise at a very iportune time. i may say.
i appreciate the comments of the distinguished chairman. i just want to point out and repeat that the aspect of the problem that bothers me the greatest is the fact that. out of somei believe the national debt is somewhere around $800 billion--of that. over $100 billion is foreigned. most of it. or a good portion of it. by the opec nations. and that is on the rise.
i have said all along that the portion of our populace that has suffered the greatest since the inception of the energy crisis 4 years ago has been the poor. the elderly. and the middleincome persons of this nation. maybe america has  conserved. indeed it has . and the statistics support that fact. our payments for oil to the saudis are up 1.000 percent in the last 4 years. but it is the most disadvantaged elements of our society that have been forced to conserve. this is called rationing by price. an energy bill is going to pass here which does  promote conservation. does  promote production. but instead continues rationing by price and continues to penalize the disadvantaged elements of our society. the one good part of this legislation was the provision which was agreed to on this floor between myself and the distinguished chairman of the finance committee that set up a pilot program of energy stamps so that. yes. these disadvantaged elements of our society would be guaranteed some sort of a buffer against the rationing by price scheme which was in effect then and which will be in effect tomorrow after the passage of this legislation. does anybody understand the fear and dread that literally exists on the part of our elderly citizens as they face the prospect of a winter of paying utility bills which they can pay. yes. there are people who can afford to drive any longer or as far as was the case a while back. this applies to e of us. i am sure. we have been able to absorb the jump in the gasoline price. and i bet you when the arabs come ahead and raise it 5 percent more. in a months time which has been predicted. we will probably absorb that. but there are elements of our society that are  in the position to follow along with affluent america. so what provision have we made for them in this bill. e. obviously. these people are a political miity. .they do  count any longer. the majority is in full cry in this country. me. me. i. i. with thought whatsoever for those who lag behind. that. . was what we attempted to address in the legislation which came to this floor in october of 1977. that is what we attempted to address in the formation of a pilot program of energy stamps to pay utility bills and to make sure that those in the th would  freeze to death in the winter or that those in the south would  die of the heat of the summer. but that just was tossed out. never mind anything for this aspect of america. they do  have the clout in this capitol. the home insulators do. what do we have here. residential energy credits. let us see if there is anything for the disadvantaged of this country in this bill. let us go over the sysis: the finance committee conference report contains the following provisions: residential energy credits: 15% of the cost of energy conservation improvements up to $2.000. with a maximum credit of $300. it does  cover replacement furnaces. wood or peat burning stoves. and heat pumps. it covers certain furnace components. insulation. and other items. 30% of the cost of renewable resource equipment up to $2.000. and 20% of the price from $2.000 to $10.000. it does  cover renewable energy obtained through "passive" techniques (such as window orientation and type. placement of building. or other features incorporated into design). but believe me among the homeowners. the insulation companies. and the contractors there is a bonanza. retroactive. this is  a question  of encouraging you to do anything. it is retroactive. i suggest to you that the cost of energy in this country is sufficient so that one needs any incentives to go out and do what needs to be done. the gas guzzler tax. which my good friend from ohio monitored for almost 2 years and tried to make meaningful. "taxes cars averaging 4 to 6.5 mpg below the fleet averageaccording to model type. beginning 1980 thru 1985." in general this tax will be irrelevant since car makers testified that they would  be building cars with mileage this low. out the window. all detroit is free and sailing: 3. alcohol fuels: exempts some of these from an otherwise applicable excise tax to make them more competitive with gasoline. 4. buses: repeals the 10% excise tax  imposed on the sale of buses. and the 8% tax on bus parts. 5. vans: offers businesses a 20% credit against purchase of vans used to carry employees to and from work. 6. business: provides an additional 10% investment credit (a) on any new equipment using a fuel other than oil or gas (and including pollution control devices on existing boilers and furnaces). (b) on equipment for producing synthetic gas. liquids and solid fuels (which the major oil companies would apply to their coal gasification). (c) on recycling equipment. shale oil equipment. and equipment used to produce gas from brine (they get a special gas price plus extra investment credit). all the above can be used to offset 100% of tax liability. a similar additional credit of 10% applies to any other purchase of property used to reduce consumption of fossil fuels. up to 50% of total tax liability. (these credits raise the full business investment credit to 20%.) 7. depletion allowance and intangible drilling costs: expanded for certain things. including geothermal development (again the major oil companies) and natural gas_ where in there is there anything for the people who have truly felt the impact of the energy crisis. where in there is there anything for them. once you have determined you are going to continue the policy of rationing by price. this is worth dying for. insofar as the leadership is concerned. on the floor of the u.s. senate in the closing days of the session. i think there is one common bond between the senator from ohio and myself. he is a great opponent of deregulation and decontrol. and i one of its advocates. but only because we feel. each one of us. ecoically it is going to result in a -situation which benefits the consumer. i do  k whether he is right or . but that is all we are interested in. i am  pleading the case for the oil companies. i just feel in the long run additional production is what is going to lower the price of oil and gas. he feels that it will  because it is going to go into the pockets of oil companies. fair egh. but only one thing motivates both of us: how do we get the most stable supplies at the least prices. well. that is  a consideration in this bill. this bill concerns who gets their hands into the u.s. treasury. for a $1 billion retroactive giveaway. and it just is  worth the time or the effort. i want to see what happens when the vote comes on this. and it will. i want to see all those who have been kemprothing and proposition 13ing. and pushing acrosstheboard tax cuts. i want to see just how careful they are with $1 billion. for sure they will affect hing in the future. what we are talking about is the past. the past 12 months. could there  have been a program to really help those who needed it. i think the estimate of cost on the pilot programoriginally it was the energy stamp program that was proposed for the nation. but due to the encouragement of the chairman of the finance committee we agreed that that might be too big a bite and reduced it to a pilot programwas somewhere in the area of maybe $10 to $20 million. to a forgotten people. everybody is out to get his in this country at the present time. and yet whether each one of us wants to ackledge it or . the reason for our own wellbeing and our affluence is we always have been concerned with somebody else. and that somebody has been somebody who is behind us. but longer. everybody is out for himself. and the devil take the hindmost. there is question whether you are for deregulation and decontrol or whether you are against it. the consumer in this energy legislation that is going to be passed by this body is the forgotten man or woman. i said it on the floor in the natural gas bill: do you k what this is. it is a specialinterest piece of legislation. oil interests get a little bit. gas interests get a little bit. producing states and producing interests get a little bit. politicians get a little bit. the republican party gets a little bit. the democratic party gets a little bit. conservatives get a little bit. liberals get a little bitbut where in there are american interests made paramount. so the final result is a lack of solution to what is termed an energy crisis. that might seem to be beyond the scope of individual involvement. but it is all going to come home to the individuals in this country.
the price. for example. of natural gas is guaranteed  to go up in a free market where there is a possibility of it going the other way. but just to go up. maybe  as much as the gas and oil companies would have liked. but it is going to go up. stability of supply. it is as shaky as it was during the worst years of the energy crisis. conservation. there is conservation in any of this legislation. this bill was originally the centerpiece of the presidents energy program you have  heard that said on this floor. this is the bill that had the coet tax in it and the finance committee threw coet out. god bless them. but at least if the tax had been passed then maybe you could go ahead and pay out the money.  that makes some fiscal sense. but instead we are just going to pay out the money. yet we are going to have a balanced budget. because we say we are going to have a balanced budget. the only way you get a balanced budget is to go ahead and cut the spending. this is a spending bill. it is  an energy bill. i suggest that there is such thing as a free tax cut. americans have been reading big banner headlines sitting there just waiting for the tax cut. the only thing to be resolved would be the small house cut or the bigger senate cut. i mean in logic how can you achieve that cut unless you cut spending. that comes first. i will tell you how you can achieve it because our fiscal attitudes are exactly parallel to our energy attitudes. and i will tell you how you can achieve it without cutting spending. you do  cut spending and you allow deficits to rise which. in turn. full inflation which. in turn. is the most regressive tax of all and impacts again on- the most disadvantaged elements of our society. inflationthe same thing we have done with the energy package. let it impact. but let it impact on those with the least political clout. let the fiscal policies of this nation impact on those with the least political clout. as far as i am concerned. once the coet tax went out. all this became just a makework project for the senate finance committee. they had to have some sort of a bill. well. if they have to have some sort of a bill. at least let them be gracious egh to vote for their fellow colleagues and for the american taxpayer by having their work projects cost hing.  $1 billion. i would like to read to my colleagues a statement that i made on the occasion of presenting the amendment which was lost in the conference. because i think it pretty well explains the problem. i said at the timethis was back on october 29 of 1977: . i ask unanimous consent that my statement of october 29. 1977. be printed in the record in its entirety.
. i rise to express my final thoughts on the subject. first of all. i want to thank the distinguished senators from south dakota and ohio for leading the valiant fight on this matter. second. it is my understanding that the issues relating to energy were divisible over on the house sidethat the applicable procedural rule was so constructed that they could have passed just four rather than five parts of the energy bill. thus. this legislation possibly could have been left off. if everybody had hung tough over there the energy package would have passed but  with this part tacked onto it. but apparently this body. which has been so concerned with taxes and the cutting of spending feels that one billion dollars is  all that much. especially since it is coming out of odys hide but the taxpayers. the conference report we are about to vote upon has hing to do with energy. it does have everything in the world to do with the buying off of various interests in order to get their support for the other four elements of a purported energy package which in fact does  produce an energy policy either in the sense of conservation or in the sense of production. i refuse to go along with any of the fever in this country relative to tax cuts until this body can prove to me that it has the courage to go ahead and cut spending. and cut it specifically so that each american ks which of his or her interests is being cut and thus will have a chance to vote up or down on each one of us as a result of our actions. to go through the hypocrisy of the last several months relative to cutting taxes. either in the sense of national issues or of the debate on this floor. and then vote one billion dollars in tax giveaways does . in my opinion. speak very well for the courage of the leadership in this body. i recognize that the votes up to this point have been procedural votes on tabling or recommittal. i would hope  that the members realize that what we have done has  delayed them 1 minute. i understand from what the senator from kansas has said that we will be here for 2. 3. or 4 hours more at least before we consider the tax bill. so you have  been delayed 1 minute. you should realize that this is  a filibuster and that you have a chance to vote up or down. you can still do your thing on this bill. our actions will  upset the house side one iota. the energy package will go through. that is. the four elements that are meaningful. or at least meaningful as interpreted by the administration and the leadership in the congress. this legislation does  deserve to pass. it does  deserve to pass in the sense of embodying energy policy. and it does  deserve to pass in the sense of being fiscally responsible.
the present measure before the senate will result in minimal or conservation. i think we are in the middle of an emergency and chaos . senator. maybe it is  chaotic egh for the senator from louisianaa little more chaos. a little more ecoic disruption is necessary for him. we went through this exercise with the president on the emergency rationing plan. and faced the same kind of opposition. tie him up in a k so that he can do anything. they ought to erect a statue to all of you fellows in riyadh. every time we cut a deal and further weaken the ability of the united states to respond to the direct national threat imposed by opec. every time we buckle under. we are just further down that road to where the final result will be the harshest remedy of all. i honestly can believe the statements that were made here this aftern about what would happen should the president use his powers. you want some statistics. ten years ago the nation imported $5 billion worth of petroleum products. last year we imported $39 billion. this year we will import more than $50 billion. ten years ago we were 22 percent dependent on foreign petroleum. we are 44 percent dependent . ten years ago opec accounted for 7 percent of our petroleum. today 38 percent. ten years ago the inflation rate was under 6 percent. today our inflation is raging well above 12 percent. and we talk about the cosmic effect of what the president might do. how preposterous. "macroecoics" that would fall on our heads should he do something. there is recognition at all of the difficulties we are in . i k exactly what happened here. the presidents people felt. and they are probably absolutely correct. that the numbers were  here to let him have the powers that are his under law. actually. were it argued through the judicial process. i have doubt that the president would be sustained under the constitution. but there is time. senator. there is time for that. we hold the president by the throat and say. "unless you deal with us. unless you deal with our various interests. you do  get the commitments which you made to the world." that is why this deal was approved. let us make it very clear. this is hing that the white house is enthusiastic about. they do  have the votes. opec is relying on the fact that the white house does  have the votes in congress and. therefore. the united states can act. but what i find so difficult to take is that it should be that branch of government. which is my branch of government. that is causing the disruption. we are holding the president hostage and. therefore. the nation hostage. presidential powers in this area are wellestablished. they come under section 232 of the trade expansion act that was passed in 1958 by congress. and congressional review of presidential action is required under this provision. i think congress. when it enacted that. clearly saw the need for the president to act in an expeditious and unfettered manner in circumstances which threatened to impair the national security. i think that is what we are talking about here. is there anyone who does  believe we are in such circumstances today. i think the time has come to engage in those acts of selfdiscipline. we have done hing on the floor. just hing. we have passed the energy mobilization board and synfuels bill from committee. where is the conservation. where is the tough conservation for today when it comes to gasoline. it does  exist. where is the real commitment to producing oil as a source of energy. senator metzenbaum stood out here on the floor as manager of the bill to call for higher efficiency standards for small electric motors that would  even come into effect until 1983. it passed by four votes. the bill that the president requested on restrictions on lighting for outdoor advertising failed. the only conservation measure beside the one that passed by four votes. i believe. was the heating and cooling bill. never mind my extreme measures: the 6day week for the automobile which was defeated 79 to 10. that really goes far out. the president asked for standby authority. we narrowly passed it in the senate. it was defeated in the house. we narrowly came to a compromise between the two houses. and are asked to approve it here again today. i will  approve it.  this one. and the same ones who stood up here 4 years ago and 5 years ago and said "the time is  " still do  think the time has come. the opec nations tomorrow could go ahead and impose a 10-. 15-. or 20percent increase on the price of their oil. and we would have to swallow it. we would have to swallow it. we could have a cutoff of supply tomorrow. we would swallow that. in terms of human misery this time instead of price. we are as flabby and unprepared today as we were yesterday. as we were last week. as we were last year. as we were 4 years ago. if you think that is speculation on my part. just take a look at the prices you are paying and the lack of security that you are going to have any gasoline supplies at all. i do  k what it is that is going to have to happen before we level in the sense of a policy. synthetic fuels. let us make it clear to the american people that hing is going to come of that until the end of the decade. by that. i mean into the 1990s. maybe even beyond the year as far as the prospects on discovery and production of fossil fuels are concerned. there is a possibility of that. i suppose. in several years. maybe  even then. in the meantime. the ecoy is being just wrecked to a faretheewell. make mistake about it. the inflation that we are burdened with is the inflation of energy. this is  a recession. this is an "enercession": a recession brought about by energy. pure and simple. it will  go away until we resolve this particular problem. obviously. if the administration has agreed to this compromise and various republican and democratic senators have agreed to the extent where it would  appear a majority of the energy committee will be for it. it will probably be passed this aftern. but we are  kidding anybody except ourselves. i say to the senator from louisiana. "you have specifically encouraged opec to raise their prices again this year. you and those who have hammered out this compromise have specifically encouraged them to go ahead and cut back their production." that is what we do every time we go through one of these exercises where the selfdiscipline that was proclaimed to the world is  the selfdiscipline that is exercised on this floor. it is sickening. it is  in the national interest. this amendment is sickening. it is against the national interest. it is a compromise in the iriterest of selfinterest and in the ecoic interests of a few in this nation. let it pass. but i hope the same ones who have hammered out the compromise will be here to stand up and take the consequences.
s proposed budget for fiscal year 1984 for the energy information administration. the hearing has been scheduled for friday. june 24. beginning at 9:30 a.m. in room sd366 of the dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify orlwho wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. committee on energy and natural resources. u.s. senate. washington. d.c. 20510. for further information regarding this hearing you may wish to contact mr. jack gleason of the subcommittee staff at 2243794.
as the distinguished senator from vermont. mr. leahy ks. i share his concern aibout adequate funding for the lowincome energy assistance program. it was my amendment in committee which added the $193 mill.3n in additional funds. i am willing to accept the deletion of that amount only on the basis of an assurance from the office of management and budget that should the states need additional funds in the winter months. the 0mb will provide a deficient apportionment for immediate availability to the states and request a supplemental appropriation. i ask unanimous consent that the text of 0mb director stockmans letter dated ember 9 stating this agreement be printed in the record at this point.
. s. 589 was introduced at the request of the administration on february 24. 1983. a hearing was conducted by the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply of thle committee on energy and natural resources on march 8. 1983. and the measure was considered by and favorably reported from the committee with amendments on march 23. 1983. and passed the senate with the amendments9 on april sh1is9 7. 1983. the house committee on interior and insular affairs considered the measure and recommended additional amendments. on october 3. 1983. the house passed s. 589. agreeing to the original senate action with several additional provisions. on october 6. 1983. the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply received testimony from the administration and the territories on two unrelated measures as well as the additional provisions added to s. 589 by the house. after review of the testimony and discussions with other committees. we recommend that the senate agree to the house amendments with further amendments. sections 1 and 2 of s. 589 as passed by the house are the original provisions of s. 589 as passed by the senate. section 1 would authorize $15.5 million for construction grants to guam effective october 1. 1983. the fiscal year 19 84 appropriation for the department of the interior includes $11.35 million of that total. section 2 permits funding for the construction of the hydroelectric facility in ponape to. be made directly to the corps of engineers rather than being appropriated to the secretary of the interior for transfer to the corps. i would like to clarify that section 2 does  in any manner limit or remove the authority or responsibility of the secretary of the interior for construction projects in the trust territory  does it mandate use of the corps of engineers to perform the construction. the language only provides flexibility in the manner of funding and i would expect the appropriations committee to review all options to determine the best method for completing construction. section 3 was added by the house to defer implementation of the mirrortax system in the thern mariana islands and clarify the meaning of the term "rebate" in section 602 of the covenant to establish the commonwealth of the thern mariana islands. the senate had agreed to a deferral at the end of the last congress. but the house was unable to act prior to adjournment. section 3 provides for quarterly reports to the congress on the progress which both the marianas and the administration is making in developing an alternative to the mirror tax system. the amendment is acceptable to the marianas and the administration supports the deferral. section 4 would permit the $10 million authorized by section 303 of public law 97357 for grants to the virgin islands to be provided either as grants or direct loans. subsection (b) would increase the limit on the secretary of the interiors authority to provide guarantees of virgin islands bonds by $40 million and extend the authority from 1984 to 1990. subsection (b) has already been included in the fiscal year 1984 appropriation for the department of the interior. the administration supports subsection (b)
. i am pleased to have this opportunity to give my support for s. 2463. the ocean and coastal resources management and development block orant act. in 1982. the weickertsongas bill was one of the original pieces of legislation addressing the concept of outer continental shelf revenue sharing. and contained many of the key principles that are part of the present bill. both attempt to deal with the balance between ocs energy development and coastal zone management. the bill before you today includes measures that are necessary and appropriate for the consistent conservation. management. and research of the entire coastal zone. in the face of continued administration proposals to curtail funding for coastal zone programs while simultaneously accelerating the ocs leasing process. the coastal states need the assurance of a continued. consistently run program to meet the inevitable demands placed on them. while the coastal zone management act of 1972 and its amendments contribute to the resolution of serious conflicts among competing. values and uses in the coastal zone. funding inconsistencies through the years have hindered some states abilities to adequately address mitigation of development activities. and since all of the coastal states and territories assume most of the environmental and ecoic risks that are associated with offshore development. all of them should benefit from some of the funds that are generated by the federal government through the leasing of ocs tracts for oil and gas activities. i believe very firmly in the need for this country to become more energy independent. but i also believe that this must  occur at the expense of preserving the integrity of this countrys other natural resources that may be adversely affected by this development. it is in the national interest to have effective management. beneficial use. production. and development of the nations coastal zones. s. 2463 contains three basic provisions for ocs revenue sharing: it establishes an ocean and coastal resources management and development fund in the treasury in which is to be deposited 4 percent of the average amount of all federal ocs receipts during the 3 previous years. this will assure states a reasonable level of funding on an annual basis. the amounts deposited in the fund in fiscal year 1985 are restricted to more than $300 million. but in subse. quent years these amounts will be less than 105 percent of the moneys deposited in the prior fiscal year. by relying on a 3year average. the effects of annual fluctuations in the level of receipts collected under the federal ocs program will be buffered. all money withdrawn from the fund is provided for in advance by appropriation acts. second. the moneys in the fund are to be provided to states in the form of block grants. the amount of each block grant is determined by a formula composed of five equally weighted criteria: actual leasing and the volume of oil and gas produced on a site. proposed ocs oil and gas lease sales. the coastalrelated energy facilities located in each state. the shoreline mileage. and the coastal population. it is important to e that these criteria are intimately tied to a states involvement in the federal coastal zone management program. states must have federally approved czm programs. or be making satisfactory progress toward such approval. in order to receive credit for shoreline mileage or coastal population. mini mum and maximum grant levels are specified by the legislation. moneys are to be spent on activities authorized by the coastal zone management act. including the enhancement and management of ocean and coastal resources and the amelioration of adverse impacts from coastalrelated energy facilities. finally. it establishes a national coastal resources research and development institute which will be affiliated with the oregon state marine sciences center. the institute. with up to 1.5 percent of the total appropriated funds. is chartered to conduct research and educational and demonstration projects focusing on the nations academic expertise toward solutions to the unique problems of coastal states. congress has declared time and again that it is in the national interest to balance developmental and conservational aspects of our coastal zone resources. by doing so. we will be meeting our demands for energy. food. minerals. national defense. recreation. waste disposal. and transportation. this legislation is based on the need for us to intelligently utilize and protect our marine resources which are so important to our national ecoy. in closing. i must reiterate that it is imperative that congress provide continued and reliable assistance and guidance to the coastal states and territories for the management of their marine resources by the implementation of s. 2463.
s proposed budget for fiscal year 1984 for the energy information administration. the hearing has been scheduled for friday. june 24. beginning at 9:30 a.m. in room sd366 of the dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify orlwho wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. committee on energy and natural resources. u.s. senate. washington. d.c. 20510. for further information regarding this hearing you may wish to contact mr. jack gleason of the subcommittee staff at 2243794.
as the distinguished senator from vermont. mr. leahy ks. i share his concern aibout adequate funding for the lowincome energy assistance program. it was my amendment in committee which added the $193 mill.3n in additional funds. i am willing to accept the deletion of that amount only on the basis of an assurance from the office of management and budget that should the states need additional funds in the winter months. the 0mb will provide a deficient apportionment for immediate availability to the states and request a supplemental appropriation. i ask unanimous consent that the text of 0mb director stockmans letter dated ember 9 stating this agreement be printed in the record at this point.
. s. 589 was introduced at the request of the administration on february 24. 1983. a hearing was conducted by the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply of thle committee on energy and natural resources on march 8. 1983. and the measure was considered by and favorably reported from the committee with amendments on march 23. 1983. and passed the senate with the amendments9 on april sh1is9 7. 1983. the house committee on interior and insular affairs considered the measure and recommended additional amendments. on october 3. 1983. the house passed s. 589. agreeing to the original senate action with several additional provisions. on october 6. 1983. the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply received testimony from the administration and the territories on two unrelated measures as well as the additional provisions added to s. 589 by the house. after review of the testimony and discussions with other committees. we recommend that the senate agree to the house amendments with further amendments. sections 1 and 2 of s. 589 as passed by the house are the original provisions of s. 589 as passed by the senate. section 1 would authorize $15.5 million for construction grants to guam effective october 1. 1983. the fiscal year 19 84 appropriation for the department of the interior includes $11.35 million of that total. section 2 permits funding for the construction of the hydroelectric facility in ponape to. be made directly to the corps of engineers rather than being appropriated to the secretary of the interior for transfer to the corps. i would like to clarify that section 2 does  in any manner limit or remove the authority or responsibility of the secretary of the interior for construction projects in the trust territory  does it mandate use of the corps of engineers to perform the construction. the language only provides flexibility in the manner of funding and i would expect the appropriations committee to review all options to determine the best method for completing construction. section 3 was added by the house to defer implementation of the mirrortax system in the thern mariana islands and clarify the meaning of the term "rebate" in section 602 of the covenant to establish the commonwealth of the thern mariana islands. the senate had agreed to a deferral at the end of the last congress. but the house was unable to act prior to adjournment. section 3 provides for quarterly reports to the congress on the progress which both the marianas and the administration is making in developing an alternative to the mirror tax system. the amendment is acceptable to the marianas and the administration supports the deferral. section 4 would permit the $10 million authorized by section 303 of public law 97357 for grants to the virgin islands to be provided either as grants or direct loans. subsection (b) would increase the limit on the secretary of the interiors authority to provide guarantees of virgin islands bonds by $40 million and extend the authority from 1984 to 1990. subsection (b) has already been included in the fiscal year 1984 appropriation for the department of the interior. the administration supports subsection (b)
. i am pleased to have this opportunity to give my support for s. 2463. the ocean and coastal resources management and development block orant act. in 1982. the weickertsongas bill was one of the original pieces of legislation addressing the concept of outer continental shelf revenue sharing. and contained many of the key principles that are part of the present bill. both attempt to deal with the balance between ocs energy development and coastal zone management. the bill before you today includes measures that are necessary and appropriate for the consistent conservation. management. and research of the entire coastal zone. in the face of continued administration proposals to curtail funding for coastal zone programs while simultaneously accelerating the ocs leasing process. the coastal states need the assurance of a continued. consistently run program to meet the inevitable demands placed on them. while the coastal zone management act of 1972 and its amendments contribute to the resolution of serious conflicts among competing. values and uses in the coastal zone. funding inconsistencies through the years have hindered some states abilities to adequately address mitigation of development activities. and since all of the coastal states and territories assume most of the environmental and ecoic risks that are associated with offshore development. all of them should benefit from some of the funds that are generated by the federal government through the leasing of ocs tracts for oil and gas activities. i believe very firmly in the need for this country to become more energy independent. but i also believe that this must  occur at the expense of preserving the integrity of this countrys other natural resources that may be adversely affected by this development. it is in the national interest to have effective management. beneficial use. production. and development of the nations coastal zones. s. 2463 contains three basic provisions for ocs revenue sharing: it establishes an ocean and coastal resources management and development fund in the treasury in which is to be deposited 4 percent of the average amount of all federal ocs receipts during the 3 previous years. this will assure states a reasonable level of funding on an annual basis. the amounts deposited in the fund in fiscal year 1985 are restricted to more than $300 million. but in subse. quent years these amounts will be less than 105 percent of the moneys deposited in the prior fiscal year. by relying on a 3year average. the effects of annual fluctuations in the level of receipts collected under the federal ocs program will be buffered. all money withdrawn from the fund is provided for in advance by appropriation acts. second. the moneys in the fund are to be provided to states in the form of block grants. the amount of each block grant is determined by a formula composed of five equally weighted criteria: actual leasing and the volume of oil and gas produced on a site. proposed ocs oil and gas lease sales. the coastalrelated energy facilities located in each state. the shoreline mileage. and the coastal population. it is important to e that these criteria are intimately tied to a states involvement in the federal coastal zone management program. states must have federally approved czm programs. or be making satisfactory progress toward such approval. in order to receive credit for shoreline mileage or coastal population. mini mum and maximum grant levels are specified by the legislation. moneys are to be spent on activities authorized by the coastal zone management act. including the enhancement and management of ocean and coastal resources and the amelioration of adverse impacts from coastalrelated energy facilities. finally. it establishes a national coastal resources research and development institute which will be affiliated with the oregon state marine sciences center. the institute. with up to 1.5 percent of the total appropriated funds. is chartered to conduct research and educational and demonstration projects focusing on the nations academic expertise toward solutions to the unique problems of coastal states. congress has declared time and again that it is in the national interest to balance developmental and conservational aspects of our coastal zone resources. by doing so. we will be meeting our demands for energy. food. minerals. national defense. recreation. waste disposal. and transportation. this legislation is based on the need for us to intelligently utilize and protect our marine resources which are so important to our national ecoy. in closing. i must reiterate that it is imperative that congress provide continued and reliable assistance and guidance to the coastal states and territories for the management of their marine resources by the implementation of s. 2463.
. i rise to oppose the amendment of the distinguished senator from oklahoma . first of all. i share with him the apprehension that clearly is embodied in this legislation of having public office reach a point where it is too expensive for the average person. that is a worthy objective. one argues that point. however. i do  think this is the way to proceed. first of all. let me address what is continually referred to in this matter of political campaigns and their financing as the present system being the result of watergate reform. it might b6 many things. but it never came out of the watergate committee. i think i have a fair idea of what went on insofar as that body is concerned. the fact is. for example. and i realize this is  in the senators bill as presently written. but it is mentioned often that we should have public financing of federal campaigns. that this is really what came out of watergate. i do  k if anyone ever bothers to read the report written by tl e70ommittee but on that point alone let me read from the report: the committee recommends against the adoption of any form of public financing in which tax moneys are collected and allocated to political candidates by the federal government. the select committee opposes the various proposals which have been offered in the congress to provide mandatory public financing of campaigns for federal office. while recognizing the basis of support for the concept of public financing and the potential difficulty in adequately funding campaigns in the midst of strict limitations on the form and amount of contributions. the committee takes issue with the contention that public financing affords either an effective or appropriation solution. thomas jefferson believed "to compel a man to furnish contributions of money for the propagation of opinions which he disbelieves and abhors. is sinful and tyrannical." the committees opposition is based like jeffersons upon the fundamental need to protect the voluntary right of individual citizens to express themselves politically as guaranteed by the first amendment. i think that is appropriate to this argument here. furthermore. we find inherent dangers in authorizing the federal bureaucracy to fund and excessively regulate political campaigns. the abuses experienced during the 1972 campaign and unearthed by the select committee were perpetrated in the absence of any effective regulation of the source. form. or amount of campaign contributions. in fact. despite the progress made by the federal elections campaign act of 1971. in requiring full public disclosure of contributions. the 1972 campaign still was funded through a system of essentially unrestricted. private financing. what  seems appropriate is  the abandonment of private financing. but rather the reform of that system in an effort to vastly expand the voluntary participation of individual citizens while avoiding the abuses of earlier campaigns. that is what was said by the watergate committee and that is certainly far afield from what is represented to the public in terms of watergate reform of the financing of federal elections. what is needed is full disclosure. i commend the washington post in its editorial today. i think it hit the nail right on the head. what is needed is full disclosure. on the heels of watergate i stood on the floor of the senate during debate concerning establishment of the ethics committee and put in a substitute. as some of my colleagues who were here then will recall. saying we did  need the ethics committee. we did  need all the separate rules and opinions of a separate committee. what we needed was full disclosure of assets and liabilities of each senator so each constituency could pronce judgment in each case. what goes in kansas or what goes in mississippi might  sell in connecticut. and vice versa. that is up to the voters to decide. true. they can only decide if they have all the facts before them. i was defeated in that measure. instead we have this mishmash of rules and every little nitpicking item has to get thrown to the ethics committee. it ties up five of our colleagues overseeing us. that was  meant to be our job. that is the job of the people who put us here. as long as they are in full possession of all the facts.  the same holds true insofar as campaign financing is concerned. i think the pac system is abhorrent. may i point out to you that it came to pass by virtue of all the reformers after watergate and when they reformed they created something far worse than the system that existed then. so i do  think that i care to see any more "reform" in the sense of new rules and regulations by either the bureaucracy or the federal government. what we need is full disclosure. total disclosure. and with those facts inhand the people can decide in the state of connecticut as to whether or  their senator is influenced far too much by the defense industry or by the electric utilities or by environmental groups or by unions or whoever. they can make their decision as to whether or  this senator should be elected or should be thrown out of office. it is just as simple as that.
i commend the senator from rhode island for addressing the issue and speaking so clearly to the amendment being offered. what i find interesting. as i am sure does the senator from rhode island. after listening to the words of the distinguished senator from louisiana. is this is the same reasoning that opposed any mandatory conservation. opposed any sort of a gasoline tax that would enhance conservation. who was out on the floor advocating tax shelters. if you will. for the oil and gas industry because of impoverished times. but  the resolution is to sock it to the rest of the country by virtue of an oil import fee. and by the rest that specifically being new england.
i believe the senator did. i believe my comments were directed to the reasoning of my distinguished colleague from louisiana who has  been in favor of a gasoline tax. who has  been in favor of mandatory conservation. who supported the tax shelters because  his industries are impoverished.
. i rise today to reiterate my strong and continued opposition to any tax on imported oil and to urge my colleagues to maintain their opposition to such a tax. on several occasions the senate has seen the wisdom in rejecting this tax and i am hopeful that it will be rejected again today. an oil import fee is neither fair  ecoically sound.  only would it lay a disproportionate burden on those industries and states which are most dependent on petroleum products. but its overall effects on the ecoy would be burdensome and inflationary. there are countless studies which evidence the disproportionate impact of an oil import fee on those regions which are most dependent on oil for an energy source and raw materials. but you do  need to be a scientist or an ecoist to figure that out. those that use more of a product pay a heavier burden when its price rises. proponents of an oil import fee like to gloss over this simple factor argue that. withstanding these problems. an oil import fee is in the national interest. well. the truth is. it is  in the national interest. there are just as many studies to show that an import fee would be burdensome to the national ecoy. again. you do  need to be an ecoist to understand that increasing the price of a basic commodity such as oil. increases prices throughout the ecoy. causing inflation. furthermore. using a tax to hold u.s. oil prices above the world oil price level puts all u.s. manufacturers who use a significant amount of oil at a disadvantage to their foreign competitors. in both cases an oil import fee undermines the ecoy. and its own original intent to reduce the deficit and strengthen the ecoy. the proponents of the oil import tax always speak glowingly of the benefits of such a tax and ige its costs. the truth of the matter is the costs of an import fee outweigh the benefits. for every winner there is a loser. an oil import fee is robbing peter to pay paul on a national scale. and believe me. those of us who are in the position of peter. those of us in the thwest and midwest who have had to struggle with the supply disruptions and price spikes and price increases of the last 15 years will oppose these taxes at every opportunity. sure. i understand that producing states have problems  that prices have fallen. perhaps  those states can come to appreciate what some of us in the theast and midwest have been going through for the past 15 years. you say you are losing jobswe have been losing jobs and industries for years because of spiralling energy costs. you say you are losing revenueswe have never had any petroleum revenues to lose. our utilities have had to raise rates. our state governments have had to tax. tax and tax to meet the higher costs associated with petroleum use. when we finally have a breather from these high oil prices and others are faced with realities with which we have learned to live. it is suggested that perhaps we should just have aher taxbut a tax on those other guysa tax for those who have been struggling with high oil prices and oil revenues for years. well. let met tell youforget itbecause it is  going to happen.  as long as i can do anything to stop it. the nation. and particularly the theast and midwest have had to pay more than our share for the energy crisis and finally we get a breakit is absolutely unacceptable that  we should have to pay for the energy glut as well.
. with the exception of the funding. level proposed for the lowincome home energy assistance program. and given the budgetary constraints under which we are forced to work. i support the bill which is before the senate this aftern and commend the chairman for all of his efforts to meet the needs of the programs and the people who benefit from the dollars in this bill. i only wish we could be doing more and i will continue to argue that we should be spending more in this country on the business of life than is reflected in our current budget priorities. basically. this bill does as well as can be expected. considering the budgetary strictures placed on the subcommittee and its jurisdiction. my own feeling is that health. science. education. safety. training and job opportunities are the matters that should be the highest priority to the nation. sad to say. they are .  all the rhetoric on this floor changes the fact that the. business of life takes a back seat to the business of death insofar as the activities of. this government are concerned. an easy comparison -would be the national institutes of health who are our frontline fighters against disease of alltypes and sortscancer.. heart. diabetes. every disease. every affliction.  just aids. but every affliction -that curses this nation and the world. that is the mission of the national institutes of health. and yet the nih budget will be somewhere in the area of $6 billion.. the defense budget is around $300 billion. so. after we get all through talking. the fact is the business of life is onefiftieth the importance of the business of death. so be it. that is what we have before us. i do  agree with it. i will never agree to that. but it is the nation that is going to have to call for a change in its priorities.  a handful of u.s. senators. one last point. and that is the matter of lowincome home energy assistance. we could  deal with this problem. considering its magnitude. within the full appropriations committee. the sum of $600 million is needed if lowincome home energy assistance is to be at the same level as last year. unless that money is provided. families are going to go cold. families will suffer. people will die. i wish i could say the price of oil has gone down since last year. it has . it has risen. so even at last years level. fewer will be served. winter is hard upon us and  the decision is hard upon us. i will present an amendment to restore the low income home energy assistance program to last years level. i suspect there will be plenty of scratching of heads and plenty of debate on the subject. i would hope. however. that in some way we can prevail. again. my compliments to the chairman of the committee for his efforts.
. to refresh the memory of my colleagues. my amendment deals with the lowincome home energy assistance program. a program meant to alleviate the suffering visited upon the poor of this nation through financial assistance either for their heating bills. if it is heating that is required. or for their cooling bill. when cooling is required. . what brings us to this debate is very simply we have a $600 million reduction that has been imposed on this program. this brings us to a funding level of $1.2 billion as compared to last years level of $1.8 billion. the reason i speak for an increase. or rather a restoration of last years level for the lowincome home energy assistance program is because the price of oil has turned around and is going up. if you stay at last years level. you are guaranteed of serving fewer people. if you compare the increase in the price of oil and the reduction imposed by the u.s. senate you can be assured there is going to be much suffering throughout the thern tier of states when winter hits. the gas prices rose 36 percent in 1986 and yet we are dealing here with a 32 percent reduction in the dollars appropriated to this program. it is true. last year we nibbled away at this program. but we did so at a time of declining oil prices. that is longer the case. instead. the issue before us is whether we are going to have any energy assistance program at all. given the levels being proposed within this particular appropriations bill.  the prediction. i might add. from the department of energy is that energy prices will rise an additional 4 to 5 percent in 1987. so probably by the time 1987 is through. home energy costs may be 40 percent ahead of where we were 2 years ago. . there are a lot of things that make sense in our budgetcutting exercise around here. but there are a few items kn as the necessities of life which i would suggest should be available to all americans. we should  differentiate on the basis of income as to who~stays warm this winter. we have done very well in allsorts of food assistance programs. this achievement stands to the credit of this body and the nation. however. even today. there is more malnutrition than one would want in this nation. but. you k. if you are in a position where you are freezing to death. it does  make much difference as to what your sustenance is. the two go hand in hand. obviously. other items are also involved: the care of the sick. the feeding of those that suffer from malnutrition. shelter for the homeless. and heat for those that live in subzero temperatures. . what brings us to this point. i am  here to go ahead and lay at the doorstep of the senator from florida that he wanted to go ahead and chop $600 million off of the lowincome energy assistance program. that is  what he wanted to do. the fact is. in determining our priorities. the entire senate. or at least a majority of it. decided that this is of a considerable lower priority than many other programs. here we are with a defense budget of $300 billion and we can afford $1.8 billion to assure the people of this nation that they can get through the next winter. or. in the case of the summertime. for those that are afflicted with severe heat. they can get through this summer. . what is wrong with this place in determining its priorities. this is  a welfare program. if this money is  available. these people are going to freeze. they are going to get sick and. yes. some are going to die. is that really what we are seeking here in terms of this allocation situation. in other words. is this really. where our priority should be. i k the difficult road i have to travel. i was on the floor with an amendment the other day where i tried to go ahead and get the defense department to pay their share of the tab when it came to research on iliness. i tried to transfer $200 million from their research budget to the national institutes of health so that they would pay their tab to keep our men and women in the armed *services healthy. i got 34 votes. here we are today. we have a large population out there that. without this program. is going to be in tough shape. i am told the odds are against getting a budget waiver. however. i am  going to take this floor and say that the money ought to come from some other program within this bill.  there may be those that have a temptation to say. "well. lets just take a little -percent cut across the board." we are already underfunded in our science program. we already are underfunded in our education programs. we already are underfunded in our programs for the retarded and the disabled. we already are underfunded in our health programs. so to anybody that says. "just an acrosstheboard cut to pay for this." it will  work. and even there. it will  raise the necessary funds required to restore us to last years level. i k what is going to happen if i try to take it out of somebody elses budget: so i postponed the decision on this provision both through the subcommittee and the full committee to let the u.s. senate decide whether this is a priority. the only way to handle it is to get a budget waiver.  to take it out of somebody elses program. let us waive the budget. let us restore the $600 million. i can compromise. i can tell you i will take $100 million or $200 million. i am  out here to look good. i am out here to get the money that is necessary. last years level was $1.8 billion. if anybody can assure me that oil prices have declined in the past year. then maybe we still can do it for $1.8 billion. or less. but i have already recited the statistics that we are 36 percent ahead in gasoline prices. so you k it is going to impact heating fuel. and the fact is that the level of $1.8 billion is inadequate. never mind the reduction to $1.2 billion. so i am asking for the money to restore us just to level funding in the lowincome energy assistance program. it is either right or it is wrong. the program is either right or wrong. if it is right. it needs $600 million. the only way that is going to happen is by a budget waiver. i am sorry that oil prices have gone up. we enjoyed the advantage last year of preparing our appropriations over the declining prices.  we have got to face up to the changed circumstance. that is what brings us to the floor. had oil prices continued to decline. there would be necessity to be on the floor. but they have . they have gone up. that is what brings this amendment about and that is why i offer an amendment to restore the $600 million. i can find an offset. congress. in its wisdom. has decided to cut discretionary spending for health. for education. and for science. et cetera. you have cut it way past where it should be. there is here left to cut. i am  going to throw a bone out there and have all the most disadvantaged elements of our society stage a spectacle fight for the amusement of some of my colleagues and the american people. i am  willing to cut any aspect of education. i have received ification that certain groups  want this money. but they want it as an offset against some other group. i will  be party to that. the disabled and disadvantaged and retarded are going to receive what they are getting in this appropriation bill.  one penny less. and. indeed. at this level of funding they are getting too little in this very affluent society of ours.  those that suffer from cancer and from heart disease and from diabetes and from neurological disorders. those that are mentally ill. mentally retarded. are  going to get one penny less. they already are underfunded. they are  going to be a source of funds for those that are poor and can afford to heat their homes.  the young people of this nation that are given opportunity through education are  going to get one penny less. in order to finance lowincome energy assistance. we are  going to set the weakest elements of society. one against the other. to divide up the scraps that have been left them by the demands of all other aspects of the budget. on june 30. 1987. 37 senators wrote to the chairman of the laborhhs committee requesting that lowincome energy assistance be funded at $2.1 billion for fiscal year 1988. these include senators moynihan. heinz. kennedy.
. i ask unanimous consent that three documents be printed in the record following my statement: these are. erda. data on homes in need of retrofit equipment. part of a paper by the national oil fuel institute on the general problem of heating system retrofit. and the section of the house ways and means committee report on h.r. 6860 referring to this tax credit.
. there is increasing urgency regarding passage of this amendment. although we have lost its benefits for the 197576 heating season. we must  lose the chance to save energy with this tax credit during all of calendar 1976. the spring and summer season when homeowners begin work on projects to improve their homes is upon us. people k about this bill. and they are waiting to see what expenditures may qualify for tax credits. we must provide the incentives  so that energy saving materials and equipment can be installed before the peak season for burning fuels is upon us once more.
. similar legislation has  been passed in oregon. vermont. michigan. and maine. and the results are impressive in oregon and. vermont where the law has been in effect for 3 years. oregon found its beverage container litter decreased by 83 percent. while popular approval for the new law has reached an astonishing 91 percent in public opinion polls. most americans agree with the consensus in oregon. indeed. a recent poll by the federal energy administration revealed that 73 percent of those polled favored a law requiring that all soft drinks and beer be sold in returnable bottles and cans. i think these americans are right. if you add up all the benefitsthe ecoic gains. the energy savings. the reduction in solid waste disposal. and the eradication of the blight of bottle and can litteri think there can be little doubt that passage of a beverage container reuse and recycling act should be an urgent priority for the congress. exhmit 1 [from the new. england ecoic indicators. federal reserve bank of boston. the ecoic effects of requiring deposlts on beverage containers (by richard w. kopcke) three new england states. connecticut. maine and massachusetts. are  considering legislation to require minimum deposits on containers for soft drinks and beer. although this type of legislation would clearly produce substantial energy and environmental benefits. opponents claim that these proposals would lead to a loss of jobs and increases in beverage prices. they point out that these states have extremely high unemployment rates and can ill afford any overall loss of job opportunities. before such legislation is considered. therefore. its potential advantages and disadvantages must be evaluated carefully. aside from the impact of beverage container legislation. it is important to e that this is a period of great turbulence in the brewing industry. recently. for example. several breweries closed in massachusetts and several moved out of new york city within a sevenmonth period. the causes may be in the recent recession or in the possibility of achieving savings by closing old plants. in any event. these factors have a much greater impact on employment than mandatory deposit legislation for containers. since ecoic analyses have been completed for connecticut and maine.2 this article considers the effects of minimum deposit legislation on employment and retail beverage prices in massachusetts. the two major conclusions are: (1) the requirement of a minimum deposit on beverage containers would increase employment opportunities in massachusetts. although -payrolls would decline in certain industries. and (2) there is very little likelihood that the proposal would produce a iceable increase in retail beverage prices. in fact. some prices might fall. the legislation would hurt bottle manufacturers in the state as well as individual bottlers. beer distributors. retailers and can manufacturers. however. the adverse effects of the legislation would be moderated by providing an adequate period of transition for the industries involved. and "the benefits would be enhanced if all new england states passed similar legislation. footes at end of article.
. i think it was a sound amendment when those 29 senators voted for it last night. i think it is still a sound amendment. i think it is even sounder  that we do  have the constraint upon us. and that the senate is  bound to send back to the house a clean bill. therefore. i have reoffered that amendment. with the hope that my fellow senators will look favorably upon it. i reiterate the fact that i believe it is absolutely essential. when so many people  are facing cutoffs and when so many people are facing even death as a result of cutoffs of energy sources. i also remind my colleagues that there is intent in this proposal to wipe out any debt owing to any utility company. that the moratorium is only for the duration of the emergency. and i hope my colleagues will look favorably upon this amendment and either accept iti make the following inquiry of the distinguished floor manager of the bill. requesting whether they will accept the amendment and take it to conference. king they do  have to go to conference with the house.
in addition. there must be a continued strengthening of does staff capability in this area. although the staff doubled in size in fiscal year 1977 and substantially broadened its technical base. with only 24 professional positions it can meet the growing states needs for quickresponse technical assistance. the existing staff does include a broad mix of both trainingengineering. ecoics. law. business administrationand experienceutility. regulatory. federal program managementand is expert in the full range of assistance activities contemplated in public law 94385. s. 2114. and our proposed amendment. our amendment continues authority given the secretary under ecpa to make grants to assist utility regulatory commissions in improving rate design. encouraging load management. and developing other related energy conservation measures and practices such as forcasting longrange load demand. it also clarifies the secretarys authority to provide technical assistance directly from the department of energy. it confers new authority for making such grants and providing assistance to regulated utilities and cooperatives as well as to natural gas utilities. this measure extends the ecpa grant making authority from its present expiration date of september 1977 to december 1980. and it authorizes appropriations of up to $45 million per fiscal year. of which $40 million goes directly to the states and regulated utilities. instead of the $12 million currently authorized. $5 million will be spent for the intervention program of the department before state regulatory commissions instead of the $1 million currently authorized. * in addition. $10 million is authorized * for consumer representation at the state level instead of the $2 million currently authorized. i hope the distinguished floor managers will recognize that. whether or  the committee bill is amended. the final version will put a great burden on the states and on the secretary of doe to undertake sophisticated analysis and argument. the public power and cooperative utility associations are firmly behind this amendment as are most state governments. we can impose major responsibilities on the states and regulated utilities and leave them to fend for themselves. i trust this amendment can be accepted by the committee. exhibit 1
. i certainly do  intend to prolong this debate any further. i did  offer any objection to the request which was made in good faith in order to get us to the point where we can vote. and we must vote. the gentleman from ohio made some very pertinent comments. i did  want to interrupt him. although i felt it might have been material at one point to read to you a telegram. to those of you who have been patient egh to sit hereand i do  think the attendance has been anything significant or remarkable during this debate this aftern. even though my friend from indiana [mr. hallecki disagrees with me. but i would like to read this telegram. because i would like to have you. who have been so patient to go through with this debate on this city council matter hear itand this should have been handled by a city council and  by the congress of the united states. confronted with vital and important problems. in which their constituents are vitally interested. i do  minimize the interest of the people of washington in this problem. but i think a city council would have handled all that we have gone through. much more quickly. better and at less expense to the general taxpayers all over this country. the telegram reads: the washington taxicab industry opposes the proposed district of columbia gasoline tax exemption incorporated in the capital transit franchise restoration measure. as you k. capital transit also will be exempted from paying the increased gasoline tax provided in the highway revenue act. we passed that bill recently. we feel that. if any one public utility is given relief from paying the district of columbia gasoline tax. all other public utilities should be exempted.
with reference to that very point. i think it is important for us all to realize that there is a point beyond which it is  possible efficiently to tear up the streets in a city at one time. even to aid in the reconstruction of its highway system. the million and a half dollars which will come from this fund. plus the million seven hundred thousand available from existing resources. plus the fund of about a million nine hundred thousand which was included just a few days ago in the deficiency appropriation bill. having to do with the highways of the district of columbia. and access to the virginia side. will provide in 1942 every bit of reconstruction that can be handled within thedistrict of columbia. with due regard to moving the traffic in the district during that period of time. as a matter of fact. due to the location of the new war and navy department buildings in virginia. the whole program is being shoved ahead about 2 years. with the idea of completing these access roads. if possible. before the end of the year 1942. if we can complete those access roads before the end of 1942. we will have moved the $35.000.000 program ahead about 2 years. that can be done within the resources made available in this manner. providing a 1cent increase in the tax. plus the federal funds. i may refer to one other factor which will appear if we increase the tax by 2 cents. there is a peculiar and interesting situation which developed in the testimony. which may be well kn to senators  in the chamber. that outside of the district of columbia the price which the public pays for gasoline. including the larger taxes of virginia and maryland. is the same price that is being paid within the district. obviously some one is taking the loss in order to bring that about. or making a contribution. or absorbing the difference. that situation arises from the fact. evidently. that retail dealers outside of the district would  be able to add. in the case of virginia 3 cents. and in the case of maryland 2 cents. to the districts 2cent tax. and still sell their gasoline. it was testified before the committee that the wholesale companies were absorbing that difference. and that therefore within the area of the metropolitan longrange operations of washington. perhaps 50 miles around washington. there is a substantially uniform "washington" retail gasoline price to the public. although the full virginia taxes are paid and the full maryland taxes. ar-" paid where the gasoline is sold in those states in the neighborhood of the district. but outside of the district limits. the gasoline companies are taking the - loss. which is all right with me if they * choose to do so. but when we increase the tax .within the district of columbia by 1 cent. and thereby add one and a half * million dollars to the districts resources - for public purposes. the retail price also. -will go up in virginia and maryland. as. -a result. people outside of the. district.i but near to its borders. will pay their ad-.  ditional 1 cent also. and the beneficiaries will merely be the wholesale companies which have been absorbing the difference. if we raise the tax by 2 cents. that result will be doubled outside of the district. and still with benefit to the public outside of the district.
. i ask that a complete chart showing the taxes that will be levied and the rebates that will be given be inserted in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. revenues collected from the taxes in excess of the amount needed to pay the rebates will go to a trust fund for use by the administrator of the energy research and development administrationerdafor development of conservation techogies and alternative energy sources. this bill will bring about a savings of energy without any sacrifice of activities  enjoyed by the people of this country. i believe it is a step that should be taken before we ask any citizen to sacrifice in order to conserve energy. cxxi367part 5
i should like to ask the senator what that means. my reason for asking is that testimony before the joint ecoic committee revealed that it is claimed that material limitations on sugar imports are one of the things about which latin americans complain the most in terms of the adverse effect upon them and in terms of the trade to which i have just referred with respect to residual fuel o1. domestic sugar is so much more expensive than imported sugar that it results in a very serious tax on the american consumer. may we have some idea of what the protocol is about.
there are two problems with that. one is that in the arrangement that i worked out with senator randolph this applies only to those who had 25 years or more in the coal mines prior to june 30. 1971. so a good many of those are beyond autopsies. the second point is that. of course. there are many people in our country who for religious reasons or sentimental reasons will  allow a member of their family to be subject to an autopsy. i did. however. work out with senator randolph the following: the presumption may be rebutted because the bill says that eligible survivors shall. upon request by the secretary. furnish such evidence as is available with respect to the health of the miner at the time of his death. again. i repeat to the senator. it was a much tougher provision before i got it worked out. but i raise it only because it is highlighted in the finance committee report as having a substantial price tag over 5 years may i say to the senator that i hope the senator will prayerfully consider whether or  he should or should  amend that section. i hope he does  for the reasons i have stated. but i think in our debate we have brought out the pros and cons of why i worked it out with senator randolph as i did. . i believe i have explained to the senate that. as is my duty as the ranking member of the miity and i have done it throughout the black lung legislation. it is my job to see that the senate is fully informed and that what should be contested is contested. there will be. as far as i k. two amendments. first is the amendment in which i joined with senator chafee on the rereading of the xrays. and i hope very much the senate approves that. just common due process and justice holds that the federal government should have a right to reread these xrays. second. the other amendment that i will have will be to eliminate the fact that this program would. for the first time. operate without any termination point. the tax has a termination point. which senator randolph may move to strike. to wit. september 30. 1982. on the other hand. if the termination point is removed by the motion of senator randolph. then i think it should still follow that we should review this program because it has a shortfall in terms of the amount the tax it raises as agairst the projected benefit costs. we certainly should review it at the end of 5 years. that amendment will come along in due course. in the meantime. i have outlined to the senate the issues of cost. and again i do  begrudge anything to the coal miners. god ks. it is a tough egh occupation and a dangerous egh occupation. i only bemoan the fact that we have  caught up with treating others who suffer just as much the way we are treating the coal miners.
. it seems to me if anything is open and shut. this is it. here is a time limitation on a tax. an ad valorem tax. which is going to be passed on to the consumer. and we ought to have a time limitation to review what we are spending. this program has cost the government $1 billion a year.  future costs are going to be transferred to the coal consumer. do we just want that program to go on forever without implementing it into workers compensation or requiring some other evidence of responsibility. i almost can understand ourselves if that is the way we feel. . we have a limitation of 1981 in the present act. this is  of meaning to me. it is of meaning to our country and to the consumers of coal. we have a limitation of 1981. we are willing to push that up to 1983.  to review this program at all.  to take aher look at the tax when the time expires in 5 years. seems absolutely beyond me. especially as the estimates of money will fall short. whether it is $35 million or $400 million. they are going to fall short. therefore. we should end them at a given time.
