it is my understanding further that title iii represents a very major increase from $44 to $100 million. in the case of new york it will mean funds of between $1.6 million as of last year to at least $9.6 million this fiscal year. fundamentally title iii represents  only an increase but a new concept in the title which is to secure and maintain maximum independence of our senior citizens. both in terms of home environment and in terms of their personal dignity. as well as in terms of their ecoic and personal independence. lastly. of course. it seems to me the major step forward is to strengthen state agencies while building in requirements of coordination with all groups. profit or profit. that can help in this area.
. i would like to ask the distinguished chairman and ranking miity member of the water resources subcommittee to make a clarification with respect to section 223 of s. 1567. which implements a new costsharing procedure for corps of engineers feasibility studies. it is my understanding that the administration las gone forward on its own and has entered into agreements with several federal sponsors to share the costs of project feasibility studies in much the same way as would be required by section 223. it is also my understanding that the language of section 223 and the corresponding language in the committee report on s. 1567 could be interpreted to mean that cost sharing would  be required for the feasibility phase of any study. if any part of that study was initiated prior to the enactment of this legislation. if this interpretation was correct. it might jeopardize the costsharing agreements on feasibility studies into which the administration has already entered. i must say to my colleagues on the committee on environment and public works. that in committee. when i proposed the amendment which was to become section 223. i in way intended it to preclude cost sharing for studies for which costsharing agreements have already been signed. or for which reconnaissance reports were initiated in fiscal year 1984 or later. i would therefore inquire of my good friends. the chairman and ranking miity member of the water resources subcommittee. their opinion of the committees intent with respect to this aspect of section 223.
. i would like to ask the distinguished chairman and ranking miity member of the water resources subcommittee to make a clarification with respect to section 223 of s. 1567. which implements a new costsharing procedure for corps of engineers feasibility studies. it is my understanding that the administration las gone forward on its own and has entered into agreements with several federal sponsors to share the costs of project feasibility studies in much the same way as would be required by section 223. it is also my understanding that the language of section 223 and the corresponding language in the committee report on s. 1567 could be interpreted to mean that cost sharing would  be required for the feasibility phase of any study. if any part of that study was initiated prior to the enactment of this legislation. if this interpretation was correct. it might jeopardize the costsharing agreements on feasibility studies into which the administration has already entered. i must say to my colleagues on the committee on environment and public works. that in committee. when i proposed the amendment which was to become section 223. i in way intended it to preclude cost sharing for studies for which costsharing agreements have already been signed. or for which reconnaissance reports were initiated in fiscal year 1984 or later. i would therefore inquire of my good friends. the chairman and ranking miity member of the water resources subcommittee. their opinion of the committees intent with respect to this aspect of section 223.
to designate august 7. 1989. as "national lighthouse day." i am pleased to be listed as a cosponsor. its appropriate that senator chafee should introduce this joint resolution because he and i serve together on the environment and public works committee. for many people. the definition of public works projects is limited to highways. bridges. dams. and public buildings. those individuals would be interested to k that when .congress first convened almost two centuries ago. public works projects included. indeed. prominently included lighthouses. the first congress was organized on april 6. 1789. that july. represenative gerry of massachusetts introduced legislation. h.r. 12. which called for the establishment and support of lighthouses. beacons. and buoys. h.r. 12 was passed by the house on july 20. an amended version was approved by the senate on july 31 and on august 7. 1789. the lighthouses act was signed irtz. law by president washington. this statute. 1. statute 53. chapter 9. can be characterized as the first public works law of our nation: it established the federal role in the support. maintenance. and repair of all lighthouses. beacon buoys. and private piers necessary for safe navigation in our country. somewhere between 1.200 and 1.300 lighthouses have been built in this countrys listory. there are lighthouses along the atlantic and pacific oceans. the great lakes. and the gulf of mexico. while state. to my kledge. lays claim to being the "lighthouse state." the state of maine certainly could qualify simply because of the sheer number of lighthouses located along its coast. there are more than 60 standing lighthouses nn maines coast stretching from kittery to calais. many of these structures are on the national register of historic places. many are  without resident keepers due to automation and the towers. keepers houses. catwalks. and outbuildings are easy targets for vandalism and natural damage caused by storms or erosion. this would be a tragic waste since these structures have great potential as cultural. historic. and recreational sites. fortunately. the numerous private. local and state efforts to preserve lighthouses in maine and other states. added by the bicentennial lighthouse fund established in the fiscal year 1988 continuing resolution. demonstrate the widespread support lighthouse preservation has among the public. many maine people have a powerful emotional attachment to lighthouses generally and to specific lighthouses in particular. im certain that "national lighthouse day" will be an occasion of great ceremony and pride in maine at many of the beautiful lighthouses in the state. lighthouses have played a large role in our nations maritime history and development and through two centuries they have symbolized safety. security. heroism. and faithfullness. for this reason. . i b.ileve "national lighthouse day" is an appropilate occasion for recognition by congress.9 by mr. riegle (for himself.
. during this time of fiscal restraint. i ask my colleagues to look at this legislation as a much needed investment in the lives and future of our most vulnerable citizens. it is my hope that the senate will approve this legislation and in so doing. recognize the importance of services provided under the title xx social services block grant. by mr. daschle (for himself and mr. prmsslnd): 7 705. a bill to assmue fair consideration of the interests of states likely to be affected by the establishment of lowlevel radioactive waste disposal faciuties. to the committee on environment and public works.
. let me colleagues from new mexico. i am willask the senator a question. is there ing to compare my record in the sen a cap on the issuance of these ate with respect to fighting to protect bonds because if the municipality s the environment with his any day of overburdened with bonds. the bond the week because i think i have a 100market will  accept them. and. in- percent record. but that is  the deed. the interest rate will be so high issue before us. that the municipality will  choose the issue before us has to do with to issue them. whether or  we are  going to go
i must say. i find this declarations in connection with defeatrather amusing. because just some 10 ing the constitutional amendment. am days ago on the floor of the senate. we i missing something here. were debating the question of a con- mr. danforth. well. i do  want stitutional amendment.. i heard some to miscast or in any way misrepresent stirring oratory on.. the other side of what this is about. the aisle that. "what this senate needs the way the senator has put the is some courage. the courage to stop issue has to do with increased spendthis spending. we dont need. a con- ing. i believe that the argument would stitutional amendment." - be made that this is called investment let me quote from one distinguished and that because it is investment. democratic senator. maybe it is  spending. it does.  take a constitutional amend- mr. chafee. well. let me just say to ment to reduce the federal deficit or balance the senator. i have served considerable the federal budget. all it takes is egh time on the environment and public courage by congress and the administration works committee. one of our former to make the tough decisions we were elected chairmen was a wonderful individual. to make. .....he frequently used thatthat this is . hard on the heels of that--and  spending. this is an investment. the constitutional amendment was de- and i would like to see any program feated with overwhelming rejection on around here. whether it is social secuthe other side of the aisle. we rity. whether it is head start. whether come to an era when perhaps there are it is school lunch programs. or whether some tough decisions. and. as i under- its elementary and secondary edustand it. there are programs. some- cation. that there is  one of them money available in the defense budget. who can stand on the floor and say. so the first thing. as i understand it. is "that is  spending. that is investto spend it. to spend it on a new pro- ment."gram or enlargement of programs. we believe every one of those prosome of which currently exist. and to grams are an investment. and. by the  only increase them by some $800 way. i think that applies to the epa million this year. and next year even programs. for example. is superfund a more. am i correct. that next year the spending program or is it an investidea is to have even more than what "ment to clean up the environment of they are proposing for this budget for this nation.. clearly. it is an investthe fiscal year 1995. ment. . i would further like to ask the senator once again about the means of .paying for this. - again. as. i understand it. it is going to come from some area.  is that area designated where it is going to come from. i have  understood that -it is so pointed out in the measure. in other words. if it is going to come from some places. where. does it say in the legislation. (mr.: harkin assumed the chair.)
. i ask to have printed in the record supplemental budgetary estimates on calendar number 466. s. 1730. the oil spill prevention and response improvement act of 1996. section 403 of the congressional budget and imieoundment act requires that a statement of the cost of a reported bill be included in the report. when the committee on environment and public works filed the report to s..1730 or june 26. 1996. we included only a portion of the estimated impact of the bill. cbo had  completed the estimated impact at the time of filing. i am pleased to report that the cost statements t.3 included in todals re ronn comphte tiie cbo e3tims.tc for s. 1730. the tcmats .c.lew:
the senator from michigan is correct. the focus of the environment and public works committee will extend beyond the national priorities list to include solutions to our national brownflelds problem. and while my committee does  have jurisdiction over tax measures. i recognize the leadership exerted by senator abraham to address the problem of brownfields and i hope to work with him on a variety of solutions to the environmental problems faced by this nations communities.
. i also ask unanimous consent that the report by the congressional budget office for the bill. h.r. 2863. as approved by the committee on environment and public works. be printed in the record. when the committee filed its report on the bill. cbo had  yet completed its analysis. so it was  included. i would  like it to be part of the public record.
the senator from michigan is correct. the focus of the environment and public works committee will extend beyond the national priorities list to include solutions to our national brownflelds problem. and while my committee does  have jurisdiction over tax measures. i recognize the leadership exerted by senator abraham to address the problem of brownfields and i hope to work with him on a variety of solutions to the environmental problems faced by this nations communities.
. i also ask unanimous consent that the report by the congressional budget office for the bill. h.r. 2863. as approved by the committee on environment and public works. be printed in the record. when the committee filed its report on the bill. cbo had  yet completed its analysis. so it was  included. i would  like it to be part of the public record.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on environment and public works be authorized to meet during the sesston of the senate on tuesday. march 2. at 2 p.m.. to hold a hearing relating to the corps of engineers budget request.
madam president. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on environment and public works be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on wednesday. may 14. 1986. in order to conduct a hearing on the gsa fiscal year 1987 building programs.
. i deeply deplore the senates action on monday in gutting s. 1401. a bill which would have significantly bolstered the land and water conservation fund. the nations prime means of building its open space inventory. two amendments are responsible for the damage. the first prohibits the direct use of fees from offshore oil and gas leases for financing parkland purchases. the second amendment cuts the proposed increase in the land and water conservation fund from $700 million over 5 years to $300 million over 3 years. clearly projects whose authorization may be hanging on the increase in the level of the fundthe redwoods national park and the scenic rivers system are exampleshave been placed in jeopardy by this action. the land and water conservation fund was created by congress in 1964 to buy park and recreation lands for the nations enrichment. approximately 40 percent of the fund is used for direct acquisition by the federal government of national park and national recreation area sites. the delaware water gap national recreation area and the proposed redwoods park are examples of sites that are being. or would be. purchased with these funds. the other 60 percent of the money in the fund is apportioned among the states for improvement of their own outdoor recreation programs. this is a 5050 matching program. new jersey. for example. has received $5.3 million in federal contributions for some 59 approved state and local projects since the fund came into being. unfortunately. the fund presently is underfinanced. the bureau of outdoor recreation. for example. estimates that the funds anticipated intake of more than $900 million over the next decade will fall short of minimum national and state needs during that period by about $2.7 billion. the causes of this deficit. according to the senate interior committee. are attributable to the skyrocketing cost of parkland. particularly that earmarked for acquisition. and the failure of the funds sources of revenue to produce at the rate originally expected. the fund presently operates at a level of about $100 million annually. s. 1401 originally was designed to begin wiping out this deficit. under the bill reported to the senate. the fund would have been increased to a level of $200 million a year for the next 3 years. and to $300 million a year in fiscal years 1972 and 1973. the additional revenues would have come from earmarking for parkland acquisition fees paid by companies drilling for oil and gas on the outer continental shelf. one of mondays amendments struck the additional funds for fiscal 1972 and 1973. thereby leaving the overall increase at less than onehalf the amount recommended by the senate interior committee. the other amendment eliminated the earmarking provision. the levels proposed by the interior committee would have made it possible to purchase parkland much more quickcxiv- 694--part 9 ly than present resources permit. thereby counteracting escalating land prices. this legislation is important to new jersey. among other states. for one thing it affects the purchase of land for the delaware water gap national recreation area. which congress authorized in 1965. the park ultimately will consist or more than 47.600 acres in new jersey and pennsylvania and will cost $37.4 million for the land purchases alone. the target date for completing the land acquisition is the end of fiscal 1970. to date. more than $14 million has been appropriated from the land and water conservation fund to purchase 12.500 acres of the 47.600acre total. this still leaves $23.4 million needed to conclude the purchase of the park areas. because of the lack of sufficient dollars in the fund. the interior department presently estimates it may take until 1975 to complete the land acquisition program. worse still. according to interior. in the intervening 5 years. land prices.  escalating at the rate of about 8 or 10 percent a year. could raise the projected cost of $37.4 million by as much as 50 percent. on the other hand. interior believes that the original land acquisition schedule could have been met at the $37.4 million level if the fund was augmented as s. 1401 initially provided. moreover. new jersey is interested in general in funds for state and local outdoor recreation needsthe 5050 program. as presently projected by the department of the interior. new jerseys needs in this field over the next decade will total about $57 million in federal and state funds. how is this to be financed. clearly the approximately $1.7 million the state has been getting from the land and water conservation fund each year will be insufficient in these circumstances. under the interior committees version of s. 1401. however. the yearly federal contribution to new jersey would have been increased to about $3.4 million. at this rate. assuming new jersey could put up its share of the costs. the outlook for the states outdoor recreation program would be far brighter than it is today. obviously. the senates action monday dashes a great deal of cold water over such prospects for new jersey as well as the other 49 states. the one hopeful e. however. is that the senate action is  final. the house still must act and it has an opportunity to redeem the illadvised decisions taken in this chamber monday. indeed it may be a measure of house concern about the problem of parkland acquisition that its interior committee has approved a bill substantially similar to the original version of s. 1401. recently. an editorial writer observed that the amount originally projected for augmentation of the land and water conservation fund "is an irreducible minimum if a reasonable parkacquisition program is to be carried out." if the house adopts this as its yardstick of what is needed in this field. the unfortunate events of the past days may yet be reversed in whole or in part.
i think the senator from maine has made a very important statement. from our experience in new jersey i want completely to support it. this past tuesday. among other beneficent accomplishments made by the voters of new jersey. was approval of a referendum for pollution control based upon the 1966 act and dependent upon it in the amount of several hundred million dollars. the action of the new jersey voters. and the voters of maine. and other actions of the people throughout the country. would indicate the awakening realization in this country that its resources are too precious any longer to squander them. that the time has come to turn away from the pollution of our environment and to preserve and rehabilitate it. the action proposed by the distinguished senator from delaware. whom i have very often supported in matters of fiscal integrity. if it should succeed here. would be most unfortunate. while i am on my feet. i should like to say a word on behalf of our distinguished chairman. whose actions in this matter have been highly responsible and taken with the greatest of care. the distinguished senator from louisiana is a man who is as much a pennypincher as anyone i k of in this body. for him to have come along with this program of water pollution control is the best indication in the world of the seriousness of the problem to the nation. i hope very much. for that reason specifically. that the motion of the senator from delaware will be defeated. i pay my highest tribute to the distinguished chairman of the committee for his actions in this matter and on the bill generally.
. i have had some experience with this particular subcommittee. which held hearings in the state of new york. where we have as great a problem as exists anywhere in the country. i had the ho of being the principal lawenforcement officer of my state. we had a very distinguished commission. presided over by one of americas outstanding businessmen. mr. thomas watson. jr.. the head of the international business machines corp. the commission made a study of what could be done about this problem. the federal government is  doing nearly egh. i would agree with the senator from louisiana if we had appropriated the necessary money for federal aid to enable the states and communities to deal with the problem of juvenile delinquency. but we are  appropriating the necessary funds. if we were doing so. senators would have a right to complain and to say. "we have a program. and we have appropriated money. but we are  doing anything." the subcommittee is attempting to do something constructive. at least. it is trying to place its finger on the causes of juvenile delinquency. and it is also endeavoring to bring information to the various states with respect to the experience of other states. in that respect. i think the work of the subcommittee is extremely valuable. the expenditure proposed for the purpose is minuscule. as to the contention that the problem is  being materially arrested. of course. it is . indeed. our problems in connection with juvenile delinquency are increasing. but who is so omnicient as to say that if we were  busying ourselves with some remedies we would  have a worse problem than we  have. all social movement is in the direction indicated by the work of the subcommittee. in new york we are experimenting with limited security facilities. analogous to the civilian conservation corps. we are experimenting with guidance and counseling in the schools and courts. all this costs emous sums of money. the states have fewer tax resources than has the federal government. we urgently need some federal program to help in the fight on juvenile delinquency. the minimum essential is to have a federal agency which can bring to one state information with respect to what is being done in other states to combat the fundamental causes of juvenile delinquency. such an agency should serve on a national scale. i should like to pay tribute to my colleague from missouri. this subcommittee was the first national agency to point out the fallacy of the old idea that juvenile delinquency was the characteristic result of slum neighborhoods or of generally poor ecoic conditions. studies proved that such factors were entirely unrelated to juvenile delinquency. and that the primary cause was broken homes. that condition can and does exist among the very rich and well placed. it definitely produces delinquents at least as bad as those produced at lower ecoic levels. i hope we may proceed with this very constructive undertaking. i compliment my colleague from missouri for the way in which the work has been carried on by him and his colleagues on the subcommittee.
the state of new yorkand the reason for my moving this way without even having had a chance to talk with the senator about itas i stated previously had just.advised me about it. i have a wire from james biggans. executive deputy commissioner of the department of environmental conservation of new york. which reads as follows: this is to advise you that new york state will be ale to provide funds for the fire island inlet to the montauk point hurricane protection project to match a federal appropriation of $1 million during fiscal year so that part of it is done. that was  the case when the witness testified before the committee. as to the other part of it. we- have talked with the corps of engineers. and they apparently. withstanding this assertion that there are some funds availabie. do  intend to go ahead on a 7030 basis. so i repeat. i would understand perfectly whatever is decided in conference. if the senator wishes to cause the amount to be somewhat. reduced. i am willing to take that reduction. but i think the only way we can accomplish something with the project is to bring it before the conference. i would understand if they struck it out in conference. but at least the senator will understand if it requires a little more money they will be in a position to do it. that is my only reason for doing this.
