 of their university. it is worth ing that the senate has taken this step in the 25th year of the landmark civil rights acl for too long. however. it has been an unfinished landmark because its provisions do  afford protection to the 38 million americans who are disabled. many of us have sponsored the medicaid home and community quality services act. s. 384. and the americans with disabilities act. s. 933. a cornerstone of the philosophy behind those two bills is the ideal of full participation in society by those who are disabled. closedcaptioned broadcasting of senate proceedings does involve a small expenditure of money. that cost is negligible. though. when compared to the benefits that will result. it is significant that this body has recognized that we too must make adjustments to accommodate the disabled. what better way for this body to move toward the goal of full participation than to take a step that extends to the disabled greater access to an institution that has the power to affect so directly their quality of life. i look forward to the day when we inaugurate the first closedcaptioned broadcast of a senate session.e angola
. i was profoundly shocked when i heard over the radio the news of the sudden death of our former colleague. dwight rogers. i had reason to think that he was in anything but the best of health and i was looking forward to seeing him upon the opening of this congress today. dwight rogers was one of the first friends i made when i came to congress 10 years ago and the memory of his friendship will live with me always. he was an able representative of his district. a conscientious and hardworking member of his committee. and a deeply religious person. it is a privilege to join with his other colleagues today in paying tribute to him and in extending deepest sympathy to mrs. rogers and their children.
. i would like to say a few words in support of s. 573. the authorization bill for fiscal year 1976 for the national aeronautics and space administration. it is my understanding that the committee on aeronautical and space sciences has included an amendment to authorize an additional $7 million for fiscal year 1976 and $4 million more for the transition quarter specifically earmarked for research. development and monitoring of the physical and chemical properties of the upper atmosphere. this additional funding relates directly to legislation i am sponsoring. with the support of a dozen of my colleagues from both sides of the aisle. to amend the clean air act so as to assure that aerosol spray containers discharging chlorofluoromethane compounds in the ambient air will  impair the environmental ozone layer. to prevent any increased skin cancer risk. and otherwise to protect the public health and environment. a section of my bill. s. 1336. provides for nasa to carry out research concerning the nature and likelihood of potential effects on public health and the environment of the discharge of chlorofiuoromethane into the ambient air. the additional funds in this nasa authorization give us hope that this research will get underway soon. our action will also make clear our belief that nasa is the appropriate federal agency to undertake research in this area.
. i would like to say a few words in support of s. 573. the authorization bill for fiscal year 1976 for the national aeronautics and space administration. it is my understanding that the committee on aeronautical and space sciences has included an amendment to authorize an additional $7. million for fiscal year 1976 and $4 million more for the transition quarter specifically earmarked for research. development and monitoring of the physical and chemical properties of the upper atmosphere. this additional funding relates directly to legislation i am sponsoring. with the support of a dozen of my colleagues from both sides of the aisle. to amend tlhe clean air act so as to assure that aerosol spray containers discharging chlorofluoromethane compounds in the ambient air will  impair the environmental ozone layer. to prevent any increased skin cancer risk. and otherwise to protect the public health and environment. a section of my bill. s. 1336. provides for nasa to carry out research concerning the nature and likelihood of potential effects on public health and the environment of the discharge of chlorofluoromethane into the ambient air. the additional funds in this nasa authorization give us hope that this research will get underway soon. our action will also make clear our belief that nasa is the appropriate federal agency to undertake research in this area.
i thank the senator. i k of a few more things that are more overdue than that particular matter. as i just recited. if we follow the example mentioned in the bill i have introduced and adopt the procedure used in the case of the rea and the rural telephone service. i believe we can deal with the matter of hospital modernization without experiencing a great budgetary impact.
. i have long been concerned with the need to guarantee humane care and treatment to the mentally retarded including the development of alternative programs of community care. in place of a lifetime of confinement in an institution. to achieve that goal. i have pledged myself to work for the enactment into law of my "bill of rights" for the mentally retarded. a recent editorial by wbentv of buffalo. n.y. entitled "more mercy needed for mentally ill and retarded" dramatically illustrates the need for this bill. the editorial urges us to move forward and provide the necessary facilities to enable people to return to communities where they can live productive lives to their fullest potential. i commend this wbentv editorial broadcast to the attention of my colleagues. and ask unanimous consent that the wben editorial be printed in the rcord.
