. i ask unanimous conam sent that additional material be printter- ed in the record. give there being objection. the matelies. rial was ordered to be printed in the ire- record. as follows: ided questions and answerson senator the chafees ira equity and enhancement act day. 1. wont this bill encourage families to use ents their retirement savings for purposes other than retirement. .y in the bill allows ira funds to be used to buy dis- a first home. to meet tuition expenses. to lies. pay medical or longterm care expenses. or both to make ends meet during a period of pro) to longed unemployment. each of these situailies tions represents a genuine financial concern lim- facing families today. the federal governa n- ment should do what it can to assist families in meeting these challenges rather than creing ate obstacles. s it 2. why increase the maximum contribution ac- for working spouses. re- this provision is designed to level the all playing field for all families. families that ork- decide to have one spouse stay athome to a re- raise their children should be penalized )cial by making it harder for them to save for rewas tirement. sen- 3. who qualifies as a "firsttime- homebuyer." vhen a firsttime homebuyer is anyone who has ting  had an ownership interest in a principal pro- residence for three years prior to acquiring i al- the home. bute 4. can a person take advantage of the penaltyfree distribution to purchase a home for dual someone other.than him or herself. tive yes. penaltyfree distributions can be bill made for the individuals spouse. children or. for grandchildren. so long as the person who will reside in the home qualifies as a firsttime "the homebuyer. ome. 5. what institutions qualify for the compoical nent of the bill relating to higher education .arry expenses. nged most public and profit universities and colleges and certain vocational schools will take qualify. 6 what education expenses can penaltyfear free distributions be made for. arise distributions can be made for tuition. fees. heir books. supplies and equipment required as mily part of the enrollinent or attendance at long these schools. l job 7. are the qualified education expenses the limited to the owner of the ira. -per-  distributions used to pay the eduira cation expenses of the ira owner and his or her spouse. child. or grandchild are eligible for the favorable tax treatment. ll in- 8. what expenses qualify as longterm limi- care. ions. these expenses include necessary diagency tic. preventive. therapeutic. rehabilita.s to tive. and maintenance services required by pur- an individual to perform mal living acr the tivities such as eating. dressing. and bathmy.ing. 9. who qualifies as needing longterm care their under this proposal. rtant someone who is certified by a licensed they health care practitioner as being unable to inan- perform at least three mal activities of daily living (eating. transferring. tolleting. dressing. and bathing). 10. how long does one need to be unemployed before being able to use their ira funds without penalty. anyone who has received unemployment compensation for twelve consecutive weeks under any federal or state unemployment compensation law can get penaltyfree access to their ira money. by mr. gregg:
