 quiriemphasized his feeling that the free countries of asia still had to halt the advances of communism by military means. he added. "our problem is therefore basically ecoic." the policy upon which the european recovery program is based has been proved by time and by experience to be the most enlightened development in american foreign policy since the monroe doctrine. it is based upon a completely new philosophy. the direct antithesis of imperialism by colonization or trade. practiced right up to the first world war by the nations which from time to time held the world leadership the united states  enjoys. the policy of the european recovery program and the policy of a far eastern cooperation which the sponsors of this resolution propose is a policy neither of political or ecoic domination or control but a policy of so improving the wellbeing of peoples that they will choose to fight for freedom of their own free will. as we are confident that this is the inevitable response of men and women with free minds. this resolution follows also the pattern of the harvard speech made in june 1947 by the then secretary of state. general marshall. inviting the nations of europe to organize themselves for a program of self help and mutual cooperation which.resulted in theorganization for european ecoic cooperation (oeec) which in turn made the european recovery program possible. the sponsors of this resolution believe that a similar pattern should be followed and that by the adoption of this resolution the same kind of invitation will be extended to the free peoples of the far east as was extended by general marshall to the free peoples of europe. it is eworthy also that one of the greatest developments in world policythe establishment of the united nationshad its origins in a similar resolution. the fulbright resolution passed by the congress in 1943. this resolution will be a means by which the influence of the united nations may be strengthened and its purposes furthered in the far east area. the text of the resolution follows: resolved by the house of representatives (the senate concurring). that the congress hereby expresses itself as favoring the creation by the europeon free countries and the free peoples of the far east of a joint organization. consistent with the charter of the united nations. to establish a program of self help and mutual cooperation designed to develop their ecoic and social wellbeing. to safeguard basic rights and liberties and to protect their security and independence. and as favoring assistance by the united states to the free countries and free peoples of the far east through such an organization.
