. the bill before use. h.r. 18763. the handicapped childrens early education assistance act. is. as my colleagues have ed. a first step toward the provision by local communities of preschool and early education programs for handicapped children. over 6 million of our children suffer physical. emotional. and mental handicaps yet fewer than onethird receive special medical and educational services. dr. james gallagher. associate commissioner of education for the handicapped. u.s. office of education. and others who testified before the select subcommittee on education. ed that there is growing improvement in the attitude of local educational institutions toward the education of the handicapped. one prime problem which still exists in program development. however. is the uniqueness and complexity of educating the handicapped child. it is this problem that we have addressed ourselves to in the creation of h.r. 18763. the bill will establish approximately 100 experimental preschool and early education programs in states or territories having the interest and desire to utilize such models as the basis for determining the best approaches to assist handicapped children. thus we envision that communities will examine model programs in other areas with similar demographic characteristics and ascertain the types of personnel that they might need. determine the methodology necessary to prepare and implement similar programs. and evaluate materials. curriculum. and the administrative procedures necessary to educate children having various handicaps and other aspects of the education process. built into the experimental and demonstration aspects of the program is a system of evaluation so that what is disseminated will reflect practices that have been tried and shown to be effective. this will provide local communities with the information to develop programs with the most efficient use of funds. we have before us a bill small in its present scope and requiring little funding. but one whose byproduct will be the education of millions who might otherwise go uneducated. and the development of productive citizens with a gross income in the billions who might otherwise be dependent on the community. i am pleased to cosponsor such a bill and i recommend unanimous passage.
. and. i might add. gover rockefellerfrom whom we in the new york delegation have  heard a peep. evei though we have received appeals and ices from county leaders. labor unions. .mayors. and numerous other state leadersfail to recognize that in the state of new york. at least. where prices. including health costs. are rising far faster than income. people simply can longer afford to get sick. . i urge that the veto be overridden by the house. as it was by the other body.
. i am pleased to support of the family and medical leave bill as set forth in h.r. 770. on occasion. workers must take time off to care for their loved ones. whether it be a mother nursing. her sick son. a husband spending time with a new daughter. or children caring for an elderly parentthe workforce needs to be sensitive to family concerns. the past quarter century has seen dramatic changes in the makeup of the nations work force. women have entered the workplace in record numbers. more and more children are being raised by single parents. most parentssingle parents and twoparent householdsneed two incomes just to make ends meet. today. workers have on the job responsibilities. and families at home that need attention and care. workers should  have to choose between earning a decent wage and caring for a sick family members. the family and medical leave bill tries to balance these demands. it provides comfort so that workers will k that the joy of adopting a child. or the responsibility of caring for a sick son or daughter does  come at the expense of losing ones job. this legislation would allow workers temporary. unpaid leave. and guarantee that their jobs will be there when they are able to return. this legislation is profamily. it is a good bill that demonstrates the feder. al governments ability to respond to the changing demographics of the nations work force. in the 100th congress. i joined my distinguished colleague from connecticut. senator dodd. as a cosponsor of a similar family leave bill. one of the reasons we were unsuccessful in enacting a bill at that time was because of concerns that this legislation would impose burdensome requirements on small businesses. legislation of this nature needs to reflect our awareness of its impact on the small business community. i would prefer to see a more gradual approach. something along the lines of rhode islands parental leave law. in my state. one parent is allowed 13 weeks of unpaid leave every 2 years upon the birth. adoption. or dangerous illness of a child or self. i am concerned that this legislation may be too sweeping. in the senate finance committee. for example. we have been struggling with the issue of longterm health care for the elderly. how can we best address the need of the 27 million institutionalized elderly population in this country. is the 12 weeks of parental leave that this bill proposes truly the answer. despite my reservations. i support this compromise. the new. higher. small business exemption threshold is a great improvement over the senate bill as it emerged from committee. merging the family leave and temporary employee sick leave provisions into one 12week family leave is also a welcome improvement. in short. this is a good bill. everybody in this chamber likes to be ks as profamily. well. this is our chance to prove it. i encourage my colleagues to vote in favor of this legislation. i look forward to its approval.
. i thank the distinguished senator from texas for her kind comments. she has been a loyal supporter and active worker in connection with this medicare select effort. i congratulate her for what she has done.
well. to my distinguished colleague from hawaii. more importantly we do  want the lines of unemployed we presently have. i will tell you that i will take a line at a gas station any day of the year to the unemployment lines that exist in this country. the reason why the unemployment lines exist is because of our failure to resolve this particular crisis. yes. when you are hooked and you want something badly egh. believe me it brings out the dark side of human nature. how many of you remember during the peak months of that crisis when it was actually discussed in this nation that we should possibly think about using our armed might to take over those oil fields. i remember that. it was serious discussion and went on for several weeks among responsible elements of our society. it was a real alternative to getting out of the crisis. does that sound like a typical loving america which is portrayed by the distinguished senator from hawaii. and correctly so. obviously . but when you are drunk you do irrational things. when you are hooked on drugs. you do irrational things. we are hooked. and we are trying to find an easy way to get unhooked. all i am saying to you here today. though. is there is easy way. it is as simple as that. i do  want to see the dark side of our nature when we contemplate military might to relieve us of the crisis. let me tell you of aher dark side of our nature: our interest in lowering air pollution standards as a tradeoff to get more energy. do you k what we are saying in that little phrase. what we are saying is let some americans die. let some americans have their health impaired. so that we can have more energy. that is nifty. that in a nation that is supposed to live for its children. supposed to help its neighbors. we would make a conscious tradeoff of various peoples lives and their health so that the rest of us without any inconvenience can go ahead and achieve a little bit more energy. i have seen us do all sorts of very strange things here as we try to go ahead and wriggle and squirm. i think a clear call from the leadership of this nation would be responded to magnificently by the american people. but such call has come forth. i do  want to be part of a drama that. in effect. turns to the dark side of our natures and says. "let us find a solution there." again i would hope. . barring any further comments by the distinguished senator from hawaii. to have this and my previous amendment set aside in order that i might present a third amendment.
i thank the senator for his interest in these matters. indeed. as the ranking member of the committee on labor and human resources. the senator from massachusetts has provided great leadership on health and education related issues and it has been my pleasure to serve with him on that committee. i very much appreciate the senators concerns for funding these new initiatives. the committee on appropriations. with few exceptions. recommended funding for existing programs where the senate has passed an authorization. this was done. very frankly. to as  to prejudice the actions of the authorization committees. funding for new programs will therefore have to be considered at a later time on an appropriate bill. i. of course. welcome the opportunity to work with my colleague from massachusetts for these programs.
i thank the senator for his interest in these matters. indeed. as the ranking member of the committee on labor and human resources. the senator from massachusetts has provided great leadership on health and education related issues and it has been my pleasure to serve with him on that committee. i very much appreciate the senators concerns for funding these new initiatives. the committee on appropriations. with few exceptions. recommended funding for existing programs where the senate has passed an authorization. this was done. very frankly. to as  to prejudice the actions of the authorization committees. funding for new programs will therefore have to be considered at a later time on an appropriate bill. i. of course. welcome the opportunity to work with my colleague from massachusetts for these programs.
i move to lay that dep w has a motion on the table. stat y dialy- the motion to lay on the table was ca 1o need agreed to. ploy ledicare amendment  8 20 be s disease (purpose: to set aside $250.000 for a study 1986 .every of automation in the labor exchang proc- and he fed- ess) the imately . i urge the floor managers to give this amendment serious and hopefully positive consideration.
the department of hew has grown. as our chairman has said. it has grown by law over the years. it has taken on many. many more responsibilities than it has ever had in the past. first of all. we did  k we would have the high inflation that we have today. for one thing. that accounts for some of the cost of this particular bill. in addition to that. we did  k we would have high unemployment in the country. as high as we have today. the costs of health programs have skyrocketed. and so it is  a matter of just adding to this agencys budget. it is a matter of trying to meet the needs that are facing the people of this country: laborhew is a very important bill. i think that presidentscertainly our present president. president ford. former president nixon. and president johnson. and presidents as far back as i have knhave tried to rearrange priorities so that we could spend more money for peoples needs. the laborhew bill is the bill that covers most human needs. it covers medicare and medicaid. it handles unemployment compensation. well. i will  get into all this bill does. but it is a big bill. i think this is the second biggest. if  the biggest bill that comes before congress for appropriation purposes. the senator is quite right. it is a large bill. but the needs justify it. we have been very mindful of the cost of this bill. i can assure the senator from virginia that the distinguished chairman and i and members of our committee worked very hard on this bill. and we have cut back where we could. we expect we might even have to cut back further when we go to conference with the house. and i doubt very seriously that the bill will end up at the present figure of $36 billion. but when you come in with an amendment such as that proposed by the distinguished senator from alabama . it is a question then of do we have an itembyitem cut or do we have an acrosstheboard cut on a bill without king just what its effect will be. i think some of the programs the senator from virginia may be very much interested in. which apply to problems crying out for solution. might be seriously impaired if we were to accept such an amendment.
. today i am introducing legislation to eliminate roadblocks in the supplemental security income program to the eligibility of persons living in community group homes. in my state of massachusetts and across our nation. there is a growing movement to develop group homes and other similar community residences for disabled. the elderly. and other vulnerable people. these community residences are designed to provide a home for people who. because of advancing age or disability. are unable to live totally independently. they offer such persons the opportunity to live a fairly mal life and to remain active participants in their communities. despite their handicaps. group homes are an alternative to a lifetime in a nursing home or state institutionan alternative which is  only more humane. but also considerably less costly. i believe that public policy should encourage the development of group homes and other alternatives to institutional care. but a patchwork of statutory provisions under the ssi program have exactly the opposite effect. the legislation i am introducing today would remedy this by making several changes in current ssi law. first. the legislation makes persons living in publicly operated community residence for 16 or fewer residents eligible for ssi benefits on the same basis as those living in private community rdsidences of the same nature. current law precludes ssi payments to any person living in a public institution. the second change permits state and local governments to subsidize room and board costs in a home when necessary. without penalizing the residents by reducing or eliminating their ssi benefits. under current law. funds provided by profit organizations to subsidize group homes and other community residences are  counted as income to the residents. but public funds for the same purpose are counted. thus. if private funds are used. ssi payments are  reduced. but if any public funds are used. ssi payments are reduced. the legislation also requires states to develop and enforce standards for such community residences. this is designed to replace a section of existing law which attempts to guard against substandard health facilities. but which has never been implemented because of its complexity. requiring states to develop their own regulatory mechanism is a more effective approach than the current provisions. i believe. and one strongly supported by hew and a number of consumer groups. the cost of this legislation is modest and well within the congressional budget resolution. the administration estimates that the first year cost will fall between $8 and $16 million. net federal costs would be somewhat less than this. since any movement of ssi recipients into community residences from publicly financed institutional care will cause a decrease in federal medicaid expenditures. this legislation has broad. bipartisan support. introduced in the house by congresswoman martha keys of kansas. it was unanimously approved by the ways and means committee as a committee amendment to h.r. 8911. the supplemental security income amendments of 1976. and was passed by the house as a whole by 374 to 3. the legislation also has broad support among consumer groups such as the national association for retarded citizens. the american association of retired persons. and a variety of other publicinterest groups. i believe that the time has come to make good on our oftrepeated promises to encourage alternatives to institutional care. as this legislation is designed to do. i urge my colleagues on the finance committee to give this legislation the earliest possible consideration. so that action will  have to await the 95th congress. by mr. allen:
in their newsletter osha says this: the occupational safety and health administration has suspended the application of the new cotton dust standard for certain cotton waste processing industries and employers who are purchasers and users of cotton batting including mattress. upholstered furniture and automotive assembling industries. the u.s. department of labor annced today. the september 4 effective date for all other industries covered by the standard remains unchanged. that is dated friday. september 1. 1978. is the senator from louisiana aware of that.
 has issued an order under section 203 by virtue of a labor dispute which imperils. or imminently threatens to imperil. the public health or security." page 62. line 2. after the word "order". strike out the next four words up t0 the word "issued" in line 3. page 62. lines 4 to 8 inclusive. strike out subsection (f) of section 204.
. i present. for appropriate reference. two resolutions adopted by the executive board. committee on political education and international representatives. of clayville. n.y.. relating to the wages and hours bill. and medical care for the aged. i ask unanimous consent that the resolutions may be printed in the record.
i understand that the bill which is before us is the bill as reported out of committee by the senate committee on labor and public welfare. that this is  the house bill. which had some provisions in it with which i would take very sharp exception. i ask the senator to confirm that statement. the senator did confer with me. i k the bill is very much needed. i was called up by the commissioner of health of the state of new york. reiterating the need. i would have opposed the bill had it been before us in the form in which it came from the house.
i thank the senator from michigan. . i come  to the details of my amendment. i have already dealt with the broad outlines of the philosophy which underlies the amendment. and i have dealt with some of its historical background. my amendment provides that any stateany one of the 50may bring into the federal governments program a plan for giving health care to its older people. which plan shall apply to those 65 years of age or older who otherwise would  be benefited by this bill. in other words. they are  in receipt of old age assistance and they are  medically indigent. all over 65 years of age whose income does  exceed $3.000. in the case of an individual. or $4.500. in the case of a couple. will be eligible to come under a state plan. regardless of whether they are eligible for social security. i point out that the age provision in my amendment is 65. as against 68 in the anderson amendment. the potential number of persons who are eligible under my proposal is 11 million. i should like to account for these figures and also for the income brackets concerned. there are 16 million people in the country who are 65 years of age or over. of the 16 million. 2.400.000 are on old age assistance. it is estimated that between 500.000 and 1 million. in every year. will be the beneficiaries of the medical indigents aspect of the committee billthe socalled kerrfrear plan. that makes a total. in round figures. of approximately 3 million. let us say. that leaves 13 million people who are aged citizens. again. it is estimated that of those 13 million people. approximately 2 million will. for one reason or aher. whether by virtue of high income or for other reasons. fall outside the purview of my amendment. leaving 11 million eligible. the 2 million figure is a rather interesting one. obviously it must be an estimate. based upon what we k about income limits. for example. we k that of the 16 million older citizens. only 4 million pay an income tax. but the 2 million is a very interesting figure because it is exactly the number of those who are entitled to social security. but do  draw it because they report greater earnings than those permitted by the social security law. so that we get a fairly compensatory relationship in respect of the people who are excluded. except when we get into the 6568 category. because that cuts down the potential of the anderson amendment to about 8/4 million. i think this is a very serious and a very important point. because the potential under my amendment is then 23 million more merely by virtue of this age limit. the age point is a very important point in assessing why it is more desirable to have a plan like mine than the social security plan. we are constantly inhibited in the social security plan in terms of costs. because we do  want the social security taxes to get out of line. under the social security taxes. a burden is put on only 60 percent of the income of the individuals of the country. i started to develop this point before: as between democrats and republicansthe whole world is turned topsyturvythe democrats are for a program. on the wholei do  say every one of them will vote that waywhich puts this responsibility on the part of the population which is in the lowest income level. and only on part of the population. hence. it becomes subject to the very argument which has been made here so often against the sales tax as a method of financing the federal establishment. the social security tax is put on about 70 million payers who are responsible for 60 percent of the income. on the other hand. my plan puts the responsibility on the totality of the income of persons who pay income taxes. because it comes out of the general revenues. and therefore spreads the burden widely and upon the basis of ability to pay. rather than on the basis of wage brackets. which come into consideration under social security. it seems to me in this case the roles of the parties have been reversed. and in quite an extraordinary way. to continue the description of my amendment. a state. therefore. brings in a plan covering the people whom i have described as the ones who are eligible. here are the only restrictions which are placed upon that plan by the amendment. the plan must give three options: the option of preventive care. the option of catastrophic care. the option of enabling the individual to participate in the purchase of a health insurance policy of his own. those options are mutually exclusive. the individual is entitled to take one of the three. under his first option. the option for preventive care. the federal government participates in financing the cost between a minimum limit of care and a maximum limit of care. the minimum limit of care gives the beneficiary 12 home or office visits by a physicianincidentally. the only one of these plans which gives direct physician service. second. it gives the individual the first $100 of ambulatory diagtic laboratory or xray service. it gives 24 additional home health care services as prescribed by a physician and when necessary. 21 days of hospital or equivalent nursing home care. i say "when necessary" because the amendment provides it shall be done on certification of a physician as necessary. that is the minimal package. we estimate that that package will cost. taking the country as a whole. and based upon 75 percent participation. in actuarial terms. $90 per person per year. the maximum package of preventive care calls for physicians services 12 days. office and home. inpatient hospital services. 45 days. unlimited ambulatory xray and laboratory services. unlimited organized home health care services. and skilled nursing home services. 135 days. this is an extremely valuable and a very substantial coverage for the individual. on a firstcost basis. with heavy emphasis on its preventive character. we estimate that package. and i have worked out these estimates with the department of health. education. and welfare. will cost $128 a year per person covered. the federal government will participate overall to the extent of 50 percent of the cost which is involved within those lower and upper limits of a minimum and maximum plan in the preventive care package. and the $450 million cost for the federal government. which i have figured is the cost of the maximum package for individuals covered.
i should like to discuss it with the senator for a minute. the argument was made on both sides. for those like the senator from alabama and myself. who favor an increase in research funds for health. it was said that the survey made by the committee of consultants indicated this was  "crowding money down the throats" of the national institutes of health. but that the money could be very usefully employed and. as a matter of fact. even what we in the senate were doing was inadequate. the argument made on the other side. by the opponents. was that one does  get brilliant research by the "forced feeding" of dollars. that the number of people who can be hired and the projects in which one can engage are limitedone can hire so many people and spend so much money. and beyond that it becomes profitless. i gather that a little bit of considerationalbeit  with our consenthas been given to that point of view. and that even less funds than the senate was satisfied ought to be allowed have been allowed. under those circumstances. is the senator from alabama etheless satisfied we will be making an appreciable step forward in respect to the resources available for medical research. so that in substance. if  in every detail as to amount. the views of the consultant team of doctors will have been more met than denied by the coming years appropriation.
first. . i should like to state that i. too. shall vote against the motion to adjourn sine die. and i wish to state that my basic reason is my deep feeling that some minimal civil rights legislation should have been adopted at this session in an earnest effort to live up to the campaign platforms of both parties. and that it was at least "must" legislation. considering the grave situations in certain parts of the country. and was at least equivalent in importance with the minimum wage bill. the bill for medical care for elderly people. and other measures with which we dealt so extensively.
. this list of activities is able particularly as an experiment in dealing with the addict.  in isolation. but in immediate relationship with his family and community. after 2 years of operation. the center has dealt with 145 addicts. 119 of whom sought detoxification. and 72 members of their families. its detoxification program  has a waiting list of 1 week. the center is  beginning a new program of outpatient detoxification at home. under the supervision of a relative able to stay with the addict for 5 days. for addicts who are unable to use hospital facilities. the possibilities of the kind of contact with the addict and his community which the center is designed to explore and foster are exemplified in the following summary of the contacts between a worker for the center and a group of boys who had started to use narcotics. i ask unanimous consent that the summary be included at this point in the record.
. this is . perhapsit is a question. but perhaps it is the kind of dispute which involves the national health and safety. as does. for example. a strike at a missile base. a defense facility. a communication. or a publicutility enterprise. nevertheless. this strike is verging upon a national disaster. the newspapers of new york city are. in a real sense. national publications which express most importantly points of view. and report news of vital interest.  only in new york city. but throughout the nation. they are read and consulted throughout the nation and throughout the world. in addition. new york city itselfmuch the largest city in terms of its being a center.  only of population. but also of business. finance. commerce. and communicationsis suffering intolerable losses. whatever may be the technical definition of a strike involving the public health and safety. the public interest is perilously at stake. i deeply believe that the people of new york are becoming understandingly impatient about the lag in the disposition of this matter. in a most important way i believe that what happens in new york will have a highly important effect upon what happens here and what happens in our state legislature in terms of the way in which collective bargaining is to be dealt with and the interest in and participation by government in that process. in short. i rise today to express my feelingand i deeply believe it is the feeling of the people of my city and statethat the time has come to settle the new york city newspaper strike. the parties are meeting for that purpose. and any aspect of public responsibilities and the public interest which is involved in bringing about a settlement should be impressed upon them . i rise for that purpose. and express the expectation that both management and labor will see their public duty. the trial of strength has gone on long egh. it seems to me. to satisfy anyone. the time has come to bring the question to a conclusion. i hope that as the parties go through their deliberations today. they will be impressed with the fact that the public wants the strike settled. which is my view. if it is  settled. i deeply believe the public will feel aggrieved. and. as it always does. will find ways through those of us in public life and otherwise to express in a very practical way its dissatisfaction with the fact that the strike has been allowed to go on for so long.
i have a number of amendments that i wish to offer to the bill. one is an extremely technical amendment. i shall  take the senators time with that. one is on the coverage of tips. aher is on the question of prescription drugs. the senator has stated that the committee has considered the recommendations of sen-" ators. could the senator give me the rationale by which the committee turned down the house provision with respect to tip coverage and chose. instead. to provide that tips shall be considered selfemployed income. with the individual worker to pay the whole social security tax.
. i introduce for myself and  of the senate subcommittee on education [mr. morsel explained during senate debate on the conference report on the international education act: section 205 was dropped by the house without prejudice and solely for jurisdictional reasons without reference to the merits of the provision. in the senate. the labor and public welfare committee has jurisdiction over both health and. education matters. however. the house committee on education and labor exercises jurisdiction over health. since section 205 amends a health law and mally comes within the area of responsibility of the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce. the house committee on education and labor dropped it from the bill.
. i send to the desk for printing an amendment to h.r. 12080 which would allow the individual states the greatest flexibility in devising their programs of medical assistance. under title xix of the social security act. there has been a good deal of criticism of the medicaid program. in particular. the plan of my own state of new york has been quite controversialboth in the state and nationally. i think it fair to say that the income eligibility standards established by the state of new york for medical assistance had a great deal to do with the fact that h.r. 12080 contains a ceiling on the income level for eligibility to medicaid. for which federal matching funds would be available. the new york plan is largeand it has been expensive. however. one reason for the large size of the new york program is the fact that present federal law has kept it from being more exactly shaped to the needs to be met. in 1966 i introduced amendments to title xix which would have given the states greater flexibility. in light of the strong support for some sort of ceiling on federal participation. i believe there is even stronger need for this flexibility . in particular. a state should  be required to set the same eligibility standard for all its geographic parts. the present new york standard can be seriously questioned as applied to the large cities. for example. a fourmember family earning $6.000 a year in new york city needs medical assistance. however. in the rural upstate counties. this figure may well represent an income too high for eligibility and may well lead to so many eligible recipients that the county can meet its share of the financial burden. nevertheless. present law inhibits new york. for example. from setting different income standards for different parts of the state. depending upon various average income levels. different costs of living. and. a different scale of health costs in geographic regions of the same state. i believe that the state should be allowed to make such distinctions where necessary and practical. such a change in the law would permit the development of programs more relevant to the real needs of a stateand less expensive. aher federal requirement which unnecessarily adds cost to a state program is that which prohibits a deductible feature for hospital bills. such a deductible is acceptable as far as medical costs are concerned. it should  be prohibited for hospital bills.
. one of the important tasks of the commission would be to develop adequate criteria for determining the maximum amount and duration of permanent and total disability benefits. over the years something like a consensus seems to have developed around a figure expressed as a percentage. usually 66% percent of average weekly wages. in the state. by and large. the states are  meeting even that limited criteria. but the commission should answer the question whether that standard discriminates unfairly against workers whose incomes exceed the average in the state. second. the amount and duration of medical benefits and provisions insuring adequate medical care and free choice of physician: though the quality of medical care and workmans compensation has improved over the years. many workers still have to bear a part of the medical cost of their injury or disease. a number of states still restrict full medical care by setting limits on the monetary amounts or limitations on the time during which a worker may receive medical benefits. this problem has been considerably aggravated by the rising costs of medical care in recent years. and the fact that private medical and hospitalization insurance generally exclude workmens compensation cases from coverage. satisfactory medical care is. of course. as important as adequate benefits. one way in which this problem has been dealt with is to provide that the workmens compensation agency may supervise medical care. in most states. however. the workmens compensation agency does  have this authority. aher aspect of this problem is that almost threequarters of all workers covered under workmans compensation have their doctors chosen for them by their employer or by the insurance company on behalf of the employer. while this practice does  necessarily imply that injured workers will receive unsatisfactory medical care. it raises other serious questions because it is the physician upon whose testimony and diagis the amount of a compensation award may depend. one way in which this difficulty is overcome is to allow any insured worker at least some real freedom of choice in the selection of a physician. but only 23 states meet the department of labors recommended standards in this regard. third. coverage of workers. including exemptions based on numbers and type of employment: the effectiveness of workmens compensation laws is limited in many states by numerical exemptions under which small employers are  covered by the law. the numerical exemptions range from two to 15 employees. other types of exemptions are based on the type of employment. rather than the number of employees one of the most glaring defects in many state compensation laws is the failure to cover agricultural employees to the same extent as other types of employees. withstanding the fact that agriculture has become one of the nations most dangerous occupations. other types of employees frequently exempted from the law are casual and domestic employees and employees of charitable or religious institutions. all of these exemptions taken together serve to exclude approximately 20 percent of the entire labor force from the benefits of workmens compensation. despite a few improvements in some laws toward fuller coverage. this percentage has  changed perceptibly in recent years. fourth. standards for determining which injuries or diseases should be deemed compensable: one of the areas in which the development of workmens compensation law in the united states has been most marked. but at the same time most uneven. is in the determination of which injuries or diseases are deemed compensable. in many states the law. or the courts interpretation of it is moved far away from the initial "accident" theory of compensable injury to include almost any injury or disease which is workrelated. in other states. however. there has been little or movement at all. some states specifically exclude from coverage most occupational diseases. and at least 16 states fail to provide full protection for occupational disease. in one particular area. that of radiation disease. the problem has already occasioned a congressional inquiry by the joint committee on atomic energy. pending before the senate  are proposals to provide compensation for workers who have had the misfortune to suffer lung cancer as a result of their exposure to radiation and uranium mines. such bills. of course. would be unnecessary had these unfortunate workers been entitled to collect workmens compensation under existing state laws. fifth. rehabilitation: in the years since the original workmens compensation acts were passed. the science of rehabilitation has made great strides. at the present time there exists a considerable store of kledge and technique in medical and vocational restoration of an injured workman. yet only a handful of states have adjusted either their substantive provisions or their administrative mechanisms under the workmens compensation laws to take advantage of this opportunity. clearly this is a subject which deserves the most careful study by the commission. sixth. coverage under second or subsequent injury funds: these funds are designed to facilitate reemployment of disabled workers. their purpose is to assure full benefits to an employee who suffers a second disabling injury while at the same time allowing his subsequent employer to pay only that share of the benefits specifically attributable to the subsequent injury. most states have established these funds but their operation and financing vary widely. some second injury funds are supported by employer contributions under certain circumstances. other funds are supported entirely by governmental appropriations. moreover. most states limit the coverage of second injury funds to loss or loss of use of a member of the body. in only a miity of the states do the second injury funds provide for coverage of any type of disability. seventh. time limits on filing claims: the time limits on filing claims under most state laws appear to have been drawn to take into account only the "accidental" type of injury. these time limitations have serious drawbacks when they must be applied to occupational disease cases. for even though a law may provide coverage for occupational disseases its effectiveness will be seriously curtailed if there is an inadequate period of time for the worker to file for benefits. a worker may  k that he has contracted an occupational disease until a substantial period of time has passed after the date of his last exposure or a substantial period of time has passed before the condition is diaged as a disease that has occurred as a result of his employment. both of these conditions exist. for example. in the case of uranium mine workers who have contracted lung cancer. clearly the need for flexible time limit provisions is a subject which will merit serious consideration by the commission. eighth. waiting periods: waiting periods or arbitrary periods of time during which employees may  receive compensation unless they are disabled for a fairly long period of time. specified in the law. the department of labor has recommended that the maximum waiting period should be 3 days and that benefits should be retroactive after 2 weeks. however. only about eight states currently meet this standard. ninth. compulsory or elective coverage: compulsory workmens compensation laws require covered employers to comply with the law. an elective law permits the employer the option of whether to accept coverage of the workmens compensation law. if he rejects coverage. he loses the common law defenses of assumption of risk. fellow servant negligence. and contributory negligence. in a suit filed by the worker. about onehalf of the state workmens compensation laws are compulsory. while the remainder are elective. elective laws were at one time the rule rather than the exception. the trend has. however. definitely been toward compulsory coverage and although compulsory coverage has been recommended by the department of labor. the council of state governments. and the iaiabc almost half the states still have elective laws. tenth. administration: improved administration is one area in which tremendous strides have been made by some states but little. if any. progress has been made in others. clearly. with the advent of new data processing techniques and the work which has been done by the department of labor. the council of state governments. and the iaiabc there is much that can and should be done to improve the administration of workmens compensation laws in many states. eleventh. legal expenses: who should bear the burden of an injured workmans legal expenses has been a troublesome question for students of workmens compensation. most states require the claimant. whether or .iot he prevails in the proceeding. to bear his own legal expenses. contenting themselves with regulating the amount of the fees and preventing unethical practices by lawyers handling compensation cases. some states take a different view. requiring employers to pay the legal expenses of the successful claimant. the issue has been drawn clearly. and well merits the attention of the commission. twelth. the feasibility and desirability of a uniform system of reporting information concerning jobrelated injuries and diseases and the operation of workmens compensation laws: one of the perennial difficulties which has served to plague students of workmens compensation has been the lack of information concerning the system as a whole. the commission could make use of its greatest contributions by analyzing the feasibility of some sort of uniform reporting system. designed to obtain the meaningful information concerning the operation of workmens compensation laws necessary to permit continuing critical evaluation of the system. thirteenth. resolution of conflict laws extraterritoriality and similar problems arising from claims with multistate aspects: here is aher area where the new commission could make a tremendous contribution. the council of state governments. has commented that portion of its model act is more urgently in need of coordinated state action than the extraterritoriality provision. the council referred to the present law in this area as in "a state of chaos." dr. larson. one of the foremost authorities on workmans compensation in the united states. has been even less charitable. characterizing the conflict of laws in this area as "a mad house of confusion." fourteenth. the extent to which private insurance carriers are excluded from supplying workmens compensation coverage and the desirability of such exclusionary practices. to the extent they exist: in most states employers may provide compensation coverage through private insurance carriers. some states. however. have established what are kn as "exclusive state funds" with which all employers must deal. various arguments can be made for and against these exclusive state funds. under exclusive state funds. it is claimed. compensation insurance can usually be obtained more cheaply than from private carriers. others argue. with equal force. that that is hardly a reason for prohibiting private carriers from competing for the employers dollar. aher argument which the commission will undoubtedly have to consider carefully is the tremendous contribution private insurance carriers have made toward improving occupational safety. fifteenth. the relationship between workmens compensation on the one hand and old age. disability and survivors insurance and other types of insurance. public and private. on the other hand: with the advent of other types .of insurance. both public and private. covering disability or death. the problem of overlap arises. there are two aspects of the problem. first. to guard against an injured worker receiving double compensation. second. the decision as to which type of insurance should bear the burden when an overlap exists. the problem is particularly acute in total disability cases where both workmens compensation and social security are applicable to the same worker and in partial disability cases where unemployment compensation is also sought. consideration of this problem by the commission would be especially desirable because of its federal overtones. sixteenth. possible methods of implementing the recommendations of the commission: the best method of implementing its own recommendations will probably be the most controversial topic for the commission to consider. it will also be the most important. i recognize that workmens compensation has historically been treated as a function of state government. and that the states themselves deserve full credit for initiating the whole system. there is. however. ample justification for the federal government to solicit the views and recommendations of interested and informed parties as to what should be done to achieve necessary workmens compensation reform. this should  mean or imply any effort to federalize workmens compensation or to begin such a process. indeed. my present inclination would be to oppose any attempt to federalize workmens compensation as much too drastic. there is a wide range of alternatives available which the commission could consider. and after the commission has made its recommendations it will still be up to congress to act or . as it sees fit. the point of my proposal is that it is only through the informed consideration of the issues by a broadly based commission that the congress will have before it the information necessary to enable it to make an intelligent judgment on this issue. which affects all american working men and women.
. one of the important tasks of the commission would be to develop adequate criteria for determining the maximum amount and duration of permanent and total disability benefits. over the years something like a consensus seems to have developed around a figure expressed as a percentage. usually 66% percent of average weekly wages. in the state. by and large. the states are  meeting even that limited criteria. but the commission should answer the question whether that standard discriminates unfairly against workers whose incomes exceed the average in the state. second. the amount and duration of medical benefits and provisions insuring adequate medical care and free choice of physician: though the quality of medical care and workmans compensation has improved over the years. many workers still have to bear a part of the medical cost of their injury or disease. a number of states still restrict full medical care by setting limits on the monetary amounts or limitations on the time during which a worker may receive medical benefits. this problem has been considerably aggravated by the rising costs of medical care in recent years. and the faot that private medical and hospitalization insurance generally exclude workmens compensation cases from coverage. satisfactory medical care is. of course. as important as adequate benefits. one way in which this problem has been dealt with is to provide that the workmens compensation agency may supervise medical care. in most states. however. the workmens compensation agency does  have this authority. aher aspect of this problem is that almost threequarters of all workers covered under workmans compensation have their doctors chosen for them by their employer or by the insurance company on behalf of the employer. while this practice does  necessarily imply that injured workers will receive unsatisfactory medical care. it raises other serious questions because it is the physician upon whose testimony and diagis the amount of a compensation award may .depend. one way in which this difficulty is overcome is to allow any insured worker at least some real freedom of choice in the selection of a physician. but only 23 states meet the department of labors recommended standards in this regard. third. coverage of workers. including exemptions based on numbers and type of employment: the effectiveness of workmens compensation laws is limited in many states by numerical exemptions under which small employers are  covered by the law. the numerical exemptions range from two to 15 employees. other types of exemptions are based on the type of employment. rather than the number of employees. one of the most glaring defects in many state compensation laws is the failure to cover agricultural employees to the same extent as other types of employees. withstanding the fact that agriculture has become one of the nations most dangerous occupations. other types of employees frequently exempted from the law are casual and domestic employees and employees of charitable or religious institutions. all of these exemptions taken together serve to exclude approximately 20 percent of the entire labor force from the benefits of workmens compensatton. despite a few improvements in some laws toward fuller coverage. this percentage has  changed perceptibly in recent years. fourth. standards for determining which injuries or diseases should be deemed compensable: one of the areas in which the development of workmens compensation law in the united states has been most marked. but at the same time most uneven. is in the determination of which injuries or diseases are deemed compensable. in many states the law. or the courts interpretation of it is moved far away from the initial "accident" theory of compensable injury to include almost any injury or disease which is workrelated. in other states. however. there has been little or. movement at all. some states specifically exclude from coverage most occupational diseases. and at least 16 states fail to provide full protection for occupational disease. in one particular area. that of radiation disease. the problem has already occasioned a congressional inquiry by the joint committee on atomic energy. pending before the senate  are proposals to provide compensation for workers who have had the misfortune to suffer lung cancer as a result of their exposure to radiation and uranium mines. such bills. of course. would be unnecessary had these unfortunate workers been entitled to collect workmens compensation under existing state laws. fifth. rehabilitation: in the years since the original workmens compensation acts were passed. the science of rehabilitation has made great strides. at the present time there exists a considerable store of kledge and technique in medical and vocational restoration of an injured workman. yet only a handful of states have adjusted either their substantive provisions or their administrative mechanisms under the workmens compensation laws to take advantage of this opportunity. clearly this is a subject which deserves the most careful study by the commission. sixth. coverage under second or subsequent injury funds: these funds are designed to facilitate reemployment of disabled workers. their purpose is to assure full benefits to an employee who suffers a second disabling injury while at the same time allowing his subsequent employer to pay only that share of the benefits specifically attributable to the subsequent injury. most states have established these funds but their operation and financing vary widely. some second injury funds are supported by employer contributions under certain circumstances. other funds are supported entirely by governmental appropriations. moreover. most states limit the coverage of second injury funds to loss or loss of use of a member of the body. in only a miity of the states do the second injury funds provide for coverage of any type of disability. seventh. time limits on filing claims: the time limits on filing claims under most state laws appear to have been drawn to take into account only the "accidental" type of injury. these time limitations have serious drawbacks when they must be applied to occupational disease cases. for even though a law may provide coverage for occupational diseases its effectiveness will be seriously curtailed if there is an inadequate period of time for the worker to file for benefits. a worker may  k that he has contracted an occupational disease until a substantial period of time has passed after the date of his last exposure or a substantial period of time has passed before the condition is diaged as a disease that has occurred as a result of his employment. both of these conditions exist. for example. in the case of uranium mine workers who have contracted lung cancer. clearly the need for flexible time limit provisions is a subject which will merit serious consideration by the commission. eighth. waiting periods: waiting periods or arbitrary periods of time during which employee may  receive compensation unless they are disabled for a fairly long period of time. specified in the law. the department of labor has recommended that the maximum waiting period should be 3 days and that benefits should be retroactive after 2 weeks. however. only about eight states currently meet this standard. ninth. compulsory or elective coverage: compulsory workmens compensation laws require covered employers to comply with the law. an elective law permits the employer the option of whether to accept coverage of the workmens compensation law. if he rejects coverage. he loses the common law defenses of assumption of risk. fellow servant negligence. and contributory negligence. in a suit filed by the worker. about onehalf of the state workmen. compensation laws are compulsory. while the remainder are elective. elective laws were at one time the rule rather than the exception. the trend has. however. definitely been toward compulsory coverage and although compulsory coverage has been recommended by the department of labor. the council of state governments. and the iaiabc almost half the states still have elective laws. tenth. administration: improved administration is one area in which tremendous strides have been made by some states but little. if any. progress has been made in others. clearly. with the advent of new data processing techniques and the work which has been done by the department of labor. the council of state governments. and the iaiabc there is much that can and should be done to improve the administration of workmens compensation laws in many states. eleventh. legal expenses: who should bear the burden of an injured workmans legal expenses has been a troublesome question for students of workmens compensation. most states require the claimant. whether or  he prevails in the proceeding. to bear his own legal expenses. contenting themselves with regulating the amount of the fees and preventing unethical practices by lawyers handling compensation cases. some states take a different view. requiring employers to pay the legal expenses of the successful claimant. the issue has been drawn clearly. and well merits the attention of the commission. twelfth. the feasibility and desirability of a uniform system of reporting information concerning jobrelated injuries and diseases and the operation of workmens compensation laws: one of the perennial difficulties which has served to plague students of workmens compensation has been the lack of information concerning the system as a whole. the commission could make use of its greatest contributions by analyzing the feasibility of some sort of uniform reporting system. designed to obtain the meaningful information concerning the operation of workmens compensation laws necessary to permit continuing critical evaluation of the system. thirteenth. resolution of conflict laws extraterritoriality and similar problems arising from claims with multistate aspects: here is aher area where the new commission could make a tremendous contribution. the council of state governments. has commented that portion of its model act is more urgently in need of coordinated state action than the extraterritoriality provision. the council referred to the present law in this area as in "a state of chaos." dr. larson. one of the foremost authorities on workmens compensation in the united states. has been even less charitable. characterizing the conflict of laws in this area as "a mad house of confusion." fourteenth. the extent to which private insurance carriers are excluded from supplying workmens compensation coverage and the desirability of such exclusionary practices. to the extent they exist: in most states employers may provide compensation coverage through private insurance carriers. some states. however. have established what are kn as "exclusive state funds" with which all employers must deal. various arguments can be made for and against these exclusive state funds. under exclusive state funds. it is claimed. compensation insurance can usually be obtained more cheaply than from private carriers. others argue. with equal force. that that is hardly a reason for prohibiting private carriers from competing for the employers dollar. aher argument which the commission will undoubtedly have to consider carefully is the tremendous contribution private insurance carriers have made toward improving occupational safety. fifteenth. the relationship between workmens compensation on the one hand and old age. disability and survivors insurance and other types of insurance. public and private on the other hand: with the advent of other types of insurance. both public and private. covering disability or death. the problem of overlap arises. there are two aspects of the problem. first. to guard against an injured worker receiving double compensation. second. the decision as to which type of insurance should bear the burden when an overlap exists. the problem is particularly acute in total disability cases where both workmens compensation and social security are applicable to the same worker and in partial disability cases where unemployment compensation is also sought. consideration of this problem by the commission would be especially desirable because of its federal overtones. sixteenth. possible methods of implementing the recommendations of the commission: the best method of implementing its own recommendations will probably be the most controversial topic for the commission to consider. it will also be the most important. i recognize that workmens compensation has historically been treated as a function of state government. and that the states themselves deserve full credit for initiating the whole system. there is. however. ample justification for the federal government to solicit the views and recommendations of interested and informed parties as to what should be done to achieve necessary workmens compensation reform. this should  mean or imply any effort to federalize workmens compensation or to begin such a process. indeed. my present inclination would be to oppose any attempt to federalize workmens compensation as much too drastic. there is a wide range of alternatives available which the commission could consider. and after the commission has made its recommendations it will still be up to congress to act or . as it sees fit. the point of my proposal is that it is only through the informed consideration of the issues by a broadly based commission that the congress will have before it the information necessary to enable it to make an intelligent judgment on this issue. which affects all american working men and women.
. the commission would be charged with the duty of undertaking a comprehensive study and evaluation of state workmens compensation laws in order to determine if they provide an adequate. prompt. and equitable system of compensation. its attention would be specifically directed to a number of subjects among the more important of which would be the amount and duration of medical and disability benefits. provisions insuring adequate medical care and free choice of physicians. coverage. standards for determining compensability rehabilitation. the advisability of a uniform reporting system. extraterritoriality problems. and the relationship between workmens compensation and oasdi or other public or private insurance. finally. the commission would be directed to consider the possible methods of implementing its own recommendations. the need for the type of comprehensive review and evaluation which the commission would undertake should be apparent to anyone with even a cursory kledge of workmens compensation today. the fact is that although a few states. like my own state of new york. do have adequate workmens compensation laws. in most states workmens compensation is. in at least some respects. shockingly inadequate. workmens compensation laws were devised to assure that benefits would be paid to workers injured on the job and that they would be paid promptly. with a minimum of legal formality. and without the necessity of fixing the blame for the injury. the fundamental premise of workmens compensation laws is that the cost of workrelated injuries is to be considered part of the cost of production. workmens compensation laws were and are a modern industrial democracys answer to the obstacles. such as the fellow servant and assumption of risk rules. erected by the common law to bar recovery by injured workers from their employers. in return for the elimination of the doubtful. but potentially unlimited liability of an employer under the common law. workmens compensation laws substituted the limited. but sure. remedy of compensation in the form of medical and disability benefits. the original intent of workmens compensation laws was to strike a fair balance between the legitimate claims of injured employees. and the potential liability of employers. indeed the constitutionality of workmens compensation laws probably depends upon their striking such a fair balance. thus. in considering the constitutionality of new york states workmens compensation law the supreme court in new york central railroad co. v. white. 243 u.s. 188 specifically ed: it perhaps may be doubted whether the state could abolish all rights of action on the one hand. or all defenses on the other. without setting up something adequate in their stead. it is apparent from some of the figures which i will cite below that in a number of states the payments available to an injured employee are simply  reasonable by any standard. thus. there is grave doubt that this balance is being struck fairly today in most states. workmens compensation laws simply have  kept pace with the development of the ecoy. the system. as it is operating today. does  meet contemporary needs and it is high time that a careful review and analysis be made of the way the current system is operating and of possible methods of improving it. i recognize that the charge that i have made today is a most serious one. however. my doubts as to the adequacy of the present workmens compensation system are based on objective yardsticks. those are available in the form of the standards for workmens compensation laws which have been developed in recent years by the department of labor. the council of state governments. and the international association of industrial accident boards and commissions. the minimum standards developed by these highly respected agencies are in many respects quite similar. an analysis of bulletin  212 issued by the department of labor as revised up to 1967. which compares the major provisions of state workmens compensation with the standards recommended by the federal bureau of labor standards shows a compliance ratio of only about 45 percent. i ask unanimous consent that a table showing the precise extent of compliance with the labor departments recommended standards be printed in the record.
. i. too. am delighted to hear what the senator from vermont has reported with respect to this matter. i believe the majority leader has properly assessed the matter with regard to stopping the flow of narcotics or is  an addictive drug. into this country. although there is an argument as to whether marihuana is i wish to point out to the senator something i think we could do ourselves. my interest in this problem has been reawakened. when i was attorney general of new york. i served as the chairman of the attorney generals committee on this subject. in that capacity. i served with the senator from iowa . who is  doing such a splendid job as the chairman of the subcommittee on alcoholism and narcotic drugs of the committee on labor and public welfare. one of the elements of the agreement with the mexicans is very likely to be the availability of some helicopters and other equipment to engage in surveillance over the raising of narcoticproducing plants. i understand this is illegal there. too. the administration will want to k whether we look with favor on that kind of a cooperative surveillance effort. as contrasted with the rather awkward and difficult operation intercept. i just wanted to call that to the attention of the majority leader. his views and those of the ranking miity member of the committee on foreign relations will be critically important if it should be possible to achieve an agreement such as the one to which the senator from vermont has referred.
s message and the testimony of the secretary on the bill made it absolutely clear that the reason this legislation is necessary is because the states and private industry are simply  doing a good egh job. the proposed occupational health and safety bill recognizes. quite properly. that where the states are  doing a good job they ought to be permitted to continue. but where they are . the federal government ought to step in. furthermore. all the states should meet federal minimum standards. if the federal. government has a proper role to play in preventing occupational diseases and injuries from occurring. does it  have an equally proper role to play in endeavoring to see that the unfortunate victims of occupational diseases and injuries receive minimum adequate compensation.  let me be clear on one matter: i am certainly  an advocate of federalization of workmens compensation law. either generally or with respect to black lung in particular. and the conference report does such thing. that would have been an indefensible waste of the administrative apparatus and exdecember. 18. 1969 pertise that presently does exist in the states.  do i deny for a moment that the states themselves deserve full credit for the development of the workmens compensation concept. truly one of the pioneering social reforms of this century. but we can and we should require state workmens compensation programs to meet bare minimum standards of decency. what is involved. in the last analysis. is the principle that industry should bear the cost of benefits for its injured and diseased workers. it is on that principle that i offered the compromise adopted by the conference which reduced the 7year fully federally funded program of the house bill to a 3year federal program. followed by a program based on minimum workmens compensation benefits payable by employers under state laws. or. if the state law did  require the payment of adequate benefits. under federal law. that is what title iv does in the case of death or total disability due to black lung. the proposal which is embodied in title iv of the bill is. in fact. much less of an intrusion on the general principles of workmens compensation than was the house bill. which would have covered. under a completely federal program. active miners as well as inactive miners who filed claims within a maximum period of 7 years and widows who filed claims at any time. under title iv of the conference bill there is a general cutoff date of december 31. 1971. on the filing of claims for permanent federal benefits--with certain exceptions for widows. in the case of claims filed anytime in 1972. benefits are payable under the federal program only until december 31. 1972. commencing january 1. 1973. claims must be filed under state workmens compensation laws unless the applicable state law has failed to meet certain minimum criteria for adequate coverage of pneumoconiosis. if the state law fails to meet these criteria. operators will be liable to pay benefits under federal law. the criteria which state laws must meet include payment of benefits for total disability or death due to pneumoconiosis arising out of employment substantially equivalent to or greater than the benefits payable under the federally financed part of the program. that is. $136 per month for a miner or widow with dependents. $204 if there is one dependent. $238 if there are two dependents. and $272 for three or more dependents. these amounts. it should be ed. are far below the 662/3 percent of the average miners monthly pay. the percentage recommended by the u.s. labor department for workmens compensation payments in the case of total disability. aher criterion which the state law must meet is that the standards for determining total disability or death due to pneumoconiosis must be equivalent to those established by the secretary of health. education. and welfare under the federal benefits program. this is particularly important since it is because black lung has simply  been recognized as an occupational disease until very recently that most workmens compensation laws have failed to provide adequate coverage to coal miners. the standards for determining total disability will. at least initally. be those applied under the oasdi program. they generally require that a person be unable to pursue gainful employment for at least 1 year before he is considered totally disabled. aher important criterion is a statute of limitations on the filing of claims of 3 years from the discovery and it is discovery.  occurrence. of total disability due to pneumoconiosis or death due to the disease. whichever is later. this criterion is designed to insure that. to the extent possible to do so consistently with traditional workmens compensation criteria. after december 31. 1972. the cost of benefits for at least some of the active and inactive miners and widows elegible for benefits under the federally financed program will be borne by the operators of the mines in which such miners were employed and whose pneumoconiosis arose out of their employment in such mines. the cost of any federal benefits to such miners and widows will be reduced either through the operation of the offset provisions applicable with respect to workmens compensation payments under part a or. in case the miner or widow for some reason does  file a claim for such benefits. through payments by the operator liable for the benefits to the federal government. as subrogee. under section 424. state laws will also have to contain provisions governing the liability of successor operators included in section 423. which are designed to prevent any operator from escaping liability to pay compensation by the simple expedient of transferring ownership of the mine prior to january 1. 1973. just such transfers have occurred. on a wholesale basis. to escape liability under the laws of at least one state. finally. state laws will have to meet other minimum criteria. based on provisions of the longshoremens and harbor workers compensation act as the secretary of labor specifies in order to insure that adequate coverage for total disability or death due to pneumoconiosis is provided. but these may  be inconsistent with the criteria i have previously mentioned. thus. the secretary could  require any state to raise its level of benefits above those specified in section if a state law meets these criteria. that is the end of the matter. so long as it continues to do so. if. however. the state law does  meet these criteria. then operators of mines in such states are made liable to pay and secure benefits under federal law itself. the benefit levels are the same as those provided under the federally financed program. the standards for determining death or total disability due to pneumoconiosis are the same as those applicable under the federal program. provisions governing the liability of successor operators apply as described above. and the appropriate sections of the longshoremens and harbor workers compensation act are made applicable. the secretary of labor is also given the power to prescribe additional provisions.  inconsistent with the provisions of the bill. as necessary to carry out the purpose of this part. the result of this compromise is to substantially reduce the federal cost of the program from the house bill through the application of traditional workmens compensation principles.
. i conclude by saying that too often. we take for granted the unbelievable amount of labor which goes into the establishment of the program for the american people which. when it becomes law. will be contained in this bill. i think it is a great tribute to the patriotism and to the humanitarian spirit of the senator from texas and to his love for his fellow man. that. withstanding the kind of vicissitudes politically which could easily have frustrated other men. he has persisted  only indefatigably but with style and grace in seeing these measures through the senate of the united states. i am proud to be associated with him and to be his friend. and i think it should be ed time and again that he continues in the most exemplary way to pursue a tradition which has marked his service here for many years. and which. in this as in so many other matters affecting the health of our people. will be emously beneficial to all americans.
hearings in enforcement cases by an independent panel also more closely accords with our concept of fairness. that is what i am arguing. i am arguing the concept of fairness rather than due process. finally. but very important in this situation. i believe that this is a bill which in certain parts worries business. as in the case of the amendment just rejected by the senate with respect to imminent danger. and criteria. the general standards which must be followed where there are specific regulations with respect to health and safety. and so forth. business feels this is rather tough on them. where can we give them a measure of reassurance. where can we give them by so simple a means as an autoous enforcement board. and where it is completely consistent with the great body of legislation we have passed. i see reason why we should  do it and i hope the senate will. finally. one question was raised by the senator from new jersey about the qualifications of members of the commission. the amendment states as follows: the panel shall be composed of three members who shall be appointed by the president. by and with the advice and consent of the senate. from among persons who by reason of training. education. or experience are qualified to carry out the functions of the panel under this act. i respectfully submit that that is a good criterion rather than to pin it down to one from labor. one from management. and one from the public. because that would be unduly restrictive to a quasijudicial body. but the mandate is put on the president. which the senate can pass on. that these should be the kinds of people to make the judgments in cases of this character. i deeply believe that the inspiration of confidence in the way in which this law will be administered. in view of other provisions like imminent danger. is so necessary that this is a very small price to pay for inspiring that kind of confidence. if hing else. in the employers who will be subject to this law. i feel strongly that the amendment should be agreed to by the senate as a fair compromise between the views of management and the views of labor on this important bill. 
. i am delighted to join the senator from massachusetts. as the ranking member of the committee on labor and public welfare. in expressing my deep gratification concerning the statement of the senator from washington . he and the senator from new hampshire can make or break this legislation. the senator from massachusetts. as chairman of the conferees and as chairman of the subcommittee on health. has done what i consider to be an absolutely monumental job. i say to the senators. "this. gentlemen. is a historic breakthrough. it really is. it can be the gateway to what national health care really means. which is the people to administer it. whom we do   have. and whom this bill has an excellent chance of furnishing. but you gentlemen. you and senator cotton and the members of your subcommittee and of the appropriations committee. will make it or break it. we have given you the power." the senator from massachusetts is listening. i would like him to k how much i admireand i was in on it very intimatelyhis conduct of this really rough conference. and how it came out. i think it should be gratifying to him and to representative staggers and his associates in the other body as a very constructive result. i hope very much the senate will approve this report and the conference report on the nurses training act.
. i oppose the amendment to exempt employers with fewer than 25 employees from the occupational safety and health act of 1970. as the ranking miity member of the labor and public welfare committee. i had a great deal to do with the enactment of the law. i hope very much that the senate will   act to deprive 20 million workers of its protection. that is what the pending amendment would do. enactment of the occupational safety and health law was  a matter of legislative whimsy. it was based on our appalling record of industrial accidents and diseases which each year results in 14.000 deaths. over 2 million disabling injuries. and uncounted thousands of illnesses. and the clear showing that this record could  be expected to improve due to voluntary action by business or the states. it bears remembering that despite the intense labormanagement fight over the organizational and procedural provisions of the new federal law. the interested parties were in complete agreement that a federal law was necessary. it is also eworthy that at time during the consideration of the legislation was the suggestion made to exempt small businesses or any particular category of employment.  we are witnessing an effort to emasculate enforcement of the law for 20 million employees of small businesses throughout the nation. the basis for this effort is that the act is too onerous to be applied to small businessmen. throughout the country. what amounts to a vicious campaign based on unfounded rumors has stirred up fears of small businessmen that the new act will force them out of business. in some areas of the country petitions have even been circulated based on what amounts to a smear campaign against the new occupational safety and health administration. the labor department has investigated many of these charges and the reports of their investigation demonstrate the falsity and viciousness of the campaign which has been mounted. i ask unanimous consent that at this point there be printed in the record a release from the labor department showing the results of the investigation of occupational safety and health enforcement policies in wyoming.
. i hope very much the senate will approve the pending amendment. and i commend senator case for taking the initiative in offering it. as the ranking miity member of the labor anu public welfare committee. i am familiar with the problems which gave rise to the provision in the bill which exempts small businesses from osha inspections. i do  for a moment deny that there have been mistakes made by the department of labor in getting this monumental program off the ground. indeed. the labor committee has held 4 days of hearings in which the problems faced by small businessmen under this act have been explored in great depth. the hearings were extremely useful because while. on the one hand. they clearly showed the need for certain adjustments in the program to ease the impact of osha on small businssmen. they also demonstrated that many of the rumors which had circulated among the small business community about osha were completely false. the main problems which have arisen for small businessmen under the osha program are: first. a lack of readily understandable information as to what standards they are expected to comply with. second. the lack of any onsite consultative services for small businessmen. and third. what appears to be a lack of simple commonsense on the part of inspectors and certain other osha officials. clearly. these are all problems which can be taken care of by appropriate administrative and legislative changes. they hardly justify a proposal which would emasculate enforcement of the law for 20 million employees of small businesses throughout the country. some of whom are employed in hazardous occupations. thus. a majority of employers in the construction industry and the logging industry employ fewer than 15 workers and would be exempt from -inspection if this amendment is  adopted. yet. construction and logging are two of the five target industries selected by the labor department as the most hazardous industries in the nation for priority consideration under osha. aher reason why this amendment should be adopted is that if the exemption of small employers is permitted to remain in the bill. neither federal or state occupational safety and health laws will apply to small employers in states which have  filed acceptable state plans with the secretary because of the preemption provisions of section 18 of the occupational safety and health act. thus. employees of small businesses in those states will be utterly bereft of any statutory health and safety protection while on the job. in the last analysis. the question comes down to whether we really believe that all american workers need and deserve the protection of occupational safety and health standards. in my judgment. just to ask that question is to answer it. an employee of a small business is less subject to occupational dangers to his health or even his life than an employee of a large business. if certain standards should be observed in order to protect a worker. there is reason to say that they should be observed by a large employer but  a small employer. it also bears emphasis that the standards about which the small businessmen are  complaining are for the most part national consensus standards which have been developed with the approval and consent of the business community itself. the complaints we are  receiving about enforcement of these standards which the business community itself developed demonstrate the futility of a completely voluntary approach to i health and safety standards. of course. manyperhaps mostsmall businesses in this country are engaged in essentially hazardous activities. to the extent that this is true. small business will be less affected by the provisions of the new law larger than businesses. in addition. the labor departments policy of concentrating on "target industries"-those with the worst injury recordwill further reduce the impact of the new law on small businesses except those that are within the target industry group. also. since the available manpower for enforcement purposes is extremely limitedonly about 800 federal inspectors are  in the fieldit is to be expected that the labor department would focus most of its efforts on larger businesses as the way to get the most protection for the largest number of employees utilizing existing resources. finally. i would like to set the record straight on the matter of osha nspectors going around levying fines on small businessmen. as has been alleged. the record ought to be crystal clear on this point: osha inspectors do  levy fines. after an inspection. osha sends to the employer a citation and a ice of proposed penalty for any "iolations found during the inspection. the citation and ice of proposed penalty have exactly the same status as a traffic ticket issued by a policeman. every employer has an absolute right to contest the validity of the citation. the time specified for abatement. or the amount of the penalty. by. filing a simple ice of intention to contest. just as in the case of a traffic ticket it is the traffic court that has the actual power to impose any fine on an offender. so under osha it is the review commission. an autoous body  part of the labor department. which has the power to levy penalties. as many senators will recall. the question of whether there should be an independent tribunal established for the purpose of adjudicating contested enforcement cases was one of the key issues when the osha legislation was considered by the senate. i was the author of the amendment which created an autoous review commission which was approved by the senate and embodied in the law as finally enacted. the purpose of creating a separate review commission was precisely to guard against possible abuses of the law by those responsible for enforcing osha requirements. i am pleased to say that the commission has already acted to correct some of the problems about which small businessmen have complained. such as the levying of small penalties for violations which have very little or hing to do with health and safety. it is also eworthy that the commission has bent over backwards to facilitate recourse by small businessmen to it. among other things. they have published a very simple. easy to follow guide to their procedures which advise businessmen. in readily understandable language. of their rights at every step of a proceeding. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the guide be printed in the record together with a letter to me from the chairman of the commission.
a group of enterprising young law students also did  see the sense of these distinctions especially in view of the fact that the food and drug act states that standards are intended to "promote honesty and fair dealing in the interest of consumers" and these law students filed a petition with fda under the acronym label. inc. . fda published the proposal in the federal register and in a rather unusual action requested comments on whether the food and drug lav. included sufficient legal authority to require labeling of mandatory ingredients as requested in this petition. after giving the proposal serious and indepth consideration and reviewing all the comments. fda denied the petition as  providing sufficient legal grounds to uphold such a labeling regulation in court. the then commissioner of fda. dr. charles edwards. did. however. agree that food labels should list their complete ingredients. toward this end. he issued a statement of policy that fda intends to amend the existing standards and definitions of identity so as to require disclosure of all optional ingredients. one might say fda was going to exercise their option in the interest of consumers. the statement of policy also attempted to foster the voluntary listing of mandatory ingredients by providing that a requirement included in some standards which specified that certain ingredients had to be designated in a particular manner could be waived if a complete listing was put on the label. this kind of waiver on a quid pro quo basis can hardly be described as satisfactory. therefore. after denying the petition. the administration followed through with its expressed determination that all the ingredients should be listed and the bill i introduce today seeks to correct the legal deficiency. i urge its prompt consideration. during hearings last year before the house health subcommittee. commissioner edwards testified on the rationale of this legislation: a more informed consumer is an important step. as you k. . while the bill i introduce today is a most important step forward in consumer protectionto assure more complete labeling of food productsi am concerned that the bill does  require that every ingredient of a food product appear on the label. moreover. it does  require disclosure of spices. flavoring. and color additives. i am confident that the committee on labor and public welfareof which i am ranking miity memberwill examine this bill with objectivity to determine how. if it is necessary to amend the bill in this regard. we can most effectively protect the american consumer.
of course. the way they would work it out. once they have the appropriate medical personnel. they would have to get the subscribers to start with. and they would have their whole labor group for that. of course. it would be like those who undertake to establish a coop. if they have egh people to go into it. they are entitled to bank credit. and so forth.
 of the laborers international union of th america: in those cases where a peaceful settlement can be achieved through collective bargaining. we believe as a matter of policy. in the use of voluntary arbitration if a strike or lockout would result in the disruption of essential health care services. we further believe that voluntary arbitration is far preferable to any governmentally imposed solution.
. in the first place. the hearing to which the senator from nebraska refers related to the occupational health and safety act. i believe that the hearing was very productive for the senator and the constituents who appeared. and there were material changes in the rules and regulations and practices of osha which resulted. that was entirely satisfactory as far as i was concerned. indeed. i participated and cooperated in respect of the hearing and the changes.  is there any closed door or lack of consideration for these amendments. the senate will quite conscientiously vote up or down any motion to table because. in its own judgment. it will decide whether it does or does  wish to have this bill the vehicle for those particular amendments. the same is true in the committee. the senator from colorado. on any day this session. can call up any of the bills which have been introduced. including a new one. and ask for a committee vote. which i would certainly fully facilitate. and i am sure our chairman would agree. which would say. "we want to set a series of hearings on amending the national labor relations act." so i would  say that the door is shut or anyones mind is shut. this particular amendment has been debated before. as a matter of fact. it was debated with regard to the repeal of section 14(b). which deals with the question of the union shop and state control of that situation. senator dominick says. and i accept his word for it. that it was accepted at that time. that was certainly directly germane to that issue. but it is  germane to this issue. in my judgment and that of others who have dealt with this measure. including the senator from ohio. who had so much to do with bringing it to the point at which it exists . so it is a point which the senate will pass on in due course. one other thing i would like to point out is this: i have read the amendment very carefully. i ice a little dichotomy in it. which is understandable. in the first place. it is significant that there is proof before us that this matter has worked in a discriminatory way to deprive anyone of any rights or to violate anyones conscience. the senator from colorado states. and i accept it. that representatives of a given church have approached him and said there is such a situation. but we have cases. we have had hearings.  any cases. i think that is an important point where you are going to strain to put it on a bill which has such a highly specialized purpose. the other thing i iced. and i hope the senator from colorado will answer this. is that in lines 7. 8. and 9. the reference is to financial support: a requirement that a member of such sect or division join or financially support any labor organization. then. when you look on the next page. lines 1. 2. and 3. there is the statement: he holds conscientious objections to membership in any labor organization based upon his religious training. what that leads me to ask the senator. just so that the record may be clear. is whether it is a conscientious objection to membership or a conscientious objection to payment. because the cases are very clear. and this is borne out by the very section senator dominick wishes to amend. section 8. paragraph (a) (3). that you can make anyone join a labor union. they do  have to join a labor union so long as they pay their part of the cost. indeed. there is a case just decided within the week by the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit involving a prominent columnist. bill buckley. which deals with that very issue. so one is going to make anyone join a union.  can they make anyone join a union. the question then becomes one of financial support. and the question as to financial support. obviously. is whether that is a problem of conscience. a proper one. and second. whether the scheme by which it is avoided in the amendment. to wit. the payment to some charitable organization. et cetera. really means anything to the union in question which has to bear the cost. the union has an interest in avoiding "free riders." i hope that the senator will. for the purpose of clarifying this record. address himself to that. but my basic objection is that we have fought off amendments which relate to the general provisions of the nlrb law. and i deeply believe that is our best policy for getting this situation dealt with involving hospital workers and. therefore. we ought to do the same with this one.
the passage of this legislation will end longstanding discrimination against employees of profit hospitals by granting these workers collective bargaining rights under the national labor relations act. the conferees have reached what i regard to be a most satisfactory resolution of the differences between the house and senate versions of this legislation. this legislation represents long and careful study by the committee and negotiation between representatives of organized labor and hospital management. its provisions have been carefully tailored to meet the particular problems of labormanagement relations involving health care institutions. the conference committee had before it two issues raised by house amendments to the senatepassed bill. the first provided for an exemption from mandatory membership in. or financial support of. a labor organization for employees of a health care institution who hold religious beliefs opposed to such membership. the second amendment would have established an additional impasse procedure providing a 60day coolingoff period after the conclusion of the contract term. during which time the status quo would be preserved and a board of inquiry would investigate and report on the dispute. the conference committee was successful in reaching an accommodation on both issues. with respect to the exemption from union membership and support on the basis of religious conviction. the conference report provides that an employee may be so exempted. but that he may be required by collective bargaining agreement to contribute an amount equal to the dues and initiation fees he would otherwise pay to one of three religious charitable funds designated by the bargaining parties. if the parties fail to designate these funds. the employee himself may select an appropriate fund. on the issue of the impasse procedures. the conferees agreed to a provision eliminating the 60day coolingoff period and providing instead that the director of the fmcs is to decide. within the first 30 days after receiving the required 60day ice of contract termination. whether a threatened work stoppage would substantially interrupt the delivery of health care services in a locality. he will then appoint an impartial board of inquiry to investigate the issues in the dispute. that board will report its findings of fact and recommendations for settlement within 15 days. this compromise preserves the mandatory mediation procedures of the fmcs to resolve disputes in the health care industry before they reach the impasse stage. it is my belief that the agreement worked out by the conference has preserved the spirit and content of the bill originally passed in the senate. while providing a special dispute procedure to help maintain the delivery of health services in each community. i am satisfied that adequate protection for the public will be provided by enactment of this bill. it is. of course. essential that we do our utmost to insure against interruption in the delivery of health services to the people. it is my belief that we can best achieve this objective by promoting peaceful and harmonious labor relations in the health care industry. i am further reassured by the statements concerning voluntary arbitration by the presidents of the four major unions involved in organizing hospital employees. to which i have already referred. there are. of course. some who will still argue that to rely upon the voluntary assurances of unions and management. and to place faith in the development of harmonious labor relations. involves an unacceptable risk to the continuance of essential health care services. i agree that there are risks involved in depending upon voluntary action to avoid disruptions in essential health care services. but e that our experience demonstrates that new procedure can possibly avoid all such risks. the recent hospital strikes in new york this past fall. and in san francisco this spring. were conducted in direct violation of court orders. we. of course. can condone illegal strikes. but it is necessary to point out that there is warrant for assuming that just because the law says you can strike. that there is  going to be a strike. in short. there are risks involved in whatever course of action we choose to follow. in my judgment. however. the best guarantee we can get is the commitment of the parties involved to use peaceful and lawful means. including the use of voluntary arbitration. to avoid disruptions in essential health care services. i urge my colleagues to vote for this conference report in an effort to bring morerather than lessstability to labormanagement relations in the health care industry.
. i am pleased to cosponsor the amendment to the trade reform bill . which would substantially improve our assistance to workers whose jobs are lost due to the immediate impact of increased imports. as we proceed to enact new trade reform legislation. we must be very mindful of our concerns for such workers. as it is right that we avoid protectionism in our trade policies in the interests of other american workers and the american ecoy. it is equally imperative that we recognize and rectify our past failure to protect adequately our workers who are adversely affected by increased foreign competition. the only direct relief we  provide to dislocated workers is the readjustment assistance provided by the trade expansion act of 1962. because of overly restrictive eligibility and benefit provisions. this law has provided virtually protection to workers whose jobs have been lost as a result of increased import competition. since 1962. a total of only 30.000 workers have benefited from readjustment assistance. as against the estimate of more than 100.000 workers who should receive such benefits each year. the amendment i am cosponsoring is designed to meet this need. for the first time workers will be eligible to receive assistance that more realistically meets their actual job readjustment needs. including the provision of retraining and relocation assistance to assist their return as productive members of the labor force. as improved by this amendment. the new trade reform act would provide forliberalizing eligibility requirements in order to provice genuine access to adjustment assistance for displaced workers. increasing benefit levels to provide workers with an adjustment assistance allowance close to his previous aftertax earnings. a worker would be eligible to receive 75 percent of his weekly wagecompared to 65 percent under current lawfor 52 weeks. up to a ceiling of 130 percent of the average weekly wage in manufacturing. increasing the protection of adversely affected older workers by providing up to 52 weeks of additional assistance for workers between -.ge 55 and 60. and by authorizing assistance to workers over age 60 until age 65. these are substantial improvements over the current law. which provides the older worker. over 60. with only 13 weeks of additional assistance. this is an insufficient amount when the immense retraining and reemployment problems of older workers are taken into account. strengthening the training. job search. and relocation assistance under the bill by granting an additional 52 weeks of eligibility for workers undergoing training. by broadening the types of training available and by authorizing job search and relocation benefits to workers threatened by import related job loss. authorizing the secretary of labor to make federal employees health plan benefits available to workers and their families who are ineligible for any other plan. although i support this amendment. i wish to state that i have certain technical reservations to the section on health benefitssection 235. the intent of this section is clearly to make adversely affected workers eligible to receive health insurance benefits that are  otherwise available to them. i am in total support of this intent. however. the language of this section is such that the intent of the drafters may be frustrated. under the existing amendment. an adversely affected worker who is  covered under any other benefit plan is required to select a plan from those available to federal employees and pay the premiums out of his assistance allowance. rather than requiring mandatory coverage under federal health plans. which could result in needless expense to both the dislocated worker and federal government. the amendment should make an adversely affected worker eligible for federal plan benefits and give him the option of choosing or  choosing such coverage. i am confident that a satisfactory resolution of this matter can be achieved before the bill reaches the senate floor.
that report shows that public works and transportation took up 22 percent of the public service workers. education. 20 percent. law enforcement. 12 percent. health and hospital services. 9 percent. parks and recreation. 8 percent. and other miscellaneous making up the total. i. i ask unanimous consent that a chart prepared by the staff of the subcommittee on employment. poverty. and migratory labor based upon department of labor statistics. showing allocations for each state under our amendment. compared with the committee recommendation and last years level. along with communications from 0ov. calvin l. rampton. chairman of the national govers conference. bernard p. hlllenbrand. executive director of the national association of counties. andrew j. biemiller. director of the department of legislation of the aflcio. and the national league of citiesu.s. conference of mayors. in support of this amendment. be printed at this point in the record.
. i  send to the desk on behalf of myself. the chairman of the health subcommittee of the senate committee on labor and public welfare. senator kennedy. senator williams. the chairman of our full committee. senator taft. senator pell. senator beall. senator eagleton. and senator stafford. a substitute for the text after the enacting clause of s. 3735. and ask that it be stated.
. as the senate ks. the senate government operations committee has embarked upon an important and timely review of the effectiveness of u.s. participation in international organizations. it is appropriate as we reach the closing days of the 94th congress to examine briefly the extent of the committees work to date. it constitutes an impressive beginning. i believe that the initial work on this project undertaken by chairman ribicoff. senator percy. senator roth and myself has paved the way for the effective resolution of many questions which predicated the committees initiative at the outset. in the course of study missions to rome and geneva this summer. undertaken by senator ribicoff and we. we individually interviewed many united states and international officials involved in the administration and operation of the world health organizationwho. the international labor organizationilo. the united national fund for drug abuse controlunfdac. the food and agricultural organizationfag. the world food programwfp. the world food councilwfc. and the general agreement on tariff and tradegatt. the basic information gathering vehicle which was developed for this study is a comprehensive questionnaire covering the entire range of questions relating to the nature and effectiveness of 72 international organizations. as well as the extent and effectiveness of u.s. participation in these organizations. it was sent to all u.s. departments and agencies which are involved in the participation of the united states in. and the coordination of the activities of international organizations. with the help of the international organizations bureau of the state department. the responses have been collected. the committee staff. with the help of the library of congress is  analyzing this material. the committee expects to develop for the first time a precise and usable body of data setting forth basic information about each international organization. its budget. its personnel. its hiring practices. its ability to coordinate and evaluate programs and the procedures for u.s. policy formulation and execution within this system. pursuing our nations many and diverse interests in literally scores of multilateral forums of all kinds is an important responsibility which appears to be fragmented throughout several departments and agencies. while the overall u.s. contribution to the total budget of these international oganizations and their programs has increased dramatically. it appears that our general level of effectiveness needs to be appraised. also. by examining the new forces operating in the major international arenas. particularly the u.n. specialized agencies. the committee hopes to develop answers to the perplexing problems of organization and impact which plague many international organizations. while we seek to examine the nature of this community of organizations. and to strengthen their capabilities and the participation of the united states therein. we must also count the tide of growing interdependence among nations. we must continue to work with the nations of the world as we seek to alleviate. and hopefully to solve the great problems confronting all peoples today: ecoic development. peacekeeping. environmental pollution. lack of family planning. energy resources. and human rights. an interim report outlining the preliminary findings of the committee respecting its analysis and evaluation of the data obtained will be followed by committee hearings next year. i look forward to continuing to work on this important project with senators ribxcoff. percy and roth.
it seems to me that such an admission against interest is one of the most powerful arguments for this bill. finally. senator williams and i addressed the president in march on this particular issue which began the process of strongly enlisting the support of the administration. i ask unanimous consent that our letter of march 25 together with the reply which was made to us by the director of management and budget at the direction of the president be printed in the record. i there being objection. the material was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: hon. jacoa k. javrrs. u.s. senate. washington. d.c. deaa senator javits: frank moore has shared with me your letter of march 25. 1977. to president carter urging support of legislation to improve existing mine health and safety laws and to transfer responsibility for enforcement to the department of labor. as provided in identical bills (s. 717 and h.r. 4287). as you k. the president strongly favors strengthening mine health and safety legislation and supports the transfer of responsibility for enforcement from the department of the interior to the department of labor. since your letter was written. the administrations views on these matters were presented by secretary andrus and assistant secretary packer when they testified before your human resources committee on s. 717 on april 1. 1977. and. that same day. before the house education and labor committee on h.r. 4287. being keenly interested in the health and safety of our nations miners. the administration looks forward to speedy passage of this legislation. with warm regards. sincerely.
that is what i am basing it on. of course. it is  going to be the old arrangement under the metal act. i think senator helms properly said the state proceeded as of right under the metallic and metallic mine safety act because there all the state had to do was to have a scheme of enforcing the safety and health standards. which are very limited. then he had to turn it over to them willynilly. and he did. and those states that opted for itthere the word "opted" is correctbut here all i am laying out is that this is a new way to do it. it can be done by agreement between the secretary of labor and the state.
the fact is that a federal inspector may have to make the four inspections a year. and the fact is that a federal inspector may have to do some of the other things. and all the other things specified in section 104. but that still leaves a large area in which states can act. there are many. many mines in the states. and this bill does  exclude. because of federal preemption. agreements between the states and the secretary of labor respecting mine health and safety. and it would be a misallocation of resources. in my judgment. if the states did  take advantage of all such laws.
. today i am joining with my colleagues in the introduction of the drug regulation reform act of 1978. the principal purpose of which is to improve the system by which safe effective drugs for human use are developed. reach the marketplace. and are appropriately used by physicians and patients. as ranking member of the committee on human resources and an active member of the subcommittee on health and scientific research. i have worked closely with my colleagues. senator kennedy. chairman of the subcommittee and senator williams. chairman of the full committee. also cosponsors. in our efforts to develop legislative reforms to assure a regulatory process which will meet the public needs. the drug regulatory process is one of the most critical aspects of federal health responsibilities to the public. each decision to approve or disapprove a new drug directly affects the lives of american citizens. drugs are powerful tools of medicine which if appropriately tested. studied. and used can prevent disease. alleviate excruciating pain. and even treat and cure lifethreatening or debilitating conditions. if these tools are  appropriately tested. studied. and used. they can cause serious illness. suffering. and death. we have an obligation to guarantee that each american be assured that these responsibilities are carried out in the public interest. at the same time we can inhibit the earliest possible use by the american people of new drugs. especially when in other leading countries such drugs are already available. there have been many bills introduced in this congress to meet this objective. in the senate. senators kennedy and nelson have each introduced important proposals. senator williams and i have done so also. in the house of representatives. congressman rogers. chairman of the health subcommittee of the interstate and commerce committee has worked diligently on his bill. in december. secretary califaof the department of health. education. and welfare and commissioner kennedy of the food and drug administration presented to us a preliminary draft of an administration bill which was designed to meet similar objectives. it was decided. rather than introduce the administration bill at that time. that secretary califaand commissioner kennedy would join with us in developing a consensus bill. i am pleased to say that. after long and constructive sessions of negotiating and deliberation. the bill we are introducing today is the result of this process. this was an unique process of cooperation between and among the interested parties. i believe very deeply that in major matters of this nature. party lines and lines between the executive and legislative branches have to be used. the main reason that we were able to join together in the development of this bill is because we share two fundamental principles: first. we believe in the importance of and need for legislative reform. and second. we have a common understanding of the public policy objectives we wish to achieve. i wish to state these objectives as follows: first. create a more open decisionmaking process with effective participation by interested members of the public. second. establish criteria for making important scientific and public policy decisions and inform the public of the criteria and the reasons why these decisions are made. third. increase the scientific capability of the agency. fourth. simplify and expedite the operation of the agencys procedures governing the premarket testing of inative drugs. fifth. assure the protection of human subjects of experimentation during the testing of drugs. sixth. encourage ination and the development of new and important drugs. seventh. eliminate the duplicative testing of essentially identical drugs. while increasing the ability of the agency to insure high quality products. eighth. provide a means of assuring the prompt availability of new lifesaving drugs. without weakening the safeguards for safe and effective drugs. ninth. grant public access to trade secret safety and efficacy information supplied to the agency. tenth. provide authority for post approval surveillance and testing of approved drugs to assure that drugs are safely used. eleventh. eliminate irrational influences on the physicians prescribing decisions. and twelfth. provide consumers and patients with basic information about the prescription drugs they use in order to enhance their ability to make informed decisions. i strongly support these objectives. however there are inherent dilemmas in accomplishing them all. one example is the extent to which regulation constrains ination. as we begin hearings on these bills and move toward committee consideration. i will continue to work. with my colleagues. toward finding sound solutions to this and other difficult public policy choices which preserve the basic tenet of the greatest good for the greatest number of people. i have supported and participated in the development of this proposal which we are introducing today because it serves as a vehicle for raising and further clarifying the critical issues and choices we must make with respect to drug regulation in our society. although i reserve my rights to further clarify and balance these issues. i would like briefly to highlight some major concerns. this bill does  establish the food and drug administration by statute. it is  generally recognized that the fda is the only regulatory agency  established by the congress. the commissioner of the fda is the only head of a major regulatory agency  confirmed by the senate. this is a great deficiency in the bill. i intend with senator kennedy to establish the fda by statute as an independent agency within hew. i also have serious reservations about granting new powerful authority to the government without carefully delineated standards for application of the authority and regard for due process. we all k that if there is strong opposition to this bill. it is likely to come from the pharmaceutical manufacturers.  i wish to serve ice on them that they have hing to fear. provided that they join in the same process that we have joined in. of trying to fashion a bill in the best interests of the american people. some of their leaders have informed me. as recently as yesterday. that they k the legislation is needed and therefore it is up to us creatively to fashion it.  the pharmaceutical industry is a powerful one. and it has been responsible for many great breakthroughs and can be responsible for many more. and the fact that we inhibit. for too long a time. the utilization by the american people of great breakthroughs in these drug fields while foreign peoples can use them very much sooner. is something which troubles me very deeply. also. we have a sense of responsibility to assure that the industry shall have the resources and the framework within which to operate in an inative way. i wish to assure them that this is our common care. and we can only discharge it if they will join us in trying to fashion a consensus bill. i would welcome very much that kind of cooperation. i hope we get it. and it will be one of my principal concerns as we develop this bill. similarly. it is my expectation that consumers will come and express their views and suggestions for making this legislation more effective. again. it is my view that today begins the careful consideration of all the legislative proposals before the human resources committee with respect to drug reform legislation. i believe this will result in the most important drug reform law in the last 40 years.*
the last paragraph reads: i dont think that any of us labor under the illusion that there is. or will be soon. if ever. a simonpure antiseptically safe world. but it is within our power to exercise intelligent and effective controls designed to significantly cut risks. a tragedy. unfortunately. has  called upon us to decide on the level of commitment we desire for defusing future love canal. . because it is an imminent. direct. and substantial danger to the public health or welfare. fully within the contemplation of this statute to which i have referred. and therefore meets the test of section 504. because the amount which we ask is a modest one. and because we provide for equal matching. i hope very much that the senate will at least allow this amendment to be taken to conference by the committee. i reserve the remainder of my time.
