our colleague is very kind. but i think this is the main point that needs to be made here. latin america is singularly that area of the world where what we call the private enterprise system has the best chance to demonstrate its ability to deal with the problems of developing countries. that is  the situation in africa. it is  the situation in asia. we hope it will be. we want very much to encourage it. it is a rather small thing we are doing for the african development bank which is an indication in that direction. but in latin america this is a going concern. the fact is that latin american business. in the main. with the exception of very few countries like peru. is carried on in the private sector. it is. by the way. the situs of the single most exciting and interesting development of private enterprise helping the development of private enterprise in developing countries through a company. of which i have the ho. along with senator humphrey. of minnesota. to be the father as we joined together in doing this over 10 years ago. that company is called the adela investment co.. which has facilitated. through a consortium of capital drawn from the major corporations and banks of the whole industrial world. well over $2 billion in projects. which on the whole were successfully consummated in that area of the world. the importance in dealing with the financing mechanisms of the interamerican development bank is to recognize what it means to us as a nation overall. we enjoy a trade surplus with latin america of about $1 billion a year. exports and imports run to about almost $30 billion a year. which is roughly 15 percent of all our foreign trade. latin america is a critical source of raw materials for iron ore. copper. bauxite. sugar. coffee. and even in the field of petroleum. the fact is that venezuela and equador continued the supply of petroleum. withstanding the embargo by the opec nations during the time when we had such a grave oil stringency less than 2 years ago in this country. .  to detain the senate too long. i ask unanimous consent that a list be printed in the record of the types of projects into which interamerican development bank loans have gone and the improvements which they have made in a wide variety of fields from farms to markets. roads to schools. new drinking water systems. housing units. as well as to industry. mining. transportation. communication. tourism. and all of the many activities which are financed in this way.
