. i am a member of the subcommittee and of the full committee. and have had contact with the proposed legislation during the time it has been pending. both in this congress and the preceding congress. i should like to state my position with respect to the bill. first. there is question about the need. the need is extremely urgent. if anyone had any doubt about that. the rate of high school dropouts. at about 30 percent of those in vocational schools at an even higher rate. brings so many new claimants into the labor market as to make it necessary for us to do something about the situation. if we are  to be inundated.  alone with unemployment. but with crime and juvenile delinquency. in my opinion. this is one of the main reasons why such legislation is needed. the figures show a rate of unemployment by those in the 16to21 age bracket which is verging on three times the unemployment rate for the country generally. the unemployment rate in this age bracket is about 15.6 percent. that for the country generally is 5.6 percent. in round figures. those figures are  nearly so impressive as the numbers. in february. 1.081.000 young people in the 16to21 age bracket were unemployed. in march. 1.202.000 young people in the 16to21 age bracket were unemployed. . this situation is completely intolerable on any grounds. let alone on ecoic and social grounds. so as we endeavor to cope with the general problem of unemployment. which hits this age group so heavily. we must do something special about it. so. in my view. a bill which seeks to meet that problem must be supported. it is a grave problem in the city of new york. which represents about half the population of the whole state of new york. where in round figures there are at least 5 percent or more. as it is a great city and concentrates this problem. but new york city has roughly 1.100.000 unemployed in the 16to21 age bracket. it is a grave social problem.  only with us in our big city. but also in other big cities throughout the country. the question is: what to do. and what to do which will give us the most for the money and the longest mileage for what we plan to do. it is for that reason that i have opposed title i. the provision for the youth conservation corps. i do  think we begin to buy in that provision what we ought to buy for what we expect to spend. considering the size of the problem. a mere reference to the bill demonstrates what i mean. under title ii. provision is made for 60.000 enrollees. that is a community program. in which young men and women will be employed in the community on useful worksand there are legions of them. that title provides $50 million for the first year. for the same $50 million. jobs would be provided for 15.000 persons in the ycc camps. considering the size of the problem. this would be a completely unecoical utilization of resources. it has been said that there are grave conservation problems in many states and that the federal government should help to solve those problems. i agree that it should. but the help should come through department of the interior conservation programs.  in this way. under the guise of helping to relieve youth unemployment. when we are doing it most ecoically by trying to implement conservation needs in the bill. i agree that the members of the civilian conservation corps had a fine experience in the 1930s. but there was  the draft then. that activity took place during the depths of an unemployment situation which ran. at one point. to about 25 percent of the employable population. and throughout the period of world war ii in the 15percent range. such comparable situation exists today. in addition. we have the draft today. the ycc camp project which is provided in the bill will be hing but paramilitary organization preliminary to the draft. again. i do  think that activity ought to be bracketed into the bill under the guise of an effort to furnish employment -to young people. therefore. i am fully cognizant of what is afoot in title i. when a motion is made to strike title i. i shall support it. if i support it. it will be only because i believe it is our duty to increase the number provided in title ii.  to 60.000. but to 100.000. and to provide more money so that that program can function. it is a fine program on the homefront. with local participation. incidentally. it will  penalize states and communities which can afford to contribute money. because their contributions can be as little as 25 percent and can be in kind as well as in money.
