. are embodied in the bill transmitted to congress by the under secretary of the interior. hon. russell train. i am  pleased. on behalf of myselfand. as i am the ranking miity member of the committee on labor and public welfare. it is quite appropriate that i should sponsor this measure for the administrationthe senator from kentucky . who has had a very longstanding concern with this matter of coal mine safety and the health of miners. the senators from pennsylvania . and the senator from alaska . to introduce for appropriate reference.
i thank my colleague. . as one of the senate members of the conference committee. i support the conference report on the black lung benefits reform act of 1977. and i urge its adoption here today. this legislation will correct several provisions of the present law which have unfairly caused benefits to be denied to miners suffering from pneumoconiosis and to their survivors. and will reform the financing of black lung compensation by shifting the burden of financing benefits from the general revenues of the treasury to the users of coal by a sales tax collected through coal mine operators. coal mine operators. through the tax revenues to the new trust fund and through liability for individual claims. will be responsible for financing the cost of all benefits. including claims certified by the secretary of hew under the new section 435 of the act. these amendments finally achieve the objective i have sought since the inception of the black lung benefits program in 1969 of requiring the coal industry itself to pay the cost of compensating miners and their survivors for black lung disease. i urged this approach again during consideration of the 1972 amendments. although the 1972 amendments incorporated the concept of operator liability for individual claims. the provisions adopted then under part c were largely ineffective and resulted in virtually all payments being made from general revenues. i am also pleased that the bill as reported by the conferees retains a great many of the amendments which i proposed during its consideration by the human resources committee. and also includes amendments which i offered during the conference itself. my great interest in the black lung benefits program. since its inception in 1969. has been to insure equity for victims of black lung disease while being mindful of the burden on the u.s. taxpayer of as much as $1 billion per year in benefit payments. i wish to assure my colleagues that although the bill incorporates a number of liberalized standards governing the adjudication of black lung benefit claims. it clearly preserves its basic integrity as a workers compensation program by requiring a finding  only of the presence of black lung disease. but also that the claimants disability due to the disease prevents him from performing coal mine work. in this connection. i was concerned throughout the consideration of this legislation by the conference committee that the dual responsibilities of hew and the department of labor for reviewing previously denied claims be exercised in a manner that is fair to all concerned. these claims are to be reviewed by both agencies under medical criteria more restrictive than the socalled interim medical standards which were originally promulgated by hew for the determination of claims under part b of the act. for which hew was responsible through june 30. 1973. the bill also provides authority for the secretary of labor to promulgate regulations establishing revised medical criteria. based on the best medical information available. to be applicable to all newly filed claims. the "interim" standards as they were applied to determine benefit claims under part b. have been highly controversial and widely criticized. for example. the secretary of labor. on september 30. 1977. stated: the part b standards are  medically sound for providing benefits to all deserving individuals. i therefore requested that the statement of managers include language to the effect that "all relevant medical evidence" be considered in applying the "interim" standards to the reviewed claims in order to more clearly explain the intent of the new section 402(f) (2) of the act created by section 2(c) of the bill. i also suggested the language that "the conferees expect the secretary of hew to administer the interim standards with a view to the just accomplishment of the purpose of allowing for reviewed part b claims to establish disability within the meaning of the 1977 amendments as they apply to all reviewed part b claims." it is found in the statement of managers under the heading of "review." these amendments i believed were  intended to require payment of a claim where the evidence in the file is fragmentary or otherwise incomplete. but to require payment of a claim where there is evidence of the presence of pneumoconiosis and that it has caused disability for performing coal mine work. if in reviewing its files of previously denied cases hew finds incomplete evidence. such as xray evidence of simple pneumoconiosis only (which xray evidence standing alone is insufficient to establish eligibility). it is expected to transfer the case to the department of labor for a determination under part c with an opportunity for the claimant to supplement the evidence already on record. i believe it would be inequitable. and contrary to sound program administration. if the departments of labor and hew were to give disparate treatment to claimants in carrying out their dual responsibilities for reviewing previously denied claims. i felt the departments must be mindful  only of the potential impact on the new trust fund. which may be significantly underfunded on the basis of the established sales tax rate. but also that any claims approved on the basis of inadequate evidence may be controverted by operators who may be found liable for benefits. this could lead to an avalanche of costly litigation. and add months and possibly years to the final adjudication process. also important to this legislation are the provisions concerning the evidentiary value of lay affidavits and of xrays submitted by claimants physicians. with respect to xray evidence. i am pleased that the bill essentially retains the intent.of my amendment adopted by the human resources committee to the effect that a positive interpretation by a claimants physician would be accepted as evidence of pneumoconiosis without rereading by expert radiologist consultants to the government if the submitted xray meets the department of labors criteria for xray quality. was initially interpreted by a boardcertified or boardeligible radiologist. and there is reason to believe it is fraudulently misrepresented. of course. acceptance by the secretary of such xrays. refers to the departments initial determination. and does  preclude any operator who may be liable for benefits from contesting the claimants xray evidence or from seeking aher xray. the amendment to section 413(b) concerning affidavits simply means that such evidence may be used to establish disability only where it is the only evidence available. and that affidavits alone are  sufficient to overcome more tangible evidence if in the record. and. even if there is  other evidence available. the affidavits should contain sufficient evidence that the miner was disabled. or died. due to pneumoconiosis in light of the applicable presumptions. with the adoption of this conference report. i very much hope that the senate will  broaden its concern to consideration of the wholly inadequate and inequitable compensation of the victims of other occupational diseases. the improvements in state workers compensation systems necessary to provide compensation in the case of dozens of other categories of employees disabled by occupational diseasesincluding textile workers. asbestos workers. and many otherswill clearly  come about until federal legislation establishing minimum standards for these state systems has been enacted. i intend to join with the distinguished chairman of the senate human resources committee. to renew my efforts. to enact such legislation. senator williams and i have applied ourselves for some years to this problem. i k he feels as i do. we will continue to do so. i hope to enlist again in his leadership in the same activities which have brought so many reforms into the field of health and safety for working people. i k we will be thoroughly joined by senator randolph. and i have felt that there is reason why we should deny the coal miners their opportunity to get elementary justice in this respect because others were left out. we will wage our fight for others. be they asbestos workers or textile workers. because we are learning that these diseases have very longterm incubation periods and are very disabling. we take a lot of our industrial production out on the backs of our workers in terms of their health. finally. i would like to congratulate jennings randolph and carl perkins. never did people who are injured have two more devoted and impassioned advocates than these two legislators. i think they have scored a signal success. but also one which gives proper accommodation to the fact that the industry should pay its way and that the taxpayers of the united states should  carry that load. i thank the chair. and i reserve the remainder of my time.
