. i have obviously great sympathy. as we all do. and compassion for those who are held hostage. but i think this sets the kind of precedent we ought to be quite careful about. with regard to the situation in iran. congress has already enacted the hostage relief act to assist with some of the financial difficulties these individuals may face when they come home. what do we do for those who are held hostage in colombia. our american ambassador was held there for some . pd i think we ought to have a set procedure for something like this. in connection with the pows. as you k. we provided that they were relieved of their income taxes during the period they were pows in ha. that possibly is an approach. but just how do we handle this. we might well have hostages for a day. hostages for a week. hostages for a month. is the policy that each of them will receive $100 as a bonus for every day or part of a day they are held hostage.
. i point out that what is sought here is to do something in connection with the very vexing problem of the domestic areas with chronic unemployment. as one who constantly supports a foreign aid program. which i consider indispensable to the american scene. i feel it my duty to support a meaningful program for our own distressed areas. i think this is the minimum meaningful program. therefore. consistent with the idea of budget balance. as nearly as it can be attained considering our national needs. i support the amendment offered by the senator from pennsylvania. i point out further that this is a hardheaded proposal. i believe that the 50percent participation is all that it should be. and that it is  necessary to go to the 65percent limitation in the douglas bill. finally. i point out that the amendment excludes machinery and equipment. i think that is a very desirable change. i shall have aher opportunity to argue that question. because the senator from connecticut and i will offer an amendment which would incorporate that idea. and would save up to $100 million in connection with this bill alone. i believe that the amendment in the nature of a substitute offered by the senator from pennsylvania is a fair approach for those who are trying for some kind of balance between income and outgo in government funds. and who. at the same time. wish to help strike a blow in areas of chronic unemployment. of which there are a considerable number in my own state of new york.
. to sum up the recommendations which i make. the first is to implement the dominant supplier authority given under the trade expansion act which we passed in 1962 and which has been left without effect by frances veto. the second recommendation is to make available the technical assistance of the united states which may be required and requested by britain to help the acceleration of the modernization. the third recommendation is to exempt britain from the interest equalization tax up to the amount of $100 million a year. the fourth recommendation is to establish a modernization fund by the oecd nations which i estimate to be approximately $10 billion over a 10year period. this would be based upon loans made to the world bank. the world bank ks how to make good loans. as we all k from experience. the united states would contribute from onethird to onehalf to this fund. the fifth recommendation is for the united states to accelerate the effort for international monetary reform in cooperation with great britain. the sixth recommendation is to begin work on the creation of a consultative atlantic assembly in which the nato countries and the european neutrals both would be represented. there are basic reasons for the united states to advance these proposals. although the worldwide influence of great britain has declined since world war ii. it remains a vitally important element of strength for the west in ecoic. financial. and military terms. the united kingdom plays a major role in development assistance. it ranks third after the united states and france in the amount of ecoic aid being extended to developing countries. the united kingdom spent approximately $530 million on ecoic aid to some 35 countries in 1964 and has committed itself to expand its aid endeavors. the united kingdom. together with the united states. plays a major role in the international monetary system. long before the dollar gained its international standing. the pound sterling was accepted as an international exchange currency in virtually every country of the world. the wide attention  being paid to britains current balance of payments difficulties is indicative of the tremendously important role still played by sterling. as one of the worlds two key currencies. the strength of the pound is closely related to that of the dollar in international finance. these two currencies alone have the burden of providing the only means. other than gold. to finance world trade. and it is doubtful that the dollar could carry this burden alone. it is greatly to american interest to maintain the dollar and pound international standard. our ecoy need  be asked to carry this responsibility alone. so on those two grounds. development assistance for undeveloped countries and the international monetary system. we are heavily tied to the british. on military grounds. it is infrequently ed that we are also heavily tied to the british. the british have committed substantial forces to nato. including the 52.000 man british army on the rhine. the major part of the british vbomber force and part of the british fleet. the british base at singapore. which would still remain despite succession from malaysia. supports the approximately 10.000 british troops engaged in guarding against indonesia or communist aggression against malaysia. this base would be of importance if britain were ever required to come to the defense of australia or new zealand which she undoubtedly would do. but most importantly. britain can be a valuable ally to the united states in minimizing the growing trade discrimination created by the eec and efta. a development which would be detrimental to the export interest of all outside countries. and to western european unity and could start the world on aher retreat to ecoic nationalism. indeed. we have some evidence of that in the restrictions against u.s. exports into the european ecoic community which have been put into effect. it is obvious from britains recurrent balanceofpayments crises that without basic domestic ecoic reformsthat britain shows every will to effectaided by substantial u.s. capital. britains role in world affairs will be seriously impaired in the coming years to the serious detriment of the west. writing in the april 1965 issue of foreign affairs. quentin hoggformerly lord hailsham. minister of science and techogy in the conservative government between 1959 and 1964described britains ecoic plight succintly: * * * from being the most secure. we have become among the most vulnerable of human societies. fatally dependent on imports and foreign trade. our extremely prosperous ecoy poised on the knife edge of the balance of payments. our population dangerously concentrated in a few urban areas. easily accessible to potential enemies. and almost the ideal target for modern weapons of which the nuclear range constitutes only the most dramatic. the material factors which gave ease. grace and prosperity to edwardian britain have disappeared in the midst of time and will never come back * * * he also points out that britains national base as a unit of planning is longer sufficient and investment in the modernization of britains basic industries such as iron and steel or in the great nationalized corporations which dominate power and communications. is  justifiable commercially on a national scale. he finds the need is urgent to modernize management and trade union attitudes in britains basic industries. in the internal transport system. in construction. and engineering. it is in these fields that he finds the conservative habits of workers and management to be most widespread. and most difficult to reverse. there are other problems: "both parties. and the electorate. have favored. or at least acquiesced in. a high rate of personal consumption and of social investment. a more rapid increase in wages than productivity. a budget designed to insure a high proportion of transfer payments in the shape of social benefits. and have iged the loss in terms of industrial efficiency. capital investment in production plant and redeployment of labor that such factors inevitably meant." declares former minister hogg. he feels. admittedly with little support from his colleagues in either party. that these policies while ecoically expensive were beneficial in terms of social harmony and human values in britain. he also points with pride to the many advances of the british ecoy despite these practices. although he makes comparison with the rate of progress of other industrialized countries. william w. allen. an american management consultant in britain. claims that the balance between capital equipment and the work force is so out of kilter in britain that its present gross national product--$89 billioncould be produced with half the 24.5 million workers available. he says that the proper balance could be restored in 10 to 15 years if the british were prepared to accept an 8 to 10 percent annual growth rate and to invest "several thousand million pounds" in new equipment. the problem is where to find this much capital. it is  available at home without severe danger to the stability of the pound sterling. some indication of britains plight is demonstrated by a few key statistical comparisons: between 1961 and 1964 the united kingdom manufactured exports increased between 4 and 5 percent per year--except for 1963while the exports of 11 key industrialized nations increased between 5 and 14 percent. the resultbritains share of world exports declined each year. from 15.7 percent in 1961 to 13.7 percent last year. between 1957 and 1964 industrial production in the united kingdom increased from an index number of 1161953= 100to 146 while output in the eec rose from 140 to 217. between 1963 and 1964 unit labor costs fell by 1.5 percent in the united states and by 3.3 percent in west germany. while those in the united kingdom rose by 1.7 percent. let us remember. therefore. that this is the basis for the crisis which affects sterling and for the crisis which affects britains balance of payments. this country also has an imbalance in international payments. but it is  nearly as much of a crisis in this country. because of the vast financial resources of the united states. and because of our much greater productivity. so there is an infinitely greater crisis in britain in terms of sterling and the balances of payments. let us also e that britains crisis continues up to this moment. it is a combination of these problems plus the financial climate created by last years election campaign that precipitated britains latest balanceofpayments crisis in october 1964. during the latter part of the year. it became clear that britains balanceofpayments deficit for 1964 would exceed $2 billion due to the widening gap between rapidly rising imports. caused by heavy domestic demand and expansion. and slowly rising exports. during the second half of the year the deficit on current and longterm capital account rose to almost 500 million pounds-$1.4 billion. to compound britains problem. sterling countries reduced their reserves in london at the same time by 170 million pounds-$476 million. the worlds confidence in britains ability to meet its balanceofpayments problems without devaluation was severely shaken. * in response to this crisis. the new labor government took a series of steps to defend the pound. including the imposition of a 15percent surcharge on imports. new capital gains and corporation taxes. and an increase in the bank rate. the government was also forced to borrow $1 billion from the federal reserve bank in new york and from european central banks. and to mount a massive $3 billion shortterm credit operation in ember to prevent the collapse of the pound. later. the government borrowed an additional $2.4 billion in mediumterm credits from the imf. some of which was used to repay earlier borrowings. the labor government has also negotiated a national wageprice agreement between management and the unions. and launched a series of measures to increase british exports. just within the last few weeks. the government annced a series of austerity measures designed to deflate the ecoy and to convince foreign creditors of britains determination  to devalue the pound. except for the wage and price policy agreement and the creation of two new ministeriesthe ministry of techogy and the ministry of ecoic affairsthese measures do  deal with britains longterm problems. these are: the need to first. consolidate british industry into larger units-- 80 percent in the hands of family firms which turn out 20 percent of british production. second. to instill greater awareness in britains trade unions of the need for increased productivity and automation. third. to infuse new capital into british industry. and fourth. to preserve shakeconfidence in british business tradition by setting to rest further rumors about the nationalization of steel and similar ventures which would  help to reorient britain toward the rapidly growing and increasingly competitive western european complex.
