. i present for appropriate reference and ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record. at the conclusion of these very brief remarks. three concurrent resolutions adopted by the legislature of the state of new york. two of which memorialize congress to pass legislation to bring to the attention of certain countries the worldwide revulsion at the forcible detention of 28.000 children from their homes in greece to countries alien to their nature. custom. and birthright. and to return to the several states excess amounts collected by the federal government for administration costs of the employment insurance and employment service programs. and the other concurrent resolution favors appropriate action by the interstate commerce commission to require the installation and maintenance of certain safety equipment on the long island railroad. which i think should be appropriately referred to a committee of the senate.
 johnson asked secretary of transportation alan boyd to coordinate federal efforts that might be of help to the new haven. as the senator from connecticut . the principal sponsor of these measures in the other body. said: that coordinating effort has  been underway for almost 3 months. it has produced a number of meetings. several ideas. many papers--end action. prompt consideration of these bills would be one constructive way to demonstrate the administrations interest in the survival of the new haven and the welfare of its passengers. however. these bills would  meet the new havens immediate need for cash resources. senator javrs and i met recently with representatives of several excxiii1528--part 18 ecuti ve departments in an effort to establish a coordinated federal program of emergency financingon the order of $5 to $10 millionto carry the new haven through until final court approval of the penncentral merger.
. the recent attention focused by the media on the problem of teenage pregnancy serves as an inviting challenge to all of us to find effective ways to address one of our nations most distressing social issues. teenage pregnancy is rising at an alarming rate in the united states. teenagers account for more than a half million births each year. and the consequences are tragic. teen mothers face a dismal future of lower educational attaintment. diminishing employment prospects. repeated pregnancies. and a high probability of welfare dependence. babies born to teenaged mothers are at an increased risk of low birth weight and consequently at significantly higher risk*of death or birth defects. children of teenage mothers are substantially more likely to live in poverty than other children. over half the mothers on welfare had their first child as a teenager. we all have a responsibility and an obligation to turn the teenage childbearing crisis around. this can be achieved through intensified prevention programs. and new reliable. safe. and convenient methods of birth control. when a teenager decides to carry her pregnancy to term and raise her child. comprehenive services must be made available to ensure that she has every opportunity available to become selfsufficient and independent. i recently introduced legislation. bill s. 1091. which will provide additional .support to the national institutes of health to develop new. safer. and more convenient methods of birth control. new methods of contraception will reduce the incidence of unplanned teenage pregnancies. for those teenage mothers who carry theirn pregnancy to term and parent their children. i have also introduced legislation designed to provide comprehensive services to both the teen mother and her child. this bill. s. 938. will provide grants to public. and profit private entities to support services. such asprenatal and postpartum care. wellchild care. family planning. and counseling services and educational and vocational counseling. these are all necessary services to promote successful outcomes of teenage childbearing. a recent article in the washington post clearly depicts the seriousness of teenage childbearing. the tragedy of teenage pregnancy glares at us through the headline. "squandered lives." i ask that this article be repeated in full in the record. (from the washington post weekly edition. june 3. 1985j
. the recent attention focused by the media on the problem of teenage pregnancy serves as an inviting challenge to all of us to find effective ways to address one of our nations most distressing social issues. teenage pregnancy is rising at an alarming rate in the united states. teenagers account for more than a half million births each year. and the consequences are tragic. teen mothers face a dismal future of lower educational attaintment. diminishing employment prospects. repeated pregnancies. and a high probability of welfare dependence. babies born to teenaged mothers are at an increased risk of low birth weight and consequently at significantly higher risk*of death or birth defects. children of teenage mothers are substantially more likely to live in poverty than other children. over half the mothers on welfare had their first child as a teenager. we all have a responsibility and an obligation to turn the teenage childbearing crisis around. this can be achieved through intensified prevention programs. and new reliable. safe. and convenient methods of birth control. when a teenager decides to carry her pregnancy to term and raise her child. comprehenive services must be made available to ensure that she has every opportunity available to become selfsufficient and independent. i recently introduced legislation. bill s. 1091. which will provide additional .support to the national institutes of health to develop new. safer. and more convenient methods of birth control. new methods of contraception will reduce the incidence of unplanned teenage pregnancies. for those teenage mothers who carry theirn pregnancy to term and parent their children. i have also introduced legislation designed to provide comprehensive services to both the teen mother and her child. this bill. s. 938. will provide grants to public. and profit private entities to support services. such asprenatal and postpartum care. wellchild care. family planning. and counseling services and educational and vocational counseling. these are all necessary services to promote successful outcomes of teenage childbearing. a recent article in the washington post clearly depicts the seriousness of teenage childbearing. the tragedy of teenage pregnancy glares at us through the headline. "squandered lives." i ask that this article be repeated in full in the record. (from the washington post weekly edition. june 3. 1985j
. i am pleased to support the child support act of 1995. introduced bymr. bradley. with over half of our marriages ending in divorce in the united states. and more and more children being born outofwedlock. single parent households have become more and more common. most of the children in these homes grow up to be healthy and happy contributors to our society. too many. however. are abandoned by a parent at a young age and struggle into adulthood. mom or dad. while raising a child. is working to make ends meetwithout the help of the childs other parent. we have spent a great deal of time talking about family and the role of the state in preserving traditional families. we have talked at great length about how to help poor unwed and single mothers become independent from government handouts. certainly. a central factor as to why these mothers are on welfare in the first place and may  be able to get off. is because of the lack of support coming from their childs father. only 58 percent of single mothers had a child support order in 1990the vast majority of single mothers had applied for such an order but were unsuccessful in receiving one. the numbers are quite stark: over half of the 17.2 million children in single parent homes in our nation are living in poverty. i think there is consensus on this issuerepublican or democrat. rhodg islander or mississippianwe all agree that the time has come for congress to become more involved in ensuring that children are  cheated out of a healthy childhood. this legislation does an admirable job of addressing the problems of "deadbeat" parents. currently. states have a rather haphazard way of collecting child support. with the ease in which citizens move from one state to aher. there is a real need to have strong and efficient communication between the states in collecting child support. this legislation addresses this problem through the creation of a national data base 6f child support orders. states will be required to periodically contibute new child support orders to this registry which may then be accessed by other states. clearly. such a program aids greatly in tracking down interstate cases. in addition. by requiring parents to exchange financial information annually and streamlining the collection and distribution policy of the states.. this legislation will make it far less complicated to ensure that those families deserving of child support moneys will get it. i would urge my colleagues to support this crucial legislation. by some estimates. in 1990. if we had enforceable child support orders reflecting ability to pay. single mothers and children would have received nearly $50 billion in child support. i am sure that you would agree that such a number is astounding. this money is wilfully being kept from the children who need it. we can. in good conscience. talk about reforming our welfare system without discussing more effective ways to ensure that poor children are in fact receiving the fiscal and emotional support that they need in order to grow and to thrive. thank you very much for your time and consideration.*
. the purpose of the amendment is threefold. first. we need a clear indication to the country of our intention to enforce the stennis amendment. second. we need a clear indication to the departments of justice and health. education. and welfare of our intention to support them financially in their efforts to carry out the policy of congress. third. the amendment would help to clarify our intentions and let the people of this country k beyond a doubt that we mean business. as such. it has a great symbolic value for people who. rightly or wrongly. suspect our purposes in passing the amendment. in the debate that took place on the stennis amendment. it was made clear that the purpose of the amendment was  to slow down integration in the south. but to speed up integration in the th. the amendment passed the senate. it seems that  we ought to make this commitment very clear to the country that we do intend business and will give sufficient funds to the department of health. education. and welfare and the justice department to get the personnel in order to enforce integration in the th and the south and the east and the west of this country. we need this symbolic gesture. this is only the sense of the congress that the departments of justice and health. education. and welfare should request of congress sufficient appropriations so that they can carry out the work indicated to them in the stennis amendment. this is a pure and simple amendment. i hope that the senate agrees to the amendment.
. i think the questions asked by the distinguished senator from missouri . who has been in the forefront of civil rights legislation. and who served as a most able attorney general of his state. were right on point. he asked if this amendment would constrict title vi of the 1964 civil rights act. i think  only would it constrict title vi but it .could. in effect. eliminate title vi. that is. the force and effect of the biden amendment. and it should be pointed out that it is a deceptive amendment. it is deceptive in that it would really play a hoax on the american people. i think they would believe that we are doing something about forced busing. but we are  doing anything about forced busing in this amendment.  at all. it certainly does  address itself to the courts. the courts can continue to order busing. the senator from delaware has said so himself. he would like to do something about it. but he admits that this amendment will  do it. what he is doing by this amendment is very dangerous. it is dangerous because it goes far beyond busing. it restricts hews ability to enforce title vi. this amendment could remove all the available options which the department of health. education. and welfare  has in desegregating schools. the many remedies available under title vi allows hew to avoid busing. and that is what the department should do. we should only resort to forced busing by court order when everything else has failed. but this amendment removes all remedies that involve assignment. as i said earlier. if i were an antibusing person i could  vote for this amendment because it would remove everything that would be available to me in order to avoid forced busing. i do  k if the senator understands the effect of his amendment. hew certainly understands it. i hope my colleagues understand it. i do  k whether the senator really wants to eliminatehe said constrict when he was having a colloquy with the senator from missouribut i hope he does understand that what his amendment would do would be to eliminate title vi. and we have gone too far. far too far. to eliminate title vi. we need it. and we need it desperately. i certainly hope that the senator would  push his amendment after understanding the danger inherent in his amendment i am sure he feels very strongly about this.
i think the judge. within the context of the decision. had in mind a generic group of people. he said the typical civil rights litigant is one faced with poverty or igance. or both. and may even have a criminal record. or be a convict.
executive director. the presidents committee on government contracts. washington. d. c. dear dr. seidenberg: during the past 17 months. the pacific southwest regional office of the antidefamation league of bnai brith received information from three independent sources which reveals widespread discrimination in employment in southern california. the information. which was supplied to our organization by employees of private employment agencies. concerned 202 firms which placed discriminatory job orders with their agencies during that period. of this number. 21 are definitely kn to be government contractors. in many instances. firms placed discriminatory job orders with two or more of the employment agencies from which the information was received. in addition. many of the firms which placed such job orders had previously been cited by the chicago bureau of jewish employment when that agency filed a formal complaint with your committee some time ago. the employment agencies from which this information was obtained concentrate almost exclusively on supplying industry with clerical help. and the fact of discrimination on this level is shocking when one considers the general scarcity of efficient and competent employees. furthermore. we were appalled at the large number of major national corporations which had placed discriminatory job orders. some of which are among the leading firms in american industry. each of the three employment agencies used a code system in which certain symbols or numbers designated a particular religious or racial miity. thus the number "53" was used to identify jews. and the number "99" was the code for negroes. the letter "c" was used to identify a caucasian. and "g" was used instead of the word. "gentile." interestingly. 2 of the 3 agencies used almost identical code systems. our staff checked the name of each firm reported on with the jewish employment and counseling service. a sectarian. fee agency of the los angeles federation of jewish welfare organizations. to determine if it had a referral relationship with these firms or if it had any record of placing persons with any of them. a small number of the firms reported on. and which were restricted to caucasians only. had job order relationships with the jecs. the remainder of these firms had such relationship whatsoever with this agency. we have divided the list of 202 firms into 2 categories. the first contains the names of 21 firms. all of which are definitely kn government contractors. the second category contains the names of 181 firms which may have government contracts. we realize that the purview of the presidents committee on government contracts is limited only to those firms which have contracts with the federal government and its contracting agencies. nevertheless. we wanted to submit to your committee all of the information on employment discrimination which was brought to our attention because some of the firms in the second category may very well have government contracts. in addition. we wanted to present to your committee some overall indication of the extent of employment discrimination in the metropolitan los angeles area. it is important to keep in mind that this information is  intended to give a complete and total picture of employment discrimination in this area. because our information was obtained from each agency during relatively short periods of time. we are confident that our findings are only a conservative indication of the total problem. finally. it is important to e that our first two informants from employment agencies "a" and "b" were under the impression that our agency was only interested in discrimination against jews and they reported to us about such firms. further conversation with these people indicated that every firm which specified "jews" also specified negroes. mexicans. and many of them specified orientals. in addition. there were many firms which were  reported to us which had restrictions against jews but which instructed the employment agencies  to refer negroes. mexicans. and orientals. in view of the above. the pacific southwest regional office of the antidefamation league of bnal brith hereby files the following data with the presidents committee on government contracts and requests that the committee institute its own investigation of those firms on the attached list which have government contracts and take whatever action is necessary to abolish racial and religious discrimination by such firms. respectfully submitted.
the act could  have such an effect. the bill provides only that when. under the laws of a state. any court of competent jurisdiction finds it to be necessary or to be for the welfare of the child to move the child from its natural home to a foster home selected by the court. when it gets into the foster home the childs eligibility for aid to dependent children. under the federal law. and under the bill would be just as effective and would be operated in the identical way. so far as payment of money to the foster parent is concerned. as if the money had been paid to the natural parent had the child remained in the natural home.
when one speaks in terms of a "powell type of amendment." i think that statement in itself answers the question. the question is one of degree. the senator does  feel that the amendment is mandatory. i feel it has the same thrust. the same purport. if carried out in good faith. and so i call it the powelltype amendment. but powell himself has said. "if any kind of antisegregation rider is attached to the measure. it will be killed." that is why he said. "i am  going to do it." he added. "if someone else starts a chain reaction. i may have to join in. but i am  going to do it." under those circumstances i must decide whether i am for federal aid to education. deciding that i am. i come to the conclusion that even if i voted for the amendment. the result would be that it would never become law. therefore. i have my choice. and it is  a very happy one. i have the choice of joining those who are opposed to the bill or joining those who are against the desegregation of public schools. in either case. i shall be in very unhappy company so far as i am concerned. and so i had better do what. on judgment and principle. would at least accomplish one result. and at least that would be the inauguration of a program of federal aid to education. i hope very much it will be clear in the procedure on the vote that we are  deciding the issue on a substantive basis. but that we shall show in the parliamentary situation we face that we are laying the issue aside. i hope very much that there will be a motion to table the amendment rather than to vote on the amendment in substance. because that is the only way we can show the country precisely what we are doing.  has had to send federal officers to that state to protect or try to protect citizens in the exercise of their civil rights. there may have taken place the most outrageous violations of law. in terms of our penal statutes. in the destruction of the carriers of interstate commerce. through conspiracies to interfere with the exercise of the civil rights of individuals. perhaps by the highest officials in government. certainly this is hardly a day which is conducive to a detached review of the amendment. when literally we see a state of events which causes a sense of outrage to us as americans. yet. that is why we are here. we are here withstanding the deep feelings which we have. i k everyone will take my word for the fact that i do feel very deeply about these tragic events. withstanding those conditions. we still must keep our eyes on the ball. right  the ball is the passage of a federal aid to education bill. history has shown us that every time an amendment such as the one before the senate has been attached to proposed legislation. it has resulted in the end of the bill. let us attain at least one objective. i k we can secure two objectives in the bill. that is. we can amend the bill with the proposed amendment and pass the bill. too. but i do  want to go away without anything. i want to get at least one objective. i do  want to end up with a blank. finally we all k that an amendment such as the one before the senate can be added to any bill. it does  have to be a federal aid to education bill. it can go on any bill at any time we want to do it. there is rule of germaneness in the senate. therefore. if it is unwise and prejudicial to load it on the pending bill. why load it on. finally. i disagree with the secretary of health. education. and welfare in his opinion. which he gave to the senator from vermont . i do  believe that we should permit the giving of funds to a school district which is in contempt of a federal court order to desegregate its schools. as a matter of fact. i do  believe that the secretary of health. education. and welfare will have to stand by this opinion. withstanding it is his opinion . therefore. i wish to state that i support and add my name to the amendment. the initiation of which comes from my colleague from the state of new york. senator keating. which will involve us as individual citizens. in order to test out this question. to the extent that i have described. the secretarys opinion is couched in very general terms. he says that he does  believe he can "withhold funds from any state because of the segregation of schools within that state." that is quite different from standing in violation of a court order. because we kand this is hornbook lawthe constitution is  selfoperative. as the law stands  i have very little doubt that the secretary could define his words--and he would  have to take them backif he runs into the kind of situation i have described. to make insurance doubly sure. however. i shall support the amendment which my colleague from new york will propose. in the way he will revise it. i believe that will button the matter up in the proper way. let us remember also that matter what may be said in terms of the amendments voluntariness. and its  being mandatory. as the senator from connecticut says. it is directed toward a whole state and relates to federal aid to education in that whole state. i have  held with those who believe that we can get integration or desegregation by educational processes alone. i emphasize the "alone." i also feel very deeply that if in this battle for civil rights we get tired of waiting for the administration to get on its horse. and do what it should do. that is. make civil rights legislation "must" legislation. giving it equal priority with other parts of its program. we can add civil rights legislation to any bill. i have done it. my colleagues have done it. and other senators can do it. the question is whether we shall do it here and  to the pending bill.
. i support the bill for a reason which is implicit in everything which has been said. but which if  expressed might  make it clear to my own constituents. as well as to the people of the country and the world. what the bill is really all about. i support the measure on the hardheaded basis that preparation for disarmament today is as complex in terms of policy and technique. and the application of techogy. as anything which we are doing in preparing for war. unless we understand that. i do  believe we can properly get the impact of the proposed agency. also. unless we understand that. i do  believe we will back this agency sufficiently with law and money to enable it to do its work. i have been in washington a long time. as have most of my colleagues. we k that any law or directive is good for 2 weeks to a year. and may then fall fiat on its face. unless it receives implementation. unless we understand that the bill we shall pass today is  some pleasant. dogood measure. sponsored by those of us who aspire to a world where the rule of law rather than the rule of force obtains. but that we are creating a hardheaded. critically important agency of government. which will ultimately be entitled to the same attention. the same care and finances comparable with those which we lavish upon the agencies which are established for our defense and security. we will. in my opinion.  be doing justice to this agency. the people of the united states are deeply disquieted about what disarmament would mean. they are deeply disquieted to think that the wily russian opponent. whom we may find working against us in terms of disarmament. may work out a deal in which we will find ourselves at a disadvantage before we wake up to what is going on around us. that is precisely why expertise in this field. of the highest order. adequately financed. with adequate research. with the same care. attention. and concern for security which we lavish upon our agencies which deal with war. should be inherent in the passage of the bill. second. and equally important. as i think senators k. i am deeply concerned with the ecoy of the country. i have the ho to serve on the principal ecoic committees of congressthe joint ecoic committee and the committee on banking and currency. the united states spends something in the area of $26 billion to $30 billion for various types of procurement for war purposes. when we consider the tangible part of our gross national product in terms of hard goods produced. we find this figure is 10 percentperhaps moreof the very basis of the american ecoic system. in saying that we have a $500 billion gross national product. only a little more than half of it is in goods. the rest of it is in services and in various other contributions to the gross national product. it has been quite properly said that we are greatly concerned about what will happen if we pull out a very large part of the amount which is spent for defense without providing a substitute for it. aher thing which commends itself to me very highly about the proposed agency is that one of its powers. which is subsection (c). on page 9 of the bill. calls for an analysis of the national budgets. levels of industrial production. and ecoic indicators to determine the amounts spent by various countries for armaments. i hope the agency will find it possible within the particular ambit of one of its powers. to give us a clear blueprint as to what we must do in terms of our own development and in terms of an urgently needed development of the free world to substitute for defense goods production. a peacetime production. this. too. is a critically important element of the work of the proposed agency. so i believe we must understand that we shall go into this project with our eyes wide open. it is  some eleemosynary. gracious. or "work harder" venture. in which senators are engaged who are ed for their humanitarianism desire to improve the welfare of mankind. as well as the welfare of our own people. this is a hardheaded. serious business. we shall be inaugurating an agency which deserves to rank. in the extent of our care and in the relative character of its financing. with the department of defense. unless we understand that. i do  believe we will be doing justice to what we shall do today.  will we have the serious purpose of implementing it. i for one pledge myself to the serious purpose of implementing this very serious legislation.
. i wish to address myself to the bill itself. which i favor. and to a particular amendment which i have submitted. it deals with the question of judicial review. to which the states would be entitled under the plan of welfare payments or aid to the states in connection with welfare payments. which the bill provides. the basis of my observations relate to the testimony of miles b. amend. chairman of the new york board of social welfare. which appears in the hearings beginning at page 425. as i have said.  of the new york state board of social welfare. which is a board composed of 15 private citizens appointed by the gover of new york with the consent of the state senate. one from each of the 11 judicial districts of the state and 4 at large. he describes the board as being very diversified in terms of ecoic. professional. and other interests in the state. he describes the board as the policymaking head of the department of social welfare of the state of new york. the board endorsed the provisions of h.r. 10606. the bill  before the senate. but he made some basic points. which i believe are extremely important. one of them is the basis for the amendment which i have submitted. the recommendations made by mr. amend are twofold. first. he believes that there should be federal court review of any proposed deduction or other penalty which flowed from the federal government to state plans and programs. second. he believes that the best plan for federal administration was for the federal government to require law on the part of the state to conform to federal requirements. but that it should  break it down into the detail of the states plan. which. he said. really resulted in a proliferation of technical and administrative detail. if the general law of the state were in consonance with the requirement of the federal government. then the attitude of the social welfare board of new york was that was adequate. obviously. that deals with the whole scheme of legislation and was really testimony relating to a prewar policy on the part of some men. therefore. in the proposed amendment to the bill. i have picked up only the problem of judicial review. i have  called up my amendment because in a matter of this nature it is always best. if possible. to come to agreement with the department which is concerned. so we are making every effort to agree with the department of health. education and welfare on a judicial review amendment whichwill be satisfactory to them and satisfactory to us. there is one question in that regard which is open and which. i think. can easily be resolved. my amendment expressly provides that payments to the state under the statute shall  be stopped while judicial review is pending. while an appeal is taken from the determination of the secretary. i think the department would prefer to keep silent on that score. so that. first. would leave it a matter of administration. and second. would leave it to the injunctive power of the courts. which would always have the power to intercede in the situation once a judicial review was sought. my present thought is to accede to that idea. that is. to leave the matter unprovided for specifically by the bill. and therefore in the hands of the mal administrative process plus the injunctive power of the courts. the other question comes as to the type of court which should have jurisdiction. mally. we think of the circuit court of appeals as the review court for determinations made by the secretary. there is some feeling that because there is  a circuit court of appeals in every state. there may be involved. since this is uniquely a state matter. an element of inconvenience to require state authorities and officials to proceed to aher state than their own state in which to ask for judicial review. it is a fact. though. that every state has a u.s. district court. so it may be. if it is satisfactory to the department. that that could be a solution. i shall explore all these points of view and shall do my utmost to develop an amendment which will provide for a proper kind of judicial review. with proper accommodation to the department and to the states. however. i have  called up my amendment for the reasons which i have stated. and i think it is useful to annce that the subject is under negotiation. as it were. for determination. because other senators may have received from their state welfare authorities the same request that i have received from the welfare authorities of the state of new york. therefore. i wish to extend. both on the floor of the senate and through the record. an invitation to other senators having similar problems to cooperate with me in their resolution to cosponsor an amendment. as we finally agree on one. if we can agree on one. so that the whole question of judicial review. which interests  only my state. but other states. as well. may be determined at one and the same time. i hope that other senators who are interested will communicate with me. so that we may resolve this unit question at one time by one amendment.
 alone to that. i have referred to a case in which there was a rule or regulation and also to a case in which there was  a rule or regulation. in which the secretary of the department of health. education. and welfare would. on a casebycase basis. make the rulingagain. subject to court review.
i can accept the fact that i am trying to impose something on the south without including the th. i will tell the senator why. i. myself. have done something which  too many senators will do. i have said that the new york state law is wrong. and i am against it. and i will do imy best to undo it. i have been against. whereas most of the protagonists of the opposition to the bills regarding de jure segregation have been for inhibiting the federal governments funds in any way from being used to break this matrix of poverty and miities and schooling and housing. it should be remembered that this very provision preventing anything from being done about racial imbalance has always been written in on the floor of the senate by those who  espouse a position of. "lets do it equally all over the country." it is they who have inhibited the ability of federal funds for education to be used to make the very improvements that the senator and i both want. i beg any member to call me to task if i am ever found lacking in being equally critical. equally searching. with respect to the th as i am to the south. but i reserve the right. as a senator. to act upon any of those matters whenever it is within my reach and competence or to try to defend against something which i think will compromise the effort to get justice in either place.
