. the 1967 report of the commission on civil disorders. commonly referred to as the kerner commission. concluded that disadvantaged individuals did  play an integral role in americas free enterprise system because they enjoyed appreciable ownership of small businesses and did  share in the community redevelopment process. it was therefore recommended that steps be taken to increase the level of business ownership by miities so that they would have a better opportunity to materially share in the ecoic system. fortunately. our nation has  experienced in the last 11 years any civil disorders of the magnitude which prompted the creation of the kerner commission. unfortunately. however. we have  taken the steps necessary to fully remedy the underlying causes of orders. in her testimony before the senate select committee on small business. ernesta procope. a black businesswoman active in urban affairs. ed that "miities have come to recognize that governments assurance of some basic level of shelter. rishment. education and health care does  provide real dignity or the means for social and ecoic mobility. * * * [tlhe key to unlocking a better life must be found in the private sector." steps are taken in h.r. 11318 to enable disadvantaged individuals to gain a stake in our free enterprise system. in chapter 1 of title i of the bill. changes are made to ameliorate the present sluggishness of the mesbic program. mesbics are small business investment companies licensed and regulated by the sba which provide equity capital and longterm debtsmall businesses owned and operated by socially and ecoically disadvantaged individuals. the changes made by this bill will enable mesbics to play a greater role in assisting such businesses to grow and compete in our ecoic system. most importantly. in chapters 1 and 2 of title ii of this bill the small business committee gives statutory direction to the sbas 8(a) program to insure that the program develops strong businesses owned by disadvantaged individuals. section 8(a) of the small business act presently authorizes the sba to enter into contracts with federal procuring agencies or departments for the purchase of articles. equipment. supplies or materials. sba is empowered to let subcontracts to business concerns to perform such contracts. as a result of the kerner commission report. the 8(a) authority has been used since 1968 to channel federal procurement funds to small businesses owned by "socially or ecoically disadvantaged" persons. this program was implemented by administrative regulation and has statutory basis. the goal of the 8(a) program has been to slowly develop the business abilities of these small businesses with the support of management and technical assistance from sbas business development specialists. the firm theoretically is to "graduate" into the free enterprise system and compete for regular. 8(a) business. however. the envisioned development of small miity businesses has  occurred. a total of 3.726 firms were awarded $2.2 billion in contracts between fiscal year 1968 and fiscal year 1977. approximately 1.500 businesses are presently participating in the program. in fiscal year 1977. these firms received $53 million in contracts. reports prepared by the general accounting office and investigations conducted by both the executive and legislative branches have disclosed that the 8(a) program has fallen far short of its goal to develop strong and growing disadvantaged small businesses. only 33 of the more than 3.700 firms which have participated in the program have both completed the 8(a) program and are kn to have a positive net worth. the committee has taken affirmative steps to correct this deficiency. the 8 (a) program is given a statutory basis with the goals of developing businesses owned by socially and ecoically disadvantaged persons and promoting the viability of businesses run by such persons by providing contract. financial. technical and management assistance. this legislation recognizes the pattern of social and ecoic discrimination that continues to deprive racial and ethnic miities of the opportunity to participate fully in the free enterprise system. however. the committee has rejected the language in the house version of the bill which would have instructed the sba to "presume that socially and ecoically disadvantaged group members include. but are  limited to. black americans and hispanic americans." under the senate version. although it is expected that the vast majority of 8(a) program participants will come from racial and ethnic miities. the program will be open to any business owned by persons who meet the socially and ecoically disadvantaged test. because the 8(a) program as presently implemented has resulted in inequitable determinations of eligibility. objective criteria is provided for sba to use in considering whether an applicant meets the requirements for program eligibility. committee hearings have disclosed that one of the key reasons for the high failure rate of the present 8(a) program is the inadequate level of management and technical assistance provided to participants. to remedy this situation. chapter 1 of title ii provides for improved management assistance and other business development services for firms eligible to be awarded 8(a) contracts. a small business and capital ownership development program is established. an important part of the program is a special surety bond assistance program which gives 8(a) firms the assistance needed to procure a surety bond. thus. this chapter provides a legislative design for the business development services of the 8(a) program to insure that the emphasis is placed on the development of 8(a) participants rather than on the quantity of contracts awarded. chapter 2 of title i provides for important changes in the surety bond program by setting specific standards under which sba can deny liability on a bond. these changes will remove some of the operational problems in the surety bond program to make it more attractive to surety companies and thereby ease the bonding problems encountered by small businesses and especially miity small businesses. i urge my colleagues to adopt h.r
