. i ask that a copy of my testimony before the senate energy and natural resources committee opposing accelerated decontrol of natural gas prices be inserted in the record and that the following senators be added as cosponsors to senate joint resolution 331:
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on energy and natural resources be discharged from further consideration of h.r. 2826. amending the wild and scenic rivers act. and that the senate proceed to its immediate consideration.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on energy and natural resources be discharged from further consideration of h.r. 2826. amending the wild and scenic rivers act. and that the senate proceed to its immediate consideration.
yes. outages for the installation of control techogy may have to be phased. planned. and coordinated within power pools because of the impact those outages could have on the availability of electricity. for that reason. the conferees crafted a provision that should lead the administrator to take into account: first. the possible unavailability of equipment at the time the unit would need to be scheduled for its outage. second. the time necessary to install. test. and operate that equipment. and third. implicity. the effect on an electric system of scheduling outages. it is our view that the administrator should carefully consider the judgment of individual utilities in order to ensure adequate supplies of electricity and the opportunity for domestic vendors to meet the demand for low burners.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on energy and natural resources be granted permission to meet during the session of the senate on tuesday. may 16. 1995. for purposes of conducting a full committee hearing which is scheduled to begin at 9:30 a.m. the purpose of this hearing is to review nuclear regulatory commission licensing activities with regard to the department of energys civilian nuclear waste disposal program and other matters within the jurisdiction of the nuclear regulatory commission.
indeed. i would. however. like to work carefully with the chairman of the energy and water development appropriations subcommittee. senator domenici. as his subcommittee had jurisdiction over the original language that mandated the restructuring plan.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on energy and natural resources be granted permission to meet during the session of the senate on wednesday. march 11. for purposes of conducting a full committee business meeting which is scheduled to begin at 9:30 a.m. the purpose of this business meeting is to consider pending calendar business.
. page 44 of the committee report accompanying s. 2138. the fiscal 1999 energy and water development appropriation bill. includes a section on funding provided in the bill for construction of a flood control outlet at devils lake. th dakota. at the end of the short section. the committee report states that. "[i]t is expected that such circumstances would also be such that granting of a waiver under the emergency provision of the national environmental policy act would be appropriate and that the provision of the 1909 boundary waters treaty would be met." i am trying to understand how this report language corresponds with language in the bill for devils lake. as reported by the committee. pages 6 and 7 of the bill lay out a detailed set of rigorous criteria that must be met before any funds can be obligated by the secretary for actual construction of the outlet. two of those criteria. full compliance with the national environmental policy act (nepa) and the 1909 boundary waters treaty seem to be preempted by the committee in this report. i ask the distinguished chairman of the energy and water development subcommittee. senator domenici. if the committee report language in any way supercedes the bill language. moreover. is the committee attempting to provide a waiver or some form of relief under nepa or the boundary waters treaty.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on energy and natural resources be granted permission to meet during the session of the senate on wednesday. march 11. for purposes of conducting a full committee business meeting which is scheduled to begin at 9:30 a.m. the purpose of this business meeting is to consider pending calendar business.
. page 44 of the committee report accompanying s. 2138. the fiscal 1999 energy and water development appropriation bill. includes a section on funding provided in the bill for construction of a flood control outlet at devils lake. th dakota. at the end of the short section. the committee report states that. "[i]t is expected that such circumstances would also be such that granting of a waiver under the emergency provision of the national environmental policy act would be appropriate and that the provision of the 1909 boundary waters treaty would be met." i am trying to understand how this report language corresponds with language in the bill for devils lake. as reported by the committee. pages 6 and 7 of the bill lay out a detailed set of rigorous criteria that must be met before any funds can be obligated by the secretary for actual construction of the outlet. two of those criteria. full compliance with the national environmental policy act (nepa) and the 1909 boundary waters treaty seem to be preempted by the committee in this report. i ask the distinguished chairman of the energy and water development subcommittee. senator domenici. if the committee report language in any way supercedes the bill language. moreover. is the committee attempting to provide a waiver or some form of relief under nepa or the boundary waters treaty.
. i would like to join my colleagues in expressing sincere sorrow in the passing of our friend and distinguished colleague. lee metcalf. in working with him on the government affairs committee and later on the energy and natural resources committee. i have come to k his sincere and thoughtful interest in important environmental. consumer. and ecoic issues. we all knew senator metcalf as a concerned advocate and respected colleague. his hoable service and exceptional achievements are a lasting tribute to this devoted public servant. lee was a kind man who never settled for second best for the country he loved. we will miss him.
. h.r. 5139. as reported by the committee on energy and natural resources is responsive to both the needs of the territories and the concerns of the administration. it provides necessary authorizations to the territories and flexibility to both the administration and the congress. to insure that essential government and services are maintained i urge the passage of this measure with the committee amendment.*
. i send to the desk for appropriate reference legislation which would amend the organic act of guam. the revised organic act of the virgin islands. and the general legislation affecting the administration of the trust territory of the pacific islands to strengthen the federal audit function in the territories of the united states. on march 25. 1982. the comptroller general submitted a report to the committee on energy and natural resources and the committee on interior and insular affairs of the house of representatives on the function of the u.s. government comptrollers in american samoa. guam. the thern mariana islands. the virgin islands. and the trust territory of the pacific islands. the report recommended in part that the functions of the government comptrollers be transferred to the ihspector generals office of the department of the interior from the office of the assistant secretary for territories and international affairs. and that certain responsibilities. ably the preparation of an annual financial report. be transferred to the local territorial governments. in light of the recommendations and findings made by the comptroller general. the committee requested that the general accounting office prepare legislation to implement their recommendations. i am today introducing that draft legislation in order to obtain the views of both the administration and the local territorial governments. i ask unanimous consent that the letter of transmittal of the original report to the committee on energy and natural resources. the digest of the report. the text of the letter from the comptroller general to the chairman of the committee on energy and natural resources transmitting the draft legislation. the explanation of the proposed legislation. and the text of the legislation appear in full in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on energy and natural resources be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on thursday. january 31. to hold a hearing on the ination of john s. herrington. to be secretary of energy.
 carter eliminated. although i voted in committee for this action believing it to be the best result we could obtain. i would much prefer striking all 18 projects. for that reason. i am pleased to cosponsor senator mcintyres amendment to accomplish this purpose. and. for the long run we need a comprehensive review of our federal water resource policies. i strongly favor the utilization of every hydroelectric site which can provide us with cost power without severe environmental damage. although few large potential sites remain. i have been working with the corps of engineers to review the possibilities for new dams in new england. and i have worked to get new federal research funds into promising techogies which can utilize the energy of small rivers and streams. but all such public works proposals should be subject to rigorous review to prove that the benefits outweigh the costs to the taxpayer. the era of the public works "pork barrel" should be brought to its longoverdue conclusion.
. i am today introducing a bill to phase out strip mining of coal in this country. my bill. which is identical to h.r. 1000. introduced in the house by congressman ken hechler of west virginia. would halt within 6 months the most destructive form of coal surface mining. that kn as contour mining. other forms of coal surface mining would be phased out over an 18month period following enactment of the bill. in addition. the bill would require stricter federal control of surface mining and reclamation of surfacemined areas during the 18month phqseout period. i am well aware of the issues this bill raises. just as i am aware that there are alternatives to surface mining. there may be those who would say it is folly to phase out strip mining at a time when we are facing shortages of sources of energy. but strip mining may actually be delaying needed development of the sources of energy needed to meet todays shortages. we are fortunate at this time of need to have abundant reserves of coal. particularly of lowsulfur coal that can be deep mined in the very areas where surface mining is  taking place. of the 1.552 billion tons of kn reserves of coal. only 3 percent. or 45 billion tons. can be strip mined. the remainder can be extracted only by deep mining. in other words. to meet our current energy shortagts. we are going to have to turn more toward deepmined coal. but. since 1965. strip mining of coal has contributed to a decline of coal mining in the underground pits. more than 1.700 deep mines in appalachia alone closed between 1965 and 1970. leaving thousands of persons who worked in the mines without jobs. if environmental costs are iged. it is cheaper to tear away the surface of the earth to lay bare a seam of coal. this is particularly true if long neglected safety measures are required. as they must be. in the deep mines. mine operators have argued that the reduced costs of surface mining are necessary in order for coal to compete with other fuels whose prices have been held down by government regulation. but an increase in the costs of all fuels is inevitable as we face shortages of kn reserves of all sources of energy except coal. in this situation. coal can once again become cost competitive and can provide the energy we need to fill in gaps left by diminishing supplies of other fuels. but development of the deep mine reserves of coal will be delayed as long as we permit surface miners to produce at a cost which does  include the social. environmental. flood. and health damage that is caused by strip mining. in past congresses. we have faced up to the need to assess the costs of damage to our environment caused by air and water pollution. the national environmental protection act of 1969. the clean air act of 1971. and the clean water act of 1972 are examples of the bold legislation which previous congresses have considered and approved. these laws had a great deal of opposition when they were introduced and they still have their critics. but they have  stifled our ecoy as some feared they would. and they have demonstrated that we can have a healthy ecoy and a healthy environment at the same time if we are willing to make the hard decisions needed to promote these objectives. it is time we faced the facts in regard to surface mining of coal. it is time we begin to prepare for a shift in the coal mining industry from reliance on strip mining to deep mined coal. the reserves of the closed deep mines and the reserves still untouched must be made available to the market. it is in this context. that i ask that this bill be referred to committee and urge that it be given serious attention. by mr. schweiker:
. with an understanding of his problems. must look at this questionespecially in view of the finding that it can possibly be the way to cope with the problems of the domestic coal mining industryin a way which is best suited to serve the ecoy of our nation and foreign policy of the united states.
there is justification whatsoever for us  to agree to the 2year extension which would amount to a bailout of the industry. on the contrary. the time is long past for this industry to start meeting its responsibilities to its employees. . i ask unanimous consent that a list of coal mining companies. including some of the most powerful corporations in the united states. together with the total number of their employees and their annual sales. be printed at this point in the record.
