 giscard destaing and the senior ministers of his cabinet were in bonn for the semiannual francogerman summit meeting with chancellor schmidt and his cabinet colleagues. thus. while in paris. i met with the secretary general of the elysee m. claude pierre brossolette. and with the acting foreign minister m. bernard destremau. the overriding concern of the new governments in britain. germany. and france is the critical international ecoic situation. there is a great anxiety over the vulnerability of the international ecoic system. which in turn threatens the viability of each national ecoy. e of which is conceived of as being capable of standing against a collapse of the international system. the revolution in oil prices has ignited virulent inflationary forces throughout western europe. as it has in the united states. one major member nation of the european ecoic communityitalyis seen to be on the brink of ecoic insolvency because of inflation and severe balance of payments deficits. moreover. the dire situation of italy is  seen as necessarily a special case. rather. italy is seen to be suffering in acute form from maladies which are also clearly discernible in the british ecoy and also. though perhaps less acutely. in the french ecoy. the ecoic situation of the federal republic of germany. viewed in isolation is one of robust health. but one is more acutely aware than the leadership of germany of the interdependence of the west german ecoy with its eec partners. as well as the u.s. ecoy and other constituent ecoies of the western trading system. i found broad agreement that the most immediate problem facing the international ecoic system is the crisis confronting the international banking systemboth public and privatearising from the massive transfer of foreign exchange credits to the middle eastern oilproducing states. most acutely to lowconsumption states such as saudi arabia. kuwait. and abu dhabi. such sums.  in the $70 billion range. are often held as shortterm demand deposits in private banks. in this form. these holdings pose a grave. almost unbearable liquidity strain on the private. international banking system in pursuit of its traditional banking function of relending its deposits for longer terms at higher rates of interest. the capacity to absorb imports or to make major investments of saudi arabia. kuwait. and abu dhabi is very limited and grossly disproportionate to the extreme rate at which these nations are accumulating foreign currencygenerally in the form of "eurodollars." the longer term problem is the seemingly unstoppable inflation eroding confidence in the instrument of credit including money. while i found virtual unanimity of diagis concerning the banking crisis growing out of western oil payments. and confidence and general agreement on the urgency of a concerted plan to meet the crisis. there is as yet clear consensus of the steps needed to effect a solution. i found marked differences of emphasisdoubt reflecting their individual national situationsin britain. germany. and france. the position of germany is closest to that of the united states on most of the key factors under debate. the most urgent problem is that of "recycling" the massive foreign exchange of the arab oilproducing states.  being held in shortterm. demand deposit account. concerted action by the central banks of "the ten." to monitor. regulate and reinsure the private international banks is an urgent necessity. but. differences of view exist respecting timing. the degree and the nature of the concerted actions to be taken. the proper international forum in which to organize multilateral activities. and the degree to which the arab governments must be associated with the steps proposed to be taken within the western banking system. the task is complicated by a universal recognition that one can proceed very far in devising measures to insulate the international banking system from the dangers of collapse without raising the most profound and politically difficult issues of national and international ecoic policy. etheless. despite the difficulties i feel that concerted action will be taken this year to meet the crisis. for there is a clearsighted recognition of the urgency and the dangers of the situation. and. there is the most realistic awareness of the complete interdependence respecting monetary matters of all the major participants in the international monetary system. this awarenessthat we must all hang together. or hang separatelyis the essential precondition for effective international action. and is accordingly. in my judgment. the most hopeful aspect of a very grave and dangerous situation. the immediacy of the monetary crisis. precipitated by the revolution in oil prices/arab foreign exchange holdings has also brought about a sober reassessment of some of the divisions which came to the surface between the united states and its european allies during and after the yom kippur war and the arab oil embargo. the leaders of europe regret those divisions. genuinely seek to prevent a repetition of them and have a clearsighted appreciation of the danger to the common security inherent in such divisions. and this was evident over the past 6 months. respecting energy policy. mideast political developments and most markedly the cyprus crisis. there seemed to be a general recognition that europe "tilted" too far in favor of the arab position during the yom kippur war and its immediate aftermath. albeit under the pressure of the oil embargo. sympathy for israel remains high in europe. particularly as regards public opinion. and. the new governments of britain. france. and germany all are expected to improve or strengthen their relations with israel. at a minimum. the monetary crisis has brought a new awareness of the need for close cooperation between the nations of the eec and the united states with respect to mideast policy. for europe this means essentially active partnership in forging a solution to the monetary issues as well as a joint aproach to longer run energy policy. while europe feels unequipped and illdisposed to play an active role in the political and security aspects of united statesmideast diplomacy. there is a greater appreciation of the interrelatedness of ecoic and energy questions with the fundamental issues of security and political alinements. in this connection. i found a broad appreciation for the diplomatic accomplishments of dr. kissinger. and equally broad approval of the reestablishment of american diplomatic and other links with principal arab nations. while in europe. i also discussed the principal issues facing the th atlantic alliance. in the context of followup to the report of the committee of nine. the adverse impact of the oil embargo and price revolution on the ecoies of europe has tended to produce feelings of weakness. vulnerability and isolation within europewhich in turn have led to a greater appreciation of the importance of the nato alliance and strong. acrosstheboard relations with the united states. one of the key issues in britain. and of western europe. is britains future relationship to the eec. the labor government of prime minister wilson has pledged to seek to renegotiate the terms of britains adherence to the treaty of rome and some elements in the labor party and elsewhere advocate britains withdrawal from the eec. altogether on the basis of my conversations. i feel that britain will remain in the eec. while pressing hard for concessionslike the regional fundsto ease britains ecoic difficulties. i believe that the labor government has come to perceive that britains future must be as a member of the eec and a united europe. certainly. britain has a great deal to contribute to the process of building a european political entity. as is outspokenly recognized by the continental members of the eec. what is being challenged by some elements in britain is the ecoic advantages for britain to be derived from eec membership. unfortunately. the short period of britains eec membership has coincided largely with a period of very rapid inflation. the oil price crunch. and balanceofpayments difficulties. these difficulties are recognized by many. however. as resulting from factors other than britains entry into the eec. and they are maladies  generally affecting all the eec nations. and indeed all the industrial ecoies of the world. i believe that britains leadership is determined to take action to reduce inflation and increase productivity. such measures are essential if britain is to regain ecoic health and are indispensable to assure the longer term viability of the nation. fortunately for this thesis. britain expects to be able to achieve selfsufficiency in oil by the end of the decade from development of the large oil reserves proven to exist in the th sea bases off the shores of scotland. my conversations in paris and elsewhere in europe lead me to believe that the prime external relations e of the new government of france is the desire to improve the te and the tone of relations with the united states. in my judgment. a restoration of close cooperation between paris and washington is one of the most important developments which could occur in the weeks and months ahead. and could contribute historically to the successful management of the acute crisis threatening the atlantic alliance nations. the essential concommitant of a new look in french diplomacy. of course. will be full reciprocity in washington. the united states must shed the habit of expecting a lack of cooperation from france and cultivate a new habit of seeking and expecting effective partnership from the government of france. this will require perhaps a greater willingness to accommodate particularly french attitudes and interests. but the benefits would far outweigh the inconveniences. the new government of chancellor cxx1638--part 20 schmidt is ably alliance minded. in separate discussions with the chancellor. his foreign minister and his defense minister it was apparent that the emphasis in german foreign policy has shifted away from new initiatives to the east. toward a strengthening and consolidation of the federal republics ties to nato and .the european ecoic community. such a shift was probably inevitable. given the completion of the process of ratification of the ostpolitick treaties with the u.s.s.r. and the east european communist states and had been foreshadowed by chancellor brandt himself. etheless. the primacy of ecoic issues has perhaps accelerated the shift in emphasis in germany policywhich also appears to be more congenial to the talents and temperament of chancellor schmidt. whom i found to be a leader of great drive and competence.  has the priority given to ecoic issues by the schmidt government. in my judgment. marked any change in the priority which germany accords to nato as compared with the eec. indeed. the shift in emphasis from ostpolitick to westpolitick has. if anything. reinforced the primacy of security considerations in german policy. and chancellor schmidt is outspokenly proud of his own accomplishment in helping to negotiate the "offset" agreement with the united states. which has helped to defuse the issue of u.s. forces in germany. quite naturally. the leaders of germany and of the other nato governments in europe are highly gratified by the decision of the senate to defeat the mansfield amendment which had become a symbolrightly or wronglyin europe. and particularly in germany. of american steadfastness respecting the collective security of western europe. as the nation geographically closest to the full weight of soviet power. throughout the postwar period the frg has been among the wariest of soviet intentions. as well as capability. moreover. i detected in my conversations in bonn a feeling that the federal republics experiences in negotiating the ostpolitick treaties and the basic agreement with east germany. have confirmed earlier attitudes respecting the long term objectives of the soviet union in relation to germany and western europe. accordingly. the federal republic seeks its security and prosperity within the framework of a uniting europe closely alined to the united states in security and ecoic matters. within the eec. germany proposes consistently to dispose of its influence in this direction as it does also within the framework of nato. moreover. within the limits in which it must operate. i believe that the german outlook on global affairsoutside defined area of nato concernis among the most congenial in europe to american policy. in this respect. i feel it was significant that i encountered lingering indications of previously expressed anxieties that bilateral agreements might be reached by the united states with the soviet union over the head of western europe and at western europes expense. one of my purposes in meeting the leaders of the new governments of britain. france. and germany was to request official reactions to the report of the committee of nine. along the lines of the extension. paragraph by paragraph. commentary issues by the department of state. i am pleased to be able to report that this request is  receiving sympathetic consideration by the leaders of the british. french. and german governments. the cyprus crisis. occurring several weeks after my conversations in europe. indicates that the need of u.s.-eec cooperation in foreign policy has been well understood on both sides of the atlantic. the ceasefire. which averted a wider crisis and prevented war between two members of nato. was an accomplishment based on superb coordination of policy between secretary kissinger and the foreign ministers of the eec nations. who also constitute our principal nato allies in europe. the world press has taken prominent e of this feature of the cyprus crisis. and has suggested that it is the beginning of a major new development in the recent history of united stateseuropean relations. in addition to the testimony of the press in this respect. the major participants have themselves confirmed.  only the event itself. but also its farreaching significance. dr. kissinger has been making this very point currently and on his current visit to the united states the foreign minister of the federal republic of germany. herr genscher. was most forthcoming and positive in his description of the coordination which enabled dr. kissinger and the eec foreign ministers to work together rapidly. harmoniouslyand most importantly. successfullyin bringing about the ceasefire on cyprus. i believe that we have reason to feel that a new leaf has been turned which is of great benefit to the atlantic alliance. i hope that the senate will do its part in encouraging and fostering an atmosphere in which the same mode of swift. effective foreign policy coordination among the atlantic allies can be applied to the great problems we face respecting monetary questions and energy policy. in conclusion. i returned from europe with a feeling that the awareness of the grave dangersindeed. the crisis in monetary matterswhich jointly confront the united states and our western european allies has served to heighten awareness of the absolute need to find joint solutions achieved through concerted action. moreover. in contrast to the experience of recent years. i find a new awareness of the close interrelatedness of the major issues confronting the alliance nations. requiring cooperation on broad fronts. in this awareness of the interrelatedness of interests. i believe that the selfdefeating compartmentalization of issues will give way to a new pattern of joint action and in this context. a high order of u.s. statesmanship is required. as well as a brand of skillful but utrusive leadership.
