. i would like to take a moment to speak on the pending domenicireid amendment regarding the administrations plans to increase grazing fees and impose new regulations intended to protect public lands. in the past. i have supported amendments to increase the fees charged to ranchers who graze livestock on public lands. and i continue to believe that that ought to be done. . however. the administration has put forward a proposal which  only increases grazing fees substantially. but makes significant changes in" the way we manage these public lands. western senators have asked for a 1year moratorium on the administrations rulemaking process. they have promised that this is  simply a ploy to put off reform for aher year. and that they recognize the need for both an increase in grazing fees and reform of public land management. they have indicated that they are willing to sit down and negotiate with the administrstion in good faith. i have confidence in the senior senator from new mexico. i believe that he and the other senators who have spoken in support of this amendment are hoable people and will live up to their word. hence. i am willing to give them the year .to try and work this out in a way that is hopefully satisfactory to all parties. i think that is the fair thing to do.
ial elections. secretary of state william p. rogers made an important policy speech regarding u.s. relations with latin america over the next 4 years. it is my hope that this speech signals a greater emphasis on united stateslatin american relations in the years ahead. both over the short term and the long term. the opportunities for strengthening the political. ecoic. and commercial ties between the two hemispheres of the americas are great. at a time when the united states is facing spiraling food costs. creative measures could  only benefit latin america but also dampen inflationary pressures at home. for example review of the department of agricultures tomato marketing orders could lead to increased supplies of quality tomatoes in the supermarkets during the winter season. also at a time of worldwide beef shortages. sanitary regulations which presently impede the import of fresh beef into the united states should be carefully reviewed to ascertain whether such sanitary regulations in fact serve health related ends or whether they are a thinly disguised import restraint which continues to contribute to the high cost of beef in the united states. over the long term and assuming that investment relations between the united states and latin america will prosper to the mutual benefit of all parties. latin america could increasingly become an important supplier of many of the natural resources the united states needs. in turn. the capital. khow. techogy. and taxation that would accrue to the latin american states by such natural resource development and sales. could give impetus to the ecoic development of the whole region. secretary rogers. in his fine statement pledged: to strengthen and diversify our trade. investment and assistance ties. toward this end. it is my firm expectation that a generalized preferences scheme should be incorporated in any comprehensive trade legislation which the administration chooses to send to the congress. it is my feeling that there may be more support in the congress for this type of strengthening of the trade ties between the united states and the developing world than many people seem to realize. yet. the aid area is a difficult one and the present congressional combined with the budget cutting mood within the administration does  lead to any optimistic assumptions as to increasing development assistance flows to latin america. also. serious questions are being raised about the whole role of sdrs in the world monetary system and this in turn casts a long shadow over the sdrdevelopment link which i have consistently supported. there can be great developments. but through private investments and technical assistance and through trade as well as public investments and monetary reform. i ask unanimous consent that secretary rogers speech of ember 14. 1972. before the protocolary session of the oas permanent council be placed in the record.
