. wendell phillips dodge. my constituent and longtime professional member of the lambs. a famous theatrical club in new york. an active member of the explorers club as well as of the circumnavigators club. both of my district. and a member of the society of the silurians. an organization of oldtime newspapermen in new york. has written an article which i believe will be of interest to my colleagues. it might surprise most persons to learn that a splendid map of robinson crusoes island is to be found on official u.s. admiralty charts. every reader of fiction has relished reading daniel defoes immortal tale of the shipwrecked sailor who spent a considerable time alone on a desolate island and of his finding a native boy whom he called his "man friday." having come upon him on a friday. hearing only the continual roar of the sea and wind. robinson crusoe had so little to do that he counted the days of the week over and over again through his long years of isolation from the rest of the world. it took wendell phillips dodge. who has sailed close to many farflung islands in the great oceans of the earth. to bring to light in an article in a recent issue of the bimonthly magazine the compass of the socony mobil oil co.. the true history of robinson crusoes island. i believe the article. which follows. will be of interest to my colleagues: "truth is stranger than fiction." this was proved by britains royal navy and without taking away the basic facts as set forth in the celebrated daniel defoe tale that continues to be one of the worlds bestselling books. suppose we retrace events in the immortal story. robinson crusoe ran away to sea. was shipwrecked and marooned on a "desolate" island. this defoe placed "near the mouth of the great orio" off the theast coast of south america. during his "eight and twenty years there" he relieved the tedium of endless days with numberless ingenious contrivances. solitude was finally broken when he rescued a young native from marauding cannibals who apparently stopped at theisland to make "long pig" of their captive. since the rescue was made on a friday. crusoe called the boy his "man friday." a name that in modern english has come to mean a capable assistant. they were "at last strangely delivered by pirates." daniel defoe (16501731) based the story on the adventures of alexander selkirk (16761723). a sailor from the english privateer cinque porte. he was marooned on mbsatierre. in the juan fernandez group that lies off the coast of chile. but one ks the reason for the literary license defoe took when he placed robinson crusoe on an island near venezuelas coast. through the centuries the legend of masatierre as "robinson crusoe" island has become firmly egh seasoned by facts to be generally accepted as the prototype site of defoes story. even if defoe had never written the book. alexander selkirk. the original "robinson crusoe." would still be assured of his considerable niche in english literature. later in the 18th century his solitary adventures on the "desert" island inspired aher man of literary merit. william cowper (17311800). to write: "i am monarch of all i survey my right there is e to dispute." well might the poet. contemplating selkirks four years on mhsatierre. ask: "0 solitudel where are the charms that sages have seen in thy face." the earliest descriptions of selkirks adventures are given in woodes rogers "cruising voyage round the world" (1712). also in "providence displayed. or a surprising account of one alexander selkirk . . . written by his own hand." published about the same time. and by sir richard steele (16721729) in the englishman for december 3. then in 1719. shortly after a second edition of rogers "voyage" appeared. defoe published his "robinson crusoe." while its main outline was clearly indebted to selkirks story. most of the incidents were imaginary. thus defoes decidedly tropical description of crusoes island and the whole narrative of the cannibals visits. etc.. seemed to set the storys locale on one of the islands off the theastern coast of south america rather than on masatierre. during the ensuing two and a half centuries. the story of the juan fernandez islands has been by means uneventful. with the breakup of the spanish empire. the group passed to chile. for some years after. it housed a penal settlement. but the islands chief merit was. surprisingly. medical. the entire group. as a matter of fact. possessed luxuriant vegetation. and in the great days of sailing ships. sailors suffering from scurvy often were landed on masatierre to recuperate. at the start of the first world war. the juan fernandez islands suddenly attained a world fame that threatened to vie with their "robinson crusoe" reputation. after the battle of the falkland islands. the german light cruiser dresden was pursued around "the horn" and thwards to be finally dispatched by british warships off masatierre. when the water is clear her hull can still be seen lying in the deep waters of the bay. and on shore is a cemetery where her hoed dead are buried. today the visitor who approaches the juan fernandez islands will find plenty to interest him besides the memories of selkirkcrusoe. masatierre is the only one of the group to be inhabited. it has a population of 700. almost double that of 15 years ago. the reason for this may be that the chilean government has established radio and metero-
