. the annual observance of captive nations week must serve to reaffirm our dedication to work for the freedom of the millions of people who are presently under the domination of soviet russia. as one of the sponsors of the original captive nations week resolution. i believe that this is a time when we must support with vigor the fight  being carried on by the men and women who seek selfdetermination and liberty. as long as people are held captive under the yoke of totalitarianism our efforts must never cease. just as the berlin wall is a physical reminder of our responsibility. so is the iron curtain an equally forceful reminder of what must be accomplished in eastern europe. the right of national selfdetermination is a part of our larger foreign policy and also a basic tenet of international justice. captive nations week is one of the ways that the united states demonstrates that it can and will  accept the enslavement by the soviet union of nations which once enjoyed independence and freedom. the observance of captive nations week serves ice on communists everywhere that we will  weaken in our resolve to help free the subjugated people of europe. and also reassures the brave men and women in the captive nations that they are  forgotten. we will  stand by idly when so many people depend on our reassurances in order to keep alive the hope that they too will one day be able to share with free europe in the heritage of freedom. liberty. and the democratic tradition. our bonds with the captive nations of the world go beyond those of diplomacy and sympathy. they are rooted in the blood ties of many of our outstanding citizens. throughout our history we have opposed the domination of one nation by aher. and unless we keep alive the concept of freedom in the hearts of men everywhere we will  be fulfilling our obligation as a leader for freedom and liberty. and justice in the world.
. i want to make this observation. the senator ks that we have really gone the route of seeking to catch and punish pushers and peddlersthe criminals who control the drug traffic. i learned. even when i was a member of the other body. that this was so. we passed a bill called the boggs bill. sponsored by representative hale boggs. which had a most severe penaltylife imprisonment. that did  seem to dam up the flow of narcotics  the fastspreading abuse of drugs. the united states is engaged in diplomaticnegotiations to curb international drug production. processing. transportation. and distribution. i was at the u.n. today at a luncheon given for the senator from rhode island and me. the discussion turned to the matter of the usefulness of the united nations in respect to the control of international narcotics traffic. we are talking about two things. we are talking about the customer of the pusher but more important than that. we are talking about an effort to rehabilitate the individual guilty of crime  because there are pushers around. but because the individual demands the services of the pushers. it seems to me that there is complete consistency in going at this matter from both ends and that we have been much longer in pursuing the pusher and the dealer aspect and the punishment aspect than we have the rehabilitation aspect. in view of the fact that we made such relatively little progress with the former. perhaps. as i said when i was speaking to the senator. he should prayerfully consider that thereis a chance of one massive bill to do what needs to be done on both counts. perhaps he .s should join with us in a magnificent effort to do itto provide a federal commitmentadequately fundedto the establishment and support of prevention. treatment. and rehabilitation proi. grams. programs that foster the develop- ment of local initiative at the community level to respond to the problem and 11 which to date appear to be successful y in reaching out young people.
hence it rather added to our concern that we needed an agency on a much higher level than would be possible in hew to deal with the diplomatic phases of supply. there is also a lot of ongoing activity in the united nations on this matter. there is a special committee which is trying to dam up the flood of supply. trying to bring- about international agreements. and trying to buttress the police activity to detect illicit sources of supply to a country like this. we unhappily are the biggest victim here in the united states. it is our concern in congress. and this is  the white houseas i say they rather feel that the nida thing will do the jobbut it is we who have felt that it will . under existing conditions. and asked congress for aher chance to see if a better plan can be developed before we go the nida route and dismantle such little organization as remains at the white house level. that is what this bill is all about.
