. on behalf of the young citizens of the world. an organization in the great neck high school. at great neck. n. y.. i ask unanimous consent to present for appropriate reference a petition calling upon the united nations to establish an international police force. the petition contains over 500 signatures.
i thank my distinguished colleague for that splendid contribution to this discussion. to continue. for my own part. i point out that the question which seems to have been raised in connection with the confirmation of . provided the function of that office in way is connected with any financial interest he may have. as i understand. the appointment of an ambassador to the court of st. jamess involves hing which in any way should interfere with mr. aldrichs qualification to serve in that capacity.
i quite agree with the distinguished gentleman from new jersey. this is very important. i think it is important to our foreign aid program. i hope the house will support our ambassadors in the field and give them the tools to do an effective kind of job or else administer the kind of job that our country should have and the kind of job that is essential to further social and ecoic justice and to the cause of freedom and independence of many countries throughout the world.
 with explicit authority to be used at his discretion to suspend foreign aid in whole or in part under this act to any nation which refuses to prosecute or extradite accused skyjackers when requested to do so by the united states. . that these countries k of the growing u.s. concern and our determination to take appropriate action. piracy in the air should more be tolerated  by the international community than piracy at sea. while the hague and montreal conventions can serve as a legal basis for extradition if the contracting states so agree. it is a fact that we presently have extradition treaties covering the crime of skyjacking with only 14 countries. i. therefore. urge the adoption of my amendment to help curb the very serious outbreak of skyjacking.
. i ask that a copy of the letter be printed in the record following my statement. the letter states that the time has come to vigorously enforce international law. the law must be used more effectively to help solve our global environmental problems. specifically. the writers suggest a broader role tor ngos such as theirs. i share the view that our intemational legal system must become more responsive to global environmental problems and i urge the writers forward in their effort to expand the role of nqos in this area. ngos such as the sierra club legal defense club play a vital role in this country. they help focus public attention on our environmental problems and they work with congress to get strong environmental laws passed. more importantly. perhaps. they have been on the front lines. bringing legal actions to ensure that our laws are implemented fully and enforced vigorously. broadening the efforts of ngos to cover international law enforcement will  be easy. it will impose a great burden on these organizations. yet such an effort must be undertaken if we hope to solve our global environmental problems. the parallel effort by amnesty international.  27 years old. began a legal revolution for human rightsto establish that indi.viduals as well as nations have certain rights under international law. a second revolution in international law is  needed to protect the global environment. and ngos should help lead the way. the letter follows: ifrom the new york times. jan. 24. 19891 to the etrror japans dispatching of tour whaling vessels to the antarctic. eloquently deplored in "japans contemptuous whalers" (editorial. dec. 31). demonstrates the weakness of international environmental law and the relative lack of vigor in enforcing it. the last year has seen a growth in aware. ness of global inteniational problems  seen since the late 1960s. brought on by scientific studies measuring global warming. ozone depletion. deforestation. pollution of the oceans and the overall destruction of living resources. mechanisms must be found to make international environmental laws. conventions and treaties strongerand enforceableand to enact new ones. unilateral actions arent egh. am the whaling problem demonstraes. the united states. as a world leader in whaling protection. has banned japanese fishermen from united states waters. this did  stop japan from sending four whaling boats to the antarcticon what you call a bunting trlpmasquerading as a scientific mission. the commerce department must decide whether to ban the import of fish and fish products from japan. but that could spark a trade war that would hurt the united states more than the japanese. its  fair for one country to try to be the worlds environmental policeman. and it wont work. leadership in intenational entihonmnental law is  likely to come from national royernments in any case. traditional international law actually hinders the solution of environmental probles because it is cre. ated by nations to govern relations between them. these laws nearly always address complicated political problems. enforcement is quixotic at best. the failure of governments to enforce the whaling convention and other breaches of international environmental law are likely to be challenged only by governmental organzaltions and individuals. the shortcomings of traditional international law pro. vide a great moment for such groups. organizations like greenpeace and friends of the earth. having stirred the publics interest in international environmental affairs. must  pursue international legal avenues. they must identify the breaches of international law and publicize them. they can help write and get ratified new. binding international treaties and conventions. they can attempt to take international en. vironmental lawbreakers to the international court of justice. the european court of justice and other international tribunals. they must inform citizens of international environmental rules so they can enforce them in national courts in all countries. the resulting burden on private organizations will be great. the obstacles they confront will be greater. but the problems demand an allout response. and the success of amnesty international in using international law to pursue its le purpose gives reason to hope that. a similar attempt can work in environmental matters as well.
. the violence in el salvador seems out of control. and the ugliness there seems to defy solution. the senseless deaths of jesuit priests who advocated peach talks has pushed many u.s. pollcymakers to the brink. it would be easy. even gratifying. to vote today to take a step back from the situation in el salvador. washing our hands of this bloody mess would give us a pleasing sense of moral accomplishment. at least for a time. but what would voting for this amendment really accomplish. would it increase chances for a negotiated solution to the conflict. i dont think so. would it icad to a cessation of the bloodshed. i dont think so. would it strengthen the position of moderate forces against the violent extremes of the right and the left. i dont believe anyone thinks that after much thought. i can only conclude that disengaging ourselves from the salvadoran government will  accomplish the important goals that this amendment sets out. i fear that backing off from our commitment to the duly elected cristiani governmentwhich to my kledge has  been implicated in the heis murder of the priestsinstead would strengthen both the right wing death squads and the leftist guerrillas as they attempt a violent solution to el salvadors terrible problems. it would weaken the influence of our very able ambassador as he states very forcefully the case for negotiation and for restraint. i am  comfortable that we can be certain about the outcome of any step we take right . but i do have serious misgivings about this amendment. and just think it would do more harm than good. it therefore is my belief that we should  adopt it.
. i want to draw a distinct line between those charges that were made earlier by my cosponsor and myself. as i say. i was a cosponsor of the resolution that just was agreed to. on the subject of cfcs. the united states is a leader. question about it. in legislation that we passed. with the power that we have given the head of the epa. the administrator of the environmental protection agency. to go furtherand indeed he will go furtheron the subject of global climate change. let us see. the jury is still out. and we certainly hope that in the new york city negotiations that i talk about. the united states will take a leading position. i thank the chair.
to my distinguished colleague i will makp vy final comment. i tbk& nis comments ax- certainly airect in good measure. howt7-.er. it is  the united nations that is charged with the responsibility of lives and resources of people of america. it is the u.s. senate. the house. and the president. it is  the supreme court in this matter. it is the president. and the senate and the house. it is toward the discharge of that responsibility that this amendment is before the chamber. i hope that there will be the courage from this chamber to face up to the responsibilities placed upon us by law rather than trying to shuttle them off to some other political institution
. this international armed force of the united nations is in fact a team of nations themselves. if we can keep those nations together it will  be difficult to keep their armed forces. facilities. and bases coordinated in time of peace as well as in time of war. but if these nations separate. then their forces separate with them and the team is destroyed. on the other hand. to think of a separate international poli16force in the sense of an international #stapo. policing the streets of the world and concerned with the internal affairg ofeach nation. is preposterous. it is pie1fisely the type of dictatorial regimentation against which out armed forces have fought. and which must be destroyed if freedom is to survive. likewise. to conceive of an international police force even in the sense of a single united military force. with a new common uniform and a new common flag. respon.ible only to a new international organization. separated from its member nations. is equally unnecessary and unsound. the impossibility of such a single international police force is obvious in a military sense. today substantial military power is  made up merely of men marching in common uniform. it is made up largely of sources of petroleum. steel. and aluminum. supported by manufacturing plants and foodproducing farms. and supplemented by ships. airplanes. landing fields. and countless forms of weapons and ammunition. today an international armed force is much more than a group of soldiers. .it is a group of nations. if. therefore. we separate the soldiers from their sources of food. clothing. equjlment. and transportation. they soon become ineffective. at the same time the natural sources of food and supplies without the cooperating soldiers. would be ready booty for the first international bandit to discover them. the problem of finding a successful working model of an international armed force suited to the needs of our time is. therefore. really problem at all. we have t hat model. close at hand in the armed forces of the united nations if we but make proper use of our opportunity .toiadapt and reduce those forces to the lesser needs- of peace. . in this adaptation of this international armed force lies an important part of the secret of the ecoic recovery of the world. that recovery can come within america and within other nations. if. but only if. there is peace and security in the world gind also reasonable assurance of continuing peace and security in the world for a number of years to come. it is only then that nations can afford to recall their men from military to civilian pursuits. and convert their materials and products from miltary to civilian uses. it is because the recognized championship team remains ready and able to preserve the peace that the world will  hesitate to return to that constructive program of productive ecoy that is essential to its own salvation. it is because of the kn existence of this friendly force that each allied nation will feel free to reduce its own forces to its own peacetime needs. the international armed force. by thus continuing its reduced but recognized power. thus beccnes the protector of peace against lawlessness. while at the same time releasing from military duties the very men upon whose peacetime productivity the ecoic recovery of the world will depend. americas fair contribution to such a force is readily understandable by america: the contribution of each nation to such a forcq issimply a contribution. on a reduced scale. of what it is  contributing. all nations joining the general international organization to maintain international peace and security will readily find a way to make an appropriate contribution. materials. equiprment. food. bases. rights of passage. funds. and men can all be put to appropriate uses in appropriate places. such a force would  conflict with the local forces maintained by each nation to insure its own domestic tranquillity or even to provide "for its reasonable national defense. the existence of such a force and the opportunity for its use will help the respective nations to reduce the size of their independent forces required for their common defense. having thus conceived of a practical and understandable kind of cooperating and welldistributed international armed force. with which we already are familiar and which we already are using on a scale far greater than any that is likely to be used again. we should consider occasions for its use.
i am especially anxious to establish the fact that the charter of the united nations as it is developing at san francisco comes well within the policy outlined for it by the senate resolution of ember 5. 1943. and i believe that is clear. i wish also to commend the delegates of the united states upon the progress that has been made in improving the charter as compared with the form in which the charter originally was presented to them. finally by a review of important provisions of the charter. i wish to emphasize the strength or weakness of those provisions and then to demonstrate the resulting value to the cause of international stability that is to be found in the proposed charter. the freedom of discussion. the outspoken differences of opinion among the representatives of 50 nations as reported at san francisco have demonstrated to an unusual degree the genuineness of this conference. the presence of such discussions leading to ultimate constructive compromise has been a major triumpli for democratic practice in arriving at settlements of international differences. this augurs well for the future of the charter. it promises to be an "open covenant openly arrived at." in considering the fundamental wisdom of approving the charter of the united nations. it is of primary importance to contrast its terms with the bald alternative of having charter. naturally. in reporting the development of the charter through the negotiations at san francisco. news.interest has attached itself to the comparatively fewpoints of disagreement rather than to the many points of agreement. this has tended to create an impression of the existence of major disagreement among the members of the conference. this is contrary to the fact. the area of disagreement in fact has been reduced to an extremely small range. while the area of agreement has covered many items much more important than those on which disagreement has remained. without here attempting to examine the whole charter in detail. it nevertheless is important to emphasize at least five features of it. these are: a. its methods of peaceful adjustment of disputes. b. the international court of justice. c. the ecoic and social council. d. regional arrangements and agencies. e. the security council.
 of the subcommittee has told us that this $44.665.830 asked for represents a lot of other things besides salaries. but it is a fact that over $29.000.000 of the $44.665.830 here cut. $42.500.000. goes for direct payment to all these employees according to the committees own report. one final thought. right  we have a very restricted visa service in the united states occupied areas of germany and austria. but we have appreciable visa service in the areas of germany and austria occupied by the british or french. a great many of us here in the house are very concerned about the fate of the displaced persons who have been very neglected. and who i have said here myself are suffering a "living death." it would take about a quarter of a million dollars in order to extend the visa service. so that the displaced persons in the british and french zones of germany and austria would also have a chance. but with the policy of cutting appropriations for the foreign service which we have here. eveh simple requirements of justice and humanity can be served. i therefore respectfully suggest that on the basis of the facts this amendment should be voted in the bill and the cut should  be made in the foreign service. which is our first line of defense for the united states. the amendment should be adopted.
. our people are on the threshold of great decisions. for this purpose they require the greatest amount of information and enlightenment. i consider it the duty of every public servant to afford this to the people he represents particularly. and to the country as a whole. the present temper of our country may best be described as perplexed. we face emous problems and are in a questioning mood as to whether we are pursuing the right ways to deal with them. our efforts to bring about peace in korea and to assure peace for the rest of the world are based upon the following six points: first. resistance to communist aggression wherever manifested as in korea. second. regional organization of the free world for defense as in the th atlantic treaty organization. the rio pact. the mutual security treaties with the philippines. japan. australia. and new zealand. and the proposed middle east command. third. aid to other free peoples to arm themselves for defense against communist aggression as in indochina. iran. and formosa. fourth. ecoic and technical aid to underdeveloped areas ably in south and southeast asia. the near east. africa. and latin america. to improve standards of living and strengthen free institutions. fifth. a campaign of truth through the voice of america and other means of education and information. sixth. strong support of the united nations to make it an effective organization to preserve the peace. to provide international police forces. to establish workable control over atomic and other weapons of mass destruction. and progressive disarmament. two major problems have arisen in our carrying out this program: first. the extent to which we can follow our traditional policy of favoring self -determination for selfgoverning peoples even though when they attain independence they may  be able to meet the communist challenge which faces every new nation adays. second. to head off and counteract communist internal subversion in areas which are underdeveloped and depressed and where a great deal of social and ecoic reform is needed.
 and secretary of state recentlythat they are against the admission of the communist chinese regime to represent china in the united nations. a view which i hold very strongly and have held from the beginning. incidentally. i think we ought to keep to that name of the chinese communist regime. it is  the government of communist china. it is a regime which has put a yoke of slavery around the neck of china and its people. it strikes me that the very same people that are found running down the united nations and saying it is good and  worth anything are the ones who turn around when something happens like that in indochina and say. "where is the united nations. why isnt it doing something." also. the very same people who say we should  trade with the communist world are the very people who ask the question. "what do we do ." and are unwilling to be for greater and more open trade when we run into a question of free world trade. and are also unwilling to help finance the ecoic dislocation which the free world would suffer if strategic trade with the communist bloc were entirely cut off. our responsibility is to the 1.600.000.000 people of the world who remain outside of the orbit of the communist countries. instead of subjecting japan. a great nation. to the blandishments of trade with totalitarian countries like communist china we should be working hard to integrate ecoically the trade and development of the free world and to open up vast new markets based on greater development and higher standards of living. i do  think we ought to have a foreign policy by threat. i think the reason we are here today reiterating our determination in this resolution is that some feel that confidence in american leadership has been momentarily shaken. confidence in american leadership is based upon the moral power and the moral conviction of the american people. we must have confidence. too. in other free peoples. that they are just as honest and just as moral and just .as sincere as we are. and that they. too. will  let the communist chinese regime shoot its way into the united nationswhich is all it amounts toand have the rest of the world undertake a colossal appeasement of them. because all the communist chinese say is. "we want to get in the u. n. and then maybe we will be good boys." but the communist chinese regime fails in any way to cease its aggression and barbarous depredations against the whole civilized world. i am for this resolution expressly because it does  contain a threat but relies on the justice of the cause of the free peoples and their moral power backed up by organization. and i think the house ought to support the resolution unanimously.
 its "advice and consent" in making "treaties"-in other words. foreign policy. senator mansfield in his speech said that he makes the suggestions in the spirit of responsible democratic cooperation with the republican administration in a matter of vital concern to all of the people of the united states. i have a longstanding interest in the problems of germany. going back to my service on the foreign affairs committee of the house of representatives where i was a member of two special study missions on germany and also was a member of the subcommittee that pursued the inquiry there on the displaced persons camps in germany in 1947. i feel that the issue is such an important one for our country and for the future peace of the world that it is important to give the other side of the picture from that given by my respected and distinguished colleague from montana. i may say parenthetically that i served as a member of the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives with the senator from montana. there is question about his high patriotism and his tremendous interest and his great learning in this field. in essence. his proposal was "to call upon german leaders of the two berlin communities. east and westto begin serious efforts to unify the municipal governments and services of that city." at the same time my colleague suggested that the conciliatory services of the secretary general of the united nations be enlisted. and if agreement can be reached it would be desirable for "both soviet and allied forces in berlin [to] be replaced with a united nations police force composed of contingents from nations  directly involved." also. he proposed that even if there was arrangement for unifying berlin the allied military personnel in berlin should be replaced with german militia "fully supported by nato guarantees." in a letter to the new york times. which is dated february 16. my colleague from montana made some qualifications and clarifications of his proposals. i shall return to that letter after i have completed my own thoughts on the subject. the suggestions of the senator from montana for negotiations between the two communities of east and west berlin on the unification of berlin. to explore the possibility of putting a united nations police force in there. should this happen. and his alternative. if it should  happen. for germanizingthat is the word used by my colleague from montana in his letter to the new york timesthe military units of west berlin. were laid before the senate and before the country. and received. as everyone ks. a very considerable amount of attention. . indeed. i doubt very much that i would have been called upon to deal with the subject in the great detail in which i shall deal with it if his proposal had  commanded so much attention.  only here. but also in europe. where. in my opinion. it can do very great damage unless it is made very clear. both by the senator from montana and myself. as he has already started to do in his letter to the new york times. and by others. as to just exactly what we are about in respect to this grave and. indeed. igniting issue. the senator from montana coupled his proposals with a suggestion of a "guarantee. for a period of time. of the kind of unified germany which may emerge from discussion among the germans"-presumably the east and west germansthereby enlarging the suggestion for eastwest german negotiations to include all of germany. further he suggested "limitations of armaments throughout germany and central europe." and a "pullback of the socalled ultimate weapons and the armed forces of both east and west from the points of imminent contact in germany and central europe." those are the essential quotations. in practical effect. the salient proposals made were for negotiations between east and west germany to establish an allberlin government. to wit: negotiations on berlin itself. also. although  as heavily emphasized. is the idea. contained in the senators statement. with respect to negotiations about the unification of germany. again between east and west germany. in my opinion these proposals of the senator from montana represent the abandonment of the two main western positions: first. that negotiations between east and west germany are  the way to german unification. and that the unification of berlin should be a part of the unification of germany. and. second. that the unification of germany should be accomplished. in the final analysis. by allgerman elections. whatever might be the interim steps.
i thank my colleague. finally. i ask whether the use of the words "international law procedures" contained in this particular paragraph. at the very end. implies only the international court of justice. or whether it would include the united nations and any other arbitration proceedings. any other regional organizations. or any other procedures governed by the rule of law rather than the rule of force.
. i should like to express my support for the position taken in the senate by my colleague yesterday on the bill which has come over from the other body relating to the reimbursement of new york city for unusual expenses incurred in 1960 in the police arrangements to protect the leaders of other countries. ably the leaders of the communist bloc. when they attended the united nations general assembly session.  historic. in that year in new york. such leaders included khrushchev. tito. nasser. gomulka. castro. and kadar. i can add a word of special testimony in this respect. i was a member of the house committee on foreign affairs. i was the sponsor of the u.n. building laws. by designation of my venerable chief. representative eaton. who was then chairman of the committee on foreign affairs. i had a great deal to do with the headquarters agreement and all the laws which relate to the u.n. occupancy of that area. i can testify that it was fully contemplated at that time that if we did have a serious security problem. new york would handle it. but it would do so as the agent for the nation. that point was very fully recognized. new york receives advantages for having the u.n. in new york. so does the united states. and so does the world. new york does  send in a bill every wednesday. or every time important visitors are received or important meetings of the u.n. are held. but anyone who was in new york at that timeand i lived there and observed the situation myselfrealizes what a tense situation existed at the time of the 1960 session. we k that a particular concentration of leaders with big names could be and were endangered. as we all knew. therefore it was a special and unusual situation which i believe. in all justice. calls for the reimbursement which the other body has voted. and which i hope very much we. with similar understanding. will vote. too. recognizing that it is sometimes the case that a great city like new york acts as trustee for the nation with great credit. it has great financial problems. greater than those of any other city in the world. probably. because of its size. complexity. and other problems which we all k only too well. i hope very much that favorable action may be taken at an early date on that bill.
. today 65 nations--venezuela as recently as 1960have acceded to the geide convention. including the soviet unionwhich ratified it in 1954and its satellites. but conspicuous by their absence among the nations are the united kingdom and the united states. the united states took the lead in helping to draft this convention and was one of the first of 20 nations to sign it. why then have we failed to ratify it and thus bring it into force. we have come a long way from the international fears and domestic considerations which kept the convention from the senate floor. geide as defined in the convention has never occurred in the united states and there is likelihood that it ever will. yet. action at this time by our country would have a tremendous influence on the other nations of the world. the geide convention should be reconsidered at the session of the 88th congressand hearings should be reopened by the senate foreign relations committee. two years of painstaking effort by the united nations ecoic and social council went into the drafting of the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of geide. and it was unanimously approved by the general assembly on december 9. 1948. it came into force on january 12. 1951. as between the states that had ratified it. the convention came before the senate foreign relations committee in 1950. and hearings were held. a subcommittee reported the convention favorably to the full committee but after discussion in executive session and in spite of the urgings of the department of state the committee withheld its recommendation. thus. after more than 11 years the geide convention is still pending in the senate foreign relations committee. and without the advice and consent to ratification of the senate. the convention can be made effective as to the united states. the convention defines geide to mean certain enumerated acts committed with the intent to destroy. in whole or in part. a national. ethnic. racial. or religious group. and this is made a crime under our own as well as international law. as long as dictatorships exist which seek to destroy their opposition. there will be groups subject to the kind of mass murder outlawed under this convention. who can deny that as long as the conditions exist which brought about in recent years the suppression of hungary. the conquest of tibet. and the tribal conflicts in africa. there is need to outlaw the shocking crime of geide. and who has  felt a tremor of fear at the recent reports of the nature of soviet persecution of jews for alleged ecoic offenses. long after we are gone. the deep significance of the trial of eichmann for the crime of joining in organizing the mass slaughter of 6 million jews will continue to disturb the conscience of man. it has made us look again into the terrifying depths to which human depravity can fall and the delicate balance of a humane civilization in the 20th century. what happened in nazi germany could happen again and the world should take concerted action to serve clear ice that it is outlawed and will  be tolerated. we must  permit the pressures of the cold war to distract us from the memory of the horrifying acts of geide committed by the nazis before and throughout world war ii. we must  weaken in our resolve to make geide. in the words of the united nations resolution of 1946: a crime under international law which the world condemnsand for the commission of which principals and accomplices * * * are punishable. in the 1950 hearings before the foreign relations committee. the deputy under secretary of state concluded his appeal by saying that ratification would "demonstrate to the rest of the world that the united states is determined to maintain its moral leadership in international affairs and to participate in the development of international law on the basis of human justice." i commend these words. which he may remember as his own. to our present secretary of state dean rusk. i add to them my own appeal that he call for prompt and conclusive hearings by the senate foreign relations committee. there is much sound reason for ratifying the convention and time has eliminated some of the kn objections. for example. the soviet union and its satellite states. in spite of initial objections and reservations. deposited instruments of ratification with the united nations in 1954. this was one of the reasons presented by the secretary of state john foster dulles in 1953 when he told the senate judiciary committee: the solution of the problem which is envisaged by that (geide) treaty could better be reconsidered at a later date. i would  press at the moment for its ratification. as long as the specter of geide continues to haunt mankind. the united states has a basic international obligation to assume the responsibilities of this convention. our country has a long history of moral leadership in alleviating the plight of oppressed peoples. and many will recall the successful efforts of our leaders at the turn of the century in awakening public opinion in the united states to the persecution of jews in russia and rumania. at other times we have intervened on behalf of persecuted armenians. greeks. cubans. and other peoples. we have entered into conventions with other nations to prevent and punish criminal action many times in the past without endangering our sovereignty. and there is reason to fear that by ratification of the geide convention we shall be inviting foreign powers to intervene in domestic questions. as some critics have charged. if international law is to have any sanction for enforcement. it must rely upon treaties. and the convention is a treaty. we should be taking every opportunity to champion the rule of law in the conduct of nations. and we can give fresh vitality to our peace leadership by acceding to this convention. hearings by the foreign relations committee. followed by senate ratification. are needed  to strike a powerful blow in the struggle for human rights and the advancement of the rule of law.
. it is time that other nations of the world realized that the united states is deeply serious about this matter and that we can accept. even if somehow other nations strain their moral fiber to do so. the position of some of these nations. they must be condemned rather than approved by mankind and by all the people of the world. we can accept any act of barbarism. lawlessness. or politics by murder in days when all sovereign nations subscribe to the united nations charter and seek a place in the world among civilized men and women. the countries that take this position will become accomplices to terrorism. so. whether my voice is heard or . i am expressing myself because that is the solemn duty and privilege of a u.s. senator.
. i ask unanimous consent that the record remain open until june 10. 1975. for further tributes to the memory of the late kenneth b. keating. formerly a u.s. senator. a judge of the court of appeals of the state of new york. and u.s. ambassador to india and israel. and that all remarks in memoriam be compiled and printed as a senate document.
