religious societies. those. perhaps. should  be in the bill. if we are talking in a strict sense. yet it seems to me that we should think about what the existing evils are which are sought to be corrected by the bill. i k of people in a religious society in the united states which excludes people from its employment on the ground of color. there may be some. i do  k about them. i do  believe this is an evil. for example. which needs to be dealt with in the bill. i k there are church societies that feel rather strongly they should be permitted to employ for all purposes. some of which may be secular in nature. members of their own faith.
 lincoln bespoke the spirit which moves many of us today when he stated in his second inaugural address: with malice toward e. with charity for all. with firmness in the right. as god gives us to see the right. let us strive to finish the work we are in. he was a man whose principles called for the support of measured progress in the field of freedom for the individual with which he is most closely identified by history. it is our fervent hope that this measured progress may continue in the same spirit which heand many of his southern countrymen such as gen. robert e. leewould have had it continue. while congress does  establish national holidays. it is empowered to legislate in this regard for the district of columbia and for federal offices. the nine holidays already established by the congress are new years day. inauguration day (every 4 years). george washingtons birthday. memorial day. independence day. labor day. veterans day. thanksgiving day. and christmas day. i hope that enactment by congress of the proposed legislation will set the example for the 18 states which do  observe february 12 as a legal holiday. the bills are cosponsored by the distinguished junior senator from illis . in whose state lincoln made his home. and from which he came to the presidency of the united states. by establishing lincolns birthday as a legal holiday congress would to the limit of its powers be setting an example to the states which have  so hoed lincoln.
s of major american jewish organizations. hadassah. jewish agency for israelamerican section. jewish labor committee. jewish war veterans of the united states of america. labor zionist movement. mizrachihapoel hamizrachl. national community relations advisory council. national council of jewish women. national council of young israel. rabbinical assembly. rabbinical council of america. synagogue council of america. union of american hebrew congregations. the union of orthodox jewish congregations of america. united synagogue of america. the zionist organization of america. both the junior senator from connecticut and i addressed that meeting. the senator from connecticut set forth his resolution. which he has offered in the senate as an amendment. for the support of others of us. the action adopted by that conference was in the form of an 18point plan along the following lines. i read from the report of the conference proceedings: protesting "the denial to soviet jews of the basic institutions and facilities granted to other religious and ethnic groups of the soviet union." the plan urges the soviet government to1. eradicate antisemitism by a vigorous educational effort conducted by government and party. 2. permit the free functioning of synagogues and private prayer meetings. 3. remove hindrances to the observance of sacred rites such as religious burial and circumscision. 4. permit production and distribution of religious articles and calendars. 5. restore facilities to produce and distribute matzoh and kosher food. 6. grant the right to publish hebrew bibles. prayer books. and other religious texts. 7. permit synagogues in the u.s.s.r. to organize a nationwide federation. 8. sanction the association of such a federation with organizations of their coreligionists abroad. 9. permit jews to make religious pilgrimages to israel. 10. allow all qualified applicants to attend moscow holy places and rabbinical seminaries. and to permit rabbinical students to study at seminaries abroad. 11. provide schools and other facilities for the study of the yiddish and hebrew languages. and jewish history and culture. 12. permit jewish writers. artists. and other intellectuals to create their own institutions for the encouragement of jewish cultural and artistic life. 13. reestablish a yiddish publishing house to publish books in yiddish by classical and contemporary jewish writers. 14. reestablish yiddish state theaters and permit publication of a yiddish language newspaper with nationwide circulation. 15. eliminate discrimination against jews in all areas of soviet public life. 16. end the antisemitic campaign in the press. 17. end the discriminatory applications of the death penalty and other severe sentences imposed against jews for ecoic crimes against the state. 18. make it possible for soviet jews separated from their families as a result of nazism to be reunited with their relatives on humanitarian grounds. what could better express to the soviet union americas official concern than the resolution which is  offered as an amendment by senator ribicorf. zeroing right in on the target. making it the official concern of the people of the nation. and expressing the unmistakable indignation of the senate concerning what is occurring in the soviet union. the senator from connecticut is exactly correct. i urge that the amendment in the nature of a substitute. offered by the senator from arkansas . be rejected.
