. this act would remove from the jurisdiction of the supreme court and the district courts cases involving prayer. bible reading. and religious meetings in the public schools. despite the obvious religious and educational ramifications of this bill. the central issue here does  fall in either of these areas. what we are really considering here is a constitutional issue: whether or  congress should be allowed to upset the delicate balance of power which lies at the heart of our political and legal institutions. in stripping the supreme court and district courts of their jurisdiction over school prayer and religious activities in the schools. the bill attempts to circumvent the first amendments enjoinder against laws respecting establishment of religion. i believe that the only proper and legal way to protect school prayer is to amend the constitution.  to build an artificial. extraconstitutional shield. which is what this legislation would do. as the forum for redress of legal grievances and the ultimate authority on interpretation of the law. the federal judiciary has served as an independent and equal arm of our democratic system. i am opposed to the kind of court stripping called for by this bill. which is hing more than an attempt to work around the american legal systems established channels for settlement of disputes. it is a means of protecting certain questions from the purview of the federal courts. which have always provided a necessary counterbalance to the other two branches of government. by denying all federal courts jurisdiction over certain kinds of cases. this legislation would effectively exempt certain laws from constitutional interpretation. only by amending the constitution may congress grant permanent protection to certain important principles. this act attempts to create a shortcut alternative to the amending process. in so doing. it poses a serious danger to the separation of powers that has given a strong measure of equilibrium and fairness to our legal and political system for almost 200 years. this is  the first time that court stripping has been the subject of debate here. and many of this countrys most respected legal authorities have strongly opposed it as unconstitutional. these include the american bar association. the conference of chief justices. the national bar association. the federal bar association. the american college of trial lawyers. and 55 deans of leading law schools. this act would set a dangerous precedent of special. congressionally granted exemptions for certain classes of legal actions. as some of our countrys most respected legal scholars have argued. there is only one way to achieve the ends sought by this actthrough constitutional amendment. constitutional amendments regarding school prayer have come before this body in the past. and undoubtedly we will consider these kinds of measures again. that will be the appropriate time to deal with the merits of establishing organized school prayer. this legislation addresses the issue in a manner which represents an abuse of the powers of this body. i urge my colleagues to oppose its passage.
. this act would remove from the jurisdiction of the supreme court and the district courts cases involving prayer. bible reading. and religious meetings in the public schools. despite the obvious religious and educational ramifications of this bill. the central issue here does  fall in either of these areas. what we are really considering here is a constitutional issue: whether or  congress should be allowed to upset the delicate balance of power which lies at the heart of our political and legal institutions. in stripping the supreme court and district courts of their jurisdiction over school prayer and religious activities in the schools. the bill attempts to circumvent the first amendments enjoinder against laws respecting establishment of religion. i believe that the only proper and legal way to protect school prayer is to amend the constitution.  to build an artificial. extraconstitutional shield. which is what this legislation would do. as the forum for redress of legal grievances and the ultimate authority on interpretation of the law. the federal judiciary has served as an independent and equal arm of our democratic system. i am opposed to the kind of court stripping called for by this bill. which is hing more than an attempt to work around the american legal systems established channels for settlement of disputes. it is a means of protecting certain questions from the purview of the federal courts. which have always provided a necessary counterbalance to the other two branches of government. by denying all federal courts jurisdiction over certain kinds of cases. this legislation would effectively exempt certain laws from constitutional interpretation. only by amending the constitution may congress grant permanent protection to certain important principles. this act attempts to create a shortcut alternative to the amending process. in so doing. it poses a serious danger to the separation of powers that has given a strong measure of equilibrium and fairness to our legal and political system for almost 200 years. this is  the first time that court stripping has been the subject of debate here. and many of this countrys most respected legal authorities have strongly opposed it as unconstitutional. these include the american bar association. the conference of chief justices. the national bar association. the federal bar association. the american college of trial lawyers. and 55 deans of leading law schools. this act would set a dangerous precedent of special. congressionally granted exemptions for certain classes of legal actions. as some of our countrys most respected legal scholars have argued. there is only one way to achieve the ends sought by this actthrough constitutional amendment. constitutional amendments regarding school prayer have come before this body in the past. and undoubtedly we will consider these kinds of measures again. that will be the appropriate time to deal with the merits of establishing organized school prayer. this legislation addresses the issue in a manner which represents an abuse of the powers of this body. i urge my colleagues to oppose its passage.
. i might say i: attended nathan bishop middle school. i went there. i k something about the school. but to say i am an expert in this case. of course. is ridiculous. if there is any area that could be more complicated and more intricate. with more controversy. it is the area of the question of when prayer is correct in a public school we get into the question of the school ceremony. it involves children. it involves the meaning of the understanding of the terms coercion. involuntary participation. let me just give one of the arguments in this case. this was a graduation. this was  a class. this was a graduation. then the question comes up. is it voluntary. in other words. the people came to the graduation. they did  have to come. you have to attend school. so that is quite different from when there is a prayer in a class. indeed. i suppose where you teach a pupil in a class. whether it is mandatory prayer or . that pupil really does  have the voluntary capability of getting up and leaving. somebody in the fourth grade is  expected to walk out of a class. here the arguments involve if the participants did  like the prayer. they could get up and leave. so these are the kind of intricate elements that were involved in this particular case. and here we are in the u.s. senate with a menu that is chockfull. that is going to take us right up to october when we quit. we have suddenly decided that we are going to embark on advising the supreme court how to decide cases. i just do  think it makes any sense at all. the distinguished senator from missouri has talked about how conservatives believe in judicial restraint. they do  believe that the supreme court or a court should be an area for activism. and yet they are suggesting in this particular case. that after hearing the sober and distinguished words of the u.s. senate. they mean to reverse cause or direct their cause in a certain way. i think it is unhealthy for the future of our country. i do  think it is the way the u.s. senate should be spending its time. i certainly hope that the amendment will be defeated.
. i would like to like take a moment to discuss my grave concerns with the helms amendment adopted by the senate last week. the essence of the helms amendment is as follows: funds made available through the department of education under this act. or any other act. shall be available to any state or local educational agency: which has a policy of denying. or which effectively prevents participation in. constitutionally protected prayer in public schools by individuals on a voluntary basis * * * this amendment at first glance may sound quite reasonable: it seems to say that school may prevent a child from engaging in constitutionally protected prayer in school. and any school that does so will lose its funding. for those of us who believe strongly that the right to exercise ones own religious beliefs. free from interference. is one of the single most important guarantees of our federal constitution. this amendment may appear reasonable. and indeed. attractive. but upon closer inspection. this amendment is fraught with danger. and i believe my colleagues need to query whether this amendment achieves its purported goal. first point: the key to this amendment lies in three words: "constitutionally protected prayer." if schools are to comply with the amendments direction. obviously they must understand exactly what constitutes "constitutionally protected prayer." yet this is a question that the courts have wrestled with for decades. the first amendment simply says "congress shall make law respecting an establishment of religion"-but it does  define what kind of school prayer crosses that line. this area of constitutional law is far from settled. debate rages on today. this issue is particularly close to home for rhode islanders. our state was founded by roger williams in 1636 as a result of a desire for freedom from government sponsorship of religion. moreover. the last time the supreme court addressed a school prayer case was in lee versus weisman. a 1992 decision involving the nathan bishop midde school in providence. ri. from this case we in rhode island have learned firsthand just how unsettled this area of constitutional law is. the lee versus weisman case involved whether or  a clergymans benediction at nathan bishops graduation ceremony violated the first amendment. the case was filed in june 1989. in january 1990. the district court judge ruled that the benediction violated the constitution. in july 1990. a divided first circuit court of appeals upheld the district court decision by a 2 to 1 vote. the school board appealed to the supreme court. and in june 1992. the court handed down a final decision. that final decision was by a 5 to 4 vote. thus. after 4 years of litigation and three court rulings. at last a final determination was made on nathan bishops benediction: in this particular case. the benediction was found to violate the constitution. after all this. did this decision clear up the many uncertainties about prayers in our schools. by means. just 6 months after the lee decision. a fifth circuit court ruling that seemed to directly contradict the lee ruling was etheless reinstated. other cases continue to be brought. as public schools across the nation adoptor dont adoptsome form of prayer and are challenged. the quandry this continuing unresolved question has created for school administrators is perhaps best exemplified by the following example: about 1 year after the supreme courts lee decision. a group called the american center for law and justice sent a bulletin to 15.000 public school superintendents nationwide. the bulletin stated thatschool officlals must understandthat the lee decision in way diminished the wellestablished free speech rights of students. including the right to religious speech. and went on to warn that students have a right to include a benediction in their graduation ceremonies. three weeks later. the american civil liberties union sent their own letter to the same 15.000 superintendents strongly countering the assertions made in the american center for law and justice letter. and ing that the aclu "will be monitoring developments in this area." what is the school superintendent who receives these mailings to do. according to one legal organization. school prayer is quite constitutional. according to aher. it is . such mixed signals--and warnings--are a burdensome distraction for school officials. on top of their many other concerns. is a studentled prayer permissible. what about a prayer or blessing offered by a clergyman. can a sectarian prayer be read at a graduation ceremony. how about read over the school loudspeaker. at the start of the school day. what about afterschool voluntary prayer activities. each superintendent has to wrestle with these -questions. moreover. all this is doubly complicated for rhode island officials. in our state. the ethnic makeup of our population is rich and varied. for example. 15.500 of our residents were born in asia. 6.800 were born in south america. and 6.500 were born in africa. this diverse makeup invariably means that the religious beliefs of our populaceincluding its childrenrange widely. it therefore is difficult to ensure that any one single prayer can fit the many religions of our population. my point is this: this area of constitutional law is muddy. to say the least. the term "constitutionally protected prayer" may sound quite clear. but how exactly is a school to provide for such prayer if legal scholars and the courts--let alone the beleaguered school--superintendentcan agree themselves on when a religious verse crosses the line into unconstitutionality. as an official of the association of american school administrators told me: were certain this amendment muddles the waters. and the waters already were muddy. the prayer cases of last year were very confusing and from our perspective this will make it worse. second point: although for the above reasons. schools would find it difficult if  impossible to comply with the helms amendment. the amendment itself offers a very. very compelling reason to somehow achieve the impossible: loss of federal education funds. of all the tools the federal government has at its disposal to encourage states to follow federal wishes. the loss of federal funds is perhaps the most powerful. it is trivial matter. often millions of dollars are involved. thus. i believe this type of threatfor thats what it isshould be used sparingly. only in those cases where the federal government has an extraordinary interest in the public welfare. for that reason i view the amendment as an example of the worst kind of federal mandate that washington hands out. the amendment states clearly that any school  complying with its terms will lose its federal education grant. because the education moneys are emous. the schools would have choice but to do what washington demands. certainly. rhode island would have to bow down to washingtons wishes. our states schools receive nearly $60 million in federal education moneysevery cent of which would be at risk should this amendment become law. the amendment would mean more federal- money for 36 programs like chapter one. even start. drugfree schools. special education. vocation education. and literacy. moreover. it could threaten our guaranteed student loans. and any education contracts or discretionary grants that we  receive. in sum. the helms amendment asks states to do the impossible. or else risk losing millions of crucial education dollars. i if the amendment is enacted into law. schools from westerly to providence to woonsocket will have choice but to try to steer a course through the jumble of court rulings in an effort to comply. given the religious diversity of our state. this inevitably will mean a string of lawsuits alleging that a school is violating the constitution--exactly what happened to nathan bishop. do you k what the nathan bishop case cost the city of providenceand therefore the taxpayers. providence paid a staggering $110.000 in legal costsand at the end of the day. after years of legal battles. they lost. the lawsuits that would arise from the helms amendment will cost the already financially struggling schools dearly andmake lawyers rich. $110.000 of taxpayers money spent on lawyers is $110.000 less spent on books and instruction. i believe this amendment is born of the fact that many people want very much to allow religious values into public schools--but that in many cases. the courts interpretations of the constitution make that impossible or uncertain. but matter how strongly one feels. it is foolhardy to vent frustration at the supreme courtor for that matter the constitutionby placing our schools on the horns of a terrible dilemma. we must and .should ensure that all americansbe they adult or childare able to freely exercise their religious beliefs without interference. as the history of this nation shows. religion is and always will be a key element of american life. but this amendment will  enhance the role that religion plays in childrens lives. instead it will add confusion to an already confusing and convoluted situation. and in the process wreak havoc with our states efforts to educate our children.
on that subject i reiterate that one is confronting here the substance .of prayer in schoolthat*will be discussedor the substance of abortion. rather. we are confronted very baldly with the issue of whether or  thecongress of the united states by statute can overrule the courts of this nationthe issue of court. stripping. i. pointed out to my colleagues. when we were on the subject of busing. that the problem there happened to be a problem that related to the opportunities of black schoolchildren. i said then that if you pursue this principle then hing is safe. e of us. the next thing you .k it will be senators of the united states who are  afforded this pro tection of the constitution. and then maybe businessmen and right on down the list. and  we are seeing this come to pass. i think the time has come to say  to vigorously pursue that which is entrusted to our branch of the government. to try to devise positive solutions to problems that do exist in this nation. but riot to try to eliminate one of the other separatebutequal branches of government. that certainly is  a conservatives approach toward our constitution. rather. it is the most radical approach that anyone could think of. i have in my hand a letter of august 5. 1982. from the american bar association. i should like to read it to my colleagues because i think that it very well articulates the problem that confronts us here this aftern. it is from the american bar association. office of the president. david brink: amrucan bar associatiow. chicago. irl. august 4. 198. dear sznator* on behalf of the american bar association. i am writing in opposition to 8. 1742. the voluntary school prayer act. s. 158 and 8. 1741. the human iufe bills. and 8. 2148. to protect unborn human beings. senator jesse helms. the chief sponsor of these measures. has obtained a commitment from the majority leader to bring theke issues up for senate consideration either as free standing -issues. or as amendments to some other piece of legislation. perhaps the debt ceiling bill. the aba strongly urges that these proposals be rejected by the senate. the aba takes position on the issues of school prayer and abortion addressed by these bills. we are emphatically opposed to these bills.  because of their subject matter. but because of the means by which. they seek to change constitutional law. if enacted. any onfi of these measures would constitute an unprecedented attack on the constitutional function of the federal courts and establish unwise policy. although different in subject matter and approach. all four measures share a common impermissible goal. they all pose a dangerous threat to the independence of the federal judiciary and undermine the fundamental principle of judicial review. . 1742 would remove the jurisdiction over all school prayer cases from the supreme court as well as the lower federal courts. s. 158 and s. 1741 would withdraw the jurisdiction to hear abortion cases from the lower federal courts. and 5. 2148 redefines the constitutional term "person" in section 5 of the fourteenth amendment. i appreciate the fact that senator helms has very stronglyheld views on -abortion and prayer in schools. i respect his right to hold those views and do  question the sincerity which prompts his actions. however. we of the aba believe that his proposals go far.beyond the sensitive moral and social issues which are the subject matter of these bills. as a matter of both law and policy. our association believes that efforts to change constitutional law by means other than the amendment of the constitution should  be attempted. in this we share the views of the preponderance of legal scholars. former attorneys general. solicitors general. jurists. and leaders of other national legal organizations. all of us believe that these proposals to limit the jurisdiption of federal courts to hear or grant remedies represent dangerous policy and are unconstitutional. we are deeply concerned that the basic tripartite structure of our government. with its delicate system of checks and bilances. be preserved. the constitutional issues raised by these proposals are complex and require thorough consideration. the fact is that the senate judiciary committee has been actively reviewing these issues throughout. this sesson. and has yet to complete action on them. this clearly demonstrates that there are simple answers to the substantial constitutional and policy questions they raise. these bills are currently at various stages in the legialative process: 8. 158 was reported to.the full judiciary committee on july 9. 1981 and as amended is  identical to 8. 1741: and although 8. 1742 was  referred to the committee.. it is identical to s. 481 which has been pending in the separation of powers subcommittee since february 27. 1981. the issue of prayer in public schools is currently the subject of full judiclary committee hearings on 8.j. res. 199. a proposed constitutional amendment providing for voluntary prayer in public schools. these hearings will doubt deal with many of the procedural. constitutional and policy questions raised by 8 1742. i would also point out that the current attorney generals letter opinion of may 6 on s. 1742 raises fundamental and difficult questions concerning congressional power over supreme court jurisdiction. he cantions congress to consider 8. 1742 in light of the principles articulated in his letter and to avoid testing the limits of its authority. both as a matter of constitutional law and as a matter of national policy. his analysis clearly leads to the conclusion that the withdrawal of jurisdiction from the supreme court proposed in s.1742 is unconstitutional. despite his final statement that he will be willing to argue for its constitutionality. in our view. a correct analysis of basic constitutional principles would make any bill which similarly removes jurisdiction in constitutional cases unconstitutional as applied to any and all levels of the federal judiciary. 8. 2148. like 8. 158. s. 1741. and s. 1742. is constitutionally objectionable because it also attempts to change settled constitutional law by ordinary legislation. this bill deserves a great deal more scrutiny than it has been given. it was immediately placed on the senate calendar after introduction. and comparable legislation has ever been referred to committee. very serious constitutional questions have been raised about its approach. questions which in all fairness are too complex to be considered on first impression during the heat of what is likely to be aher highly emotionallycharged debate on abortion. we therefore respectfully urge that. s. 2148. or any similar proposal.  be acted upon by the senate at this time. the association believes that the effort to add any of these measures as amendments to essential legislation. or to circumvent the
. at the recent govers conference. gover rockefeller made an admirable attempt to inject reasonableness into the debate on the supreme court school prayer decision. i ask unanimous consent that an editorial in the new york herald tribune commending his effort be inserted in the record at this point in my remarks.
