. february 16 is celebrated annually as lithuanian independence day. recognizing this i salute the indomitable spirit of the lithuanian people. they have lived on the shores of the baltic since time immemorial. they were unified into a single kingdom by king mindaugas the great 723 years ago. since that time they have been fighting for their independence against the teutonic knights. the germans. and the poles on one side and the russians on the other. it is proof of their remarkable spiritual and ethnic strength that they have been able to preserve their historic identity against such heavy odds. it is distressing to think how short was the period of their independence after world war i. and to realize how worthless were the words of their 1920 treaty with the soviet union by which the soviet government "voluntarily and forever" renced "all sovereign rights possessed by russia over the lithuanian people and their territory." that independence lasted a bare 20 years. by 1940 lithuania was again incorporated into russia. then began the most brutal occupation of their entire history. in lithuania some 34.000 persons were deported to the soviet far east from june 14 to june 21. 1941. the german attack on the soviet union in 1941. followed by a german occupation. brought a temporary end to the deportations. but in 1944 the soviets reoccupied the baltic and there were additional mass deportations. it has been estimated that about 10 percent of the population of lithuania was deported to siberia in 1948 and 1949. supplementing the deportations as a means of changing the ethnic composition of the area and to replace the loss of labor. the soviets pursued a policy of colonization with persons of russian stock. the number of russian settlers in lithuania in 1959 amounted to about 8.5 percent. as compared to 2 percent before the war. in the capital of lithuania. vilinus. native lithuanians became a miity. the soviet government also severely persecuted the catholic church. in 1940 lithuania was 85 percent catholic and there were only two active bishops left. less than 850 priests. most of them old and infirm. such brutal treatment. however. has  broken the spirit of the lithuanian people as recent events show. in 1972. 20yearold roman kalanta set himself afire in protest against soviet oppression. his death set off 2 days of street fighting in kaunas. the second largest city in lithuania. several thousand youths shouting "freedom for lithuania" fought police and paratroopers. two policemen were reported killed and about 200 rioters were arrested. in the following 2 weeks two other lithuanians burned themselves alive. in the previous march more than 17.000 catholics signed a protest memorandum addressed to secretary general waldheim of the united nations. in 1971 slman kudirka. the lithuanian radio operator who escaped from a soviet ship only to be handed back to his shipmates by the u.s. coast guard. told the court that sentenced him to 10 years in a corrective labor camp: i do  consider russia to be my fatherland. there is tragically little we can do to help these proud and brave people except preserve their legal rights to independence and to keep their sufferings before the bar of world opinion. this we must do and hope for a time when their quest for national freedom is successfully ended.
. wonder that miities. individuals. and groups concerned with civil rights and liberties throughout the country have made a holy crusade against the jennerbutler bill. because they see the handwriting on the wall. the very essence of constitutional government requires a final court to determine what is and what is  the paramount law of the land. congress can do it by amendments which it adopts day in and day out. and year in and year out. those persons say that if such a technique is employed to undermine the separation of powers. then the greatest danger arises to the rights of the people. that is the reason for my deepseated. opposition to the proposal. i hope. and i prayi think it is that seriousthat the motion to table which is expected to be made will succeed.
