. on february 21 the senate passed senate resolution 259. lauding the girl scouts of america on that organizations 60th anniversary. on march 6 the house of representatives passed an identical resolution. also praising the outstanding work of this institution. there are 106.400 girl scouts in massachusetts alone. these girls. between the ages of 7 and 17. serve their communities in a variety of ways. in recent years. primary attention has been given to preserving the environment. and meeting the needs of innercity youth. massachusetts girl scouts have engaged in the creation of a heritage marked trail in central massachusetts. of a wildlife sanctuary on stiles reservoir. and in antilitter and "keep america beautiful" projects throughout the state. girl scouts in the bay state have also set up day camp and resident camp facilities for disadvantaged children. but the girl scouts is more than community service: it is training in citizenship as well. it is as members of a patrol that young girl scouts first learn they are expected to be decislonmakers. the members of the patrol cooperate to decide the courses of action the patrol will follow. and choose one of their number to convey these decisions to scoutings next larger representational bodythe girl scout troop. by learning to live with the decisions they make. these young girls learn the value of careful forethought and the need to consider all the available options before making a decision. this valuable training in representational government should be of special interest to this body. it is todays young people who will inherit our governing responsibilities as the citizenleaders of tomorrow. the fact that many senior girl scouts have become responsible. active members of such larger governing bodies as the national board of directors of girl scouts of the u.s.a. and of the various girl scout council boards across the country. is  only very encouraging proof of the capacity of these young people. but it underscores the value of scoutings emphasis on the democratic process. the accent on international friendship and international exchange programs is aher very important part of the girl scout experience. every girl scout becomes part of a unique international sisterhood through the national girl scout organizations membership in the world association of girl guides and girl scouts. this link with 61/2 million girls from 87 nations. is reinforced by exchange visits to member nations. and by meetings and conferences at the associations four international centers. in england. india. switzerland. and mexico. this early exposure to other viewpoints. and other customs and cultures. is duplicated within the girl scout organization in this country. from the closed society of the family. and the frequently limited range of backgrounds found among her schoolmates. the youngster who enters girl scouting automatically becomes a sister to nearly 4 million other girls from every section of the country. and from a tremendous variety of social. ecoic. and ethnic backgrounds. the only requirement for girl scout membership is a commitment to te values that are enunciated in the girl scout promise and laws. and the payment of a inal registration fee. the opportunities for individual growth that scouting provides. the broader horizons it opens to all its young members. were part of the vision of girl scoutings founder when she decided to form that first troop of girl scouts in savannah. ga.. 60 years ago this week. a southern gentlewoman. but something of a maverick. too. juliette gordon low conceived of the girl scout movement as a means of expanding eirls interests and opportunities. the growth of the organization during these past 6 decades is a tribute to her prescience. she recognized a need that was soon to become a demand. full citizenship for women. with the responsibilities and privileges it entailed. came just 5 years later with the passage of the 19th amendment. in girl scouting. americas newly enfranchised womentobe found a congenial sisterhood that emphasized each members identity as a full and equal citizen and encouraged her to welcome the challenges and new life roles that were becoming available to the women of america. i think juliette lows successors can be proud that scouting has remained a pioneering movement and that its leaders today still demonstrate the kind of initiative and longrange vision that made girl scoutings founder such a remarkable woman. i join with the sponsors of this resolution in commending the girl scout organization for its contribution to the nation. and in conveying to its fine young members and leaders congratulations on their observance of girl scoutings 60th anniversary.
 last year and this year upon this subject are entirely consistent with what is contained in the bill. the bill is very much a product of. although by means exactly like. the emergency school aid act of 1970. the administrations proposal of last year. that act was passed by a 2 to 1 margin in the other body with a wide spectrum of the representatives from all states. including the border and southern states. supporting it. it is very interesting that among those voting for the bill in the other body last year were representatives from arkansas. delaware. florida. kentucky. louisiana. maryland. th carolina. oklahoma. south carolina. texas. and west virginia. indeed. as the senator from mississippi
