. in 3 years or less the commercial supersonic age literally will come banging into our lives. at about that time the first britishfrench supersonic transport--sstthe concorde. will enter commercial service. barring further design delays. the first american sst may roll off production lines by 1975 or 1976.  one. but whole fleets of these superplanes will be built. because of the sonic booms these aircraft generate everywhere along their flight paths. they will add a new. disruptive sound to an increasingly sy environment. evidence on hand indicates that the sonic booms. in addition to being a loud nuisance. also can be destructive to property and a danger to health. development of the sst. in my judgment. ranks very low on the nations priorities scale. especially in a time of financial stringency such as the present. but beyond this and as a matter of prime concern is the intrusive sonic boom. as the readers digest points out in its october issue. the public wants protection against the boom beforeand  afterthe ssts begin creating a daily din over our country. my concern about the boom is intensified by the failure of the federal aviation administration. the chief developer of the sst. to prohibit boomcreating supersonic transports from flying over territorial areas of the united states. has the faa failed to impose such a ban because it would limit the number of ssts that could be sold and thus turn the agencys pet project into an ecoic failure. ecoics must  determine whether there will be overland sst flights at supersonic speeds. the determining factors must be whether the public health and welfare and environmental quality can stand the continuous bombardment of sonic booms. and. the decision on permitting overland supersonic flights must  be made by the faa. which has at least a potential conflict of interest in the matter. the decision must be made by the congress because it is the only institution which can meld all the needs of society into such a profound policy decision. as the readers digest article states. i have introduced proposed legislations. 3399to put the decision on overland supersonic flights in the hands of congress. with the first commercial sst service only a few years away. it is urgent that the public be afforded protection in advance of the sonic boom. my bill provides for that protection. the readers digest article. written by mr. james h. winchester. is a most perceptive piece on the sstsonic boom issue. it should be widely read because the sonic boom will disrupt millions of lives. i ask unanimous consent that mr. winchesters article be printed in the record.
