. tomorrow. march 17. will mark the 57th anniversary of the camp fire girls founders day. and march 1925 is designated as its birthday week. i want to commend this national youth organization for the vitality and significance of its program for girls throughout our country. alert to world trends and the complex needs of young people. camp fire girls has continuously been prominent in pioneering programs serving girls. because of its success in adapting the program to the needs of the handicapped. camp fire girls undertook more difficult steps to intensify services among segments of the population which had heretofore been "unreached." hence the initiation of the metropolitan critical areas project. the major objectives of the program.  in its third year. are as follows: first. to develop a program more sensitive to the life style of less ecoically privileged families which will contribute to healthy social development of girls in these areas. second. to develop and test ways of mobilizing and training adult volunteers to work with these girls. and. third. to experiment in programing. training. and organizational methods and to document and evaluate the inations and results. geographically. the projects cover territory from the bedfordstuyvesant section of brooklyn. n.y.. to the hunters point area of san francisco. calif. camp fire girls councils in boston. mass.. buffalo. n.y.. baltimore. md.. washington. d.c.. detroit. mich.. bakersfield and pasadena. calif.. phoenix. ariz.. dallas. tex.. albuquerque. n. mex.. and minneapolis. minn.. are taking part in this project at present. camp fire girls works cooperatively with governmental agencies. actionresearch programs in boston. detroit. and washington. d.c.. have been funded by grants from the childrens bureau. welfare administration. u.s. department of health. education. and welfare. training materials. including a guide for special leader training. were prepared under a grant from the office of juvenile delinquency and youth development. welfare administration. u.s. department of health. education. and welfare. five camp fire girls councils received office of ecoic opportunity funds. in california. kansas. and minnesota. six councils received assistance from work study students. neighborhood youth corps workers have helped in four councils in california. kansas. and washington. d.c. vista volunteers are participating in the project in boston and baltimore. in two eskimo villages in alaska. at indian reservations in oregon and washington. the camp fire girls council in cleveland. ohio. entered the third year of a demonstrationresearch program funded by the cleveland foundation involving sunultaneous participation by girls and their mothers in groups. the results of the program in deprived areas have been improved behavior patterns. greater interest in school work. enhancement of the selfimage of girls and their adult leaders. and realization of their importance as individuals. camp fire girls initiated the first land and sea organizationsponsored conference for teenage members. the horizon club conference afloat. aboard the chartered ms aurelia. took 1.004 girls from 35 states to san juan. p.r.. cartagena. colombia. and kingston. jamaica. on an international friendship tour. the conference followed 2 years of intensive preparation during which girls studied spanish and subjects related to latin america. worked in numerous ways to earn money to defray their expenses. during the conference. workshops. seminars. lectures. and films provided participants with supplementary information. differing customs. cultures. history. and ecoy of the areas to be visited. from the pier in new york city to the port of cartagena. during the 20day tour. the horizon club girls were heralded as "the best ambassadors " following their return. the girls delivered speeches in their local communities in order to increase kledge and promote understanding of the lands they visited. camp fire girls has continuously dedicated its services to the conservation of our nations natural resources. fiftytwo delegates joined representatives of 11 national youth organizations at the national youth conference on natural beauty and conservation in washington. d.c.. last june. for some six decades . camp fire girls have been leaders in beautification and conservation projects. equipped. for example. with specific guides to combat air pollution. the girls have gained support in their efforts from business and government officials. for their participation in conservation and beauty. the camp fire girls have been commended by civic leaders on radio and television. in newspaper interviews. appearances before civic and service groups. conferences with public officials and with statewide youth meetings. camp fire girls continually reevaluates its program. philosophy. and objectives in terms of the needs of girls today the organization aims to provide a flexible program. giving special attention to the girl as an individual and as a member of a family it hopes to draw into membership some of the 14 million girls eligible for the program and to serve the girls in terms of their future needs and the needs of the community in which they live. i am pleased to have a part in the observance of their anniversary
s ecoic report. it is recommended that a new program be developed in that war. in my judgment. it should be really effective. and  merely a label for all the old things that have been done in the past which i believe is all that the administration has so far advanced. for example. one of the things suggested in this republican statement is to lift children out of a poverty environment by federally assisted programs. including residence schools for certain disadvantaged children. that is a really productive. bright initiative. as i have always contended in our party for initiatives. i take great pride in having been a party to the report. i ask unanimous consent that its details may be printed at this point in the record.
