i have had personal experience with the interamerican development bank and with the situation that it affects in latin america. i would consider myself derelict in my duties if i did  testify to it at this moment. in the first place. i was in chile in march 1964. during the parliamentary byelections in the province of curico. which resulted in a sharp reversal in the strength of the democratic coalition and a plurality for the socialistcommunist candidate. as a consequence of the subsequent realinement of the democratic forces eduardo frei. the candidate for the christian democratic party. came out on top as the leading presidential candidate. he won decisively as president of chile on september 4. 1964. the results of the chilean presidential elections gives some measure of the meaning that we were there ready to assist in a constructive way. without interfering in their democratic processes. this was the real hope of the country. the question was whether the new chilean government could proceed with what we might regard as a rather radical socioecoic revolution without feeling that it would be stabbed in the back and jeopardized as far as american aid was concerned. it was with the greatest assurance that i told frei. as a senator long concerned about latin american affairs. that this would  be the case. and that our aid would  be politically tied. that the vast resources of the interamerican bank were  to be used other than in the role of doing an honest job in the development of the country. it is fair to say that freis election could very well markand history will showthe apogee of the communist threat to latin america and the point at which it began to recede. provided that we do the things we really must do in this situation. i very much respect the views of senators who find imperfections in this or that. which i do  dismiss. but i make these comments as a witness of what actually occurred in terms of reliance upon the bank. that is the point i wish to make. let me comment on one other instance. senators k the work i did in respect to the creation of the great private investment company kn as the adela investment company in latin america. which  has $30 million in capital and has a vast potential because it includes the resources and khow of the leading companies in the united states. europe. and japan with $200 billionplus in resourceswhich includes the ford motor co.. caterpillar tractor co.. ibm. you name them and they are subscribers of the company. this has limitless possibilities for latin america. again. it could  have been possible without having the interamerican development bank as its substructure. these are the facts and the evidence which are tied in directly with the interamerican development bank. one of the men who was most helpful in putting this idea together was loaned to me by felipe herrera of chile. president of the interamerican development bank. without that great banking structure to tie to. with good insurance that it would look after the infrastructure which is at the bottom of any real private investment. the adela effort would  have been possible. it is for those reasonsand i am sorry to detain the senate so long. but it is only in this way that when the senator in charge of the bill is speaking one can get his point across-
