committee can do that. and department has to pay any attention to it. they have deprived the department. in the committee reportif the senate does  change it. that is the way it will go to conferenceof the money for 17 people who operate the program. i wish to point out that this program is currently financed through a revolving fund in which there is  about $4 million. and that revolving fund is  being repealedindeed. i doubt that it could be repealed in this appropriation bill. therefore. it seems to me that congress finds itself in somewhat of a contradiction and a little embarrassment. the committee on appropriations is definitely against this program. we do  k how the committee on foreign relations feels about it. and we have  yet ascertained in any way how congress feels about it. except in this implied peripheral way of what comes out of a conference on appropriations as to the salaries for the officials who actually administer the program. the department of state has many people. and it could conceivably use other people for the purpose of carrying on the program. and hing in this report can stop it. i say that as a lawyer and as a senator. i agree with my colleague. the senator from wyoming. that this is  the way to run a railroad. as the saying goes. the committee on foreign relations. in my judgment. with all respect. has waited much too long to deal with this matter. which is strictly a foreign policy question. and i urge very strongly that it  deal with it. i hope that the conference will  make itself ridiculous. we should allow a certain amount of money with which to carry on the program for the few months required. until the committee on foreign relations can act. and then we can argue on the floor whatever the committee on foreign relations has decided. finally. madam president. may i say that the two reasons why i am for this appropriation are as follows: first. it enables us to use the private enterprise system effectively in respect of the foreign information program of the united states. some of the leading magazines. books. and other types of publications of the united states are distributed in this waythe broad range of leading magazines. indeedfrom harpers to the ladies home journal. in countries where they otherwise could  be sold because of currency exchange difficulties. second. the competition with the soviet union and the communist chinese is unbelievable. they are pouring out the books and magazines and the publications. which they sell for half or give away for hing. in all the countries of the world. by the tens of millions. and we niggle around about matters of this character. which are inflnitestimal compared to the emous competition we are meeting. we should be delighted that people in these countries want to read our publications. we should be tickled to death to give them the publications for hing. instead of going through all the gyrations we do on a program of this character. we complain that people abroad do  understand us. we do  give them a chance to understand us. if we deny them an opportunity to read the best of which we are capable in the private enterprise field. i ask unanimous consent that three documents showing how the program works may be made part of my remarks.
