. i should like to clarify one point concerning the need for increased authorizations especially under section 2grants to the statesof the bill. allotments are made to the states based on the authorizations. thus enabling the states to k several years in advance of their budget and planning cycles the approximate funds they can count on for the next 2 years. "without the indications by the congress of the value of the vocational rehabilitation program." adrian levy. assistant commissioner for vocational rehabilitation of the state of new york. has written. "and its intent to strengthen and support rehabilitation efforts for the reasonable future. as represented by the legislative authorizations. we in the state can make realistic plans for the next few years and it will be more difficult to obtain necessary and desirable state support for improved programs." the authorizations in the bill are in the amount of $700 million for fiscal year 1971 and $800 million for fiscal year 1972. miss switzer has said that to fail to increase the authorizations to these levels--from $400 million in fiscal year 1968. $500 million in fiscal year 1969 and $600 million in fiscal year 1970-"would be most disturbing to the states and. i feel. would bring about a leveling off of support just as the states are gaining momentum and establishing goals and plans to make vocational rehabilitation services available to all handicapped individuals. this could be tragic. indeed." the bill makes a number of technical amendments and i would like to highlight a few that i believe are of especial importance to the future of vocational rehabilitation programs. these include: first. authority to use up to 10 percent of a states allotment under section 2 for construction of rehabilitation facilities and workshops. as well as for expansion as is presently allowed. second. authority for the secretary of health. education. and welfare to enter into contracts with business and industry to place handicapped persons for training on an individual basis. and third. a redefinition of certain terms including broadening of the meaning of followup services and extension of family services. this bill. i believe. represents a distinct service in the national interest and i hope it will enjoy broad support here on the floor of the house by all the members of congress in order to help the 3.7 million physically handicapped people in the united states.
. commissioner howe estimates that the $135 million increase in this amendment would restore state programs to their present levels but would result in serious cuts for local educational agencies. to fund these local units at the same level would require about $160 million more due to a 5- to 8percent increase in salaries and due to the provisions of legislation passed last year which require payments for migrant children. children in statesupported schools. and handicapped children. in other words. the program should really be funded at $1.6 billion. at the very least. in order to be minimally effective. and preferably at the full authorization of $2.7 billion. under this bill. the children of new york state will receive $10 million less than they received this fiscal year. new york will get $11.7 million less than it would have. had the full budget request been approved. and $101.6 million below the amount authorized. new york city alone will suffer a decrease of $1.162.835 in its allotment from the amount received this year. to reduce spending to these levels in areas as vital as education is to be blind to the needs of america. to underestimate the importance of education to our future. and to largely write off those children who. usually through little fault of their own. can learn as easily as yours and mine. more than 9 million pupils were served by title i funds during the last school year. at an average cost of only $107 per child. this is  a very large figure in itself. but consider also that this money often makes a large differencebetween being able to read with your class and forever remaining 2 or more years behind. between realizing that there is more to the world than your slum block and living out your childhood becoming schooled in the ways of the street. between learning to add and never understanding even the most simple arithmetic. in these human terms. in terms of a life turned in a better direction. the cost is worth it. the largest expense in esea programs is for instruction. or teachers salaries. which utilize some 65 percent of the available funds. these costs are rising as teachers salaries in general go up. but the important point is that it is the dedication of teachers willing to work after regular school hours and willing to give disadvantaged youngsters the extra attention they need that has made this program successful. it is an increased cost we must face up to realistically. in other words. to fail to move ahead is tantamount to moving backwards. we can stand still. i do  think that the congress has ever fully understood the implications of the riot commission report. that report is a documented study. it is a blueprint for action. in its chapters on education. it indicates clearly that disadvantaged children require special attention. special enrichment in order to overcome the environment barriers that are a handicap to their learning. i can urge too strongly that this amendment be supported. there is hing of higher importance than the education of our children. to be shortsighted and tightfisted in this vital area today will mean mediocre leadership tomorrow. more school dropouts. more destroyed hopes. and a serious reversal of our commitment to the ghettos and the cities. it is a step backward.
. i have been informed that a group of businessmen are forming a merit employment council in new york city which will carry out on a community basis the national program of plans for progress. plans for progress is the national voluntary equal employment opportunity program of american business. through it. some 354 major corporations undertake individual and collective programs which are expanding employment opportunities for miities and are having increasing impact on the motivation and training problems of young people. these projects include work at the national and community level. as well as extensive inplant activities to achieve the objectives expressed in the individual companies plansforprogress pledge. plans for progress is staffed by eight executives loaned for 1 year by member companies which continue to pay their salaries and benefits. they work from washington headquarters. with administrative support from the u.s. department of labor. the 1967 staff of plans for progress is headed by eugene f. rowan. of the j. c. penney co. serving as administrative coordinators are: christopher b. conner. pepsi co.. inc.. robert w. goode. mellon national bank. david s. nye. mobil oil corp.. malcolm h. oettinger. jr.. national broadcasting co.-rca. clifford e. puckett. general dynamics. george s. sunday. chesapeake & potomac telephone co.. and i. l. van voorhis. jr.. aluminum co. of america. in addition to sparking the internal action programs of its members. plans for progress administers several programs on a national level. national and regional educational conferences have reached more than 10.000 businessmen. educators. and students. stressing both the social and ecoic advantages of equal employment opportunity and showing how it can be achieved. this program includes annual conferences between industry recruiters and administrative officials of predominantly negro colleges to inform each group of the needs and capabilities of the other. a total of 488 participants. representing 177 companies and 69 colleges. attended the 1966 conference. a series of vocational guidance institutes were held in 1966 at which the teachers and counselors of teenage students were given instruction and motivation to prepare miity youth for jobs in business. the u.s. department of commerce. through its ecoic development administration. enabled plans for progress to expand its voi program through a grant of $125.000. with this seed money. plans for progress companies contributed in excess of $200.000 to bring the program to 17 cities across the nation. the task force on youth motivation sponsors visits to 70 predominantly negro colleges where 220 negro executives. employed by plansforprogress companies. discuss with the students the advantages of a business career. additionally. some 500 high school graduates  employed in responsible jobs with pfp companies have visited high schools and junior high schools as living witnesses that opportunities exist in business for those who prepare for them by getting a high school degree and developing a skill. this program is being expanded to reach students from the seventh grade up. plans for progress has organized meetings in more than 25 cities at which experts explain to businessmen the manpower development programs of the departments of labor. hew. and oeo. and how businessmen can make use of these programs. since its formation in 1961. plans for progress has added significantly to the number of miity employees in positions of responsibility in the member companies. the number of whitecollar employees. particularly. has increased substantially. certainly part of this increase is attributable to the general ecoic health of the nation during this period. but plansforprogress companies also believe they have contributed to the increase by actively seeking out miity employees. both as a national program and through participation of member companies. plans for progress works closely with the voluntary employer associations of 49 major u.s. cities. these associations perform a variety of community services in the equal opportunity employment field. such as training miity workers for jobs in business and industry and serving as a clearinghouse and source of employment information. similar programs are planned for 42 additional cities in 1967. new york city will participate in this effort. i am pleased to e that among those companies initiating this affirmative action are the following from the congressional district i represent:
 johnson stated in april 1964 that: we have entered an age in which education is  just a luxury permitting some men an advantage over others. it has become a necessity without which a person is defenseless in this complex. industrialized society . . . we have truly entered the century of the educated man. i hope this body gives careful consideration to the bill i have introduced today. i believe the tax credit system will serve as the best instrument of federal assistance to education in this. "the century of the educated man." it will provide the necessary help for the individual student while increasing the amount of private funds available for assistance. it is a small premium for the federal government to pay. for the insurance that the people of our country will reach and maintain a higher intellectual plateau than ever before. for therein lies the foundation upon which this country can grow to the heights visualized in the minds of men.
. the senator has made some good points. he says that. obviously.  all private schools reject those who do  conform to the very highest standards of physical development. learning ability. handling of the english language. discipline. and so forth. that is true. in my own state. we have many private schoolsthe term "private." of course. includes parochial schoolsthat do an outstanding job and do serve students with these problems. as well as those for whom english is  an original language. they are doing outstanding work with miity groups. and they do very well with some children who have learning disability problems. and they are a great credit to our state. but such is  typical across the country. our state is blessed. but that is  true of private schools across the nation. necessarily. many private schools throughout the country are  serving students in the categories i have described.  i wish to ask the senator a question. as i understood him. he said he would be perfectly prepared to have requirements levied on private schools that they provide services for the handicapped. was i correct in understanding that. that it would be acceptable to him that private schools wvhich accept this money indirectly provide these services for the handicapped. is he prepared to do that. i think that is spendid. i might say we made that proposal in the finance committee. and it was defeated roundly by the proponents of tuition tax credit. but i think the senator sees it a little differently. at least. that is the way i understood him.
madam president. i am but one of severali hope many. but as of niow. only fourso i am unable to make that commitment . however. we will be meeting. and i will immediately inform the majority leader whether this is possible. i agree with him. i would like to do that. i would like to proceed and vitiate the cloture petition and move on. and then have some kind of a vote on the tuition tax credit. but i will inform the majority leader of that as soon as i am in a position to do so.
. may i make an inquiry of the majority leader in connection with this. i reserve the right to object. i ask the majority leader: under this agreement. the amendment to be offered by the senator from kansas. as i have heard it. would be the tuition tax credit bill that emerged from the finance committee. without further amendments. and further amiendments would be considered. is that correct. in other words. the only matter we would be debating would be the tuition tax credit bill as emerged from the committee.
. i am deeply disturbed over what i understand took place here last saturday. if someone can tell me i am wrong. i will be glad to hear it. as i understand the situation. the claim is  made that a vote on germaneness before cloture and after cloture is exactly the same matter. so that when we are in a situation when cloture is invoked. and someone comes along with a totally germane amendment. the chair rules it is germane. the appeal is taken to the ruling of the chair. 51 senators vote that it is germane. the matter then comes up for consideration. and because cloture has been invoked. the matter longer can be debated beyond the postcloture limit of 100 hours and 51 senators can go on and approve it. that is the situation. one has yet disputed to me that it is. and if it is. we are really in an extraordinarily different situation than any of us have kn previously. if that is indeed the situation why would any senator ever again vote for cloture. let me give you an illustration: lets say we are debating an agriculture bill. some people disagree with it. finally. we invoke cloture on the agriculture bill. before cloture has been invoked someone has filed an amendment to the agriculture bill dealing with tuition tax credits. which would  otherwise be clotured here. we then vote cloture on the agriculture bill. after cloture. a senator steps up and says. "i call up my amendment dealing with the tuition tax credit." the chair says it is germane. the senator appeals the ruling of the chair. fiftyone votes say it is germane. and then 51 votes can pass that tuition tax credit amendment to an agriculture bill. and subsequently this bill passes. as amended. what has happened in the example is we have taken up and passed legislation. namely the tuition tax credit. that would have been filibustered and would have required 60 votes to invoke cloture. but because a simple majority declare it germane. it falls under cloture rules that apply to the agriculture bill. i think this is an extraordinary development. i. for one. want to register my deep concern over what has taken place here. we have  quite crossed tho rubicon yet. as i understand it. and we can retreat. but i for one. if this is the way it is going to be. would find it extraordinary were i ever to vote for cloture again. if someone can correct me and say that i am off on the wrong track. i would be delighted to hear it. but that is the way i see the vote that we took on saturday in relation to the germaneness of amendment 5727. i just want to register my protest and deep. deep concern. those are the only comments that i have.
. the senator has made some good points. he says that. obviously.  all private schools reject those who do  conform to the very highest standards of physical development. learning ability. handling of the english language. discipline. and so forth. that is true. in my own state. we have many private schoolsthe term "private." of course. includes parochial schoolsthat do an outstanding job and do serve students with these problems. as well as those for whom english is  an original language. they are doing outstanding work with miity groups. and they do very well with some children who have learning disability problems. and they are a great credit to our state. but such is  typical across the country. our state is blessed. but that is  true of private schools across the nation. necessarily. many private schools throughout the country are  serving students in the categories i have described.  i wish to ask the senator a question. as i understood him. he said he would be perfectly prepared to have requirements levied on private schools that they provide services for the handicapped. was i correct in understanding that. that it would be acceptable to him that private schools wvhich accept this money indirectly provide these services for the handicapped. is he prepared to do that. i think that is spendid. i might say we made that proposal in the finance committee. and it was defeated roundly by the proponents of tuition tax credit. but i think the senator sees it a little differently. at least. that is the way i understood him.
madam president. i am but one of severali hope many. but as of niow. only fourso i am unable to make that commitment . however. we will be meeting. and i will immediately inform the majority leader whether this is possible. i agree with him. i would like to do that. i would like to proceed and vitiate the cloture petition and move on. and then have some kind of a vote on the tuition tax credit. but i will inform the majority leader of that as soon as i am in a position to do so.
. may i make an inquiry of the majority leader in connection with this. i reserve the right to object. i ask the majority leader: under this agreement. the amendment to be offered by the senator from kansas. as i have heard it. would be the tuition tax credit bill that emerged from the finance committee. without further amendments. and further amiendments would be considered. is that correct. in other words. the only matter we would be debating would be the tuition tax credit bill as emerged from the committee.
. i am deeply disturbed over what i understand took place here last saturday. if someone can tell me i am wrong. i will be glad to hear it. as i understand the situation. the claim is  made that a vote on germaneness before cloture and after cloture is exactly the same matter. so that when we are in a situation when cloture is invoked. and someone comes along with a totally germane amendment. the chair rules it is germane. the appeal is taken to the ruling of the chair. 51 senators vote that it is germane. the matter then comes up for consideration. and because cloture has been invoked. the matter longer can be debated beyond the postcloture limit of 100 hours and 51 senators can go on and approve it. that is the situation. one has yet disputed to me that it is. and if it is. we are really in an extraordinarily different situation than any of us have kn previously. if that is indeed the situation why would any senator ever again vote for cloture. let me give you an illustration: lets say we are debating an agriculture bill. some people disagree with it. finally. we invoke cloture on the agriculture bill. before cloture has been invoked someone has filed an amendment to the agriculture bill dealing with tuition tax credits. which would  otherwise be clotured here. we then vote cloture on the agriculture bill. after cloture. a senator steps up and says. "i call up my amendment dealing with the tuition tax credit." the chair says it is germane. the senator appeals the ruling of the chair. fiftyone votes say it is germane. and then 51 votes can pass that tuition tax credit amendment to an agriculture bill. and subsequently this bill passes. as amended. what has happened in the example is we have taken up and passed legislation. namely the tuition tax credit. that would have been filibustered and would have required 60 votes to invoke cloture. but because a simple majority declare it germane. it falls under cloture rules that apply to the agriculture bill. i think this is an extraordinary development. i. for one. want to register my deep concern over what has taken place here. we have  quite crossed tho rubicon yet. as i understand it. and we can retreat. but i for one. if this is the way it is going to be. would find it extraordinary were i ever to vote for cloture again. if someone can correct me and say that i am off on the wrong track. i would be delighted to hear it. but that is the way i see the vote that we took on saturday in relation to the germaneness of amendment 5727. i just want to register my protest and deep. deep concern. those are the only comments that i have.
 bush established this 303.1 3031 ................... publicprivate partnership in 1987. mu1.736.3 1.736.3 ...................... lions of children in kindergarten wee made by tie senate budget through eighth grade have participatsection 13112(f) of the budget ed in state. regional. and national public lw 10150) invent america. competitions. nationited revenue and direct spind i ap effets acted e sat to t iue = ff. his al winners have gone on to receive .highest hos at. the japanese institute of invention and ination world competition. this year. glenn decided to attack an aning problem: mosquitoes. after consulting with an entomologist at the university of rhode island. glenn developed a model "glenns gas zapper." glenns invention emits gases that attract mosquitoes to an electrified wire mesh. according to glenn. once the bugs land on the wire. electric current zaps them. later this week. glenn and the other regional finalists will be treated to a well deserved ice cream social where the top nine student inventors will receive awards. regardless of the outcome of the competition. glenn and all the participants should be proud of their accomplishments. and it is a pleasure to take this opportunity to recognize their efforts.e
. i do  think anyone is trying to burden the american taxpayer any more than necessary. but concerning this great burning issue of businglet me put it this way: i do  think we can have equality of educational opportunity for all american schoolchildren with our prejudices and our wallets intact. i do  see how we can do it. i think anyone who says we can is  telling the truth. but unfortunately. all we have had is a great deal of rhetoric geared to steaming up rather than solving the problem. as far as the administration is concerned. everybody will have a choice. . either to allow conditions of inferior schools within school districts to continue to exist. or to pay such taxes as would help to change those conditions to promote equality of educational opportunity. the amendment does  call for legislative interference with courtordered busing. but it would assure that students who are bused are  bused to inferior schools with inferior teachers and opportunities. it would also tend to reduce those conditions which influence courtordered busing. let me emphasize again that this is  a "separate but equal" amendment. it is rather one positive step to improve. but  necessarily achieve. equality of educational opportunity. the only thing that is longer available is doing hing or telling the courts what they can or can do. we are warned something is going to be done. i would prefer we do it ourselves. and in the more natural way of having schools that by their excellence attract students of all colors and backgrounds. what we can have. i repeat. is equality for all american schoolchildren with our prejudices and wallets intact
. in the next year. unfortunate as it is. an estimated 17.000 disabled american workers. who would have received rehabilitative services and perhaps be gainfully employed once more. have .. and will . receive such services unless and until the senate acts to correct its past mistakes in this matter. it makes absolutely sense to reduce federal spending in such areas as vocational rehabiltation which. though it will certainly result in some shortterm costs savings. will just as certainly end up costing the federal government and society at large far more further down the road. we have heard much talk as of late about the need and the desirability of curbing the expansion of the entitlement programs.  we have a chance to do just that. longterm costs for very expensive institutional care are avoided as disabled people return tolwork. indeed. it has been clearly shown that for every dollar spent on rehabilitating a disabled individual. that once rehabilitated and gainfully employed that individual pays back to the federal gov. ernment between $1.40 and $2.40 in taxes. from a purely ecoic standpoint. therefore. we have hing to lose and everything to gain from investing in a program such as this. if we do  choose to make such an investment. however. the losses to those who might have benefited from services which are designed to restore them to the marketplaceand the losses to society as a whole. in terms of loss productivity and diminished humba dignitywil be truly incalculable.
i rise in support of senator hart. senator stafford and the other senators cosponsoring an amendment to the budget resolution for increasing the funding for function 500. the education prograns. in particular special education. adequate funding is critical for the implementation of the education for all handicapped children act. the law which mandates that special kids be given the special services they need to be all they can in our society must be supported. last years funding level will  accomplish next years work. state and local school systems can provide tomorrows level of services with yesterdays budget. they have yet to receive the percentage of federal support promised them yet they are responsible for educating their handicaped children. to allow inflation to further erode federal support is shirking our responsibility. this amendment will provide at least some of the funds necessary to continue vital programs such as early childhood. vocational education. and other secondary programs. and personnel preparation. early childhood programs for preschool handicapped children give them the best chance for learning to cope with their handicapping conditions and to capitalize on their capabilities. vocational education programs which serve handicapped youth including regular vocational education provide preparation and training for employment. personnel preparation is essential to keep the supply of competent special and regular education teachers we need to teach handicapped children. these special education programs and others have been in jeopardy due to the budget cuts of last year. we can abandon our responsibility to handicapped children. i urge my colleagues to support this amendment and insure that handicapped children are afforded the rights of handicapped children to a free. appropriate education.
. i rise in support of increasing the funding for the supplemental education opportunity grant (seog) program by $77 million for fiscal year 1982 as offered by senator dodd to h.r. 6863. the supplemental appropriations bill. this would bring the funding level for this campusbased student aid program to $355 million. the level necessary to insure that all eligible students receive an equitable share of the funds.
i thank my good friend for his very gracious remarks. i support his amendment. regional resource centers have been instrumental in implementing education for the handicapped programs. their appropriations have been reduced since 19131 by approximately $4.7 million. partly due to the assumption that the school districts which have been operating eha programs for several years should  need a great deal of technical help. however. senator hatch has made a very persuasive case. the program should be closer to the fiscal year 1981 level. and i urge the adoption of the amendment.
i thank my good friend for his very gracious remarks. i support his amendment. regional resource centers have been instrumental in implementing education for the handicapped programs. their appropriations have been reduced since 19131 by approximately $4.7 million. partly due to the assumption that the school districts which have been operating eha programs for several years should  need a great deal of technical help. however. senator hatch has made a very persuasive case. the program should be closer to the fiscal year 1981 level. and i urge the adoption of the amendment.
. i rise today on behalf of myself and mr. kerry. mr. andrews. mr. iye. mr. matsunaga and mr. stafford. to introduce legislation to amend and extend for 3 years programs authorized under the education of the handicapped act. ten years after enactment of public law 94142. we can be proud of the great strides we have made in meeting the mandate of that law: that all handicapped children be provided a free. appropriate public education in the least restrictive environment. last year. over 4.1 million handicapped students received educational services as a result of this landmark legislation. and 93 percent of those were educated in our public schools. we are all aware of the tremendous impact this legislation has had on the lives to children with handicaps. the doors of our nations schools are  open to all these youngsters. matter how severe their disability. longer do school districts have the freedom to legally abdicate their responsibility to educate handicapped children. longer are the parents left helplessly on the sidelines while others decide on an educational strategy for their handicapped child. today. parents and educators work together to develop individualized programs for these children. what was once an idealistic conceptthat we should be "mainstreaming" handicapped children into the public schools with their handicapped peersis  a reality. and it works. everybody wins: the handicapped child who benefits socially. emotionally and intellectually from a mal environment. as well as the socalled mal child whose life is enriched by his association with children with handicaps. the legislation i am introducing today will strengthen our national commitment to special education programs. it contains a major new initiative in the area of early intervention services for handicapped children. this new initiative is actually comprised of two sections. the first will create a new state grant program. authorized at $100 million in fiscal year 1987. to enhance services for handicapped children from birth through age 2. states wishing to apply for funds under this new grant authority will have to meet several requirements. these requirements include the development of an overall plan of service and establishment of a service delivery system for all eligible children within 2 years. this new service delivery system will be interagency in nature and the gover of the state will designate a lead agency to administer the program. in addition. the due process protections established under public law 94142 will be applicable to this new grant authority. as well. states wishing to participate in the early intervention grant program must conduct a multidisclipinary assessment of each eligible handicapped child and develop an individualized program describing the necessary education. health and social services for that child. appropriate support for the childs transition to school must also be provided. all of these services will be available at cost to the parent. as are all other programs currently authorized under this act. the need for these early intervention services can be denied. the state of the art is such that there is excuse for waiting until a handicapped child reaches the age of 3 to begin to assist that child reach his maximum potential. in fact. the 1985 report to congress of the department of education states: "studies of the effectiveness of preschool education for the handicapped have demonstrated beyond doubt the ecoic and educational benefits of programs for young handicapped children. in addition. the studies have shown that the earlier intervention is started. the greater is the ultimate dollar savings and the higher is the rate of educational attainment by these handicapped children." yet the administration requests legislative changes in the education of the handicapped act to follow through on these findings. instead. it supports only a simple extension of the existing programs and requests less than the 1985 levels of funding. the second part of this initiative will be to mandate services to all handicapped children between the ages of 3 and 5 under public law 94142. although that law does mandate educational services to all handicapped children between 3 and 21. there is a large loophole. states whose laws do  require the provision of special educational services to those in the 35 age group are exempt from this aspect of the federal mandate. as a result. although most states are providing some services to some eligible youngsters. approximately 239.000 children are still being deprived of these essential educational services: this new requirement will ensure that person in this age group is denied the services that will assist them to reach their maximum potential. the estimated cost to the federal government of this requirement is $100 million. for a total of $200 million for both parts of the early intervention initiative. . this week. during senate consideration of the budget resolution. i will be offering an amendment to add $600 million for handicapped education programs. these funds will cover the roughly $200 million necessary for the early intervention initiative i described earlier. and $400 million to modestly increase the federal governments share of the cost of educating our handicapped children. in 1986. the federal governments contribution to the cost of special education was only 9 percent of the average per pupil expenditurealthough the law envisions a 40percent federal shareand in 1987 the administration wants to reduce that commitment even further. to a paltry 7 percent. my amendment would bring up the federal share to 12 percent. of the total cost. a level reached only once before. in fiscal in general. this reauthorization bill provides that discretionary programs under -the education of the handicapped act continue in their present form. and. receive inflationary increases above the fiscal year 1986 appropriated level to maintain current services. there are a few exceptions. however. increases of 10 percent are provided for two areas where there are critical needs: personnel preparation and transitional services. during recent hearings of the subcommittee on the handicapped. we were presented with startling data documenting critical nationwide shortages of qualified special education professionals. one recent national survey found all but four states reported that the current supply of new graduates was  sufficient to meet the demand. and it is secret that the educational services for handicapped children are meaningless without qualified teachers and specialists to deliver these services. in fact. special education experts  estimate that we will need over 100.000 new special education teachers by 1990. for all of us. the transition from school to adult life is one of the most critical and challenging periods in our lives. it is even more so for those individuals with handicaps. as a result. we authorized in the 1983 handicapped education amendments a pilot program to develop model secondary and. transition programs to assist handicapped youth and their families face this challenge. such demonstration programs have been funded around the country and have made a significant difference in facilitating the transition of handicapped students to the community. but again. the need is greater than the services available. therefore. i am convinced that we need to continue and expand these model programs if we ever hope to reverse the grim unemployment statistics given to us by a recent lou harris poll: two thirds of handicapped adults are currently unemployed. and of those individuals. twothirds of them want to work. this nation has moved quickly along the learning curve since pioneers like senator robert stafford and thencongressman.  senator paul simon first wrote. public law 94142. today. armed with 10 years of experience. we seek to build upon their work. expanding both education and equity. this legislation represents an important step forward in fulfilling a federal commitment to those most vulnerable in our society. whb require our special care. it is the right thing to do. in both human and ecoic terms. i urge my colleagues to support this legislation. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the legislation be printed in the record.
. in these days when we are so deeply concerned with the present and future of this nation. we sometimes overlook the significance of the lessons which the past has to teach us. this nation was created out of great struggle and sacrifice. it was founded on brave ideals of freedom. justice. and equality for all. it has become a guiding light for nations and peoples throughout the world who value our ideals and seek to follow our way of life. it is thus particularly fitting and important that we recognize our nations birth in a solemn and significant way. and it was with this thought in mind that the american revolution bicentennial commission was established on the historic date of july 4. 1966exactly 10 years before the 200th anniversary of our nations founding. under the mandate originally given to the commission. 5 years were to be spent in planning. and 5 years in actually developing and implementing programs to ho our birth. we are  at the midpoint in the commissions progress toward its goal. starting with this fiscal year. we are actually putting into effect our plans. this bill represents the authorization for the commission to continue and expand its work. the legislation approves $1.9 million for salaries and expenses of the commission. and $2.4 million to be used for grantsinaid to every state and territory. the district of columbia and the commonwealth of puerto rico. to assist in the establishment or implementation of local bicentennial commissions. it is vitally important that this work proceed. and that the states and territories  seek to approve and promote their own programs for observing this. our most historic commemoration. i am pleased that the judiciary committee has seen fit to approve this authorization. and extend my special gratitude to the distinguished senior senator from nebraska . the manager of the bill. and to the distinguished senior senator from arkansas . who serves on the subcommittee on federal charters. holidays. and celebrations. i thank my colleagues. and urge the prompt adoption of this bill.
. i rise in opposition to the amendment offered by the distinguished senator from arkansas. i support the committee formula because it sends title i funds to where the needs are greatest. i eschew any battle of the charts in considering this formula because it has become quite apparent to me. having looked at the figures inserted in the record yesterday by the senator from rhode island that while some states may receive more money under the mcclellan formula than do others. the fact remains that even within those states important communities will face a diminution of title i funds in the next year. i am particularly impressed by the method of allocating funds in the committee bill by which every locality in the nation will receive in fiscal year 1975 more title i funds than they received in fiscal year 1974. member of this body will be embarrassed to explain to his constituency why some important segment of his state is getting less federal education help at a time when costs are mounting rapidly. especially in the light of the fact that title i is funded at only a fraction of the entitlement. when every school district has to look to the federal government for funds. it makes sense to require some to search frantically for new revenue sources in order that others may get even more. in my own state. massachusetts. 11.4 percent of children between the ages of 517 are in families receiving afdc. this is only slightly more than the national average of 11.2 percent. these children number some 1.87 million. yet. if the mcclellan amendment is adopted. only some 50.000 of these 1.87 million youngsters. according to hew estimates. would be counted as title i afdc eligibles. in contrast the committee bill counts all afdc schoolage children. i do  seek the lions share of this program for massachusetts. as the law presently stands. and this aspect of the law is continued by s. 1539. the payment rate for title ia for massachusetts is 50 percent of our annual per pupil average expenditure. thus massachusetts has an entitlement sufficient to purchase 4 1/2 months of education for each eligible child. based on a 9month school year. on the other hand. arkansas would receive 82 percent of its annual per pupil expenditure. sufficient to purchase 7.4 months of education. and. i do  object because i recognize the special problems faced in arkansas and other lowincome states. but the acceptance of this responsibility should  mean that grantinaid programs should be distorted to our greater disadvantage. there are poor children in massachusetts. too. almost 117.000 of them below the orshansky poverty level. massachusetts would lose as much as $3.7 million under the mcclellan amendment. i can countenance depriving overburdened school districts in massachusetts of the funds necessary to aid their education. i hope that my colleagues will reject the mcclellan amendment so that we can move without interstate rivalry. to give our children the educational assistance which they so sorely need.
. this is also a substantial bill in terms of the dollars it contains. the bill as reported to the senate totals $7.672.878.000. it is $339.883.000 over the bill passed by the house. $1.538.539.000 over the budget estimates and $753.110.000 above comparable appropriations for 1975. our bill provides funding for three separate periodsfor fiscal year 1976. for a 3monthjuly 1 to september 30. 1976transition period that will lead to an october 1 beginning date for all future fiscal years. and for advance funding for fiscal year 1977. also. this measure has been separated from the regular laborhew appropriations bill which still will take some time to complete. the purpose of separate and earlier passage of education appropriations is to let all concerned k as soon as possible how much federal assistance they may expect. this will provide more time to plan for the careful use of the funds. the pending bill is a reflection of the resolve of this and previous congresses to meet important goals and fulfill vital national needs in the field of education. through this measure assistance will be provided to poor children in urban and rural areas. to the handicapped. to those who seek a vocation. to needy college students. to adults who wish to continue their educations. and to many. many more. the bill also provides assistance to expand the reach and quality of library resources. to explore new and better ways to do things in elementary. secondary and higher education. and to help lessen the ecoic impact of federal activities on local school districts. through such programs as bilingual education. emergency aid for desegregating schools and education for the handicapped. our bill seeks to continue progress toward equality of educational opportunity for those disadvantaged by race. by language background and by physical inability. in this regard. our committee revised or struck down house provisions that would impede the desegregation of public schools or block the removal of discriminatory practices directed at the female sex. i believe we all recognize the social and ecoic gains that education has brought us. we wish to continue that progress and to spread the benefits of education to more of our people. particularly the less fortunate. thus we must have a federal budget that is commensurate with the continuing importance of education to our country. we can accept a basically standstill budget in elementary and secondary education. reductions in education for the handicapped and vocational education. and reduction or elimination of student assistance programs in higher education. to mention only a few areas of concern with the administrations proposals. while the housepassed bill is an improvement over administration requests. it. too. contains deficiencies and omissions. we believe our committees bill makes the necessary improvements to the housepassed measure and we confidently recommend it to you. let me review some of the highlights of our bill as well as the important changes we have made:
. for the last several years. the emergency school aid act has been a mainstay in the successful implementation of desegregation. in its incipient years as the emergency school aid program and subsequently as the emergency school aid act. esa. as it is kn. has been a symbol of congress response to the difficult situations and its commitment to the people involved in public school desegregation. to consider continuing the act without an increased authorization in its special projects program. that program which operates most sensitively in helping districts under court order to desegregate. would be foolhardy at this juncture. the emergency school aid act has the ability to respond to. situations of serious need and to stimulate effective desegregation. it is my hope that we will extend and strengthen this legislation. this the senate bill does. in brown v. board of education (347 u.s. 483) chief justice warren ed that segregation of students generates... a feeling of inferiority as to their status in the community that may affect their hearts and minds in a way unlikely ever to be done. what the emergency school aid act has done is to help see this will  occur. and that students constitutionally granted rights will be respected. by providing federally funded programs for effectuating school desegregation. the idea behind the emergency school aid act is  just to funnel money haphazardly into the communities. but in fact to stimulate the establishment and maintenance of certain programs and activities to be undertaken in an effort to make the desegregation effective. there can be doubt that most communities are too financially strained to undertake these activities by themselves. consequently. the responsibility has fallen on esa. a burden which it has carried and continues to carry well. in some cases esa has assumed major responsibility in desegregation efforts. under the provisions for special projects. funding can be flexibly targeted on cities which need money on what is essentially an "emergency" basis. i k from experience that in boston. for example. such funding has been of great help in the desegregation effort. in all. in fiscal year 1975 there were four cities receiving emergency special projects aid totaling $1.700.000 to assist them. can we anticipate that the need will end. i think . for each year. as the nation progresses in guaranteeing students their rights under the constitution. more and more cities will be added to the list of those starting new desegregation programs or revamping or continuing existing ones. this fall alone may see desegregation in such geographically diverse cities as indianapolis. wilmington. and los angeles. to cite but a few. should any of these cities or others experience the need for targeted funds as offered under the emergency special projects provision. where will it come from if  from esa. further. targeted esa funds already are available--some $40 million in fiscal year 1976. for exampleand i believe congress will provide more. as necessary. we have right to threaten cities going through the difficult job of desegregating their schools with the extinction of this aid. i for one would  want to deny children in these cities a chance for educational betterment which esa can help assure. s. 2657 takes the very necessary step of increasing special projects funds by $100 million a year. this is the most crucial part of esa and it is imperative that we provide it with the additional funds. the need for the overall esa program in general is great. each year more applicants come to the office of education for funding under esa than can be accommodated. in massachusetts. for example. in fiscal year 1975 there were 12 applications for funding for pilot. basic. and profit organization grants under esa and only six were accepted. the department of health. education. and welfare has listed the total unmet need for funding in massachusetts for those programs at $1.079.182. in other words there were projects in massachusetts which would have been eligible for more than a total of $1 million if the money had been there. is this a problem for just massachusetts. it is . in fact. the unmet need nationwide under these activities alone in fiscal year 1975 was listed at a level of $56.076.748. as for the use of the money. a recent office of education analysis of funding showed that among other activitieseighty percent of recipients used their funds for remedial services to. assist newly desegregated students. approximately 50 percent were able to establish inservice staff training. new student activities. and community activities. fortyfour percent used funds to supplement guidance and counseling activity. thirtyseven percent revised and redeveloped curriculum to be used with students of different racial and ethnic groups. and thirteen percent developed new career education programs. i feel i should stress. too. that esa is  simply an act which offers funding to districts which are in need of funding because they have been ordered to desegregate. in fact esa funds districts under voluntary desegregation plans as well. in fiscal 1977 congress proposes funding esa at a level of $240 million. i think this is a good indication of the need for esa and the faith which both the house and the senate have in this program. i urge my senate colleagues in joining with me to support the modest but needed extension of esa as proposed in this bill.
. judge -bells role as legal adviser to gover vandiver is important for three reasons. first. he has denied participating in a program of massive resistance to the desegregation of georgias public schools and states initially that he urged compliance with the law. under questioning by the committee. he altered his stand somewhat. there is a disturbing lack of corroborating evidence and testimony in this regard. yet. we k that a body of law was drafted. did pass the georgia legislature and was signed into law. and we do k that the laws were segregationist in their intent and in their impact briefly. those laws: first. authorized the gover to close any public school within a school system *to preserve the peace. dignity. and good order of the state. meaning schools under desegregation orders. second. authorized the gover to close any unit in the state university system to preserve the peace. dignity and good order of the state. third. prohibitedany city or county having an independent school system from levying ad valorem taxes to support integrated schools. fourth. set age limits on those in the university system. fifth. facilitated establishment of private schools by allowing taxpayers credits on state income taxes for contributions to such private schools. since the actual bills are so patently illegal and antiintegration. a second issue is raised about the extent of judge bells participation. the record is singularly unhelpful in this regard. and more evidence. deeper and more pointed questions should be posed. more testimony should be solicited. if the committee develops a more extensive record on this issue. we can ascertain judge bells candor and veracity. this is truly critical. because the attorney general. above all. must be a man of integrity and truth. his answers are somewhat evasive. "onfusing. and incomplete on the issue of his part...ipation in the development of these laws. and give rise to the following questions: why did the committee fail to call over vandiver.
i appreciate those answers and the courtesy extended to me in getting this information for the record. i also understand the difficulties under which the committee was working in  having before it at the time of the hearings the final and considered recommendation of the bureau of the budget. i think it might be useful in terms of the history of this particular appropriation bill to call the attention of the members present  to a paragraph in a letter dated april 7. 1953. from hon. joseph m. dodge. director of the bureau of the budget. to senator h. alexander smith. chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare in the senate. this. i think. will be helpful in terms of future consideration and of ultimate action on this appropriation. the paragraph is as follows: the revised 1954 budget request for the national science foundation is $12.250.000. this next sentence. i think. is extremely significant. while this is a substantial increase in the appropriations to the foundation. it was more than offset by decreases in the justifiable requests of other agencies for similar purposes. that is right in line with the recom- while there are good historical reamendation of the committee. as i under- sons which explain the diversity of ad-. stand it. i ministration of basic research within the these steps were taken in furtherance of government. it has been clear for some the policy of this administration to centralize time that neither ecoy  efficiency in the national science foundation the got- will be served by continuing this situaernments programs for support of basic re- tion unchanged over the future. the search. which are  carried out by several administration has therefore determined agencies. it should be made clear. how- to move toward centralizing in the ever. that other agencies will be allowed to support basic research which is directly re- foundation the support of generalpurlated to the solution of problems for which pose basic research by the federal govthese agencies have statutory responsibility. ernment. out of this centralization will flow the ecoies which arise from it is my intention. in revising my re- eliminating duplication of administramarks. to include the full letter as well tion and technical supervision. from reas certain other data with reference to ducing the inflation due to competitive this very important program on the part support of research. and from centralof an agency of government which can. ized planning and review in one agency in my opinion. given proper support by with a clearer picture of the overall procongress. bring about a very satisfactory gram. financing a major portion of the elimination of duplication and. unpro- governments basic research program ductive research. through the foundation will also coni should  like to discuss the situa- tribute to ecoy by enhancing the tion which faces the foundation in terms foundations ability to evaluate the reof the amount included in this bill search programs of the other agencies. against the amount of the administra- as required by the national science tions recommendation. foundation act. since the foundation the following table illustrates the ef- will thus be in closer contact with science. fect of reductions on the revised 1954 across its whole broad range. budget of the national science founda- under the national science foundation: tion act as it  stands. the maximum that can be provided to the foundation adminis- commit- for basic research support is on the order trations activity rocomn- tee roc- decrease of the $8.4 million program recommended. menda- ommention dation by the administration. allowing for the other statutory functions which the research policy de- foundation is directed to discharge. velopnment and with respect to the $75 million program services ----------- $800.000 $800.000 0 of basic research in profit institunlesearch support- 8.434.000 2.007.400 -$6.426. 600 tions. even an $8.4 million program is training of scientific manpower--- 1.966.000 1. 0w.000 a obviously a very limited step toward cenrelated eperating costs -1050000 981.000 -"e. t0 tralizing generalpurpose basic research support in the foundation. total --------- 12. 50.000 5. 724. 400 -6. 525. 00 two coordinated measures have therefore been worked out by the present adthe important characteristics of the ministration to bring about the planned reduction are its magnitude and the fact centralization. the first is represented that more than 90 percent of it must by the administration request for an apbe taken in the program for support of propriation of $12.25 million for fiscal basic research. if this reduction in the year 1954. of which $8.4 million is for administrations recommendation for the basic research support. this expansion foundation stands. it will unfortunately of the foundations basic research pronegate the expressed policy of the eisen- gram from its fiscal year 1953 level of $1.7 hower administration to centralize in million is being more than offisetthe the foundation the governments pro- foundation has been advised by budget gram for support of basic research- director dodge in a letter of april 7. 1953 without increasing total government to which i have referredby decreases expenditures for the support of research. being made currently by the bureau in this policy. which is fundamentally the justifiable requests of other agencies one of ecoy. involves the gradual for similar purposes. it is thus in effect transfer to the foundation of a major a transfer to the foundation of funds part of the governmentwide basic re- which would otherwise be requested for search program  administered prin- basic research in other agencies. and cipally by six federal agencies other than marks the first step toward the planned the foundation. from studies con- centralization. the second measure ducted by the foundation the total basic aimed at centralization is s. 977. a bill research program of all agencies for fis- introduced by senator h. alexander cal year 1953 is estimated to be $140 smith. of new jersey. in the current million. of this total about $75 million session. to remove the existing $15 mills for the support of basic research in lion ceiling on appropriations to the profit institutions. principally uni- foundation. the administration has versities. the $2 million which would recently advised the foundation that be available to the foundation for the favorable action on s. 977 is in accordsupport of basic research under the house bill is only. 2.7 percent of the $75 ance with the program of the president. million mentioned and only 15 percent its enactment would clear the way for more than available to the foundation in further centralization of basic research fiscal year 1953. it is this latter type of support functions in the foundation. i support in which the national science understand a companion bill has beeni foundation participates. since the foun- filed in the house and has been referred dation does . and can. operate its to the house committee on interstate. own laboratories. . and foreign commerce. the reduction relates to the ecoy policy of the administration in the field of basic research support. since it will result at the least in delay of the centralization plan for aher year. in addition to ecoy. there are other matters at stake in the centralization program. and it has been planned with these in mindit will provide a means for correcting the present imbalance between applied and basic research support by the federal government in the universitie and it will facilitate wider distribution of the national basic research effort. with respect to imbalancea study recently completed by the foundation of the support furnished by the federal government for research and development demonstrates that support for applied science at profit institutions is approximately four times that for basic research. since federal research support is a major influence on the conduct of research in the universities. this ratio is a source of serious imbalance in the scientific effort of educational institutions which. in the long run. may gravely impair our ability to maintain leadership in science. toward correcting this imbalance. as opportunities occur to reduce the applied research and development effort of the federal government. serious thought should be given to using a portion of the savings thus made for the support of basic research at universities. a program along these lines will be exceedingly difficult to execute if the bulk of general purpose basic research support continues to be administered principally through agencies whose research programs must reflect their practical interests rather than primarily the advancement of science and education in the sciences. this is  the case with the foundation. with respect to geographical distributioncurrent studies of unused research potential among the universities and colleges indicate capacity to perform from $20 million to $30 million maore basic research per annum and a substantial amount of this capacity is in the institutions   receiving appreciable support. the foundation is in a better position to make a wide geographical distribution of research funds than are the agencies of the government which are required to tailor research programs to their particular operating functions. this will minimize undue concentration of research support in the large. wellestablished centers of research and stimulate the development of new research centers. an agency which is principally interested in getting results from basic research in an area related closely to its operating program in the shortest time prudently turns to the institutions best equipped to serve it. this is necessary and desirable. on the other hand. the foundation has both the authority and the incentive to encourage the growth of additional centers for research and training in the sciences. it should be remembered that the foundation must do what it can with regard to the critical shortage of highly trained scientific manpower. the output of college graduates in science and engineering in 1954 will be less than halfabout 38 percentof the output in 1950. by comparison. soviet russia has passed us already in its output of engineers. and in 1954 will graduate twice as many as this country. therefore. the foundations graduate fellowship program must be maintained. and increased if possible. the basic research program of the foundation is also of great assistance in the training of manpower. since graduate students are commonly used as assistants in research. the existence of the widely representative national science board which is required by law to review and approve all basic research grants and contracts is insurance that these principles of proper balance between applied and basic research and wide geographic distribution of research funds will be important influences on the national basic research program. this influence will. however. be a limited one so long as less than 2 percent of federal government basic research support to profit institutions is channeled through the foundation. as is the case in fiscal year 1953. needless to say. centralization of general purpose basic research in the foundation need  bring about an expansion of total expenditures for research. in this connection. the congress has the assurance of the administration that the requested expansion of the foundation basic research budget for fiscal year 1954 is being more than offset by concurrent reductions in th3 justifiable research support budgets of other agencies. under the circumstances. failure to carry out the presidents recommendation would be a blow at the overall basic research program of the government as well as actually ecoy. i believe it would be helpful to also include at this point a letter dated march 19. 1953. from director dodge. of the bureau of the budget. to hon. alan t. waterman. director of the national science foundation. which is printed in the hearings at page 427:
. at this time dorsed the interest subsidies program in i would like to set out my part of the a report issued july 10. 1969. but the amendment as a joint amendment. task force warned that the program the part of the amendment i had orig- "should be tried out in. practice and inally introduced as my amendment  proved to be broadly feasible before con656. would add $28.050.000 to the bill for sideration is given to eliminating funds grants for construction of higher educa-. for the direct assistance programs." tional physical facilities at 4year insti- despite this warning. the budget retutions. quest and the house bill this year place this amount was included by our sub- complete reliance on the subsidy procommittee. along with a figure of some gram. $43 million for direct grants for con- the appropriations subcommittee struction at 2year colleges. .. which heard the testimony on this bill in the full committee the latter ed that very little activity has taken amount was retained. but the $28.050.- place in the interest subsidy program 000 for 4year colleges was  retained. and recognized that it was  completely it is that amount that my part of this workable in the current financial marjoint amendment would add to the bill ket. many institutions most in need have then asondnt for ldado the l i been unable to take advantage of it. the reason for the proposal is the in the casee of private colleges and samen as the rvonerng to hav lle universities. the current interest rates are amount of the revolving fund available so high that it would take an extremely for loans for this general purpose. these high subsidy differential to make up the grants will go chiefly to the smaller col- difference between 3 percent and the rate leges. to those institutions which al- imposed by the bank lender. many prithough as -important as any others to ate colleges will  be able to borrow our educational system. nevertheless will at all from private banking sources. irre be able to take advantage of this spective of interest rates. because many new interest subsidy program and. of the buildings. such as library and therefore. will fall between two stools. classroom buildings. are  incomeas far as these educational facilities are producing and. without a loan guarantee. concerned. lenders consider it too risky to grant .i believe the subcommittee was right. theloans. i hope the senate will take the same the loan span of 20 to 25 years makes point of view and restore this figure to the repayment schedule more than small the bill. institutions can afford.. it has been estiskyrocketing college expenses are mated. based on surveys. that only about threatening to make. a higher education 25 percent of the private institutions of once again the exclusive privilege of the higher education in this country. could wealthy in this country. obtain loans under the interest subsidy we are long past the time when anyone program in the present market. has to be reminded that we can ill afford for these reasons. the subcommittee to waste the talent of our youth in this agreed with the office of education task manner today. force that the interest subsidy program the education appropriations bill we should. at the present at least. suppleare considering contains several efforts ment. rather than replace. the. direct to offset this trend through various forms grant and loan programs for academic of student assistance. facilities. the subcommittee approved my mobut these. efforts to provide financial tion to add $71 million to the bill to proassistance 6 put a college education vide the same funding for direct grants within the reach of everyone capable of benefiting from it are being eroded by as was provided in the 1970 appropriasteadily increasing tuition and other tion-$43 million for 2year institutions student chargesi and $28 million for4year schools. unfortunately. the portion of this asthe student charges. in turn. reflect sistance provided for 4year institutions efforts by.our institutions of higher edu- is longer in the bill as it is  becation to obtain the funds they need to fore us. build the facilities needed to meet an- in answer to an inquiry about the ticipated increases in enrollments. amount of funds available for grants congress long ago recognized that col- under the 1970 appropriation for title i lege construction would  be able to of the higher education facilities act. keep pace with demands of increasing an office of education official told the enrollments without federal assistance. senate appropriations committee than in 1963. we passed the higher education only $9 million had been obligated. out facilities act which authorized loans and of the total of $71 million. grants to our colleges and universities to at the time- the report was made. it help them meet the demand for new- was correct. processing applications from facilities without pricing a higher educa- state commissions had been held up betion out of the reach of many of our cause of the delay in obtaining final apworthy students. proval of the 1970 appropriations. but office of education officials have since reported that the entire $71 million will be obligated by the end of this month and applications  on hand total more than $200 million. my amendment would add $28.050.000 to the pending bill to provide funds for grants for 4year institutions. it would bring the total available for grants for construction at all institutions of higher education to slightly over $71 million. the same level provided for the current fiscal year. this would only be egh to meet about 35 percent of the requests  on hand in the office of education. it would still be far below the $133 million recommended for the 1971 fiscal year in the office of education task force report. it falls short of the $91 million appropriated for grants in fiscal 1969. but it would provide a minimum amount of funding for grants for both 2year and 4year institutions which are unable to take advantage of either the direct loan or the loan subsidy programs. while i share the concern of senators about the need to hold down federal expenditures in order to control inflation. my amendment proposes only a modest investment in the future of the nation. and i urge that we consider the longrange loss to our ecoy if we fail to invest in the future.
the senator from new york will  let the senator from florida place on him any complaint against the senator from florida which the senator from new york has  made. the senator from new york is  endeavoring to obstruct anything. and he would appreciate it if he were  accused of it. the senator from new york is  thinskinned. and can fight this battle without these characterizations. as to the merits. a bill of this character was considered by the senate committee on the judiciary back in 1945. and that committee reported the bill. there is absolutely hing new to this proposal. this has been the subject of law school debates for years. it does  seem to me that there has been any less scrutiny of the statutory aspect of this matter than there has been of the constitutional amendment route. in addition to that. it is very obvious to me that it would be absolutely essential to introduce the statutory concept if we were to consider the amendment route. as the leadership has obviously given the green light to its consideration. it should be borne in mind that antipoll tax bills have died on the floori am certain every senator is well aware of thatby the filibuster route. after very. very. thorough discussion. so we are  dealing in an area of first impression. an area in which people do  k anything about the subject. i am deeply convinced in my own conscience that i would be derelict in my duty if i did  offer to the senate the alternative of proceeding by the statutory route. and i believe that by so doing i am  only  obstructing. but am serving the national interest. i am  criticizing. i do  intend to criticize. and i will  be driven into criticizing whatever may be said about the actions of my friend and colleague from florida.
that is exactly correct. secondly. i make this point about our plan as contrasted to the committee plan: our plan provides for the underwriting of bonds to be issued by local districts. and it makes provision for districts which can do so. therefore. it is an improvement over the committee plan. we believe our plan is superior to the $500 million a year committee plan. withstanding the fact that many states--and the distinguished senator from michigan has introduced into the record a list to that effectrequire either a referendum or a constitutional amendment in order to be able to issue bonds. we wish to call to the attention of our colleagues the fact that the list of 39 states applies to states which themselves have a bonded debt. our program does  deal with that. our program deals with the bonded debt of individual school districts. we have evidence on that score whatever. except for the survey of the department of health. education. and welfare. thirty states reported classroom shortages in borrowedup districts. these states enroll 67 percent of the pupils in 50 states. the survey indicates that there are only 237 districts in 15 states which need help because they are in need of classrooms. they can take care of themselves and they can issue bonds. the states contribution to the districts could take one of these forms: capital grants out of current income. loans. or debt service advances. we respectfully submit. that is the narrow ambit of the problem. based upon a hardheaded survey. and that problem is met in our proposal. . i wish to affirm my support of federal aid for education upon the basis which we are considering it today. i think it is absolutely indispensable to make up for the educational gap. which is the essential condition precedent to ending any missile gap. i hope very much we will vote for federal aid to school construction. at the very least. in the course of this debate. i respectfully submit that the substitute offered by the senator from kentucky and myself is expressly tailored with the greatest ecoy of means to meet the problems which face the country today.
it is to be ed that the $3 million was going to bring about an additional $4.9 million in state contributions. making a total of $7.9 million for the entire program if the $3 million had been provided. the analysis i have just given is referred to on pages 9 and 10 of the original report of the appropriations committee on this bill. when it was passed by the senate. . that the country will make itself heard upon this subject and that we may learn a lesson. we will be as subject to nuclear blackmail through a failure to provide adequate civil defense. perhaps. as we will be if the other side has more or bigger or more effective icbms than we have. i am grateful to my colleagues. i repeat again that these words certainly are  addressed to them. i k the senators have done everything they could. they have been very patient. they have fought with great fortitude. i hope that somehow we can break through to the consciousness of the people of our country. as to what is afoot. especially when we consider our defense budget of so many billions of dollars. the funds involved in this program are minuscule in amount.
i will let that stand as the conclusion of the senator from ohio. when one speaks of motivation. i am too much of a lawyer to go into that subject on the evidence before us. i should like to say. for my own state. as the senator from florida correctly pointed out. that on the basis of the $20 formula the state of new york would fare somewhat better. in terms of the aggregate. than it would under the committee bill. but i respectfully submit that i can help feeling strongly that new. york already contributes so very much to the federal tax rolls that it is inconceivable that we would take this opportunity to try to better our own situation. in defiance of some general principle which. if applied generally. would do us 100 times more good in terms of the ecoy of the taxpaying state of new york. it happens to work out that way in connection with this particular bill. in connection with some other bill it might work out some other way. when i voted for school aid previously. i voted for a bill which disadvantaged my state in a strict financial sense. because i felt it served great national purposes. and therefore the purposes of my state. i believe. considering the size of new york and what it pays. that the fact that new york would fare somewhat better under the terms of any bill would hardly be a factor in the consideration of its senators. with respect to the soundness of a basic principle which could. and probably would. be applied in many other situations.
madam president. i did  mean to interrupt the senator. i had to attend a television program. and i was wondering when the senator would complete his remarks. i should like to say i think this is one of the most constructive bills that has been reported out of our committee during this whole session of the congress. i think the senator from pennsylvania is entitled to great credit for his leadership in bringing out the report. because i think it goes to so fundamental a problem of our times. which is the urgent need to materially increase our productivity. and the fact that we are counseled by the commissioner on labor statistics and other experts in this field that we need 25 percent more highly technical people. as of yesterday. if we are really to do the job which needs to be done. also. the great problem which we face in the world. aside from the security problem. is the problem of productivity. the real challenge is. can we or the russians bring about material improvements in the standards of living. health. housing. and education of the peoples of the world. those who stand on the floor and say we just can do it. we just do  have the money. we just do  have the resources. are  really talking in terms of dollar bills or pieces of gold. they are talking about production. here is a bill designed to materially increase the productivity of the united states. i think. in all fairness. it should be put to the country.  as aher proposal that merely spends money and contains a federal program. which some people like and some do  like. but as a measure directly pointed at the ability of our democratic. free society. to deal with a matter which is a maxim in totalitarian societies. and that is the effective training of our operatives. our people. for the productivity job which must be done. we are very much behind in this effort. apprenticeship training has  managed to keep abreast of the problem. vocational high schools and the whole complex of that kind of training activity in the country have  kept abreast of the problem. this is one of the real major lags in the whole industrial area of our ecoy.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to broaden the national defense education act to provide for training of students and teachers for work in international affairs at home and abroad. this amendment is required to meet the growing national need for expertise in international affairs. the bill is an outgrowth of a library of congress survey of 32 universities and colleges in the united states. conducted at my request. which emphasized the need for expanding and improving programs in international affairs studies. the amendment would. first. provide grants to colleges and universities to help in the establishment and operation of international affairs programs to train individuals for oversea business or government work. for work in the u.s. in international affairs. or for teaching or research work in international affairs. second. provide stipends for students undergoing advanced training in order to reach international affairs in colleges. and third. provide grants to colleges to help in the establishment of shortterm institutes on international affairs for high school teachers. with stipends for those participating in the program. the bill would add less than $31/2 million to the $229 million appropriation request for the national defense education act in fiscal 1964. a greater number of students. teachers. businessmen. professional people and government officials must be better prepared to deal with the growing challenges and opportunities in the international field. the increasing responsibilities inherent in u.s. free world leadership require additional efforts to improve the quality and expand the scope of international affairs studies.
. the student loan program under the national defense education act has made it possible for thousands of needy students to attend the college of their choice. without this help they would  have been able to continue their studies. increasing enrollments. however. have outstripped the total amount authorized by congress in 1958. in the bill  before the committee on labor and public welfare. the total for conventional loans under ndea would be increased from $90 million a year to $125 million for fiscal 1964. $135 million for fiscal 1965. $145 million for 1966. and $150 million for 1967. it is anticipated that loan repayments may be of sufficient volume after 1966 to remove the necessity for fuller increases in the authorization. aid for institutions of higher education. even beyond extension of ndea. is very badly needed in the face of mounting enrollments. and i firmly believe that congress must take positive action at this session. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the newspaper article by susanna mcbee entitled "drop in u.s. student loans hits area universities hard." which appeared in the washington post. september 22.
let those who would keep the schools segregated charge that to their consciences. i do  feel that we should continue that kind of aid. paid for by taxes collected without regard to color. to school systems that persist in segregation. withstanding the law and the constitution.
 i e that there is contained in the bill a provision which is apparently unchallenged. it is the same as the budget estimate and the house allowance. the committee recommends $4 million for the preservation of the fire island national seashore. this is one of the most extraordinary beautiful and extended beaches in the possession of the united states. off the coast of new york. the most congested of all areas in our country. i am very grateful to the chairman of the committee for letting us get started with its development. it will be a blessing  only to the 35 million people who live along the seashore between washington and boston. but also to the millions of people who live in new york and its suburbs. who so urgently need its preservation for recreation. former senator keating and i worked very hard to bring this about. although he is longer a member of the senate. i k it will be gratifying to him to learn that this is being so very well implemented and started at once. it will also be pleasing to my colleague from new york .
 of the national chamber of commerce said in a speech last week: the hard. unvarnished truth is that american science and techogy are being held in leash by a shortage of trained and adaptable manpower. and he emphasized the crucial role which businessmen can play by developing apprenticeship and onthejob training programs. the other side of the coin is that. with an upgrading of the existing. employed work force would come an opportunity for employment of the unskilled. unemployed bottom level of the work force. aher of the great unsolved problems of our age. this bill is an attempt to resolve both of these problems. through the effective medium of tax incentives.
s other proposalssome of which are new and unprovencan be undertaken. i believe that the school milk program is one which has proven over the years to be most effective. i feel this country can afford to see that its future generation is given the proper nutritional development. i see need to reduce this program which has cost relatively little and done so much so that we may grope our way into new programs where the results are uncertain. aher aspect of this cut in the school milk program would likely be its deleterious effect upon the milk producers across the nation. while at the moment. there exists a relatively stable balance between the amount of milk produced and commercial demand. milk has historically been produced in greater quantities in the spring and summer than in the fall and winter. so it seems we can write off the possibility of increased surpluses in the near future. any statement to the contrary appears to me to be premature optimism. the present subsidy payment of the u.s. government is approximately 3 cents for a half pint. if the milk is regularly sold for 6 cents then the cost to the schoolchildren is only 3 cents. thus. if there is subsidy. the cost for the child will double. this few cents may seem very insignificant but to some it may be the determining factor to a child in selecting something other than milksomething perhaps with a lower nutritional value or it is even possible a child might have milk at all because of the lack of a few additional cents. the unit costs of this subsidy program are very small and benefits certainly very great. it must be maintained at the very leastundiminished. i take exception as well to the proposed cut of $320.000 from the funds allotted for the joint federalstate fight against the golden nematodean insect which has the capability of destroying the entire long island potato crop. the destruction of the potato crop could result in the loss to the ecoy of new york state of over $25 million annually. the proposed nematode control fund cut from $425.000 to $105.000more than 75 percentcomes at a time when the combined federalstate investment of some $8 million over a 20year period is nearing its goal. i am informed that there is a good possibility of almost complete containment of this infestation within the next 3 or 4 years. it is unthinkable to me that the federal government should withdraw its financial support and personnel when the success of its efforts is so close to fruition. i e that the administration has alarmingly reduced the landgrant college program. the federal landgrant college program has for over a century provided this nation with trained teachers and engineers who have made significant contributions to the development of this nations agriculture. in new york state. for example. the appropriations for instructional purposes for cornell university. the landgrant college in new york state. have been slashed from $600.000 to $50.000 for fiscal 1967. also a cut of over $387.000--or a cut of over 20 percentin agriculture research funds for cornell university and the new york agricultural experiment station at geneva. n.y.. has been proposed. certainly. this country can affon such cutbacks in education and re. search. the research which will b severely curtailed has been instrumenta in giving this nation the cheapest foo4 in the world in terms of the proportioi of our incomes used to buy this food only 18 percent of our takehome pa3 is spent for food whereas in great brit. ain and france. the figure is almost 3( percent and in russia. it is nearly 5( percent. this research is also a critica element in this nations expanding for. eign aid programfood for peaceas wt seek to help the newly developing na. tions of the world to improve their owr systems of agricultural production. this is the most shortsighted kind ol ecoy that i can think of. i protest as well the effort to cut the gypsy moth program. i would point out that new york state has cooperated fully with the federal government in an effort to suppress the gypsy moth and thus prevent it from spreading westward to the nations hardwood forests. if this program is even partially abandoned. the insect is likely to pass through new york into the rest of the nation. the proposed budget cut of 20 percentor $261.800would place an unfair burden on new york state when in fact the rest of the nation should play a role in eradicating this problem. i call upon my colleagues to join with me in seeing that each of these very important appropriations are restored to at least the amount appropriated during fiscal 1966. these are the kinds of programs that i feel americans. and certainly new yorkers. would rather pay more taxes to support than to have budget cuts. i strongly protest against them.
the senator will be a conferee. i believe that the committee should have the feeling of the senate. that the senate wishes something done to loosen up some resources for college housing. as senator saltonstall has said. we might find some comfort in the bill that the senate passed the other day. that is fine. perhaps the committee could loosen up the budget bureau. at least. we ought to have the word of the senate that it believes that this matter deserves ratability with other things that are being done in this bill. to the extent of $300 million.
 can appoint the commissioner of food and drugs. the commissioner of vocational rehabilitation and the commissioner of welfare. senate confirmation of these highranking hew officials would offer the congress an opportunity to review the major policies for which they are responsible much as is  done by the required senate confirmation of the assistant secretaries- of hew and the commissioner of education. the surgeon general. the commissioner of social security and the aging commissioner who occupy parallel positions within the department of health. education. and welfare. illustrative of the incongruity of present practice is the chief of the childrens bureau is appointed with the advice and consent of the senate while her superior. the commissioner of welfare. does  need this senate confirmation. the food and drug administration is concerned with promoting purity. standard potency. and truthful and informative labeling of consumer products covered by the federal food. drug. and cosmetic act and other major laws which it administers. as a matter of fact. 25 cents of every consumer dollar is spent for products made by fdaregulated industries. the fda has a fiscal year 1968 budget of $67.9 million with 5.059 employees. as fda commissioner goddard has pointed out. it is "one of the hottest of the governmental hotspots." yet present law does  require senate confirmation of the head of this key agency. the welfare administration has a fiscal year 1968 budget of $4.56 billion. the largest in the department of health. education. and welfare. yet. here too. senate confirmation of the head of a key agency is  required by law. the welfare administration is responsible for administering the programs of the federal government pertaining to assistance to individuals and families in need. the provision of welfare assistance and services and maternal and child health services. it has budgeted 1.301 employees for fiscal year 1968. the programs of the vocational rehabilitation administration were considerably expanded by the 89th congress and for fiscal year 1968 it has a budget of $67.9 million. the agency is responsible for the administration of programs to increase the vocational rehabilitation of disabled persons and their greater utilization in gainful and suitable employment. i wish to stress that my introduction of this legislation is in way meant to reflect on the competency of the individuals  serving in the three commissionershipsthis bill is a successor to legislation previously introduced. however. it does seem proper that these three commissionerships should be subject to the same senate confirmation process as are their fellow ranking executives within hew who occupy posts at the same level of responsibility. the bill would apply to future appointees. while it may have been appropriate for a commissioner of food and drugs to have been appointed without a senate review when the food and drug act first went into effect in 1907 or when the fda was created in its present form in 1930. the scope of the agencys responsibilities for the publics health have so appreciably grown since that time that the opportunity for senate advice and consent should  be afforded. similarly the federal governments role in vocational rehabilitation has considerably expanded since the vocational rehabilitation act of 1920 as the federal role in welfare since the enactment of the programs of the 1930s. my bill is meant to keep pace with the tremendous growth of these agencies since they were first created.
. to outline. for the information of the senate. exactly what those of us who are opposed to the conference report propose to do. i wish first to state that we shall seek rejection of the report. which is preliminary step to any instructions to the conferees. if the report is rejected. then we would hope to move to instruct the conferees  only to insist on the senate amendments. but also. specifically. to insist upon the three senate items: $90.950.000 for school assistance in federally impacted areas under public law 875. $25 million for the headstart program in addition to the existing program. and $75 million for summer jobsall of these items having been passed by the senate and rejected in conference. before we come to that point. of course. it is necessary to have a vote to reject the report. i deeply believe that it should be rejected. as one of the conferees. i did  sign the report for that reason. first. let us state that. under the mal rules of seniority. i would  have been a conferee. because i am a very junior member of the appropriations committee. it was done only because the senator from th dakota felt it was fair to have me be a conferee. in view of the action of the senate in inserting an item of $75 million for jobs. pursuant to an amendment jointly offered by the senator from texas and myself. and which the distinguished senator from west virginia so graciously permitted. it was expected. when i was made a conferee. that i would fight for the programs. indeed. i did. as the senator from th dakota so graciously said. it was also expected that i would continue to fight. which i am continuing to do. so i hope the senator from th dakota will  feel i presume on his generous action. which i do . i was put on the conference to do this. in view of the failure to achieve any of the objectives for which i was put on the conference. it is only natural that i should carry the burden of this opposition. one basic argument is made which seeks to convince the senate it ought to approve the report. it is that we did the best we could. the house was adamant. therefore. it was necessary for the managers on the part of the senate to sign the report. as it was necessary to bring about this appropriation" and that there is aher supplemental bill coming along. in which the matter will have aher chance. the difficulty with that argument is that it takes two to be adamant. and we had only one in that instance. to wit. the other body. the chairman of the conferees on the other side just sat tight indeed. it was impossible to move him at all. he would do absolutely hing. he said. "this urgent appropriation is needed. and unless you come to our terms. the united states. and those affected. will  have the money." it seemed to me the senate has been played with that way a long tinie. and i felt it was high time that two could play the same game. and that it was just as necessary to the members of the house as it was to members of the senate that appropriations which are immediately required should be made available. therefore. if they wanted to be adamant. especially since there was attempt to understand our position and our feeling in these matters. then i felt we should have been adamant.  let me address myself to the question of prejudice. the largest item in this report is $1.135 billion in grants to states for public assistance. the senate should understand the facts in that matter. the only time for which we could be delinquent in respect to afdc payments would be the last 2 weeks in march. because once the 1st of april comes around. it is possible to make payments to the states based upon future appropriations. that is the law. they can do that. one other thing that suffers momentarily is the item with reference to federal employees and veterans compensation. for which i understand payments can be made after april 1. again through this method of using future appropriations. the other argument which is madeto which i address myself at onceis that there is aher supplemental bill coming along. and that these items have been denied without prejudice and we will have aher look at them in the other supplemental bill. the answer to that argument is that here is real prejudice. that other supplemental bill can possibly be passed until the end of may. if then. by then the horse will be completely out. of the barn. as far as a long. hot summer is concerned. if we are to have one. and school will be over in the impacted areas. member after member of the senate has been heard to say that the amounts paid to impacted areas is a builtin part of school budgets. so. although the house members say they are willing to consider these items in the next supplemental bill. as far as i am concerned it will be a dead horse we will be waiting for. the last argument madeand then i shall go into the details of what these cuts mean and how they are going to manifest themselves in the situation in this country at this very momentis that resolution 888 was passed by the other body and by the senate at the end of last year. and that under that resolution our colleagues in the house have elbow room and can move. in the first place. the house of representatives and the senate passed that resolution as it applied to expendiures for fiscal 1968. as seen in these items we are discussing. there is. at the very least. a bridge or transition to fiscal year 1969. in summer job funds. headstart funds. which would be spent after.  before. june 30. 1968. the allowability for the schools is. i will agree. somewhat along this line. but it is very indicative that there is a certain allowance being made. withstanding resolution 888. by the other body. and withstanding the absolute resistance in which members of the other body originally annced. they are accepting $20 million. it seems to me. on the doctrine of de minimis. that amount can be increased in order to do justice for the same kind of children who are in areas where there is a tax base as well as children who are where there is tax base.
 signed into law the elementary and secondary education amendments of 1967 (public law 90247) which included. among other provisions. a new "bilingual education act" of which i was pleased to be a cosponsor. this provision established a new program seeking to provide a solution to the problems of some 3 million youngsters who are educationally disadvantaged because of their inability to speak english. 1.75 million of whom are spanish speakers principally of puerto rican and mexican origins. the bilingual education act authorized $15 million for the current fiscal yeare of which has either been requested or appropriatedand $30 million for the next fiscal year which begins on july 1. of this amount the administration has requested $5 million. onesixth of the authorization. but.  only does the budget for bilingual education fall short of the needone year has been passed by and only a small fraction of the fiscal year 1969 authorization is requestedbut a further obstacle stands in the way of success for this program. today. more than 5 months after the enactment of the law and a few scant weeks before the new fiscal year. at a time when school districts are beginning to prepare plans for the new school year commencing in september. 3 months hence. the office of education still has  promulgated the guidelines for the bilingual education act. without these guidelines. school districts wishing to participate in the program are unable to apply for funds or even make some preparation to apply for funds. much stress has been put on educational planning by the office of education. yet. this planning by local school authorities which oe deems so important is frustrated by oes delays in publishing guidelines for federal education programs. late guidelines tend to result in hastily conceived programs which fall short of the promise envisioned by congress in enacting the law. i therefore urge the office of education to distribute to local school districts without further delay the guidelines for the bilingual education act and other new education programs in order that the communities might participate in these programs to the greatest advantage. further delay will serve only to frustrate the achievement of the objectives sought in the uniquely slum and ghetto areas throughout the country. which were so much the heartfelt passion of our beloved colleague. senator robert kennedy. on which basis i took the liberty of making these remarks today.
. is to make section 32 funds available for the school lunch program. on the ground that it is a matter of the most critical urgency and that it is the type of program to which section 32 funds should be devoted. rather than their being sent back to the treasury. approximately $225 million is supposed to go back to the treasury out of section 32 funds for fiscal year 1968. so. our case is based upon urgency of need and the availability of funds. and that is the reason why i raise it today. furthermore. we all k that we are heading to adjournment. we all k that the time left in which anything like this can be done is quite short. i understand that this is the last of our education bills which will come before the senate. i expresslywith the consent of my colleagues who are joining in this amendmentwaited until this bill came up because it will be ed that it has sections dealing with various amendments to the elementary and secondary education bill. hence. i felt that it was proper to add this matter as well. which went directly to a program in elementary and secondary schools.  as to the merits. which is a very important point: i have had placed on the desk of each senator a singlepage memorandum explaining the situation. it will be ed that there is a typographical error in the figures in the second line of the explanation. which should read $100.000.000 for each of the fiscal years 196c. 1970. and 1971. in the second paragraph there is also an error. because of the haste in preparation. and the figure should be $64.000.000. which is coming out of section 32 funds for the school lunch program according to the 1969 agricultural appropriations act. which is  in conference.
. as i have stated. we  have an amendment pending which calls for $100 million a year for 3 years for the school lunch program. for fiscal years 1969. 1970. and 1971. to be made available out of section 32 funds. which are the funds resulting from a 30percent allocation of all import duties received by the united states. there has been a longstanding and traditional allocation of such funds for the purpose of encouraging both food production and food consumption. i shall  bother the senate quite yet. though we may have to get into it. with the details of that. the reason for my offering the amendment arose in two house bills sponsored by representative perkins. one of which did exactly what this amendment would do. that is. provide $300 million. $100 million a year for 3 years out of section 32 funds. and the other which made some procedural changes in the school lunch program. which apparently are satisfactory to everybody. including a requirement for certain state participation. which would rise by roughly 2 percent a year over a period of 5 years to a total of 10 percent. those two bills had been referred to the committee on agriculture and forestry. when we discussed this matter on monday. there was objection from that committee. through the senator from louisiana and the senator from florida with respect to the consideration of this amendment. they felt the committee on agriculture and forestry should have the first opportunity to work it out. it was then pointed out that that jurisdiction had been ceded to the committee on agriculture and forestry. though the reorganization act provides otherwise. but that for purposes of this session we were  arguing that question. but that we insisted on pressing our amendment because it properly belonged in a bill relating to schools. and this was a way to get action at the end of the session. a conference then took place with regard to some effort to dispose of the matter. in which representatives of the committee on agriculture as well as representatives of our committee on labor and public welfare participated. that conference was for the purpose of agreeing. if we could. upon some modification of this amendment which would be acceptable all around. if that could be accomplished. in order to pass the bill monday night. that conference broke up upon an offer that i had madei say this to the senate without violating any confidences. because i did it and i am disclosing it. and i do  intend to disclose what anyone else did. because that would be disclosing confidencesbut i made an offer. in the effort to get the matter settled. that if it were possible to arrive at a compromise in this bill of $50 million a year for each of 2 years. plus the provision that this money could be paid out of section 32 funds or out of general appropriations. depending upon the appropriations act. i would accept that for myself. i had four colleagues who were also parties to the amendment. but for myself i said i would accept that. and agree that the amendment be passed in that way and taken to conference. that was unacceptable to the representatives of the committee on agriculture and forestry. who finally determined that they would rather see what the agriculture committee would do with it this morning. so when the bill went over. i did  feel that i was bound by that offer on my part. and i do  think i was. in terms of commitment or legally. though i disclose it freely and frankly to the senate. as it is my duty to do. and i felt that i could come in this morning and fight for this amendment unhindered by any commitment whatever. the committee on agriculture and forestry has acted this morning and. in substance. adopted the procedural aspects of representative perkins bill. and adopted the money aspects of congressman perkins other bill to the extent exactly as had been my offer on monday. of $50 million a year for 2 years. to come out of general revenues or out of section 32 funds. but. of course. they adopted that in their own bill. which would  have the same conferees as the pending bill. i have given this matter very considerable thought. as i say. i do  feel bound by any commitment. but i do feel that i owe the utmost respect and regard to the views of the committee on agriculture and forestry. and i believe the senator from oregon would share my views on that point. so i have given some thought to how to handle this situation. it is . an easy one. one wishes to offend our fellow senators in any way. and it is very desirable. it seems to me. as there does seem to be a very considerable meeting of the minds on this whole question. to try to come to some resolution of it. it must be remembered. with respect to anything i say  as to what i think is a way out of this situation for me and for the senate. that there is  in conference the agricultural appropriations bill. whether or  any money can be added on to that bill is a question which will be up to the house of representatives and the senate. because it may involve some question of reporting an amendment in disagreement on some procedural propositions. but i think it is fair to say. for the sake of this discussion. that it is possible to increase the provision for the school lunch program in that appropriation bill. and whatever we do here. whether we do it on my amendment or whether we do it on the actions of the committee on agriculture and forestry. is bound to have an effect upon the conferees on the appropriation bill. i do  happen to be one of them. though i am a member of the appropriations committee. but i k it will have an effect. therefore. my own consideration of the matter must be limited to the question. what action can the senate take to show its disposition. which will help both the school lunch program and the conferees on the agricultural appropriation. because that is where we are going to get money promptly. the agricultural appropriation for 1969 is in conference . i did make the offer that i did on monday. and i say that very frankly to the senate. upon thinking it over very carefully. i find myself unable. in all conscience. to simply go along with accepting that as part of agriculture committee bills. and i would like very much to hear the views of the senator from louisiana . who sat in the proceeding of the committee on agriculture and forestry this morning as its chairman. i would like toand i am  doing it. but only saying what i think is a fair way to try to dispose of this issue. in view of the fact that it is going to be in conferencei would like. in deference to what the committee on agriculture and forestry has done. to consider the modification of my amendment to reduce the first 2 years to $50 million each. thus meeting their views. retaining $100 million for the third year gives the hope that there can be a material improvement in the program. which is very urgently needed. in retaining the provisions of my amendment with relation to section 32 funds. i again point out that my amendment will be in conference and that it can be dealt with in conference. because there is corollary provision in the other body. therefore. it can be cut down. modified. or changed in any way. i would like to have the view of the committee on agriculture and forestry on the proposal which i  make openly in the senate. i point but one of the facts that i think needs fairly to be mentioned. and that is that the secretary of agriculture has given us a letter. addressed to the senator from louisiana. but i think it is fair to say that it is intended for all of us. in this letter. the secretary of agriculture uses the following key phrase: the department would be able to effectively and efficiently expand the child nutrition programs beyond the present level approved by the senate by $50 million in fiscal year 1969. the secretary then proceeds to bear that out with certain factual details which any senator is welcome to read. he divides it in this manner. he says we could spend $30 million more than voted by the senate on the appropriation bill for free and reduced price lunches to needy children under section 11 of the national school lunch act. he says $8 million could be used for the establishment of facilities. cooking and other facilities. in schools. some 6.000 of which do  have them today. that is $38 million. the secretary of agriculture estimates $10 million for the school breakfast program which he says can be efficiently expanded to that extent. it is from that factual presentation that i find i must reduce the amount in my amendment to $50 million for the fiscal year. as to the $100 million for the 3d year. i feel that this is a way in which the senate can express itself as feeling that the program should be expanded and that it. the senate. is giving its voteif the amendment is agreed to by a majority voteto the proposition which will be. i think. an influential factor in further activity by representative perkins and others who have always been leaders in this program. in trying to expand the program further. i feel that we should stand by the section 32 funds because. again. i have negotiated as a member of conference committees with others in the appropriations committee. and it has been a very disheartening experience. i feel that it will be very tough to get any money out of the agricultural bill. i feel that the only way that the other conferees can be moved is if we have something on the books for which we have voted to assure that the money will be available
. with that in mindand i think we ought to accommodate ourselves to this viewit is a fact that the bill already provides for a national commission on school finance of 15 members. that commission. which is provided for in section 808 beginning at page 214 of the bill. does  specifically relate to the problem of advanced funding. but. as senator dominic properly points out. as he was one of the authors of the amendment in the bill. it could encompass that field. so we have a commission of 15. already appointed under the bill. that could deal with the matter. we  have a suggestion before us in this amendment for a commission of 18 to deal in a pinpointed way with the question of advance funding. undoubtedly. there will have to be a reconciliation in the conference of these two concepts. neither of which. i might point out. is contained in the house bill. it is very important to e that the house already passed the bill and we will be going to conference with the understanding that we may very well wash out this new commission in the conference. depending upon the exigencies which we meet there. and subject to some questions i should like to ask of the proponent of the amendment about the amounts to be provided for its operation. i am  committed to that yet but i will probably have objection to putting it in as yet aher alternative which we might employ. i point out to the senator that i am dubious that a commission. in the way he has it. will survive the conference. because that gives us. . two commissions. i should like to ask the senator upon what kind of budget he premises the $150.000 providing for a commission which will have such very narrow jurisdiction.
 it is uniform for students in all institutions. so long as that student is in a position to go through with his education. that student. in that fiscal year. has the entitlement. it is almost analogous to the fact that we may give someone the right to draw on a given fund. if the fund will stand it. we do that. for example. in the foreign claims act. we have done exactly that. we have given the individual creditor on a foreign claim a vessel right to. say. $10.000. the government may. for the moment. have only egh to pay him 40 cents on the dollar. but that does  mean that he gives up the 60 cents on the dollar. that does  mean that the government is liable for the 60 cents on the dollar. it does mean that the 60 cents on the dollar. or any part thereof. if available. will go to the foreign claimant. that is what this comes down to.
. the vocational rehabilitation act of 1972. the conference report  before us. both continues and improves the longstanding and successful vocational rehabilitation program. the bill also continues unchanged. state allotment formula in the state programsprograms being funded at the $600 million level. while the billexcept for this provisionruns through fiscal year 1975. this particular provision covers only through the next fiscal year. this will give -the congress next year an opportunity to review carefully the existing formula with a view to modifying its provisions so that it will  be discriminatory against the urbanized states and the handicapped citizens of the nation living in the great metropolitan areas.
. it is critically important from the point of view of king what they will have to do in the school year ahead that there should be this mandatory advanced funding. i have called up this amendment which replaces the present discretionary or optional advance funding idea. and the amendment makes it mandatory and provides that appropriations to carry out the purposes of this act for any fiscal year shall be included in the appropriation act for the fiscal year preceding such school year.
. several committee provisions warrant consideration in this regard. particularly the student consumer information provisions which i authored. the objective of this sectionwhich is section 132 in the billis to insure that students have sufficient information about financial assistance and the institutions they select. and to be intelligent consumers in the educational marketplace. by providing for such information. it will help reduce the abuses associated with student aid programs. avoidance of abuse is the purpose of senator percys amendment. i should like to quote briefly from the committee report. on page 31: the committee believes that students and prospective students can make intelligent choices about financing their education only if they have sufficient information. for many young people. education after high school represents the largest expenditure they have ever made. the committee has also found that some students undertake obligations. particularly in student loan programs. without full kledge of their responsibilities. testimony before the committee and before the senate committee on government operations indicates abuses have entered these programs partially due to lack of information by participants. complete disclosure and understanding of students rights and responsibilities in participating under federal aid programs should result in a reduction of the abuses. aher provision on improved fiscal responsibility will strengthen the administration of student aid by colleges and universities. it provides for standards as well as review of institutional aid activities. this also should insure that educational institutions participating in these federal programs reflect the fiscal stability and administrative competence necessary to properly carry out these programs. the committee also provides that a student may  discharge in bankruptcy his guaranteed student loan obligation for a 5year period after his repayment period begins. this ensures that students will be held to the fiscal obligations they rightfully owe. i believe each of these measures adds worthwhile improvements in the same vein as the criminal sanctionsto witto stop abuses of these fine programs. i hope that every senatorand we have all heard horror stories about abuse of federal programs and waste of taxpayers fundswill e that this bill has many strong provisions to combat abuses.
i say to the senator. i have just argued it will  open up jobs for those who are in the greatest need. employers simply will  give any of these new jobs to miities just because a youth subminimum is available. as to the school operation. that is a unique situation applicable to college towns. fulltime students. and we give an encouragement to the small town merchant to take on a few more boys or girls than they otherwise would. i do  think that has any relation to this.
subsequently said: . because it was inherently inconsistent with a speech i made at page 37148 of the record. stating i would vote with senator kennedy. who is recorded as having voted in the negative. i should have been recorded as voting in the negative. i really do  understand how this came about. but these things happen. accordingly. i ask unanimous consent that the permanent record be changed to accurately reflect my vote as " on the tuition tax credit amendment. rollcall  626. appearing on page 37156
. today i join with my colleague. the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee on education. arts and humanities. in cosponsoring legislation to amend the basic educational opportunity grants program. i believe this legislation is a preferred alternative to an untargeted tax credit available tc all persons regardless of their financial circumstances. at the conclusion of the first session of this congress. i commented on my interest in such an alternative. the proposal for a college tuition tax credit was  included in the final conference report of the social security amendments. i opposed the college tuition tax credit provision in the senate version of this legislation for two primary reasons. first. the amendment had consideration of the financial needs of a family. in some cases. it would have given benefits to persons who clearly did  need the federal government to provide assistance to them in meeting tuition costs of a family member. second. the amendment would have provided great incentive for all colleges simply to lift tuition by the $250 figure. third. the cost would preempt other help in hiaher education based cr need and merit. this would have left the taxpayer in better position than he started. while the federal government would lose an estimated $1.2 billion in revenue. for these reasons. the proposals seemed unwise and i pledged myself to seeking an appropriate alternative. the bill i am cosponsoring today provides such an alternative. an individual family at the $25.000 annual income level will receive the same level of benefit in the form of a basic grant. $250 per year. families with lesser financial resources will receive proportionately greater benefits. if enacted. this proposal can be implemented quickly. because it requires only an adjustment in the existing and highly successful basic educational opportunity grants program. because the benefits are  available to everyone. colleges will be constrained from tuition increases. the benefits will accrue to individuals based on their ecoic need and the cost of the education which they choose. students who have higher costs because they have chosen a public college will receive proportionately greater assistance. in the present price structure of higher education. this seems a reasonable approach. the senate has on several occasions passed college tuition tax credit measures. although e have been enacted into law. i have  supported these proposals for the "easons i have stated. i very much hope that my colleagues who previously voted in favor of these proposals will examine this bills alternativeit is a much better approach. by mr. kennedy (for himself.
s budget supplemental request of $1.4 billion additional for basic grants has strong support in the spending committees. i am pleased to accept this amendment. i was prepared to accept the amendment then on the college opportunity act. i am prepared to accept it . i think it is a sound amendment.
