. i rise in support of h.r. 8926 as reported by the house banking and currency committee. it is clearly time for the united states to take steps. already begun by most other nations. to produce coinage that will  deplete one of our most precious resources: silver. if we continue to produce coins of the present quality. there is doubt that we will have exhausted our supply of silver within 2 or 3 years. at a time when our needs for coinage. are increasing. our industrial needs are also rising. we can simultaneously continue our present coinage and continue to develop our photographic industries. there is. as yet. substitute for silver in the photographic and silver products industries. but there is a substitute for silver in our coinage. in my judgment. the banking and currency committee has answered all of the possible questions regarding the shift in the composition of our coinage. by providing for a transition period. by establishing standby authority to prohibit. curtail or regulate the exportation. or melting of coinage. by insuring that the new coin will be entirely satisfactory in coierated vending machines and by protecting the mining industry from a precipitous price decrease. the committee has guaranteed the success of the proposed new coin. the committee has wisely amended the bill to eliminate the silver content from the half dollar. as well as from the dime and quarter. this step will conserve an additional 15 million troy ounces of silver. annually and will eliminate the need to legislate again on the silver dollar when the supply is exhausted. i support the legislation before the house and i will oppose any effort to amend the bill to restore the silver content of the half dollar. i urge the bills prompt approval.
i thank my colleagues. to bear out that the majority of the board would be able to insist on management changes. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the testimony of federal reserve board chairman arthur burns on this bill on june 20. 1971. at pages 471 and 472 of the house banking and currency committee hearings record.
. i speak today to the money and inflationary crises which we face in the country and in the world. the precipitate rise in the price of gold on world markets coupled with the serious continuing decline in the new york stock market signals an international vote of confidence as far as the u.s. dollar is concerned. the continuation and acceleration of such a tendency has the capacity for such damage to the ecoy and stability of the whole world that it needs to be addressed immediately. for it does  represent a question of imbalance which can be corrected by aher devaluation. but simply an evidence of panic psychology about the state of public affairs in the united states. despite the testing of our political institutions. there is evidence whatever justifying a vote of confidence in our ecoic institutions which remain the strongest national aggregation of production and techogy on earth. we can affect what foreigners may think of our government or our money. but we certainly can affect what americans think of both. and this is both our duty and our responsibility. in this regard let me say that. compared with rates of inflation in other major industrial countries we are doing far better than they are though we must continue to do much better. i predict that the dollar will still turn out to be the strongest and most desired currency on earthand  too long from  either. but there are measures which we need to take to implement our confidence and to buttress these findings. there are five principal areas where we must direct our attention .
