the state of new york does live up to integration as the negroes understand it. the state of new york has a governmentand i assume the senator must have the government in mindthat has the best network of laws of any nation in this field and is enforcing those laws extremely well. and is doing. in that respect. the outstanding job in the nation. the fact that we still have our troubles is indicative of the deep problems with which we are concerned. and one of the great reasons why we need acrosstheboard national legislation which. i say for the 50th time. will  only bind the south but also bind us. we welcome it. whether or  it will impress the south i do  k.. i hope it will. even if it does . it is very impdrtant that it should have an impact upon the west and southwest and far west and the mountain states. whose senators will be the determining factor in whether we can get to the point where a majority of senators can express its -will. that is why i spoke as i did about the impact on the rest of the country. i have only one other point that i should like to make. and that is the reason for the demonstrations that have occurred and how they tie in to the respective titles of the bill. a count showsand it is approximately correctthat in 1963 there were. roughly. 2.100 racial or civil rights demonstrations. of those 2.100. the estimate is made that twothirds were over the question of public accommodations. dealing with the affront to the dignity of the individual negro who can find admission to a motel or hotel or restaurant or a moving picture house because of the way in which they run their exclusionary policy. twothirds was directly related to title ii. the rest of them were directly related to public facilities. that is. parks and playgrounds and golf courses and similar places. which are maintained directly by public money. either by a municipality or a state. others related to the question of the desire to be registered to vote and the exclusionary practices by registrars or the harassment or intimidation of that right by public officials. especially in the socalled black counties. the 100 counties which stretch across the deep south. they are attributable also to other problems that relate. forexample. to law enforcement. which again we are trying to deal with to some extent in the bill. they are attributable to the fact that there is segregation in federalstate programs. i gave an example the other day of the unbelievable fact that in certain states of the south. there is a department of agriculture. agent to administer farm programs. he is called a negro county agent because his job is to deal with negro farmers. aher county agent deals with white farmers. i have cataloged these demonstrations to show that the great preponderance of them has involved the most controverted title of the bill. title ii. wonder it is so controverted. so deep is the feeling of those who believe something should be done to redress their grievance. indeed. it should be redressed on this score. so the demonstrations bear a direct relation to what we are trying to accomplish in law. the answer is to have justice in law. that is the best answer to demonstrations. demonstrations must be confined to those which are lawful. the public can hope to avoid some inconvenience which. when compared with the objective sought to be served. should . in all equity. be denied. the public should  deny those rights merely because of the fact that they will be somewhat incorfvenienced. finally. as i think those of us who are fighting for the bill deeply believe. this is a struggle for the soul of. the nation. it is unthinkable in moral and religious terms that in our country any standard of j udgment perfaining t the relationship of manto man can.be based upon the: fact that one mans skin is a different color from aher mans. one of the greatest things which has taken.place. in -the civil -rights field at long last has been the full and unstinted intercession of the. great -church organizations. the synagogue -organizations. the great religious community of the united states has at last awakened to the fact that this is a struggle for the morality and soul of the nation. it is for these reasons that i am much more optimistic in this debate than i have ever been before that at long last we can have a meaningful civil rights bill.
