i will say to the senator from tennessee that it is general legislation. but it is extremely fair and equitable legislation. i read from the committee report. which is very brief. and which i think cover- the question rather clearly: the committee on banking and currency. to whom was referred the bill to permit a first preference for former owners of certain dwellings being sold under lanham war housing act. having considered the same. report favorably thereon without amendment and recommend that the bill do pass. under the existing provisions of section 607 (b) of the lanham act. preference in the purchase of all permanent housing is required to be given (1) to veteran occupants. (2) veteran occupants. and (3) to veteran occupants who intend to occupy the housing. most of the dwellings being disposed of under the lanham act were built by the federal government and were  in existence at the time the government acquired the property in the project in which they are located. in one project. the shanks village project in new york. and possibly in one or two other isolated cases. however. at the time the federal government acquired the property a small number of permanent dwellings were already located on the site. this bill would give to the former owners of these existing dwellings a preference in purchasing them prior to that of veterans and present tenants. it would  give any preference to former owners of real property with respect to the sale of vacant land or of housing which was constructed by the government. the bill. it is important to e. gives the administrator discretion in granting preference to former owners. this discretion could be used to take care of situations such as exist in one project where some of the dwellings are located on land which has been reserved for rightofway of a federally aided highway. in such an instance it would  be feasible for the first preference to be given to former owners of the houses. there may be other cases where it would  be practicable to give such a preference. the housing administrator could also provide a reasonable time limit on the duration of the preference or attach appropriate conditions to the sale. for example. that families  residing in the houses shall have a stated time in which to find other accommodations before they can be evicted. since your committee has been advised by the housing administrator that the legislation would avoid hardship to former owners. since it affects  more than an estimated 70 housing accommodations. and since your committee is satisfied that it would  disrupt the disposition program  impair the aforementioned general preference provisions. your committee recommends that it be enacted.
. the absurdity of this proposal to exempt mrs. murphys grandfather in the socalled grandfather clause is patent. if this amendment called for the exemption of housing erected prior to the war between the states. there might be a point to it. you might just as well say that only people born after the enactment of this bill can take advantage of it and make as much sense. i trust this amendment will be defeated.
. it is with a very real sense of pride that i call attention today to an organization. with headquarters in connecticut. which is observing its 40th year of service to children. their families and communities. save the children federation. inc.. walk. conn.. the oldest voluntary agency for child sponsorship in the united states has. in these past four decades. played a significant role in helping children rise from poverty both within the united states and in many nations overseas. save the children federation came into being in 1932 in the midst of our greatest depression. initially it sought to feed and clothe the children of southern appalachia who indeed were suffering much from the ecoic woes of those dark days. from this early role as a relief organization save the children has become a symbol throughout the u.s. and in many lands overseas for assistance.  in the usual sense of handouts. but rather in programs of selfhelp which recognize the inherent desire of all people to increase their well being through their own initiative. but little of the work of this organization would have been possible without the openhanded support of millions of american contributors and sponsors. who recognized that through save the children federation they could lend a hand to the less fortunate without impairing the dignity of those they helped. it was during world war ii that save the children took on international dimensions. americans from all walks of life responded to the needs of british children bombed from their homes during the nazi blitz. entire communities. schools. and day care centers were recipients. through scf. of american aid. following the war scf created a school sponsorship program for france. belgium. and the netherlands. as the memory of conflict diminished scf moved into other nations in europe and the near east. sponsors were aiding children in finland. italy. west germany. austria. greece. and leba. it was during these late postwar years that the scf philosophy of selfhelp burgeoned into community development. in 1959 the community development foundation. the cooperating agency of scf. was founded. but the world. as we all k too well. has  been at peace. natural cataclysm and war has been the lot of all too many of us in the past quarter century. but scfs role has  wavered. when a 5day blizzard struck a navaho reservation in our southwest. scf was among the first agencies to offer assistance. the guns of the korean war were hardly stilled before scf began programs of community development and child sponsorships. the earthquake in peru and the tidal wave in what was then called east pakistan.  bangladesh. brought immediate reaction from save the children federation and the community development foundation. through selfhelp programs in these devastating areas. children. families. and communities were enabled to nick up the threads of life again. in south vietnam. scf and cdf have played an imposing role in helping many of these warweary people toward a better life. whether in colombia. tanzania. appalachia. or among the many tribes of american indians. scf and its staff have been ambassadors of good will. eschewing the role of vocalizer for that of listener. scf has pioneered a foreign aid direction which might well be emulated by our own government. the philosphy of selfhelp has been proven by scf and cdf throughout the world. people have found within themselves an ability to quite literally move mountains. with minimal incentives provided by scf and cdf in the form of cash and food. they are creating new vistas for their children through better education: improved nutrition is giving families an increased ability to work. community benefits spurring cultural and ecoic advances. and the overriding benefit to all is an increased ecoic wellbeing which reduces unemployment. and replaces apathy with a new zest for living. i am proud of what this connecticutbased group has offered to children and their families these past 40 years. and proud of the support americans have given this worthy cause.
. as far as housing is concerned. the war is still on. we may be reducing here several million dollars for opa over what the senate provided. but i do  believe that my constituents can afford that kind of ecoy. this is a regrettable conclusion for me as there are other provisions of this report which i favor very much.
. whether or  we shall have a comprehensive national housing program this session in answer to the overwhelming demand of our people generally. and especially of veterans. is  squarely up to the house. at a time when the united states is taking the leadership for world reconstruction and when our youth may be called on for new sacrifices in the interests of the nation. it is only fitting that their needs in a critical housing shortage should be recognized and met. history gives us ground for grave concern. a bill. similar to the moderrized taftellenderwagner bill which just passed in the other body. passed the senate in the seventyninth congress but died in the house as it was  reported out of committee. the banking and currency committee  annces hearings to begin next week. so far so good. members interested in this legislation will have an opportunity at the hearings to demonstrate their support by testifying or filing a statement with the committee. but we must  have a repetition of 1946. veterans have expressed themselves decisively through the national veterans housing conference held here in washington on march 1. 1948. members of the house have expressed themselves through their signatures on discharge petition  6 for the bill. the majority report of the joint committee on housing has already supported the most controversial features of the bill after full public investigationlow rent federally assisted housing. slum clearance. and urban redevelopmentand the other body has  only included these in the bill. but has also restored the rural housing title. amendments to bring the house bill in line with the bill passed in the other body will be proposed if it must be brought up on the discharge petition. but i sincerely hope that a renewed effort to get signatures on the discharge petition. especially among those of the 204 veterans in the house who have  yet signed. will be made unnecessary by seasonable committee action. and that we shall  have a repetition of the oleo situation on housing. there is appended hereto the principal resolution adopted by 1.350 official delegates from posts and chapters of the following national veterans organizations recognized by the national veterans housing conference held in washington. d. c.. february 29 and march 1. 1948: veterans 6f foreign wars. catholic war veterans. jewish war veterans of the united states. american veterans of world war ii. disabled american veterans. american veterans committee. marine corps league. the italian american war veterans. american prisoners of war. the armynavy union. also in attendance at this conference were delegates from many american legion posts. who were also recognized by the conference. mayors of leading cities. representatives of municipal housing authorities. of trades unions. welfare organizations. and other civic groups.
. may i point out that in the lanham act. which dealt with this very same question during world war ii. there was a provision dealing with this very same issue. and i would like to read it. it appears on page 2. public law 137 of the seventyseventh congress. and reads as follows: public works shall be provided on the basis of need and in determining need discrimination shall be made on account of race. creed. or color. "public works" as used in the lanham act was in substance the same as "community facilities" used in this bill. that was included in the law and it was felt to have been useful and advantageous at that time. i might point out. too. perhaps we would  have had to discuss this situation at all on the floor of the house if in the report of the committee this matter had been dealt with. i regret very much that apparently the committee did  see fit to deal with this particular issue. i call the attention of the committee of the whole to the fact that in the other body the committee which reported this bill had the following to say about this particular question in its report. i quote from page 41 of senate report  189 on this bill s. 349. as follows: your committee expects that in the provision of housing by the federal government under this title and in the provision. or operation and maintenance. of community facilities and services assisted by this title there shall be equality of treatment of persons of all races. religions. and national origins who are to be served by them. it seems to me that the situation we face here is very analogous to that which we faced in the armed services where a great many of us have been trying hardwith considerable progress already shownto eliminate patterns of segregation. this bill deals with civilian defense workers. many of whom will come from the th. middle west. west. and similar areas. they will go into areas where segregation has traditional acceptance in the course of their defense work as many defense production installations are being located there. we are trying to get the most.  the least. manpower. so i submit to the committee of the whole that in this particular defense effort we should  curtail the amount of personnel which we could get by introducing practices inimical to attracting them. the fundamental constitutional question involved has been often debate ..so also has the adverse influence of the discrimination and segregation we are considering on the standing of our country abroad. it seems elementary that in a defense mobilization situation a very special effort must be made to rule out arbitrary differences of treatment among american citizens working on a common defense project. i believe that as a defense measure the amendment should pass.
. this amendment. if adopted. would result in giving an opportunity to veterans who had a cutoff date as of april 20. 1950. and could  avail themselves of the 60 percent. $7.500 veterans guaranteed housing loan because they had utilized some part of the veterans housing loan availability before then. members will remember that before then such housing loan availability was limited to a guaranty of 50 percent of the loan or $4.000 maximum. it would give those veterans the opportunity to get a guaranteed housing loan for the difference between what they had guaranteed before and $7.500 or 60 percent of the new loan. whichever was lessto make such a single new housing loan. what the committee amendment does is to extend that very same privilege which i have described but only to a veteran who has availed himself of a business or farm loan.  to a veteran who has availed himself to some extent of a guaranteed home loan. my amendment is designed to eliminate that distinction. in the first place. as i said before. there was a cutoff date and a veteran who had borrowed say $500 on a mortgage loan prior to april 20. 1950. could  thereafter borrow more than the remainder of $4.000 maximum or 50 percent of the loan. whereas a veteran who had  already availed himself to some extent of his guaranteed housing loan privilege could get $7.500 maximum or 60 percent of a loan. which represented a distinct preference so far as he was concerned. the veterans administration set about to issue some regulation saying that in exceptional circumstances a veteran who had to some extent availed himself of his guaranteed housing loan privilege might avail himself of the balance of $7.500. the housing act of 1950 had used the term "other compelling reasons devoid of fault on the part of the veteran." these exceptional circumstances were as follows: if he had to change his home. and i  refer to veterans regulations issued on september 10. 1950. by reason of health or if he had to change his home because of "loss of employment" or where the veteran is transferred by his employer. also. and i  read. "such other reasons as the veterans administration finds in individual cases to be compelling. where disposal of the property becomes a practical necessity due to factors over which the veteran had control." obviously this regulation is dated. for example. veterans have had to give up their homes in order to take defense jobswithout necessarily losing a joband veterans have had to give up their homes when they went into the armed services and wanted their families to be somewhere near them. these needs will continue. because of this new situation which we are facing today. with a great deal of home displacement. the same privilege which is afforded to veterans who have made a business loan should be given to these other veterans. they ought to be extended to the veteran who has to some extent used his guaranteed home loan availability before april 20. 1950. as well. i point out that there are some 2.500.000 guaranteed housing loans that have been made through the veterans administration. whereas there are only about 140.000 business loans and about 61.000 farm loans. so that the veterans i am talking about represent a much larger class than those already covered by the committees amendment. i think this is equitable. i think it is just. i introduced it as h. r. 1014 january last. i might say that omar b. ketchum. director. the veterans of foreign wars. has indicated in a letter to me. which i will put in the record. that he thinks this proposal highly meritorious. also i have a letter from the national legislative director of the disabled american veterans. francis m. sullivan. promising support. i think it is a measure of equality as betwebn veterans and ought to be enacted at the same time we pass this committee amendment.
that is  so. because education does deal with rural areas. for example. higher education. impacted areas. and the various items of elementary and secondary education where there is poverty. those items deal with rural areas. water and air pollution deal with rural areas. certainly lowincome housing is  being built in the smaller cities of the country. prevention and detection of crime. training and employment of disadvantaged persons. the war on povertyall quite clearly deal with rural problems.
. the new york situation. of course. is a very complicated one. with hundreds of thousands of tenants in very low rent situations because of the nature of the accommodations which are also subsidized. we are dealing here with approximately a million and a quarter units. rental units. and with much decontrol having taken place already since 1970. when decontrol began. my opinion is this: i am sympathetic to the need for upgrading new york citys real estate. there is question about that. i am sure that rent control has an effect. but i believe that if we are going to link this to rent control. we will defeat our purpose. for the many reasons i have mentioned and which already have been mentioned. the secretary of the treasury has plenary power. all we are giving him is authority. therefore. i think senator proxmires advice is rightto wit. that the committee continue to have this under its control. that in its monitoring capacity. it deal with such action as should be taken. that the secretary of the treasury is able to put all the pressure that needs to be put on new york city. the senate and the united states will  be committed. except as the secretary of the treasury commits it. i believe that if we try to get into some sweeping provision here in the bill. we are bound to be unjust or unacquainted or uiented with respect to the basic relationships between one type of building. one type of tenant and the other. like many of these things in a big situation. i have doubt that we will find things. such as discrimination. which we have to expect in a longstanding situation such as this. which extends since the end of world war ii. i hope very much that within those parameters we may act on this bill. which really is an emergency proposition. the senator from th carolina and the committee will  be giving up a measure of control over the situation. because the bill is only an authorization. and the secretary of the treasury still has very strong control over the details of it.
