s $42million program to retrain unemployed engineers and technicians. but i think a more productive approach is one taken by a much smaller joint hudlabor department pilot project that guarantees jobs in local. state. and county government to the participating engineers at the completion of a brief training period. with this in mind. i plan to introduce four bills. the first calls for the establishment of statewide conversion assistance corporations. the bill approaches the unemployment and conversion problem on a regional basis. it envisions statewide corporations being instituted in those states in which the unemployment rate for the previous year has exceeded the national average. the ecoic development administration of the department of commerce would be authorized to fund the conversion assistance corporation. once the eda is satisfied that a corporations charter adheres to the very broad federal guidelines established by the legislation. the department of commerce would make a onetime grant to the conversion assistance corporation. which would then act at its own discretion with-. in its charter provisions. the basic objective of the corporations would be to provide ecoic assistance to areas suffering high unemployment caused by cutbacks in federal spending or by loss of industry due to relocation or changing ecoic conditions. they would achieve this goal by participating with existing lending institutions through loan guarantees in making capital available to businesses when banks are reluctant to take the risks but the prospects for the ventures are good. together with the loan guarantee program. market assistance would be mandatory to help businesses investigate and operate in new areas. the maximum life of each conversion assistance corporation would be 10 years. this program is  simply aher form of federal subsidy. for the conversion assistance corporation would be authorized to charge an additional halfpercent interest for that portion of the loan it guarantees and. at its discretion. to charge for its managment assistance services. at the end of its lifetime. all funds remaining in the conversion assistance corporations capital fund would be returned to the federal government. it is generally recognized that a guarantee of the type described will have a multiplier effect on the creation of new venture capital. this legislation calls for an authorization of $250 million. if a massachusetts conversion assistance corporation were formed with a grant of $10 million. it is fair to assume that $100 million of new venture capital would be generated in that state. because the conversion assistance corporation will be authorized to guarantee any portion of a loan from 10 to 100 percent. each case will be judged by members of the local corporation. based on their assessment of the strength and the resources of the particular area where the business is located. and on the prospects for success. it must be emphasized that the basic purpose of a conversion assistance corporation is to provide guarantees for venture capital for new or existing firms to enter new fields and thus provide new employment opportunities. the second bill that i will introduce is the peacetime conversion assistance act. this bill is designed to provide relocation and training assistance and mortgage interest supplements to adversely affected workers separated from their employment because of the termination of a defense or space contract. it would allow the secretary of defense to offer such assistance to the workers laid off by a firm that performed a substantial amount of its work for the last 3 years under any space or defense agency contract. the bill is intended  only to cover workers in the conventional aerospace firms. but also to assist workers from academic or other profit organizations who have been left jobless as a result of cutbacks in the defenseand spacerelated efforts at those institutions. this bill draws heavily upon the concept that direct and comprehensive assistance should be made available to workers dislocated by a change in government funding priorities. the adjustment assistance provisions of the trade expansion act of 1962 and the automotive products act of 1965 both offered several forms of direct financial help for workers laid off or left jobless as a result of a change in our international trade policies. the framers of both bills recognized that when government increases imports. unemployment results in many marginal firms. and it is the responsibility of government to assist those injured by the change in trade policy. this bill seeks to extend the same protection to an industry whose workers have also been injured as a result of a change in government policy. the largest customer of aerospace firms is the federal government. the governments decision to reduce drastically defense and space expenditures has put large numbers of highly skilled men and women out of work. the government should be ready. willing. and able to assist these people in finding new employment. too little attention has been spent on the specific programs that can insure this. one of the greatest problems for many unemployed is the monthly mortgage payment. under the provisions of this legislation. mortgage interest assistance payments will be available to help defray the mortgage payments at a time when an individual is least able to pay them. a recent report by the research firm of arthur d. little. inc.. commissioned by the massachusetts department of commerce and development. stressed the great need to develop such space and defenserelated industries as pollution control machinery. health care delivery equipment. and computer peripheral manufacturing as a means of utilizing the talents left unemployed by the aerospace industry. however. we must recognize that even the most talented among the unemployed face an adjustment and can be expected to produce immediately. while the principles of fluid mechanics or solid state fuel systems may hold great promise in their application to the problems of air and water pollution. they can be fully applied overnight by their former practitioners in the defense and aerospace industries. a significant period of orientation must be allowed. this bill. then. seeks to help the unemployed pursue new careers in fields of their choosing. many would return to school for retraining if they could afford it. when one has a greatly reduced income or income at all. it is nearly impossible to consider seriously reequipping oneself with the skills one needs to enter a new field. in fact. the payment of tuition is impossible. this legislation would allow the secretary of labor to pay training assistance allowances to the unemployed. these payments would permit an individual to return to college or graduate school for a full year of study. the third bill i will introduce is one which i first proposed last year. it passed the senate as an amendment to the military authorization bill only to be deleted in the housesenate conference. the provision is entitled "the domestic applications of defense research." it provided for a panel composed of members of domestic agencies. whose task is to monitor the type of research being supported by the department of defense. new concepts will be made available to appropriate domestic departments to assist in developing new approaches to our pressing urban needs. the fourth bill will be in the nature of an amendment designed to expand the functions and the role of the general accounting office. in my opinion. there is a need for additional technical support for congressional offices when there are questions concerning government contracts. frequently. manufacturers raise problems involving procurement policy and the techogical requirements of a contract. but the general accounting office lacks the expertise to fully answer these questions. accordingly. i am preparing a proposal for the national science foundation to fund a curriculum developed for highly qualified engineers to undergo a full academic years preparation in governmental functions and contracts. this will lead to the establishment of a corps of hightly trained scientific personnel responsible. through the general accounting office. to the congress. their task will be to respond to and initiate inquiries reigarding federal procurement policies. this would apply to defense and domestic agencies. this tool will permit much closer. indepth. and continuing evaluation of maj or federal procurement proiects. i am convinced that such a capability will reduce the type of cost overruns associated with the c5a procurement. additionally. it will bring into meaningful federal service the skills and critical analytic abilities of a large number of scientific and engineering personnel. these then. are four bills i will introduce. hopefully. they will provide: one. a method of increasing jobs by an infusion of risk capital in areas of high unemployment. two. a series of employee benefits for displaced aerospace workers until the demand for their services increases. three. a method of monitoring military research to ascertain opportunities for civilian application. and four. an expansion of the personnel and functions of the general accounting office. these bills. of course. will have to be supplemented by national fiscal and monetary policy aimed in the same direction. but i believe that they can contribute substantially to ecoic recovery and a reduction in the unemployment rate. the difficulties we face in restoring the ecoic health of the country are  simple. but i believe we can once again create an ecoy which is both mature and productive. i am convinced that through careful analysis. constructive actions. and a national willingness to turn to new courses. we can generate a surge of productivity and new directions which will fully utilize our unequaled human and natural resources.
