. i suggest. therefore. that the overall definition of the policy problem and even the nature of the most effective solutions to that problem are fairly obvious. the only thing that is  yet obvious is what the congress of the united states is going to do about it. and those of us who have worked on these issues for some years are deeply disappointed. the apparent response of the senate energy committee is to do simply hing. there is really other way to interpret this legislation before us. the accompanying report characterizes development of standards as "an unnecessary intrusion" without any adequate explanation. instead. we are presented with a bill which provides that the secretary may collect information and make suggestions about rates to commissions. or to regulated utilities. which happen to be holding hearings. these suggestions are to be essentially ad hoc. based on formalized body of federal policy. and the departments ability to be a presence at all depends on future appropriations for staff. also. the secretarys rights as a party in any proceeding are so limited by this measure that they are less than those of any other party to the case. the secretary may  appeal even an arbitrary and capricious rate decision. thus. hing requires consideration of her or his recommendation. indeed. there may be a bias against such consideration since regulators usually feel a need to protect their decisions against possible appeal. finally. we are asked to enact a great many studies. including a continuation of the kind of research efforts we authorized 2 years ago precisely so that by this time we could make some policy determinations about appropriate federal strategies. i think if we are frank about what has happened in the course of consideration of this measure. we will be forced to admit that the timidity of this approach is a direct result of the emotional symbolic appeals that have characterized discussions of this issue. a massive and expensive campaign of letters to stockholders following a format suggested by utilities national trade associations has caused unwarranted fears among those who depend on utility stocks for income. the kind of rhetoric that is typical in the letters from the utilities to their owners include such threats as "the very survival of the united states as a free nation is threatened." or "this is a doomsday plan" or "this is an attempted power grab by washington federalists"-a phrase which many companies seemed to fancy. and finally. "the free enterprise system will be doomed." i have some examples of this widely disseminated sense and i ask unanimous consent that they be printed in the record following my remarks.
