. in two deeply troubled lands at the southern end of africa. missionaries from abroad. as well as local churchmen. strive to carry the message of the christian gospel and do what they can to alleviate the suffering of the african peoples. but ministering to these unfortunate africans has become increasingly difficult under apartheid. that cruel system governs all human life in the republic of south africa and in the international mandated territory of south west africa which south africa rules and refuses to turn over to the jurisdiction of the united nations. in recent years. foreign missions find it steadily more difficult to work in south west africa as well as in south africa. in particular. churchman after churchman has been required by the south african government to leave south africa and south west africa. the month of june 1968 marks the termination of one more fine and selfless mission to south west africa. for the south african government has ordered the departure of a distinguished american humanitarian. churchman. and missionary. bishop robert h. mize. bishop of damaraland since 1960. mr. mize is a graduate of the university of kansas and of the union theological seminary. he served his home state of kansas for many years before entering upon his work in africa. the st. francis boys home. which he founded in salina. kans.. stands as a continuing monument to this good man who has been so brusquely forced out of the international mandated territory he had come to think of as "home". in south africa. as well as south west africa. both church and press have protested the bishops ouster for which reason has been given. all to avail. so the peoples of south. west africa must lose a beloved counselor and pastor. and a fine career must be prematurely terminated. or at the least directed at this late date into other paths. i read into the record three examples of reactions in south africa and south west africa to the bishops ouster. first a letter to the cathedral parish by the very reverend c. winter. dean of st. georges cathedral in windhoek. the capital of south west africa. second. a letter to the editor of the cape argus of cape town. republic of south africa. and third an editorial. entitled "bishop mize." published by the cape times. also of cape town. south africa. as follows:
. the bedrock principle upon which the first amendment was founded is the total separation of church and state and the complete involvement of the state in religious exercise. the proposed amendment to the constitution  before us does violence to this fundamental principle. because it necessarily involves the state in the sponsorship of a religious exercise. this is true whether the language reads "deinational prayer" or "voluntary prayer or meditation." in either case. the state would be involved in the writing of a prayer. the furnishing of classroom space. the designation of a period for prayer during official school hours. or similar activities by which the state gives positive sanction and encouragement to a religious exercise. this would constitute a definite break in the wall of separation between church and state that should and must be maintained. moreover. to say that because the prayer would be voluntary and child would be compelled to participate is to ige the fact of peer pressure which will inevitably influence a youngster. if a majority of students chose to participate in a voluntary prayer exercise. there would surely be great pressure on the miity to conform. as .he supreme court of wisconsin said in the case of weiss against district board in 1890: when . . . a small miity of the pupils in the public school is excluded for any cause from a stated school exercise. particularly when such a cause is apparent hostility to the bible which a majority of the other students have been taught to revere. from that moment the excluded pupil loses caste with his fellows. and is liable to be regarded with aversion and subjected to reproach and insult. for a school to sponsor a period of voluntary prayer during official school hours and using school facilities would be. in effect. to subject a child to this kind of compulsion. this is something a state should  be permitted to do.  only is the proposed constitutional amendment unwise for the reasons just stated. but it is a dangerous precedent for future erosions of the protections which the first amendment was designed to guarantee. those who favor this amendment should recognize that it places a foot in the door and makes it easier to justify further alterations of the constitution when some group dislikes a particular supreme court decision. the bill of rights is a lasting document. and it should  be changed on an ad hoc basis in response to isolated rulings of the courts. needless to say. those who today favor amending the constitution may well oppose its being amended in the future on some other issue. yet their action today would make future amendment easier because of the precedent that would be established. likewise. if we today allow the governments foot to be inserted in the door of the church. we could well be unwittingly paving the way for even greater and more threatening intrusions by the government into religious affairs. we are a religious nation. i believe that more prayer in our homes and in our churches would help our society. but government sponsorship of prayer would  help prayer. which in my view is a personal and an individual experience. we all k that government is good at some things and bad at some things. prayer. in my view. would be better left to the family in the privacy of their homes and in the churches. accordingly. i urge the defeat of mr. buchanans amendment and of the original amendment of mr. wylie on the grounds that. in the words of the distinguished prof. philip d. kurland: at best. the proposed amendment invites stateimposed religious dogma and religious strife. at worst. it assures them.
. my distinguished colleague from new york continues to perform a public service in exposing the largely unchanged and still dire plight of the hungarians of transylvania. which was the subject of many speeches and draft resolutions in the congress during 196566. unfortunately the hope that their situation would improve in the wake of foreign policy changes by the rumanian government did  come true to any substantial degree. i am informed that the intelligentsia is still being dispersed by state pressure to take jobs only outside of the province. or at least outside the hungarianinhabited regions of the province. the szekely countries of southeastern transylvania which contain over 35 percent of the miity are becoming more and more the appalachia of the rumanian state as investments remain low and industry is established in regions outside of the szekely areas. the school question is worse than in 1965. even the last two collegelevel institutions. the medicalpharmacological college at turgu muresmarosvasarhelyand the teachers college in the same city are increasingly filled with rumanian faculty and students. much hope was expressed about the reorganization of the administrative regions which occurred as a result of the february 16. 1968. decree. however. i am informed that substantial improvement occurred. it is true that the districts detached from the muresmagyar autoous region in december 1960 were  given the status of an independent countycovasnabut in return. the autoous region was dissolved and replaced by one purely hungarian countyhargitawhich. however. has a rumanian party secretary and council chairman. and a mixed nationality countymuresto which the new reorganization decree added further areas with rumanian and german population. in regard to religious freedom. the lifting of the house arrest of bishop aron marten in the wake of prime minister maurers visit to the pope is a definite improvement. but isolation of the clergy persists and the greek catholic church remains forbidden. under these circumstances we do well in reminding ourselves and the administration that we do  consider the measures of the last year by any means a sufficient solution of the problem which consists of the deprivation of human and civil rights of the hungarian miity in the province1.75 millionand in this anniversary year of the universal declaration of human rights we hope that the rumanian government will realize the need for positive and broad actions in order to restore equality of rights to the hungarians of transylvania.
. in june of 1900. thousands of chinese belonging to a secret society in china. called the boxers. entered peking. looting and killing chinese christians and foreigners. it was the goal of the boxer rebellion to eliminate all foreign influence. foreign religion and foreign people from china. the boxers laid siege to all of the foreign legations in peking. including that of the united states. and slaughtered 250 foreigners and hundreds of chinese christians in the environs of peking. american indignation was at a white heat. matched only by the horror that we felt at what was happening. two months after the fighting in peking started. an international military rescue force arrived to lift the siege on the legations and to pacify areas of th china. in september of 1901 the foreign powers forced the manchu government to enter into a very harsh agreement. the terms of which included the payment to the western nations of the then incredible sum of $333 million. payable over 40 years at extremely high interest rates. several years later the united states. in a very unique undertaking. declined to accept further payments from china with the proviso that the sums which mally would have been paid under this agreement. instead of coming to the united states. be used to educate young chinese in american universities. hundreds of young chinese were thus able to come to the united states. be educated here and simultaneously to teach us more about their native land. in 1942. following the attack on pearl harbor. americans were enraged. and rightfully so. at all japanese and everything associated with japan. (a zealot even chopped down some cherry trees next to the tidal basin.) the united states rounded up all americans of japanese ancestry. including many who were longtime u.s. citizens. and most of whom lived in california. and shipped them off to internment camps in arkansas. idaho. and elsewhere. the closest japaneseunited states fighting was 2.000 miles from california. this action by u.s. authorities was contrary to our constitution and in violation of the rights of those interred. americans look back with different views on those two incidents. americans look back with pride on what we did regarding the boxer indemnification. and we reflect with shame on our handling of those japaneseamericans in california who were shipped off to the internment camps.  80 years after the boxer rebellion. and 38 years after pearl harbor. we are confronted by an equally enraging situation. our embassy in tehran has been seized by a mob described as students. americans are being held hostage. our flag demeaned. our nation mocked. there is a natural reaction in this country to vent our sentiments on the nearest iranian we can findand it turns out there are a multitude of them around. some 50.000 students scattered across our nation in various colleges and universities. some iranian students in this country have banded together to demonstrate. shouting curses on the shah and praise for khomeini. americans. disgusted by such actions by guests in our nation. have on occasion attacked the demonstrators and mauled individuals. our government has commenced a swift and thorough review of all iranian students in the united states. any who are  complying with all terms of their student visas will be deported. other foreign students in this nation are to be held -to the same standard. never mind. if the iranians are going to play hard ball in tehran. we will play hard ball here also. public reaction to this has been enthusiastic. one carries any brief for those iranian hooligans who. under the guise of protesting. do physical damage and riot as they did early this year outside the home in california where the 90yearold mother of the shah was living. we should come down hard and swiftly on that crowd. send them back whence they came. similar treatment should be accorded any other foreign students who abuse the privileges of this nation. but what about the thousands of other. iranian students here. those who demonstrate peacefully in accordance with our laws. those whose violations of their student visas are different from thousands of other students from other nationsviolations such as  being fulltime in a university. or working parttime at some job. because of the temper of the times. do we want to have a double standard. one for iranians. one for all others. many of whom are  very friendly to this country. i do  think we want this double standard. we have long taken the view. as demonstrated in the post boxer rebellion days. that it is beneficial for this nation to have foreign students here. that is why we provided that indemnification  come to this country. to the u.s. treasury. but. instead. would be used to educate chinese students in our universities here. we learn from them and we are hopeful that they will learn from uslearn about this nations heritage. about the preciousness of freedom. come to respect what we call human rights. they will see the effectiveness of a free enterprise system. and they will experience the virtues of democracy. many students may bitterly disappoint us. but others will . because we are justifiably enraged at the actions of a particular nation. let us  either as a country or as individuals conduct ourselves in a demeaning manner or lower ourselves to the tactics employed by those on the other side. the united states is too great to seek mere revenge. let us come through this difficult period with our integrity. our selfrespect and our reputation intact.
senator. any child school prayer decision. in this case and any adult has the right as an indi- parents were suing the school board to vidual to pray anyplace. any time. any- reinstate the practice of prayer during where in this nation. midmorning breaks among kindergar-
. the amendment states that students can "direct. conduct. control or regularly attend meetings." i wonder if the senator would respond. it would  be permissible for a priest to come in and participate in a mass for a student group under this bill. would it.
. i urge my colleagues to read these two outstanding essays which i ask to be printed in todays sion of these remarks. the words are important for all of us. most particularly for disabled persons themselves who can only benefit from a community setting as stated by john shea: mentally retarded persons in small familylike groups and under the caring supervision of the house counselors. can enjoy their lives to the fullesta far cry from the stagnant and isolated atmosphere of institutions which. for too many years housed mentally retarded. the essays follow: i first place winner: john shea. gonzaga college high school) neicusonns are for everyone the beautiful old house stood stately in the long island moonlight. looking over the wooded yard that would soon echo with happy sounds. within a few days the  empty house would be home to several mentally retarded persons. most of whom had spent years living in dreary institutions. suddenly a spark. and before long tongues of fire. fed by trails of an arsonists gasoline. were racing through the newly decorated rooms. soon the proud home was reduced to ruins and with it. seemingly. the hope for a better life of my uncle and several others who were scheduled to enter the home. in defiance of the arsonists. a new home for the retarded has  risen from the ashes of the old. after almost two years in operation there is  greater community acceptance of. and even a slowly growing appreciation for. the mentally retarded in their midst. while. fortunately. this is an extreme example of community opposition to group residences for the mentally retarded. the fears and hostilities it illustrates are present in varying degrees whenever such residences are proposed. i have seen it even in my own neighborhood when a proposal for a group home for the retarded aroused fierce opposition several years ago. much of this melted away when the nearby residents found that these were harmless. loving people whose presence was  endangering them or their property values. hostility turned to resigned acceptance and finally. for some. a genuine appreciation for these fine human beings who are limited only in their ability to learn. i believe mentally retarded persons belong in the community. here they can reach their fullest potential by learning to care for themselves. to behave in socially acceptable ways. to help others. and to develop the skills that may enable some to become selfsufficient and make greater contributions to the community. here. in small familylike groups and under the caring supervision of the house counselors. they can enjoy their lives to the fullesta far cry from the stagnant and isolated atmosphere of the institutions which for too many years housed many mentally retarded. from an ecoic standpoint the costs of maintaining a retarded person in a community setting are also significantly lower than in an institution. but the greatly improved quality of life for them. and the inspiration they provide to their "mal" neighbors who are able to witness what the retarded can do when given a chance. are probably the most important reasons of all why our mentally retarded friends belong with us here in the community. with greater help from our community and church leaders and the understanding and assistance of all citizens. hopefully community residences will soon be available to all who need them. (second place winner: geoffery nwachukwu. macklin catholic high school) i believe that mentally retarded people belong in the community because that could be the one step that leads them to a full productive life. one all human beings are entitled to live. when the words mentally retarded are spoken people get a certain chill through their body. the first thing that they think of is a useless individual who is a threat and a disgrace. they invision someone who does hing for themselves or society. and is incapable of doing anything constructive or productive. to say this concept is wrong would be putting it mildly. hing could be further from the truth.  only can these people learn to do for themselves and others but they can and are capable of becoming very productive members of society. through supervised homes. specialized foster care. intermediate care facilities. and public awareness and concern mentally retarded persons can become the best they can be. the true handicap is the apathy and igance of people. its one thing to say. "hey why dont i help" and quite aher to actually get up and make a difference. to actually give a damn. but it can and is being done. there is way that i can k how it feels or what it is like to be mentally retarded because im . i can only have sympathy for the mentally retarded. never empathy. my sympathy. however. runs a little deeper than others because i have a brother whom i love very much who is mentally retarded. when i look at my brother i dont see "mentally retarded." i see a six year old boy who laughs and plays and cries like any mal six year old. he may have to try a little harder to do and understand things but he gets by just the same. the dictionary defines mental retardation as abmally slow physical. intellectual. and emotional development. in that sense we all have something that retards us. we all have some mountain to climb. one thing is certain. we cant climb them alone. help someone climb their mountain. help someone reach their peek. the trip up is a lot easier when theres somebody to hold on to.*
senator. any child school prayer decision. in this case and any adult has the right as an indi- parents were suing the school board to vidual to pray anyplace. any time. any- reinstate the practice of prayer during where in this nation. midmorning breaks among kindergar-
. the amendment states that students can "direct. conduct. control or regularly attend meetings." i wonder if the senator would respond. it would  be permissible for a priest to come in and participate in a mass for a student group under this bill. would it.
. i urge my colleagues to read these two outstanding essays which i ask to be printed in todays sion of these remarks. the words are important for all of us. most particularly for disabled persons themselves who can only benefit from a community setting as stated by john shea: mentally retarded persons in small familylike groups and under the caring supervision of the house counselors. can enjoy their lives to the fullesta far cry from the stagnant and isolated atmosphere of institutions which. for too many years housed mentally retarded. the essays follow: i first place winner: john shea. gonzaga college high school) neicusonns are for everyone the beautiful old house stood stately in the long island moonlight. looking over the wooded yard that would soon echo with happy sounds. within a few days the  empty house would be home to several mentally retarded persons. most of whom had spent years living in dreary institutions. suddenly a spark. and before long tongues of fire. fed by trails of an arsonists gasoline. were racing through the newly decorated rooms. soon the proud home was reduced to ruins and with it. seemingly. the hope for a better life of my uncle and several others who were scheduled to enter the home. in defiance of the arsonists. a new home for the retarded has  risen from the ashes of the old. after almost two years in operation there is  greater community acceptance of. and even a slowly growing appreciation for. the mentally retarded in their midst. while. fortunately. this is an extreme example of community opposition to group residences for the mentally retarded. the fears and hostilities it illustrates are present in varying degrees whenever such residences are proposed. i have seen it even in my own neighborhood when a proposal for a group home for the retarded aroused fierce opposition several years ago. much of this melted away when the nearby residents found that these were harmless. loving people whose presence was  endangering them or their property values. hostility turned to resigned acceptance and finally. for some. a genuine appreciation for these fine human beings who are limited only in their ability to learn. i believe mentally retarded persons belong in the community. here they can reach their fullest potential by learning to care for themselves. to behave in socially acceptable ways. to help others. and to develop the skills that may enable some to become selfsufficient and make greater contributions to the community. here. in small familylike groups and under the caring supervision of the house counselors. they can enjoy their lives to the fullesta far cry from the stagnant and isolated atmosphere of the institutions which for too many years housed many mentally retarded. from an ecoic standpoint the costs of maintaining a retarded person in a community setting are also significantly lower than in an institution. but the greatly improved quality of life for them. and the inspiration they provide to their "mal" neighbors who are able to witness what the retarded can do when given a chance. are probably the most important reasons of all why our mentally retarded friends belong with us here in the community. with greater help from our community and church leaders and the understanding and assistance of all citizens. hopefully community residences will soon be available to all who need them. (second place winner: geoffery nwachukwu. macklin catholic high school) i believe that mentally retarded people belong in the community because that could be the one step that leads them to a full productive life. one all human beings are entitled to live. when the words mentally retarded are spoken people get a certain chill through their body. the first thing that they think of is a useless individual who is a threat and a disgrace. they invision someone who does hing for themselves or society. and is incapable of doing anything constructive or productive. to say this concept is wrong would be putting it mildly. hing could be further from the truth.  only can these people learn to do for themselves and others but they can and are capable of becoming very productive members of society. through supervised homes. specialized foster care. intermediate care facilities. and public awareness and concern mentally retarded persons can become the best they can be. the true handicap is the apathy and igance of people. its one thing to say. "hey why dont i help" and quite aher to actually get up and make a difference. to actually give a damn. but it can and is being done. there is way that i can k how it feels or what it is like to be mentally retarded because im . i can only have sympathy for the mentally retarded. never empathy. my sympathy. however. runs a little deeper than others because i have a brother whom i love very much who is mentally retarded. when i look at my brother i dont see "mentally retarded." i see a six year old boy who laughs and plays and cries like any mal six year old. he may have to try a little harder to do and understand things but he gets by just the same. the dictionary defines mental retardation as abmally slow physical. intellectual. and emotional development. in that sense we all have something that retards us. we all have some mountain to climb. one thing is certain. we cant climb them alone. help someone climb their mountain. help someone reach their peek. the trip up is a lot easier when theres somebody to hold on to.*
. i consider myself extremely fortunate to have kn hap personally over the years. he was a quiet man. but a very strong. committed man. he gave freely of himself and his time to his many friends and the many charities he deemed worthwhile. i have read many things about hap kern. but perhaps a stonehill college citation said it all when it described him as "a humanitarian. an outstanding journalist. a dedicated citizen." he was all that and. yes. more. i will miss hap. i will miss his humor. his humility. his heart. to bettie. his lovely bride of 42 years. i offer my deepest sympathy and my most heartfelt prayers that god give her strength in the difficult days ahead.
. religious leaders in both the th and south are quietly and courageously working to strengthen the forces of reason and decency in dealing with racial discrimination in america. the significance -of their efforts is difficult to exaggerate. for law and government policy. however right and necessaryand they are both right and necessarycan. alone. insure full progress in the field of human rights. respect for human dignity. for the rights of each individual. must. if they are to endure. spring from the hearts and consciences of all americans. it is. therefore. heartening to e the stream of proclamations against racial discrimination that has issued from national gatherings of all the major religious groups in america. of even greater significance. however. is the growing evidence that individual ministers. priests. and rabbis are coming more and more to the forefront of the forces of moderation and good will in the south itself. the "second atlanta manifesto." signed by 312 ministers and rabbis in atlanta. ga.. the similar manifesto signed by 33 columbus. ga.. ministers. the actions by the virginia baptist general association. and of a great many individual ministers throughout the states in opposing the use of churches for private school purposes in the face of public school closings. the efforts by ministers and lay leaders of arkansas washburn presbytery of the presbyterian church in the united states to persuade gover faubus to reopen the little rock schoolsall of these are inspiring signs of the increasing part played by the clergy in helping to meet and resolve this great moral issue. the difficulties that confront the clergy in this effort must  be minimized. many southern clergymen who have had the courage to take a public stand on segregation have been rewarded with general charges of pastoral incompetence and discharge ices from their local congregations. the gap between pew and pulpit on this issue remains. therefore. very great. at the same time. a number of observers have ed the constructive role played by lay women and by church youth groups in advancing racial understanding. surely. these will bethey must bethe leading groups of the future. for. if our churches do  take the lead. the moral fiber of america will be severely weakened. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record several matters on the subject.
. the importance of civil rights as our  1 domestic issue is matched in increasing measure by its international implications in our role as leader of the free world. peace requires populations which are educated to believe in the priceless heritage of freedom. and there can be genuine freedom where racial segregation or discrimination continues to exist. however it may be tolerated as a social disorder. it is alien to a free society. thus. we can give content to our struggle for freedom in the world in large measure by carrying on at least with equal vigor the struggle against racial segregation or discrimination at home. it is to this problem that the reverend robert f. drinan. s.j.. addressed himself in a sermon at the mass for the advancement of civil rights in the united states. sponsored by the st. thomas more society at st. francis xavier church in new york city. saturday. ember 5. as dean of the boston college law school. he places great emphasis on the role of law in the fight against racial or religious prejudice. but he emphasizes with equal force the importance of sound public opinion and a deep religious faith along with effective laws necessary to achieve success in eliminating discrimination. i ask unanimous consent that the sermon preached by father drinan be printed at this point in the record.
 said: in accordance with the clear prohibition of the constitution. elementary or secondary school funds are allocated for constructing church schools or paying church school teachers salaries. and thus publicschool children are rightfully  counted in determining the funds each state will receive for its public schools. whose formula is improvisedthe formula  in the bill. or the formula of the junior senator from new york and myself. i respectfully submit that it is the formula  brought into the bill. so the intendment which could be drawn from what we do if we vote for that formula is that we are intending to exclude certain children from any other consideration. or that they are imported into the bill because something is going to be done about them. this proposal defies the terms of the bill. we are authorizing payment on the basis of children who would receive benefit under the bill. the bill is clear and explicit. it gives benefits only to public school children. yet when it comes to paying the states money. it is counted on the basis of more children than that. why. the only reason is to provide more money. a moment ago the majority whip. the senator from minnesota . said that 38 states would receive more the first year. certainly 38 states would receive more the first year. does that make the formula right. i could write a bill which would give 50 states more in the first year. would that make it right. is that the way we are going to legislate. is there any reason why 38 states should get more the first year. is there any reason why the money of the united states should pay for it. i have  heard any reason given. except that it is more convenient to do it. and that it would command greater support. the senator from kentucky and i conclude on this e: the only purposes for which those of us who are devoted to the idea of a federal aid to education bill can justify such a bill is to bring up the level of the very lowincome states. which can. matter how hard they try. give to their children an adequate education. we say that that must be done in the national interest. i am from new york. as is my colleague . we pay about 19 percent of all the federal taxes. the ideal bill would be a bill confined to the 12. 13. or 14 states which really need federal help. but that can be done. but. somehow or other. that can be done. we k from experience. from the debate. from the discussion. that we just can do it that way. so we have proposed the next best thing. which is to make a fiat grant to all of those states that really. on this kind of standard. may  need it. there may be reasons why they can raise money. because of taxation problems or sources of taxation. there may be districts in those particular states which need help. there may be many reasons. but. fundamentally. if we were writing a bill solely on the basis of pure need. we would write it for states which have an income that is under par. so the next best thing to do is give a fiat grant to those who are  in extremis in terms of federal aid. the senator from kentucky and i do it by our proposal. but the majority bill wants to go further than that and addand there is gilding this lily-$326 million to that amount. when it gets down to cases. it is that which is unjustified. and we present the senate an alternative means by which that money can be savedand i would  be a liberal :if i did  try to save the moneyand yet let justice be done. finally. a good deal has been said about the idea of the foundation basis. the idea of establishing the optimum basis to which states can direct their efforts. i point out that in most of the states that is precisely what the states do internally. the states. in administering the program. will have foundation money. it seems to me the greatest validator of a plan is experience. on the basis of experience. the foundation plan makes more sense than does the plan proposed by the committee. which. i repeat. is an ad hoc one. one brought in at the last moment and voted. and one which has  had the experience. the consideration. and the backing of the plan which has been presented by the senator from kentucky and myself.
but there was hing that anyone could do about that. and senator williams quite properly had a very important thesis which he wished to present. . that it is again the big. rich states which are in here for money. i dispel that thought at once. the young man is  distributing a table showing the applications on hand. my own state. for example. has an application for $500.000. which happens to be for a small catholic college called dyouville college. but colorado. for examplewhich certainly does  qualify as a big statehas $14 million in applications pending. texas has almost $26 million in applications. and minnesota has some $15 million. mississippi. for example. has almost $8 million. so this is  a problem which is unique to the big states. as a matter of fact. the big. rich states have very little involved in the applications which could be approved if $300 million were made available. it is mainly the smaller statesthe states which have. in general. less financial capabilitywhich are involved.
 i would make a response as follows: i believe a lot of good can be gained by the dialog which i think we all agree should take place. if humanly possible. if they will understand. as we speak to the people on college campuses today. that. surely. they must persuade a majority. but. if they do. then they might be more successful than the ideas that we may have. it is possible. within the context of this government. to make the most radical changes. there is hing against it. it should be something which should be encouraging to them that we can change the literal form of this government without unanimity. there is limit to what you can accomplish if you persuade egh people. if we can be catholic about our own situation. they may be anathema to senator hansen and to me. but they must :understand that our society is capable of change. many of the students have lost confldence in the legitimacy of government. that is the real essence of the problem. i welcome the words of the senator from wyoming. there is a way to change. both for us and for those with whose ideas we may disagree.
