i thank my colleague. his statement is accurate and very fair. as his statements always are. i would have preferred that the section the senator from colorado is amending remain in the bill as i introduced it and the foreign relations committee approved it. but we can always get everything we want. i am glad. speaking for myself only. to accept the senators amendment as the best that we can get under the circumstances. . i am absolutely opposed to the united states carrying on large scale mercenary operations anywheresoutheast asia or anywhere elsewithout congressional authorization. i think that if our democracy and our constitution mean anything. such authorization should be mandatory. but i think we can avoid the fact that there are ongoing mercenary operations in laos and in th vietnam financed by the united states. we k this. we k that thai troops are in laos because. after a long series of newspaper leaks and interviews with thai troops themselves. the administration finally stated publicly last year that this was so. we k of the operations in th vietnam only because of newspaper accounts. perhaps some day we are going to be officially informed of the facts on american financed ground raids in th vietnam. but i do accept the fact that these operations exist. although i believe congress should have been asked to authorize them. congress uficially has been aware of them. the armed services committees have been advised about them. as i understand. the appropriations subcommittee dealing with defense appropriations has kn about them. appropriations have been made by congress with this kledge. so. in a senseand i am sure this is the view of the majority of the members of the congressthere is some feeling that these operations have been authorized by congress and that the senate is unwilling to stop them at this particular point. with hostilities continuing. recognizing that while  necessarily agreeing. i accept the suggestion offered by the senator from colorado . although it goes against my grain to do so because of my general view of the undesirability of unauthorized mercenary operations. but i think he has proposed something which meets one of my main purposes. and that is to establish the fact that. in the future. specific congressional authorizations should be necessary.
