. before we table this amendment. or try to table it. i think it ought to be understood. and with all respect. i do  think it is understood. i support the amendment offered by the senator from california. i support it in the interest of my own state. with 181/2 million people in new york and 20 million in california. we do  have to apologize for belonging to the united states. i must say that there rings in my ears a strange e from aher day to hear the fact that because only nine states are involved means that it has got to be turned down. if we start to legislate that way in the u.s. senate. we can kiss the united states. its form of government. and its constitution goodbye. i have seen lots of people passionately defendedindividuals. or even one corporation. or even one big corporation. withstanding that that is  supposed to be very popular. i am all for it. the day we stop legislating that way. and the day we start legislating by how many states are going to be benefited. it is going to be a very sad day for the united states of america. let us find out what this is all about. let us  be in such a hurry to cry. "hey. rube." and get. rid of it. that is what this sounds like. what is at stake here. what has happened. a year or so ago we passed a law in which the united states took all this program over. that is  this bill. that is  really what is being objected to. that bill was passed a year ago. we are  proposing to increase the benefits. everybody cheers. there are many statesand they have been namedthat pay benefits above what the united states supports. and for many reasons. in the industrial states. the cost of living is higher. they have higher living conditions. everybody is going to be raised in this country. in this instance. the federal government is going to pay the tab. but because these states have had the humanity and the decency to support their people properly. they are going to be penalized. their people are  going to get the increase that everybody else is going to geteverybodybut they will get it only if the state pays for it out of its own resources. everybody else will be funded by the united states. but those nine states. because they have had the decency and the humanity to maintain excellent income levels. what the senator from california and i. and other senators. are arguing is the fear that precisely because of the argument that the senator from louisiana has used is exactly why we should win and  lose. it is precisely for that reason that we ought to be fair. we have the intelligence to see that if somebody else has been wanting to adhere to a standard. which is a decent standard. as far as their people are concerned. we are  going to be unfair to them when it comes to increasing benefits all along the line. we are  going to deny it to them because their states have proceeded in a better way. that is what it comes down to. i have very grave doubts as to whether new york state can scratch up $48 million for this. we are in lots of trouble in my state. and many other states in the list are in essentially the same position. what will happen. our beneficiaries will  get the increase that the americans in the other 49 states get. and if that is the way the united states wants to operate. that is all right. these are facts and  hyperbole. i do believe that the senate ought to understand the facts before it votes. i appreciate very much the senator from louisiana affording me the courtesy of allowing me to express my views. because the senator could have cut us off.
