. is age discrimiantion. 65 is simply an arbitrary age at which to retire. if a person is able to continue to work and chooses to do so. our laws should allow them to remain employed. by raising and eventually eliminating the age ceiling under adea. we will achieve this important goal. there is mounting evidence that mandatory retirement is neither healthful  desirable. for example. the american medical association suggests that stopping productive work and earning power leads to physical and emotional deterioration. men and women who lead productive. fulfilling lives do  necessarily lose their desire and ability to work on their 65th birthday. a nationally based harris poll found that up to onethird of retired americans would prefer to remain working if they had the opportunity. i often hear this issue raised by my onstituents. just this week. a constituent of mine in rhode island described to me .he serious problems he is facing in tryng to secure employment after being forced to retire on his 65th birthday. admittedly. if a large number of curently retired individuals rejoined the abor force there theoretically would be ewer jobs. but. in fact. the ability of the vorking elderly to afford more goods and ervices would create more jobs. the second part of this bill corrects a problem that has arisen because bona fide employee benefit plans often require retirement at age 65. as a result. the antidiscrimination intent of adea is circumvented. this bill would strengthen the age discrimination provisions of adea by clearly stating that mandatory retirement on the basis of age pursuant to the terms of employee benefit plans is  permitted. prejudice against age is as inexcusable as prejudice against race. sex. or religion. by continuing our present retirement policies. we encourage dependence rather than independence. we deny our communities the benefits that older workers can contribute. it is incumbent upon this congress to vigorously promote rather than discourage older people to remain active and productive. i urge my colleagues to give strong support to this vital legislation. by mr. nelson (for himself.
. i am pleased to join my distinguished colleague. senator humphrey. in sponsoring the senate joint resolution to designate the week before the christmas and new years holidays as national drunk and drugged driving awareness week. this joint resolution raises public awareness about the serious problem of drunk and drugged driving which exists in america today. the national transportation safety boards statistics display with horrifying clarity the role of alcohol in auto accident fatalities and injuries. in 1982. there were 38.899 accidents. which killed 43.945 people. alcohol was involved in 25.000 deaths. nearly 57 percent of the fatalities. this figure is even more disturbing when one considers that many of these alcoholrelated fatalities could be prevented. drunk or drugged driving is a broad social problem. federal and state transportation and law enforcement officials have worked diligently in recent years to keep alcohol or drugimpaired people off the road. continued public education is an essential ingredient in the fight against drunk or drugged driving. national drunk and drugged driving awareness week will establish an intensive campaign aimed at its prevention. local initiatives. such as dialaride. combined with media attention will increase public awareness of the problem. awareness will lead to prevention. alcohol and drug abuse are a leading cause of tragedy on our highways today. congress has the opportunity to take an initiative in preventing such tragedies from occurring. i urge my colleagues to join in supporting this important joint resolutione
. i am pleased to join my distinguished colleague. senator humphrey. in sponsoring the senate joint resolution to designate the week before the christmas and new years holidays as national drunk and drugged driving awareness week. this joint resolution raises public awareness about the serious problem of drunk and drugged driving which exists in america today. the national transportation safety boards statistics display with horrifying clarity the role of alcohol in auto accident fatalities and injuries. in 1982. there were 38.899 accidents. which killed 43.945 people. alcohol was involved in 25.000 deaths. nearly 57 percent of the fatalities. this figure is even more disturbing when one considers that many of these alcoholrelated fatalities could be prevented. drunk or drugged driving is a broad social problem. federal and state transportation and law enforcement officials have worked diligently in recent years to keep alcohol or drugimpaired people off the road. continued public education is an essential ingredient in the fight against drunk or drugged driving. national drunk and drugged driving awareness week will establish an intensive campaign aimed at its prevention. local initiatives. such as dialaride. combined with media attention will increase public awareness of the problem. awareness will lead to prevention. alcohol and drug abuse are a leading cause of tragedy on our highways today. congress has the opportunity to take an initiative in preventing such tragedies from occurring. i urge my colleagues to join in supporting this important joint resolutione
. in 1914. thousands of lithuanians fled their russiacupied homeland for the sanctuary of the united states and founded the american lithuanian citizens beneficial club. today. i join with all rhode islanders in congratulating this organization on 75 years of conts service to the american lithuanian community and to the state of rhode island. for threequarters of a century. the club has eased the transition process for lithuanian settlers in rhode island. at its inception. it provided a forum for american lithuanians to express freedom of religion and exprcssion long suppressed under russian rule. later. the organization helped its members obtain american citizenship. sponsoring important educational. social. mnd philanthropic activities throughout the state. the american lithuanian citizens beneficial club is truly a valuable asset to rhode island. specifically. it promotes lithuanian culture. aids the sick and infirmed. and instructs members in united states history. as the club celebrates its diamond jubilee. we salute the continued commitment and service its members have contributed to the american lithuanian community and the state. with great appreciation we wish them continued success in all their future endeavors.e
. i rise today in support of the confirmation of mr. herbert h. tate. jr.. to the position of assistant administrator for the office of enforcement at the u.s. environmental protection agency. the position to which mr. tate has been inated is an important one. the environmental protection agencys office of enforcement is critical to the coordination of effective and efficient enforcement actions against violators of the environmental laws we pass. laws passed to protect our environment. our health. and the health of our children. many of these environmental laws are complex. their enforcement requires a working kledge of separate and detailed laws on air. water. toxic substances. and solid wastes. but. perhaps most importantly. at a time when resources are in short supply. effective enforcement of these laws requires an ability to coordinate the myriad requirements applicable to all of our natural resources so that each suit filed by the epa achieves the greatest amount of environmental benefit possible. i have doubt that herb tate is up to the task. having spent nearly 5 years as the county prosecutor for new jerseys largest county. herb is accustomed to handling a large and difficult case load under the pressures of an evershrinking budget. i am confident that herb tate will fulfill the responsibilities of his new position with distinction to the benefit of the epa. the public and the environment.
. i urge my colleagues to consider the impact of dr. hoops ilnation on the public health field in general. and on women in particular. i will vote " on this ination because i do  believe that dr. hoop is qualfied to lead us in quest for improved public health.*
. i certainly share the deepfelt commitment of the senator from california to improving the quality of life for the 4 million americans disabled by paralysis and preventing this catastrophic condition from afflicting many millions more in the future. i understand that recent research findings about the progression of events. occurring from the molecular to the systemic level. which lead to paralysis are rapidly changing our perception about the cause and effect relationship between neural injury and paralysis and bringing about a view that neural injury and paralysis should be considered as a neurological function disorder which can be treated and. it is hoped. prevented. the "senator jacob javits centers of excellence" are to be designed so that multidisciplinary teams of the most capable scientists would address fundamental biological issues of nervous system structure and function. these centers of excellence would pro. vide broad research freedom and funding stability over longer periods of time. i assure the senator from california that paralysis research is an important area of research which the centers could address. i believe a center such as the national research institute for neural injury would be eligible to apply for funding under the centers program and i would certainly encourage them to do so once nincds begins its application process.
. i certainly share the deepfelt commitment of the senator from california to improving the quality of life for the 4 million americans disabled by paralysis and preventing this catastrophic condition from afflicting many millions more in the future. i understand that recent research findings about the progression of events. occurring from the molecular to the systemic level. which lead to paralysis are rapidly changing our perception about the cause and effect relationship between neural injury and paralysis and bringing about a view that neural injury and paralysis should be considered as a neurological function disorder which can be treated and. it is hoped. prevented. the "senator jacob javits centers of excellence" are to be designed so that multidisciplinary teams of the most capable scientists would address fundamental biological issues of nervous system structure and function. these centers of excellence would pro. vide broad research freedom and funding stability over longer periods of time. i assure the senator from california that paralysis research is an important area of research which the centers could address. i believe a center such as the national research institute for neural injury would be eligible to apply for funding under the centers program and i would certainly encourage them to do so once nincds begins its application process.
thousands of people will die if we do  go ahead and appropriate more moneys for both aids research and basic research. ody likes to see their money. excuse the expression. go down the chute. and i am hoping it does  go down the chute because some miracle will happen in the next several months for those who have the diesase and in its fullblown stage will be the beneficiary of a new discovery. i do  k when that is going to come. i can give you the date. i can tell you who is going to manufacture it. i am just hoping and in the meantime trying to buy some time. that is the essence of this nation. and i am doing it within a program for emergency funding. i am seeing those who stand up on the floor and say. "this might lead to an entitlement. we might have to pay more money in the future." this is to me almost the worst moment of the u.s. senate as far as that $30 million is concerned. i can understand the debate with the senator from th carolina. we are going to debate on a variety of issues ad infinitum. but to see this point of order raised and that $30 million go away is one of our bleakest moments around here. i will  see it happen because people do  want to stand up and be counted. the helms amendment is for a longterm issue. and this one is more immediate
i wish to call the attention of the senate to the lead editorial published this morning in the washington post. the editorial is entitled "security in old age." and in it attention is called. in a very proper and helpful way. to the program of medical care for the aging which was introduced by me. with the cosponsorship of a number of other senators. testimony was taken on this bill before the ways and means committee of the other body. to some extent. the program is characterized in the editorial by this comment: "this strikes us as a most constructive idea." . in order to help senators in their study of the bill. i ask unanimous consent to have both the editorial and a brief summary of the bill. as introduced. printed in the record.
. i should like to include as part of my remarks a recent editorial from the new york times. on senator hills retirement and invite particular attention to the lead sentence of that editorial-"lister hill has done more for the healtlh of americans in modern times than any man outside the medical profession." magnificently done. lister hill. you have earned the laurels and the contentment of the coming many years.
. at present 20 million americans are 65 or older. by 1985. this total is expected to be 25 million. forty percent of these older people are classified as poor or nearpoor. despite the fact that many of them spent their lives working and earning decent incomes. most of our senior citizens live on minimal fixed incomes which become increasingly inadequate as living costs rise and medical needs expand. i believe that it is the responsibility of the nation to insure that our senior citizens are able to lead lives of comfort. dignity. and purpose. at the same time that we provide programs to improve opportunities for our youth. we must keep in mind the needs and desires of the elderly. i have recently received from the new york state council of regional associations of clubs and centers for older persons a resolution which expresses the importance of programs for the elderly. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the resolution be printed in the record.
. may i say to the senator from illis that he shows what we would expect of him. considering his ability and his conscience. in respect of the grave problems in his own state. which contains one of the largest cities in the united states. i say. too. that hing that is advocated by the senator from iowa or by me or by the majority leader or by the senator from illis obviates the strictest kind of law enforcement. the heaviest hand of the law. the problem is that we do  have egh policemen. egh detectives. and egh customs guards to keep up with an overwhelming flood that is constantly fed by the insane craving of so many thousands of people. only by finding out what causes it and by curing it. even if we just have to dam the flow. as we do with methadone. by establishing halfway houses and other methods of treatment. and by corralling for civil commitment many of these terrible unfortunates. will we get on top of the problem. i hope the public will  assume that because we advocate the medical approach. the preventive approach. the research approach. it means that we are oblivious to and will  support and will  be in the forefront of urging the strictest enforcement of the law and the heaviest penalties for the pushers and sellers. who are the worst enemies of the youth of america.
. i am pleased that the white house has informed me that: we have released the entire amount of funds appropriated by the congress for the leadbased paint poisoning prevention program. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of that letter be included in the record. the problem of childhood lead poisoning has reached epidemic proportions in many of our large cities. the high incidence of lead poisoning is of particular concern to young children in our inner cities. but also has been reported in children from ecoically and socially advantaged homes. we have a profound humanitarian obligation to our children to eradicate the preventable disease of leadbased paint poisoning for which the tragic statistics in new york city are: the number of leadpoisoning cases reported to the health department has increased over the last 10 years from 171 in 1959 to 727 in 1969. in 1970. 2.649 cases were discovered. in the first 5 months of this year. there have been 669 cases. i cosponsored the senatepassed amendmentregrettably lost in conference with the houseto increase the $7.5 million appropriation for the leadbased paint poison prevention act to $15 million and will carefully review the next years budget requests for these vital programs and be prepared again to contend for them.
. the assistant secretary of health and scientific affairs. dr. merlin k. duval. testified before the senate health subcommittee of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am ranking miity member. that as to its human dimensions: approximately 25 percent of these children at risk. or about 600.000 children. may have significantly elevated blood lead levels. about 50.000 to 100.000 of these children are apt to have sufficiently high blood lead levels to indicate medical treatment. these are children of very tender age who live in slums. as to its ecoic dimensions. he testified that: lead paint poisoning costs this nation about $200 million annually. this estimate includes the lost earnings and the costs of treatment. education. and institutional care of those afflicted. in view of the severity of this health problem. which tragically is a manmade disease and. as such. highly preventable. the bill focuses on three interlocking components of this dread disease: detection and treatment. elimination. and research. each facet will be an integral part of a comprehensive fight against leadbased paint poisoning. although the department of health. education. and welfare has made efforts to control lead poisoning. i believe they have  been sufficiently aggressive in pursuing ways to combat this child health problem. i am concerned that the $16.500.000 available for grants to detect. treat. and eliminate leadbased paint poisoning is definitely inadequate. the bill authorizes $95.000.000. . in my own new york city. an intensive leadpoisoning control program has been undertaken. they have expended since 1970 $4.6 million2.400.000 in 197071 and $2.200.000 in 197172for which federal support was received. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of new york citys lead poisoning control budget. which screens 100.000 children. be printed in the record.
. i am pleased to be a cosponsor of the lead based paint poisoning prevention act which is identical to the bill passed by the senate in the 92d congress but. unfortunately. was  enacted into law. as ranking miity member of the labor and public welfare committee. i will give this measure my strong support and urge its prompt senate passage. last year the assistant secretary for health and scientific affairs. dr. merlin k. duval. testified as to its human dimensions that: approximately 25 percent of these children are apt to have sufficiently high blood lead levels to indicate medical treatment. about 50.000 to 100.000 of these children are apt to have sufficiently highblood levels to indicate medical treatment. as to its ecoic dimensions. he testified that: lead paint poisoning costs this nation about $200 million annually. this estimate includes the lost earnings and the costs of treatment. education. and the institutional care of those afflicted. in view of the severity of this health problem. the bill focuses on interlocking componentsdetection and treatment. elimination. and researchto launch a comprehensive attack against lead based paint poisoning. although the department of health. education. and welfare has made efforts to control lead poisoning. i believe they have  been sufficiently aggressive. i am concerned that the fiscal year 1974 proposed budget of $6.5 million to combat this child health problem is inadequate. the bill authorizes $95.000.000. in my own new york city. an intensive lead poisoning control program has been undertaken. they have expended since 1970 $4.6 million. for which federal support was received. in an effort to protect future generations of children from lead based paint. the bill amends the definition of lead based paint to that of a 0.06percent content. effective january 1. 1974. this is a trace amount which should be a significant safeguard for young children and in accordance with proposed fda regulations. the new york city health code has required for over a decade a lead content warning for interior paint. yet the new york city bureau of lead poisoning control found in a recent survey that paints manufactured by 25 of 76 companies included in their survey did  comply. in some instances. labels even stated that the paint was safe for cribs and playpens despite a lead content as high as 9.5 percent. if we are to achieve success against childhood lead poisoning. we must enact this legislation. and assure its adequate funding and enforcement. by mr. kennedy (for himself.
