i thank my colleague from minnesota. i think that. as i develop my thesis. the senator will find his thinking and mine in this situation run along nearly parallel lines. . in essence the fundamental point i make about who should carry on the negotiations is that it is  the way the matter looks to us which is so vitally important. we americans are great ones for negotiating and saying. "let them get together and work it out." what is important is what this is going to mean to the people in europe. from all the evidence we have. that is the principal difficulty with regard to what was proposed by my colleague from montana. as i said before. it will be taken in west germany as the "word" that west germany is to seek a deal with the soviets at the risk of the isolation and neutralization of all of germany. it would represent the acceptance by the western allies of the soviets own construction of the agreements made with the soviet union with respect to germany as well as with respect to the countries behind the iron curtain. one of the important things about dictators is that they will always tell one what they are doing. if one will listen to them. the soviet union said very frankly in its document handed to the u.s. ambassador on ember 27. 1958. anncing its unilateral policy on berlin: the governments of the three powers (united states. united kingdom. and france) are seeking to keep in force the long since obsolete part of the wartime agreements which govern the occupation of germany and which entitled them in the past to stay in berlin. eastwest german negotiations on berlin could be interpreted and i believe would be interpreted as our acceptance implied but clear. that we join in the denunciation of the wartime agreements. the presence of the western powers in berlin and the organization of the east german state can be looked at in a vacuum but must be considered in the light of what brought them into being. the rights of the western powers in berlin are the result of the events of war and of conditions. namely. the encirclement of the city by sovietcontrolled territory. which have  been changed during the intervening time. the western powers are also in berlin in accordance with the agreements concluded by the four powers at the meetings of foreign ministers after the conclusion of the war. it was originally proposed under the potsdam agreement of 1945 that the four powers should prepare germany for reconstruction of its political life on a democratic basis with freedom for all democratic political parties. and that the allied council of ministers should prepare a german peace settlement to be accepted by an allgerman government. this was to be established as soon as conditions would permit. the soviet union sabotaged this agreement in the effort to bring all of germany under its control. and. failing that. put east germany under communist control. suppressed its freedom. caused its ecoy to be communized. rearmed east germany. and annexed the eastern territoriesthe oderneisse lineoutright.
