. early this year i undertook a study mission. on behalf of the committee on banking and currency. to a number of african countries. between january 12 and february 3. i visited senegal. guinea. liberia. the ivory coast. ghana. nigeria. congo (kinshasa). zambia. botswana. tanzania. uganda. and kenya. these countries encompass approximately onehalf of the continents population and a major fraction of its land area. in a region so vast and so varied. group of states could be termed representative. and brief visit could provide a deep and balanced kledge of the area. but i learned much during my period in africa. today i should like to discuss at some length my principal observations and conclusions. concentrating especially on some of the pressing issues and implications for u.s. policy in africa. although my limited experience in africa permits hing more than tentative and qualified findings on most counts. i believe it is imperative for the senate and other elements of the american government to begin exploring problems in this area. i hope that my remarks may make a useful start on this important task. the purpose of my trip was to study ecoic development and political conditions in the region. i was interested in analyzing the u.s. aid program. the peace corps. and the role of american private investment. i also wanted to look closely at other sources of foreign investment and assistance. most particularly the programs of our european allies and of the soviet bloc and china. i talked with heads of state and directors of regional and panafrican ecoic organizations. and attempted to assess the prospects for further regional and multinational cooperation. and. finally. i was interested in the prospects for political stability.  only within each individual country but also in the larger context of international cooperation within africa. in this regard. my attention focused primarily on several kn "trouble zones." particularly the present civil war in nigeria and the racial situation which has been smoldering for some time in southern africa. let me make clear at the outset my conviction that our preoccupation with southeast asia is leading us to neglect other areas of growing significance in the developing world. my attempt to assess the current status of africas ecoy and politics from this standpoint is an individual effort to insure that. in the midst of the asian conflict. the major issues in africa receive attention in the american government. in my opinion. one of the most important roles which members of the senate can play is to see that the intense focus of our government on todays urgent business does  cause us to lose sight of other questions we must be prepared to meet if tomorrows affairs are  to be even more troubled. the crisis in asia. in which we are so embroiled today. was brewing at a time when our attention was focused on other matters: on europe. on the international monetary system. on winning the second world war. for many years asia was regarded as the domain of our allies in europe. of american missionaries and businessmen. and of a few "asian experts" in the state department. today. the situation has changed. we are deeply involved in asia. in a contest that has many fronts and many ramifications.  it is africa that is regarded as the domain of our allies in europe. of american missionaries and businessmen. and of a few experts in the state department. we tend to think of africa as a maze of tiny independent states41. in factwhich are ecoically viable. politically tumultuous. and relatively outside the range of our immediate national interest. this is  so. botswana. one of the countries which i visited. is larger than the state of texas. yet it had never. in almost 2 years of independence. received an official american visitor. aher state. with onequarter the territory and population of the united states itself. has been engaged in a bloody civil war for many months. using sophisticated weapons. tanks. and jet aircraft. yet until recently its plight had received relatively little attention in the american press. despite the massacre of untold thousands of men. women. and children on both sides of the conflict. in the five states of southern africa. over 32 million people are denied the right to participate in making the laws by which they are governed. and are segregated and classified on a purely racial basis. trouble is brewing in this area. for. as the white miity governments have become more repressive. numerous wellorganized liberation groups have turned to violence to secure the rights of the majority. it behooves us to acquaint ourselves with trends and conditions in this vital region. africa is already an important force in world affairs. and this importance will inevitably increase as the african nations come into their own. the continent is three times the size of the united states. it accounts for 20 percent of the land mass of the world. it has a population of over 250 million. which is larger than that of the united states. it has 40 percent of the worlds potential hydroelectric power. 65 percent of the worlds gold supply. 96 percent of the worlds diamonds. and at least 25 percent of its kn copper reserves. in addition. large deposits of offshore oil have been discovered along the western coast of africa. the bulge of west africa. ably guinea and ghana. possesses some of the worlds richest sources of bauxite. from which aluminum is made. africa has twice the uncut forest area of the united states. more arable land and grazing land than the entire soviet union. africa. in short. is a wealth of untapped resources. its present level of crop production can be multiplied many times over by the use of mechanical implements. by improved methods of water control. by using fertilizers and insecticides. and by bringing more acres under cultivation. in terms of conventional warfare. africa occupies a strategic position in the world as well. during world war ii. it was from th africa that the great battles were fought to determine who would control the vital supply route of suez. the mediterranean. and gibraltar. it was from the frenchspeaking states to the south that a large portion of the supplies and reinforcements were derived. naval bases in southern africa kept open the alternate supply route around the cape of good hope. even today. europe depends heavily on access to the suez canal and the mediterranean supply route for its oil supplies. this water route is still the most effective means of exchanging goods with the nations to the eastincluding such important trading partners of western europe as australia. india. and new zealand. at times when the suez canal is closed. as it has been since last years middle east war. the alternate route around the cape of africa assumes a new and greater importance. south africa has the only harbor south of the sahara where major naval and commercial vessels can dock. refuel. and undergo repairs. though several of the countries of west africa. such as senegal. guinea. nigeria. and the ivory coast. are deepening their shipping channels and may assume a larger role in the years to come. ethiopia. south africa. and the malagasy republic have cooperated in the american space program. providing valuable sites for radar and tracking installations. other african states have played helpful roles in a variety of joint scientific. technical. and commercial ventures with the united states. african nations have also attracted a growing share of u.s. trade and investment. american private investment in africa  totals more than $2 billion. while the volume of trade with all the african states has more than doubled in the last decade. our annual exports to africa increased from $623 million in 1955 to $1.2 billion in 1964. at the same time our imports from africa rose from $534 million in 1955 to. nearly $1 billion in 1964. all of these statistics are important. by any yardstickecoic. political. geographicalafricas role in the world is large and expanding. the emergence of africa is part of a broader phee with which we are all familiar. the rise of nationalism and the struggle for independence in the former colonies. in africa as elsewhere. most of those colonial territories have  achieved their independence. the end of the colonial era has transformed world politics. the new nations of africa. asia. and latin america have chosen many paths to development. but in their immense diversity they have several things in common: they are poor. they are white. they are for the most part christian. and they contain by far the major portion of the worlds population. land area. and natural resources. western values and western culture predominate in a surprisingly small portion of the world. and that portion seems to be shrinking. while western culture. if assessed in material terms. has had a sustained impact throughout the world. it can be anticipated from present educational trends that only a declining proportion of the governing elite will in the future be "western" in education. religion. and background. one measure of these countervailing tendencies is the fact that within the next 25 years most of subsaharan africa will  be christian. but moslem. this trend need  disturb us. western culture is unique. and it is only being realistic to understand that area of the world can adopt the values of aher in toto. africa will be itself. neither eastern  western. but a distinctive blend of those cultures together with its own. an incredible multiplicity of tribal and regional subcultures. and that is as it should be. the diversity of mankind has always been one of its most precious qualities. africa has much to contribute to that diversity. to say this. however. is  to say that africa can or should develop in isolation from the rest of the world. the leaders of africa recognize what is also obvious to african observers. that africas future welfare is very much tied to its ability to find a solid place in the world at large. if the continent is to become an arena of human progress. rather than a quagmire of human misery. it must enlist the good will and assistance of the more developed nations. and i believe that the political and ecoic interests of the advanced nations. as well as their moral values. are served by a posture of generous cooperation with the new states of africa and other continents.
