madam president. before the senate recesses for the night. i should like to say a word about the committee idea which sounds so logical and so easy to take. and makes those of us who oppose the idea of referring the bill to a committee seem like such unreasonable men. why should we oppose a committee looking into the question. as the question has occurred a number of times today. and as i am one of the managers on my side of the aisle for the day. i should like to state clearly for the record what the situation is. the principal elements of the bill have been carefully considered by senate committees. after thorough hearings. the committee on commerce reported a bill on public accommodations. it carefully analyzed the law. and that bill has been on the calendar and has gotten exactly here. the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i have the ho to be a member. carefully considered that part of the bill which relates to fair employment opportunity. and reported a bill. and it has been on the calendar. it is resting in exactly the same place as the public accommodations bill. in addition. an effort was made in the committee on the judiciary to have hearings on civil rights bills. and some 9 days were consumed. with the attorney general on the stand being questioned by one senator. who is undoubtedlyas are other senators concernedin opposition to the bill and an ardent advocate of  referring it to a committee. other senator had an opportunity to question the attorney general. iassume. if we asked the senator. he would say even he was  through with questioning the attorney general on the bill. for many years. the judiciary committee has been kn. aptly so. as the graveyard of civil rights bills in the senate. extensive hearings were held on this bill in the other body and there was extremely intensive debate and analysis of the law and consideration of all the questions raised. and here we are. . facing a timetable dictated by the justice of the case. with great feeling being displayed by the country. as expressed by the majority leader himself. that history. the exigencies of our time. and the real dangers which face public order and tranquillity. quite apart from the enforcement of the constitution. impel us to move forward. under these circumstancesand there are probably other arguments that other senators can think of but which i can muster "off the cuff" this eveningit seems to me it is laboring the point to say. at this stage of the proceeding when we are dealing with the bill. that it should  be referred to a committee. for how long would it be referred. the most that is asked for is 10 days. considering what happened in the judiciary committee to the attorney general at the hands of one senator for 9 out of the 10 days of hearings afready held there. what is likely to happen to the bill if it is again referred is just to defer debate for 10 more days. in addition to any other pitfalls which the bill might reasonably run into if it should be taken from the senate. to be reported back later. i am reminded by the senator from michigan . who has been a great leader in this fight. that title of the bill relating to the civil rights commission had full hearings before the constitutional rights subcommittee of the judiciary committee. its record is printed. so that the facts are available to senators in connection with many of the reasons why this legislation is urgently required. the proposal which we defeated some days ago. to send the bill to committee. was a proposal which would  even have made the bill the pending business when it was reported. if we had sent it to committee. it would have come back after some days and we would still be exactly where we are today. debating whether to make the bill the pending business. what are we offered by the opposition. who insist that the bill go to committee. we are  even offered the privilege of making it the pending business so that a vote could be taken promptly. the whole story was clear when the senator from georgia rose today and stated that senators are entitled to debate the issue. exactly the same issue could be and will be debated. as is the right of all senators. when the bill becomes the pending business. senators on the side of civil rights can sit mute day after day and allow debate to continue by senators who oppose civil rights and present their case to the country day after day. without the answers being placed in the record atthe same time. i believe the people will decide this issue. this will have its impact on the senate . more than ever before in the history of civil rights legislation. but the people can k what the facts are. unless we reply day by day as the arguments of the opposition are made. and we must reply in the best good temper. i believe the senator from georgia said i was vehement today. perhaps i sound that way. i do  feel that way. that is my way of speaking. or my temperament. but i agree with the senator from minnesota that it is the duty of senators to expose their opposition fully in all its detail. and it is also our duty to expose our position and to do our utmost to get on with the urgent business before the country. which is the right to vote. once this issue has been thoroughly explored. so i could  sit mute. madam president. while the point was madewhich sounds logical and proper. but which is so speciousthat we should refer the bill to committee. without putting at least some of the facts on the record at the same time.
