. i would like to introduce today a bill that would designate the titanic an international maritime memorial and that directs the united states to negotiate with other nations to establish international guidelines for research. exploration. and. if appropriate. salvage of the shipwreck. this bill is a companion bill to h.r. 3272. which was passed by the house of representatives on december 2. 1985. on april 14. 1912. the titanic collided with an iceberg off newfoundland and sunk 2v2 miles to the ocean floor. over 1.500 lives were lost. and the tragic event marked a turning point in maritime history. in the years following the sinking of the ship. many new regulations were implemented to provide increased safety at sea. the titanic was located by a joint united statesfrench research team on september 1. 1985. the rv. k. operated by the woods hole ocearaphic institution under the direction of dr. robert ballard. found the shipwreck with an unmanned submersible. the discovery of the titanic means different things to relatives and friends. scientists. lawyers. naval architects. and ocean travellers. with these different interests comes the potential for conflicts on how to treat this unique shipwreck. the tremendous achievement of dr. ballard and his colleagues gives testimony to the sophisticated undersea techogy used to locate and study the titanic. an understanding of how to treat the shipwreck relies on legislation that will commemorate the lives lost and allow the rest of the world to see and learn from the tragic event. a survivor of the titanic. who was 4 years old when she was lowered into a lifeboat. perhaps described it best: "i think my fathers sister and brother like others who died in the titanic would say. do what you want with the ship as long as what you do benefits all people." this bill does just that. since the shipwreck lies in international waters. the bill seeks to promote a spirit of cooperation between countries that would create a common goal: to stimulate research and exploration activities regarding the titanic. but to also encourage all persons to defer from physically disturbing the wreck or recovering artifacts until there has been fair opportunity to develop international guidelines or agreements. the bill directs the secretary of state to consult with the administrator of the national oceanic and atmospheric administration when negotiating with interested nations. in addition. full participation in the guideline development process by other interested u.s. federal agencies. academic and research institutions. and the public is encouraged. semiannual reports from the secretary of state and the administrator of a are to be presented to house foreign affairs committee and merchant marine and fisheries committee. and the senate foreign relations committee and the committee on commerce. science. and transportation. the legislation has the support of the administration and requires authorization of funds. the state department is currently soliciting comments on the legislation from interested countries. and preliminary results are favorable. the bill does  prohibit u.s. citizens from exploring or salvaging activities in the absence of similar restrictions on the citizens of all other interested nations. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the legislation be printed in the record.
. a very interesting article appeared in the bulletin of atomic scientists on what follows the test ban treaty and what openings it makes for further efforts in the same direction. though i do  agree with some of the thesis involved in that article. it is etheless such a penetrating study that i think it should be made available to senators. the signing of a partial nuclear test ban treaty by the major powers last year was a able advance along the road to effective disarmament. the recent agreement between the united states and the soviet union to freeze production of nuclear materials marks aher step in this direction. however worthwhile these measures are. they should serve as a spur to more intensive efforts for agreements that will reduce the dangers to the world of general war. continuing efforts must be made especially on verification and vetofree international machinery for inspection of compliance with disarmament agreements and peacekeeping. ways in which the partial test ban treaty can be followed up are discussed by bernhard g. bechhoefer. author of "postwar negotiations for arms control." who is a consultant on arms control at the brookings institution. a research associate at the johns hopkins university school of advanced international studies. and a former officer in the department of state. there are certain aspects of this article with which i do  agreeas for example an effort to establish a modified republic plan in central europebut it is as a whole perceptive egh to be worth the attention of my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the article by bernhard g. bechhoefer entitled. "the test ban treaty: some further considerations." which appeared in the bulletin of the atomic scientists. may 1964.
