. that is the finding.  of some bunch of kooks or ostriches or diaurs visavis this particular instrumentality. that is the statement of the environmental protection agency. which this congress and the united states deemed fit to bring into being. . again: the epa believes that the concorde operations will result in a detrimental se impact. specifically. epa found that: (1) an increased number of people will be subject to cumulative se levels identified as affecting the health and welfare of americans. (2) low frequency contact of concorde se could induce building vibrations. that. again. is the statement.  of some ad hoc group. but of the environmental protection agency. in the course of my debate. i have indicated my belief that the ozone problem is one that is open to debate. reasonable men can disagree. but you can disagree with the statements of the very agency which we set up to preserve our health and our safety. and preserve our environment. that is their statement. . it is true. the faa is  obliged. in making its regulations. to obey the statements of epa. but they are there. and they are on the record. and that is what we are asked to ige at this time. let me read aher epa statement. as i try to counterpoint the point of arguments that have been made. as to those arguments that have been made visavis international agreements: it is a settled principle under u.s. law that when a statute is inconsistent with a preexisting treaty. the statue overrides the treaty rendering it null to the extent of the conflict. thus. epa concludes that nepa requires that environmental considerations be taken into account in the secretarys decision regardless of the nature of the international agreements. again. to get down to the subject to se. and a point that is  being raised here that i think should be emphasized. let me quote again from the epa statement: during the next twenty years. the siest subsonic aircraft (which the proponents have claimed to be "broadly comparable" to the concorde but which. as recognized in the eis. are in fact significantly quieter) will be phased out of the air transport system. if the faa and epa proposals are put into effect. those that remain in service for any applicable time will be retrofitted. there are other planes coming into service at this time which even begin to approach the se levels of the 707 and dc8 which the concorde is compared to. this means that a few years from  the concorde will stand out as a se source around airports even more than it does today. this is important since the degree of anance to aircraft se is dependent to a large degree on the differential between the se from the aircraft and the "background". for all those men who fly the flag of advanced techogy. and i have always felt i was under that banner. too. until i came out here today. we all recognize that item called leadtime. certainly the senator from arizona. with his involvement in the armed services committee and the space program. and the senator from nevada understand what lead time is all aboutthat in order to have something good come out of the end of the pipeline. you have to put something good in the other end several years in advance. what we are doing here is the reverse: putting something bad into the pipeline. which will later come to dominate. at a time when we are supposed to be cutting back on se and environmental pollution. perhaps right  it does  stand out. since we are phasing out or refitting those engines that exceed recommended se levels. but a few years from  it will. why do it. it will guarantee a disaster a few years from . just as good lead time will guarantee a good future. i have an idea there are those participating in this argument who would like to see the environmental protection agency disappear. i hear rumblings. especially in connection with the type of difficulty encountered in trying to achieve increased capacity. et cetera. but let us  use our difficulties as an excuse to do away with this rather basic agency which is attempting to clean up our air and water and to reduce se. perhaps in some instances there never was any real commitment there in the first place. but this is  some ad hoc committee or kooky group. epa definitely states this exceeds the acceptability standards for air and se pollution. the ozone argument. i agree 100 percent. is up for grabs. although additional evidence is apparently to be produced on the subject by the senator from maryland. however. the concorde exceeds se and pollution standards. and then the most important point of all. which is that once again the establishment is setting forth to make an exception to the laws of this country. once again our credibility is diminished and eroded. as washington says one thing but does aher. it is more concerned. indeed. with 70what is the term again.-of the "most productive members of society" as compared to the thousands who live around jfk and dulles airports. who are ordinary members of society. when will we begin achieving credibility by virtue of enforcing our laws. making them applicable to everyone. and  making exceptions for the sake of expediency or diplomatic commitments. or for whatever reasons. i wish we could make laws as well as we devise exceptions to those laws here in washington. that is the whole problem in this country. that is why the credibility problem exists. and it does. so whether it be the scientific standards of se and air pollution. or whether it be the principle of fairness in applying the law equally ex post facto. as has been intimated. but merely abiding by those laws that have been in being months and years agothat is what is at issue. and i would hope. on the basis of those facts-- on the basis of the opinion of the white house. or the opinions of those who. as i say. consider themselves superior in some fashion or other. but on the basis of the facts. i would hope that the senate would support my amendment
