. i wish to speak in favor of the compromise language that has been adopted on the subject of reopening of the schools and universities in the israeli occupied west bank and gaza strip. one of the basic dilemmas facing the united states is how to reconcile our desire to support a key ally in the middle eastisraeland still speak out in defense of human rights in the occupied territories. i believe the compromise language strikes a balance between these two important objectives. to understand the need for the current language. it is important to review some of the history of this issue. israel began a systematic closure of all west bank schools and universities in october 1987. claiming that they were centers of violence. on july 20. 1989. i offered an amendment urging israel to reopen the schools. which the senate approved unanimously. i introduced this amendment because i felt the closing of schools for political reasons was an unjustifiably punitive act by the israeli authorities. at the same time. reestablishing a more mal educational environment on the west bank would be an important step toward creating a climate which is more conducive to progress toward peace. on july 22. 1989. israel reopened the schools. only to close them again in ember 1989. in january of this year. israel once again reopened the schools. on february 26. israel annced it would slowly begin to reopen community colleges. technical schools. and teachers training colleges. on may 18. senator kassebaum and i introduced senate resolution 288 calling for israel to reopen all the palestinian universities. which had been closed for over 2 years. this resolution has been cosponsored by eight other senators. iye. kerry. leahy. dole. jerroads. lugar. mcclure. and murkowski. on august 30. israel annced that it was reopening the university of bethlehemone of six universities in the occupied territories. like all my colleagues. i deplore the violence that took place on the temple mount on october 8. 1990. unfortunately. the israeli authorities have responded by once agains closing palestinian elementarygrades 5 to 8and secondary schools. in my judgment. the closing of schools is an improper response to the stated objective of reducing violence in the occupied territories. many children are severely affected by the actions of a few. it has been shown that when youngsters are kept out of school for any length of time. particularly younger children. it greatly slows their cognitive development. rather than foreclosing the opportunity for palestinian children to receive an education. israel should focus on the root causes of violence in the occupied territories. prior to the events of the last weeks. israel was considering reopening the remaining universities on a case by case basis in the coming months. it is my hope that all of the universities can also be reopened as soon as possible so that the young adults of the west bank can focus on the positive improvement of their lives and  just the violence that has been. so prevalent in recent years.  only will doing so help foster.a climate for peace. it will also bring israel into compliance with the geneva convention articles concerning administration of occupied territories. i believe the reopening of palestinian schools and universities will be helpful in encouraging a new era of goodwill.
