. the continuing violence and bloodshed in thern ireland is a matter of deepest concern to this congress and to all americans. of whatever faith and poltical persuasion. in recent weeks we have read reports of increasingly higher levels of conflict within this province that historically has been ridden with religiouspolitical strife and factional conflict. most regrettably. it currently appears that the situation may well escalate even further in the near future. i greatly deplore the violence that has so far occurred. and deeply hope that further bloodshed can be adverted by moderation on all sides and through thoughtful compromise. therefore. like many others. i am most distressed by recent indications that extremist behavior is on the upswing. in this regard. recent allegations of brutal physical and psychological treatment of suspected terrorists who have been detained in thern ireland are especially disturbing. and i welcome the inquiry into the situation that was ordered by british prime minister heath. by the same token. i e with great regret the death of yet aher british soldier in ulster this past weekend. bringing the total number of civilian and soldier deaths to 128 since british troops were deployed in the province in august 1969. ninetyfour fatalities attributed to the civil strife have been reported in ulster so far this year alone. recent reports of intercepted arms shipments destined apparently for the irish republican army are equally disturbing. all these incidents seem to indicate that the strife that has been part of irish history since the 1600s is moving inexorably toward aher period of intensified crisis and violent upheaval. certainly. we all deplore this situation. i believe. however. that there is still hope for a compromise solution. at this juncture it is imperative that equitable proposals of real substance. rather than just the rhetoric of good intentions. be brought forward by all sides. in order to prevent the currently very real possibility of a further descent into civil conflict. there is doubt that much of the present strife relates directly to historical failures of governmental authorities in thern ireland to deal adequately with the very pressing problems of discrimination in housing. employment. political representation. and educational opportunities that have long existed in ulster. certainly. both the present government and the past government of chichester clark can be credited with some movement toward reform in these areas. however. passions continue to run high. with basic longstanding grievances continuing to serve as rallying points. recent events. including the interment without trial since august 9 of over 300 catholics under the special powers act. have acted to exacerbate the situation. the special powers act of 1922. which allows arrest without charge or trial. was invoked to arrest more than 300 members of the irish republican army in connection with the recent increase in bombing and snipings. at the same time. the government chose  to arrest under the same statute any of the armed protestant militants who are believed by some to have been responsible for part of this increase. this action on the part of the government. and other similar incidents. are working to convince many catholics that compromise and adjustment are longer possible. i deeply regret this development and i wish to express my concern over the growing possibility that the catholic miity in thern ireland has begun to seriously call into question the fundamental legitimacy of the government in ulster. the time appears to be growing closer when the catholic miity will be convinced that it is  possible for them. within the existing framework. to secure either equality before the law or any share of executive power. such an event would be a great tragedy for all concerned. and everything possible must be done to avoid its occurrence. i applaud all continuing efforts on the part of the interested governments to work toward a suitable and equitable solution to this highly complex problem. above all. i would urge that moderation and restraint be observed on all sides so that massive and useless loss of life may be avoided.
senator. i have the floor. i sat. here as offended by that kind of a statement as i was hearing the president of the united states during his state of the union address imply that those of us who oppose the contra policy fell short insofar as our opposition to communism was concerned. has it occurred to the distinguished senator from wyoming that there are many ways to fight communism.  including the overthrow. i might add. of a government that we recognize. would the senator from wyoming like to declare war on nicaragua. we recognize the government of nicaragua. or. would he like us to continue what we are doing indirectly. by having others fight our battles for us. many of us stood here long before the senator from wyoming ever spoke on this subject. and advocated an activist role for the united states of america in central america. south america. and the caribbean. an activist role to keep the communists out. but ody cared.  democrats.  republicans.  presidents. we neglected that part of the world and  we are reaping the results of that neglect.  i am  living with the monroe doctrine. it is 1987 and something different is required of this government in response to the communist threat. we are  delivering that response effectively. i speak as an advocate. believe me. far beyond the $40 million we are debating here. what i advocate costs a damn sight more than $40 million. but i am  going to stand here and listen to myself and others who support this resolution. have it termed a disastrous policy and be accused of favoring the introduction of communism into this hemisphere. . i do  believe this is a vote for communism in our hemisphere. do you think the episcopal bishop of honduras who wrote of the abuses by the contras and asked us to vote against this aid--do you think he is a communist.
i just want the time to express appreciation to senator cooper and senator church for their additional backing of the effort we are making here. i agree wholeheartedly with senator cooper in his observation that we are faced with other real choice for ending the situation than the one he suggests. i have supported his approach in voting for the hatfieldmcgovern amendment and then for the excellent proposal of the majority leader. the mansfield amendment. i hope the mansfield amendment will be accepted by the house. if e of this is successful. i plan to support the new cooperchurch proposal. which has  yet been unveiled. but which i am confident the senator from idaho and the. senator from kentucky will offer as a means of accomplishing this result. they are absolutely right. in the meantime. it is essential that we do  increase either the size or the intensity of the war in cambodia or anywhere else in indochina.
. i present for appropriate reference and ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution of the kings county chapter of the catholic war veterans. of brooklyn. n. y.. seeking to maintain the strength of the national guard.
. i present a resolution adopted by the queens county. n.y.. chapter of the catholic war veterans of the united states of america. relating to the designation of a philippineamerican day. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution be printed in the record.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. two bills to amend the war claims act of 1948. the first of these bills would benefit two classes of claimants who have  yet received recognition of their claims. these are. first. refugees from nazism and other tyrannies who became citizens of the united states after their property was seized. and. second. prisoners of war and internees who have personal injury claims. both these groups of citizens suffered at the hands of our enemies and are entitled. in my judgment. to share in the war claims fund being distributed to these victims. former senator douglas. of illis. long shared my interest in this measure and. for years. joined with me as a sponsor of this bill. we fought for it on many occasions. and. as happens so often with respect to problems which are before the senate. some day we may win. in any case. we must continue to press the issue. the second bill would create a preference for religious and profit groups who suffered losses during the war. under present law. only small businesses have a preference. and the purpose of my proposal is simply to put these churches and welfare organizations on the same footing as private businesses in pressing their claims. some of the groups which would be specifically affected are yaleinchina. bnai brith. and numerous catholic and protestant groups. when the original war claims act was passed in 1948. small businesses were given a priority in order to put them in a better position visavis big business. which had already received considerable tax benefits because of its losses. the problem of the profit organization. however. was apparently neglected. and the purpose of this bill is to remedy the situation by creating equal priorities for small business and profit groups. senator kennedy of massachusetts joins me in offering this measure.
