. i think that this represents a laudable and provident way in which to handle the matter. as i said. we all understand that a large part of the funds. if appropriated. will go to districts in the 17 southern and border states which are under orders to desegregate or are imminently under orders within the recent past to desegregate. i think that in terms of the public policy of america. this is the most direct way to deal with the situation. much more direct and much more sensible than the degree of time and energy which we devote to deciding who is right and who is wrong. about whether there is more or less actual racial isolation or racial imbalance. or de facto segregation in other parts of the country than illegal segregation as produced in these 17 states. coming as i do from one of the large states. and one of the great cities of america which is constantly made the yardstick in this kind of debate. i favor strongly the ultimate that we can achieve practicably in progress in terms of equal educational opportunity in states where by tradition and the social order this has been the biggest problem. i do  care how invidious the comparison becomes thereafter. it may become more invidious than it is . i still want to see a section of the country brought along into a field which is responsive to the deep feelings of many millions of americans at the earliest possible time. my willingness to sponsor this amendment. when i was asked to do so by the administration. was sparked by my deep feeling and conviction that progress in given areas in this particular area. in the southern part of the country. is bound to be beneficial and helpful to the whole nation in terms of the future. in terms of morality. and in terms of the public tranquility. as well as in the terms of the example which it can set to everyone else in the country. i would rather emphasize the positive than spend our lives debating the negative. therefore. this makes these resources available in a way most helpful for the purposes which i feel so deeply and which i believe most of the country feel so very deeply as well.
