. i will read into the record the- letter from" mrs. kinsman. whose home was attacked following the vicious and irresponsible disclosures of louis wolfe just 3 weeks ago. the letter is addressed to me: dear senator cafee: the incident in jamaica of july 4th which threatened the lives of my family and particularly my husband. richard kinsman. after his "exposure" by an american as chief of station for the c.i.a. was. to say the least. deplorable. i take strong issue with those who suggest that congress should hesitate to censor such antiintelligence propaganda. and i was emously heartened to read (in jamaicas daily gleaner) that you will seek to introduce legislation in congress which will prohibit further exposures of our countrys intelligence officers. only in the united states. senator chafee. are a louis wolfe and the editors of a covert action magazine free to travel to a foreign country to hold a press conference and appear before an entire nation on television for the purpose of implicating fellow americans as intelligence agents. only in the united states are they free to distribute pamphlets with the names. photographs. local addresses. telephone numbers and car registration numbers of these american agents and foreign service officers. and finally. after having set up their fellow citizens for harassment and possible death. they are free to return to this landsleek and smug behind the safety of our great constitutionfree to continue their traitorous objectives. free to write. free to speak and free to vote. to question and criticize the activities of our nations agencies among ourselves and within our boundaries is all very well and good. but to flaunt our countrys liberties in order to expose and endanger the lives of our foreign service officers overseas under the pretext of certain "ideologies" is completely sinister and unamerican. it is difficult for me to understand why our countrys laws continue to protect these unprincipled few (phil agee. louis wolfe. etc.)-and moreover. why american lives must be jeopardized in exchange for their rights. i question also how far our central intelligence agency must compromise its effectiveness for the sake of a louis wolfes constitutional liberties. where do americas priorities really belong in this controversy. as an american who loves my country and values my freedom. i urge you. senator chafee. to pursue legislation which will defeat those factions in america who are dedicated to destroying our intelligence agencies. and who deliberately seek to harm american officers and their families serving our nation abroad. sincerely yours.
all the senator is making is a foreign aid argument. i say the farmer gets the money out of other taxpayers of the united states. but he gets it. i will check on the figures and the amount of public law 480 funds in it. but i do  think it is relevant to the $2.632 billion for 6 months in 1969. those senators who have automobile factories. computer factories. agriculture machinery factories. engines. turbines. parts. electronic power equipment and *telecommunications industries had better take a good look at the figures before they decide what is in their interest because it appears that automobiles. automotive parts. and so forth exported by the united states run in the neighborhood of $2.5 billion a year. senators who have airplane factories in their states had better consider the fact that $1.8 billion in airplanes and airplane parts go out of the united states. in short. what is completely omittedand a sudden strange silence pervades the chamber when this kind of protectionist approachand that is what it isis asked from the senate. when trade is certainly a twoway streetis that other countries. and labor. will be disposed. as we ought to k by . to be very happy to retaliate against us. once we start the idea that we are ready for a trade war. that is what the senate would be signaling. i do  agree that the best way to negotiate with nations which are just as proud as we are is by making threats. i do  agree with that. i do  agree that the best way to get a voluntary agreement on textiles. or anything else. is by threatening aher power. if we had threatened . the interest of the consumer is at stake.
