. it is my pleasure. as an original cosponsor of the equal rights amendment. to lend my support to its reintroduction. the need for this amendment has never been greater. and the failure of the era to be ratified the first time around should only strengthen our resolve to gain speedy passage of this vital constitutional change. some will claim that it is time to give up the fight for the era. and for equality for women. i do  agree. change so important. so revolutionary. and so needed will come easily. womens right to vote was  won in a matter of a few years. that battle took over 50 years. the civil rights battle was  fought and won in a decade. indeed. it still goes on. and. so with equal treatment for women: the fight will go on. polls clearly indicate that most americans support the era. it is time that legislators around the country take stock of what americans want. and what. americans will be demanding until it is granted them: simple equality under the law. 1 am proud that my state of rhode island was among the first to ratify the amendment when it was first con sidered. i look to rhode island again to lead the way. but. first. my colleagues must put their stamp of approval on the era. we can only hope that if there be any objections to it or questions about the ramifications of its passage. that they be expressed openly and frankly. and that there be an opportunity to debate them. nearly 60 years ago. alice paul wrote the equal rights amendment. for most of this decade we have been mulling over our commitment to equality. an enlivened womens movement forced the issue to the fore at the beginning of the last decade. in order to ask just how deep our com. mitment runs. the question remains unanswered. the most purposeful way to respond to it is with a ".holehearted commitment to ratify the era. many still ask why we need the era. in fact. n.any do  k what the amendment would do. the amendment states that "equality of rights under the law shall  be denied or abridged by the united states or by any state on account of sex." in other words. governments can practice discrimination on the basis of sex. this is what the era attempts to mandate. the era is  ultimately a restrictive measure. but rather a liberating one. the era would prohibit discrimination by government as employer. it would prohibit discrimination in the area of property rights. the era would act as a catalyst for governments to revise laws which countenance discrimination on the basis of sex. most importantly. the era would make unequivocal this nations fundamental commitment to equality before the law. for this reason. era is  simply a womens issue. it is a basic issue of justice and represents a change from which both men and women would benefit. the era is needed because we lack adequate judicial safeguards against discrimination. state laws vary widely in their protection of women against discrimination. educational and ecoic opportunities are restricted for women. the gap in pay between men and women is widening rather than diminishing in spite of the fact that increasing numbers of women continue to enter the work force. laws and regulations dealing with everything from welfare to insurance to pensions provide comprehensive protection against discrimination. consequently. women are often discriminated against in these areas. the way to rectify this is by passing a simple but powerful amendment: the era. i congratulate those who have worked for the passage of the era. they have advanced a cause which can be neglected. i join with them in this effort. i urge those who have been silent to speak up. this time the base of support will be broader. and the battle will. i hope. be swifter. i urge my colleagues to give their expeditious approval to this amcndment.e
