ial proclamation of american indian day annually so that states may take appropriate action at some time. i am delighted that public school children at a very early age are learning the history of this country and realizing that an integral part of our national heritage stems from the original americanthe american indian. an indian tribe gave its name to the island site of the greatest city in the world. new york. when the manhattan indians in the classic real estate deal of all time traded their land to peter minuit and his dutch settlers for 60 guilders worth of trading goodsor about $24 worthin 1626. there is probably area in new york state without one or more communities bearing indian names since to this day we are the home of 30.000 indians. the iroquois confederations strength is centered upstate where eight reservations belong to the six nations including the seneca. odaga. mohawk. cayuga. oneida. and tuscarora. hundreds of shinnecocks belonging to the mighty algonquin group are living on long island. the steady retreat westward of the great indian tribes during the last century and the climatic battles ending in the inevitable defeat were the prelude to a period of misery and misfortune for the american indian which was undeserved. with the aid of the federal government. and aid from the states along with the efforts of the indians themselves. this unhappy chapter is coming to a close. in 1924 indians were finally declared citizens of the united states. but  until 1956 did the last state abolish its law restricting their right to vote although it had  been enforced in recent years. however. the american indian shares with many negro citizens problems of discrimination which unfairly limit him in his opportunity for educational advancement and employment. thus. the fight for civil rights in our country is of the greatest importance and urgency to our indian citizens. it is my hope that the annual national celebration of american indian day will help focus the publics attention on the cultural. social and educational growth of the american indian as a respected member of modern society. the solicitude toward this countrys earliest inhabitants felt by the little new york schoolgirl who suggested a national indian day should be shared by more of us. in selecting a date appropriate for american indian day various indian organizations were consulted including the national congress of american indians and consideration was given to when indian day is presently observed by several states. in her letter. lynn mlchaelson had asked that it fall during the school week and suggested a date in april. however. late september is the time when many tribes hold festivals thanking the great spirit for the provisions he has sent them at harvest. and therefore the fourth friday in september is earmarked in my resolution for the national observance of american indian day. i hope that all the public schools. including lynns school. will play a very active part in celebrating american indian day and i think we can safely anticipate that the ceremonies staged by the students will be in sharp contrast to the mal routine of classwork. i ask unanimous consent that the joint resolution may remain at the desk until the conclusion of business on monday next for additional cosponsors. that it be appropriately referred. and that it be printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks.
