i thank my colleague. there will be occasion in a few moments. as i expect an amendment to this subject. to debate this issue respecting the amount provided for public service employment programs. but at the moment i would like to call attention to a number of affirmative things which the committee has recommended to the senate which i consider to be very constructive and to resolve major problems in a very admirable way. in the main. these items come under senator magnusons subcommittee and both he and the chairman have always shown themselves very sympathetic to these needs. there is. first. the public service employment which we will be debating on senator johnstons amendment. first. $1.6 billion for public service employment programs under title vi of the comprehensive employment and training act of 1973ceta. as amended by public law 93567. this is the amount of the house allowance at the level requested by the administration. this appropriation. together with the $875 million already appropriated. would bring the appropriation level up to the full authorization of $2.5 billion for that title for fiscal year 1975. together with currently available funds under title ii of cetawhich are available in areas of 6.5 percent unemployment or morethis will provide for an aggregate level of 310.000 public service jobs by the end of this fiscal year. this is a substantial number of public service jobs. but very modest in terms of meeting the needs of the nearly 8 million unemployed in march. as well as an additional 1.1 million "discouraged" unemployed. the committee on labor and public welfare will soon be considering s. 609. the "emergency public service employment extension act of 1975." which senator williams and i. together with 14 others. have proposed to extend the public employment program under title vi for fiscal year 1976. to provide an aggregate level of 1 million jobs in fiscal year 1976. second. there is the provision for $500 million summer youth jobs. the committee has been very provident in that regard in coming as close as it could. and it has come very close. to meeting the views of the national associations of municipal officials. the national league of cities. and its companion organization. that has provided for over 900.000 summer jobs for poor youth ages 14 to 21. and when one sees the appalling 40percent rate for teenage in unemployment. one can see just by mentioning. juxtaposing the two figures. what a critical benefit this represents. each job opportunity will consist of 9 weeks of employment. 26 hours a week at the minimum wage of $2.10 an hour. this is an increase of $87.3 million and 160.000 opportunities above the house allowance. which in accordance with the administrations request. provides $412.7 merely to maintain last years level of 760.000 opportunities at the new minimum wage. joined by 17 senators. i wrote the president and the hewlabor subcommittee on appropriations. on february 28. urging an aggregate of $649 million for approximately 1.1 million summer youth jobs. and $4.5 million for transportation. the amounts which the national league of cities had documented as necessary for this summer. accordingly. the committee recommendation is a shortfall of $149 million and 180.000 opportunities from the amount we requested. however. as the committee on appropriations es on page 35 of its report. state and local prime sponsors can utilize a portion of their general grants under title i to supplement these efforts and i believe that with these additional funds. the 1.1 million job level can be maintained. the committees action in this regard is a very gratifying response to the very dangerous summer youth unemployment situation with predictions of rates of unemployment exceeding 50 percent in many urban areas. and this is a very timely action if planning is to proceed for a basic summer program. also the committee has provided $26 million for recreation opportunities for the very young who are poor. between 6 and 13. there are few things more heartbreaking than those very young people in the hot city during the summer. the committee has provided for emergency energy conservation for the poor to the extent of $10 million. again. a very admirable provision. in the education field. which is so close to senator magnusons heart. the committee has provided for $19.8 million for the college work study program and for a carryover for the basic educational opportunity grantsbeog. also. the committee has been very forehanded in anticipating the passage by the congress of a bill to deal with employment on railroad rightsofway. that represents a very splendid and constructive initiative and use of what we have heretofore called public service jobs. the committee in this case is anticipating the authorizing committees and i hopei am the sponsor of one of the bills. and i am serving on a committee with responsibilities in that regardwill match the celerity of the appropriations committee. we have a joint hearing scheduled for next week by the labor and public welfare committee and the committee on commerce on s. 1326. the special public service employment and railroad improvement act of 1975. a bill which senator williams and i. along with 14 others including senator magwuson and senator hartke have introduced. the committee has even reached into the cultural field and provided some money for the national endowments on the arts and humanities. finding some several hundred jobs in the reation of museums. one of the monuments of the great depression was the fact that the wpa was turned to such constructive uses as to survive to this very day. when people can still point to the fact that this was  sterile money wasted. but there were vast public improvements under the governments organized effort. the committee has also provided $10 million for emergency energy conservation services under section 222(a) (12) of the ecoic opportunity actwhich i authoreddesigned to aid lowincome families. reduce their energy consumption. and lessen the impact of the cost of energy. as the committee es on page 41 of its report. these funds will be used for shortterm assistance including loans and grants to eligible individuals to help them avoid utility cutoffs in instances where they temporarily can pay utility bills. the house made allowance for this program. joined by 18 senators who wrote the president on february 20 and the committee on february 25. we had pointed to needs in terms of pending or expected applications before the community services administrationwhich administers the programtotaling $144.0 million. the director of the administration.  regarding the urgent need for appropriations for summer youth employment and emergency energy conservation service. together with accompanying materials.
