. i take great pleasure in anncing that mr. arthur t. clayton and mr. donald g. olsen. founders of the crown ojtical co. in greenville. r.i.. are the recipients of this prestigious award. the preparation of prescription opthalmic lenses and eyeglasses is a highly specialized and technical service. and one in which mr. clayton and mr. olsen have studied for a lifetime. since their early days of high school friendship. both men had worked for two wellrespected optical companiesmr. clayton primarily in a sales capacity. and mr. olsen in the laboratory. in 1971. when they decided to extend their friendship to business and become partners in a joint company. their combined backgrounds in the opthalmic field amounted to 45 years of practical erperience. the history behind the crown optical co.. is a true american success story. and exemplifies the rewards that can come from dedication and hard work. the firm was started with an initial investment of only $15.000 which was derived from mr. clayton and mr. olsen placing second mortgages on their homes almost 9 years ago. in addition. an sba loan provided funds for initial equipment and the hiring of three people. through perseverance in obtaining sales. and a commitment to an extremely high standard of quality. the potential of this investment was soon realized. within 1 year. the sales had already exceeded the volume which was projected for the end of the third year of operation. and more equipment and capital were needed in order to keep up with demand and to expand the operation. again. with the assistance of a local bank. the small business administration provided additional loan money for this purpose. the results of this assistance are best shown in the tremendous growth of crown optical in less than 9 years. originally. the firm serviced the rhode island and nearby massachusetts areas. today. it is the second largest independent laboratory in new england and employs over 60 workers. most of whom are women. in 1972. sales were $320.000. by 1979. sales amounted to an astounding $1.735.000. annual sales growth has averaged nearly 16 percent. with an average of 4 percent in net profit. projected sales for the current fiscal year are expected to top $2 million. it is also important to e that mr. clayton and mr. olsen are providing for the continuity of their business. mr. claytons son. tom. is following in his fathers footsteps as a salesman for the firm. while mr. olsens son. tom. is likewise studying the laboratory aspects of the business. as his father had. in addition. aher of mr. olsens sons. ken. is working toward a degree in business accounting. it is this practice of passing a family business from one generation to the next that is an important goal which the government should seek to encourage. the future of crown optical co.. is secure as a result of the efforts of its founders. in addition. however. the assistance provided by the rhode island sba office under the direction of mr. charles fogarty. and in particular. the help and advice of sbas mr. dan pearson. made a crucial difference in making a dream become a reality. the career of mr. clayton and mr. olsen in building their business is evidence that government assistance. such as that provided by sba. can contribute to a better life for individuals. to more prosperous communities. and a stronger ecoy. it is an inspiration to all those people who have shared a dream of owning their own successful company. of providing quality products to their own community. and to all of us who share a faith in entrepreneurship. it is my hope that the partnerships between government and business continue to grow and be successful. for just as in the partnershipfriendship that developed between mr. clayton and mr. olsen. we all become the beneficiaries of cooperation. i k that all of my colleagues join me in congratulating mr. clayton and mr. olsen on receiving this award and on a job well done for american small business.
