. it is with great pleasure that i join my colleagues today in paying tribute to bill murphy who has served this body with great dedication and devotion during the past 12 years. i have had the pleasure of working with bill murphy on the foreign affairs committee. so it is with firsthand kledge that i speak of his tireless devotion and creativity in dealing with the developing nations of the world. his absolutely unsurpassed kledge of geography. and his effectiveness as a spokesman for the u.s. government. bills quick intellect and deep understanding of world politics has always added significantly to the deliberations and work of the committee. bill murphy has brought distinction to the chicago delegation in this body. and his years of exemplary public service are a credit to his city. his state. the house of representatives. and our nation. besides our serving together on the same committee in the house of representatives. bill and i share something else in common with only one other member of this body-.the same birthday. bill murphy is a dear friend. an understanding and hardworking member of congress. and an uncommonly unselfish individual. his talents and his generous character will be missed in the 92d congress. i wish him the greatest happiness. contentment. and good health in the years that will follow his retirement.
. i speak about mrs. cutlers public service because i k that aspect of her life best. but as tireless and effective as she was in pursuit of the good life for others. she always had time for her children. her grandchildren. and her great grandchildren. she learned from them. they kept her young in health and spirit until the day she died. her family. her town. her state and thousands of those who loved and respected her will miss her very much. but we all have the memory of her radiant personality. her friendship and fellowship. her zest for life and the good fight to sustain us. and massachusetts has the laws she drafted and fought for which. as part of our general laws. will carry on the good work and good will which her life personified. that is leslie cutlers legacy. and a wonderful monument to her life.
of course. it works both ways. but i want to assure the senator. who has fought time after time for summer youth jobs.  selfishly only for our state of massachusetts but for all over the country. he also ks there is a great need to preserve these public service jobs. that is the urgency for putting this onto this flu vaccine bill. we do  want to clutter this up so that we will lose it. that is all i am saying to the senator from massachusetts. we are  trying to give him the brushoff. we intend to give these items every consideration. we have gotten that from senator mcgee. the senator has got it  from the chairman of the full committee. the subcommittee. and the ranking member of the full committee and the ranking member of the subcommittee. i do  k what other assurance we can give to the distinguished senator from massachusetts. i can assure him that he has got some allies in this cause. and they will give proper and expeditious attention to this just as soon as they possibly can. i would hope he would seriously consider. upon those assurances which  are a part of the record. withholding his amendment. and let us go forward. i ask the same thing of my distinguished colleague from new york because he has fought for jobs. summer youth jobs. and he ks what we are talking about. we do  want to have to go to conference. we would really like to take this legislation next week. as i said. on monday. and just get with the house and say. "this is it." and send it right down to the president. have him sign it hopefully on tuesday or wednesday. as it is  constituted we have received some assurances from the house of representatives that they apparently will accept the bill as reported. tack this onto it and we do  k where we go. i am sure that neither my colleague from massachusetts  my colleague from new york wants to be a party to holding back these jobs. as important as the amendment they offer on the floor today is. that is the case. in brief.
 plantseizure powers but providesas a very important answer to managements and labors fears of plant reizurethat government operation mu be only on the minimum basis essentia. to the national health or security.
subsequently said: . i ask unanimous consent that i may make a brief statement as a part of the debate on amendments on the social security bill relating to miscellaneous matters.  on medical care. i  read the statement: it has been proposed by a number of organizations of civil service and post office employees in new york. that there be included in the social security bill a provision permitting such employees to participate in the social security system. on the same basis as selfemployed persons. in addition to their participation under their own retirement system. they take the position that employees of state and local governments have been permitted to participate in the system on a voluntary basis to supplement their own benefits and that many persons covered by private industry retirement funds also have such additional coverage. they are. of course.  asking the federal government to contribute to this coverage in addition to their ownrather they suggest that they be subjected. on an optional basis. to the selfemployment tax. this is a most interesting proposal. in my opinion. and i believe that it is worthy of the committees study and consideration. i would. therefore. trust that the chairman of the committee will give consideration prior to the time the senate next considers the matter of social security to this question of such coverage.
. i send to the desk a bill to curb the kidnaping of pets for laboratory experiments and to require humane treatment of laboratory animals. i have received an emous amount of mail upon this subject. a bill is pending which i believe tends to be more restrictive of operations for experimentation than is merited by the desire to be humane to animals. as i should  like to be negative in these matters. but positive. i am introducing my own bill which i ask to have appropriately referred and which i believe. at one and the same time. fully protects the urgent need on the part of our citizens for experimentation with animals in connection with medical and other problems. and at the same time will provide for humane treatment.
