madam president. i rise to speak in regard to a bill which was passed by the senate on friday. this matter appears in the record for friday. under a heading "reduction of exemption from payment of duty by returning residents." the bill is h.r. 6611. calendar  452. i wish the record to show that the distinguished chairman of the finance committee. the senator from virginia . is  in the chamber at my request. i shall address the senate very briefly on this question. when i conclude. i shall ask unanimous consent that withstanding the fact that a request to reconsider the vote by which the bill was passed was made and was laid on the table. the motion to lay on the table the motion to reconsider be vacated. it is my understanding that the senator from virginia will object to that requestfor reasons with which i am quite familiar. but i wish to lay the situation before the senate. the senator from virginia has been very gracious in agreeing with me that it is proper for this matter to be laid before the senate. because when the bill was passed there was debate. there is quite a human reason for that: i was in the old supreme court chamber. having as my luncheon guests there a delegation from brazil. which came here for the serious purpose of an interparliamentary group for tourism. through a confluence of circumstanceswhich was  the fault of anyonethe result was that i did  have an opportunity to address myself to the bill. here on the floor. at the time when the bill was brought up in the senate. i emphasize that i do  make this statement because of any failure to ify me. or anything of the sort. one was at fault. it was simply one of those unfortunate situations. however. this matter is so important that i would feel remiss in the performance of my duty if i did  lay the situation before the senate. before the bill is messaged to the house of representatives. that is the present situation. madam president. i k that the treasury is very much interested in the bill. because of the balanceofpayments situation. and. for all practical purposes. that is controlling on the attitude of the chairman of the committee. however he might feel about the matter himself. i shall make this statement in full light of that situation. madam president. by means of this billwhich beyond any question will become law. because both president eisenhower and president kennedy have requested its enactmentthe dutyfree allowance for american citizens who return from tourist trips abroad will be decreased from $500. where it was set following world war ii. to $100. where it previously had stood for many years. long before modern conditions and modern travel. this is proposed to be done in the name of trying to do something about our balance of payments. there is question that at the present time the balance of payments is  a troublesome financial factor. as recently as last year it was seriously adverse to us. for at that time it amounted to $4 billion a year. it remains a very grave threat to the united states. the question is whether what would be done by means of this measure would be far more disadvantageous than what would come from  enacting this measure. i deeply believe that the enactment of this bill will do more harm than good. madam president. the broadest estimate is that the enactment of this bill would result in keeping in the united states $150 million. which otherwise would be spent abroad. if the bill were  enacted. it is to be remembered that at the present time almost 2 million americans travel abroad in canada. mexico. and the countries of europe. it is inconceivable to me. and i think it is also inconceivable to anyone else who has traveled abroad. that american travelers will. on account of the enactment of this bill. very greatly reduce the amount of purchases they make abroad. for the import duties which would result from enactment of the bill will  be so great as to have that effect on anyone who can afford to make such a trip. so i doubt that enactment of this bill will have anything more than a minuscule effect on the balance of payments. on the other hand. madam president. we shall be hearing in a most definite way about this matter from the americans who will be returning. this summer. from travel overseas. i do  think many of them k about the action  proposed. and when they returnand. as we k. thousands of them will be returning this august and septembertheir protests will echo and reecho from the atlantic to the pacific. furthermore. we confront a very serious situation with many of our good friends who will be affected very materially by our action in connection with this problem. i have received a telegramand i am sure that other senators have also received onefrom the bermuda trade development board. complaining about the action proposed in connection with this bill. and pointing out that bermuda spends per capita $633 for each of its citizens. in purchases which it makes in the united states. and also pointing out that an area. amounting to 10 percent of the total area there. has been given to the united states for use as an airbase and a naval base. madam president. let us assume that something must be done about this matter. i am just as sympathetic to the correction of our balanceofpayments situation in any reasonable way. including the ways which i and the senator from virginia and others have discussed. as is anyone else. but i believe we might have gone a little easier in regard to this matter and might have allowed the president to suspend the rigorous application of the proposed $100 limit as regards such places as bermuda and similar places which are heavily dependent upon tourist trade. where the national interest requires it. and thus permit it to stand at $200. the figure  set in the bill for the virgin islands. we are told that that would help avoid discrimination in the case of various countries. but that it would run afoul of the general agreement on tariffs and trade. i would certainly recommend that we go a little easy in regard to this matter. for instance. that the allowance be reduced to $200. which is  the allowance for returning american travelers who have remained out of the united states for less than 12 days. so i believe we are making a very drastic application of this proposal. in a way which will trouble us in our relationships with many countries in which we have very good friends. and in a way which will  do a great deal for us in terms of the balanceofpayments situation. whereas if we had shown. in connection with this measure. a little "give." our action might have done much more to serve the purpose intended. and  antagonize the large number of persons who. i feel sure. will be antagonized. i make this statement because the bill is limited as regards the period of time during which its provisions will be in effect. the bill will expire in 1963. it may. indeed. if we choose to make it do so. expire sooner than that. we could have it expire in 1962. it is experimental in nature. therefore. i thought it would be useful to lay the matter before the senate so that at least the record will show that there was some voice of caution and consideration raised in respect of this matter. and that the views of a small group of people. but people who are extremely friendly to us. and who are very strategically located. like the bermudans. were considered. i deeply appreciate the understanding in this matter of the chairman of the committee on finance. i understand from the chairman that the senator from florida sought in the committee to work out some flexibility in this situation in favor of the caribbean areaagain leading very much to the same idea i had. so i lay these ideas and thoughts before the senate. because this is a bill temporary in character. which could be made very much more temporary in character if our experience is bad. so the record will show there was at least some consideration given to the matters i have just raised. i had an amendment to this bill printed. it was at the desk when the bill was considered. but. obviously. in my absence. was  presented. the amendment was different in character from the ideas i have just been discussing. those who are engaged as tourists in coming to the united states would be favored. in similar accommodation. with the right to bring up to $100 in gifts. right  that figure is $10. this proposal would make it relative to the new figure we are setting for returning u.s. tourists. this measure. incidentally. was approved both by the treasury and the commerce departments. i have had the assurance from the chairman of the committee. for which i am grateful. that. upon an appropriate bill. i shall have full considerationand. i have little doubt. successful consideratio this particular amendment. so i was  really raising the point i have raised because of the amendment i had. which was approved by both the treasury and commerce departments. in carrying out that idea. i send to the desk for printing under the rule an amendment to the bill to provide for the free entry of a towing carriage for the use of the university of michigan. which i ask be referred to committee.
