. mean jobs for americans. some would say this bill is a bailout of the banks. i do  believe that this legislation is a bailout. while some see appeal in letting the banks pay the price for the risks they took. the price the entire nation would pay only ecoically. but politically as wellwould be far greater. indeed that is the issue surrounding our imf contribution:  how much it will cost to make the contribution but how it will cost us  to make it. let me say too. that the banks are by means getting a free ride. banks are being required to maintain their f inancial commitments to borrowing nations as a condition of imf assistance. for every dollar of imf lending. the fund has required $4 of additional bank loans. additionally. the legislation includes substantial banking reforms intended to insure that the current problems are  repeated in the future. our contribution is more than just a contribution to the fund. it is a contribution to international ecoic stability. and that is a contribution made very much in our own ecoic and political interest.
. mean jobs for americans. some would say this bill is a bailout of the banks. i do  believe that this legislation is a bailout. while some see appeal in letting the banks pay the price for the risks they took. the price the entire nation would pay only ecoically. but politically as wellwould be far greater. indeed that is the issue surrounding our imf contribution:  how much it will cost to make the contribution but how it will cost us  to make it. let me say too. that the banks are by means getting a free ride. banks are being required to maintain their f inancial commitments to borrowing nations as a condition of imf assistance. for every dollar of imf lending. the fund has required $4 of additional bank loans. additionally. the legislation includes substantial banking reforms intended to insure that the current problems are  repeated in the future. our contribution is more than just a contribution to the fund. it is a contribution to international ecoic stability. and that is a contribution made very much in our own ecoic and political interest.
. i ask unanimous consent that the address by the brazilian ambassador. the distinguished j. a. de araujo castro. before the conference for corporate executives conducted by johns hopkins university on january 30. 1974. be printed in the record. brazil is a great and good friend of our nation. her ambassador has spoken truthfully and well.
of course. the country is interdependent. the farmer borrows money from the banks which have headquarters in new york. and he needs materials that he gets from new york. what we are talking about is how fairly the interdependence operates. i would like to ask the gentleman this question. mr. h. carl andersen. before the gentleman asks me his question. may i say this. that if all of the ladies and gentlemen of this house who voted against mr. passmans motion to recommit when we tried to save $12 million last july 31 on the foreign aid bill. i repeat. if those ladies and gentlemen who insisted on $4.5 billion going abroad in one 12month period are willing to give the farmers of our own nation just oneseventh of that much. they will come down here and vote unanimously for this emergency measure.
madam president. first. i should like to join the senator from california in his pledge of bipartisan support of what the president said last night with respect to the determination of the american people. also. i should like to state that. in my view. the president spoke the heart of our country. and read it truly. and that these very brave wordsand i say that with the greatest commendationmust  be matched by equally brave deeds. it is that thought to which i wish to address myself. because the decisions with which the needs will be met will  be easy decisions to make. congress has two hard decisions to make which will bear very heavily upon our success in respect to the new posture of telling the communists that they can go further and that we are willing to back up our assertion with force if need be. we must back that resolve up with hard decisions. one of those hard decisions is going to be in respect of money. it costs money to do what is required. it also means we must save money on some of the programs for which we should  be spending money. this will  be an easy decision for the congress to make. aher decision to be made is on trade. we can win the battle if we follow restrictive or regressive trade policies. yet that is the tendency of the country and. as i see it. the heavy tendency in the congress. this tide will have to be defeated if we are going to match with deeds on our part in the congress what the president has called for. third. we are  yet using the american private enterprise system in this struggle appreciably at all. we are still july- 26 trying to fight with 20 percent of the nations resources which are controlled by the government. we are  yet enlisting in that struggle the resources of our private enterprise system. i have proposed a peace production board. others have made other suggestions. these proposals must be acted upon if we mean what we say. finally. with respect to our allies. at the very moment that this magnificent speech of the president is reported. we find the british are reducing their commitments in respect to this very matter of berlin the president has discussed. the chancellor of the exchequer. in his effort to have the poundand that is just as vitally important to the world as any aspect of the problem the president talked aboutsaid britain has to hold her defense spending down some $224 million less than they expected to spend. i have little doubt that will include defense. in a parallel column in the times today we find that british authorities here are arranging for a drawing on the international monetary fund. madam president. i say to the congress and to the president. if you wish to match these brave words with deedswe all do. and we ho the president for what he saidwe k we can do it alone. we k we have to do it with our most important allies. france and great britain. madam president. britain needs help . she needs monetary help. that is a cheap form of help to give. if britain will keep her forces intact and. indeed. increase them so as to make a full contribution.  to draw in at this time when she should  be drawing in merely because she has to save the pound. therefore. madam president. i ask the president and the congress to take a new look at britains financial requirements. this is a real case in point. it may be a case for aher british loan. with all of the talk about the $31/4 billion we loaned to britain when the british needed it. it is a good loan. they are paying it back . they are paying it back regularly. britain is a good debtor. i hope very much we shall be realistic and really adult about our international and foreign affairs. i hope we shall realize we have to work with our allies. we need their support . it is  egh simply to beat ourselves on the chest and to say. "we will do everything ourselves. we are big egh and strong egh to do it." that is unnecessary. it will  work. we need the whole world behind us. this is a ready case in point in which the president and the congress this morning. the day after the presidents speech. can strike a really constructive and statesmanlike blow for the strength of the free world. by helping the british shore up the british pound and making it  necessary for them to reduce their defense commitments at the very time when we propose to increase our own and when they should be. commensurately with us. assuming part of the burden. which i believe they .are willing to do. cvri----854 the british should  be inhibited from doing that because of financial restrictions. especially since they are an excellent credit risk and have demonstrated it time and time again.
 to exercise such authority. and also providing for a modest period of standstill. in which he would take such action even before a strike has taken place. so i take great comfort in the fact that this experience. so very ably and magnificently concluded by one of our own numbers. makes us doubly proud and lends substance to this approach. rather than to the more drastic approaches of compulsory arbitration and the application of the antitrust laws to trade unions. and similar action. the city of new york still has a very critical and crippling strike. the newspaper strike. it may  qualify in the same sense as the longshoremens strike. with respect to tying up the shipment of goods. or be so closely related. as the senator from arkansas so properly said. to foreign aid and other critical national aspects of our life. but certainly it is unbelievably disconcerting and very harmful to all of us because it shuts off the sources of information and discussioni hope one will consider this offensive. but i think it is factually trueof many of the most influential and important journals in the country. therefore. i think that an example like the one we have just seen is critically important to us in new york. as perhaps indicating lines which. sooner or laterand it is  growing very latewill. have to be followed in connection with the newspaper strike there. i take this occasion again. while congratulating the senator from oregon . in whom we take great pride. to call attention. first. to the need for a greater range of techniques for dealing with such urgent strike situations. as i have said. i have offered proposed legislation on this subject in preceding congresses. and shall offer it again. to include the idea of a factfinding board which would have power to make recommendations and to provide for a period of standstill while the board acts. again. i call attention to the deplorable and intolerable situation in the new york city newspaper strike. and to express. with all the cooperation we can give. the hope that that strike. too. may perhaps. even by some such technique as this. be soon brought to a close.
yes. i ask the senator to compare that figure of $1.076 million with the figure for 1962 in table 2. on page 4. which is $2.609 million. it is the $1 billion figure which would be mainly affected.  the $2.609 million. the $2.609 million figure is the total outflow caused by private longterm capital outflows. the $1.076 million represents the purchases by americans of new issues of foreign securities in 1962. therefore. the relevant figure is  the $2.609 million. the relevant figure is the $1.076 million. if one looks at the top of the table. he sees how much of that is canadian investments. there was a total of $457 million in canadian investments. the report itself at page 2 lists as one of the principal exclusions in the bill: new security issues which the president exempts in the interest of international monetary stability. presumably new canadian securities.
 of the interamerican development bank. jose mayobre. executive director of the united nations ecoic commission for latin america. and raul prebisch. secretary general of the united nations conference on trade and development. the fact that this proposal has been made by four distinguished leaders of interamerican thought is highly significant. but the support of public opinion and political support at the highest levels in latin america are greatly needed. i strongly urge the political leaders of the hemisphere to translate this idea of a latin american common market into the reality of a mass market of some 220 million people. with a combined gross national product of between $70 and $80 billion. it is also appropriate. however. to remind all those working toward this inestimable goal that hemispheric unity is vital to its success. and that provisions must be made for the eventual inclusion in such a market of the united states and canada. the largest markets of all. there is place in the americas for any exclusive concept of the ecoic unification of the hemisphere. without th america. success of such a venture is dubious. at best. but there is need to court failure. as public opinion in th america is very sympathetic to these ideas. to those of our neighbors in latin america who see their course as being ecoic unification of latin america alone. which would then do business with europe and th america as potential competitors. one with the other. it should be pointed out that this arrangement will  provide the best opportunity for success for any of the parties involved. the ecoic unity of the americas is the logical course. and it should be broadened to include canada. bringing it into full association with latin america. to assure that the experience of the european common market is paralleled. so as to give the greatest strength ecoically to all the americas. and make it as greatly an improved trading partner for europe as the eec has proved to be to itself and the rest of the world. accordingly. the latin american common market proposed in todays report should be the first step toward the ultimate objective of a western hemisphere free trade area. aiding the growth of the private sector in the constitutional republics of the americas. and maintaining a place for cuba. when that nation again becomes free and democratic. i ask unanimous consent that an editorial published in todays new york times which deals with the same point be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. this amendment proposes to authorize the establishment of a private enterprise corporation to do in the foreign aid field what the socalled comsat is doing in the communications satellite fieldjoining private effort and the national purpose. it would provide for a federallychartered corporation. functioning initially as an agency of the united states. but following a period of orderly transition. becoming a privately owned and managed business organization. the government would help the corporation to get off the ground by initially subscribing to the stock of the corporation to enable it to go into business. for a period of years the corporation would have a mixed governmentprivate board of directors. and when the operation was substantially financed by investors of the united states. it would become a strictly private corporation but with a very important part in the foreign aid efforts of the united states. the corporation contemplates a capital of $2.500 million through the sale of 500 million shares of stock at $5 a share. the fact that this matter is brought up at all at this time is attributable to the success of comsat and to the search which the amendment exemplifies. for some other way to deal with foreign aid. we k by  that  all foreign aid is infrastructureroads. education. sanitation. sewers. and so forthbut that a great deal of foreign aid goes into those parts of the development of a country which could very well be accomplished by private .investment. there are many international agencies lending money. there are many private investment companies which are engaged in this effort. yet. the gap is large between what is needed to do the foreign aid job. and what is available. estimates are somewhere in the area of $6 billion to $11 billion a year. it seems desirable. for the reason that it is a persontoperson effort. to bring the american investor into the foreign aid concept and to let him buy a share in what by  has become so deeply established an element of the foreign policy of our countrynamely. ecoic aid to the underdeveloped areas of the world. this idea has been around for years. this is the third congress in which i have introduced this measure. this time. i am very proud to say. it is sponsored  only by me. but also by the senator from indiana . the senator from oregon . the senator from rhode island . the senator from kentucky . and the senator from pennsylvania . it is very much a bipartisan effort. it has had interested comment and study by aid. treasury. and commerce. it has  come under the scrutiny of the advisory committee on private enterprise in foreign aid. which will make a historic report. in my judgment. by the 30th of june. i am hoed to have been the sponsor of the amendment which brought the advisory committee into existence. it has done a fabulous job under arthur watson of the international business machines corp. as its chairman. in view of the situation i have described as to the success of comsat. plus the search for some new way to deal with major parts of the foreign aid program. i feel  that the idea is entitled to and deserves a thorough study and consideration by congress. i am by means of the feeling that the amendment in the form in which i have submitted it. is final but i feel with the recommendation which has been made to the chairman of the foreign relations committee. the senator from arkansas . by the administrator of aidthat perhaps the senator from arkansas could give the senate some assuranceand i hope very much that he willthat this year through either an ad hoc subcommittee or some small organization within the foreign relations committee which the chairman of the foreign relations committee might authorize. this whole concept may be given appropriate hearing. i have undertaken in turn. i may say to the distinguished senator from arkansasand i make it publicly because i have already discussed it with him privatelyto do my utmostand i k that i can be successfulto work out with aid and private exports the mechanical details of the bill in such a way that when it comes before the senate or the ad hoc committee of the foreign relations committee. the details of the bill will be settled and the questions which it will be called upon to consider and advise the main committee aboutand in turn i hope also the senatewill be the desirability. timeliness. and the statesmanship involved in the basic idea. we have talked a great deal about new ways to deal with the foreign aid program. this is a really new waynamely. by a mixed public and private enterprise program such as was tried and seems to be such a remarkable success as comsat. i hope very much that we may have assurances from the chairman of the. foreign relations committee. to whom i am eternally grateful for his cooperation and his sympathetic consideration of this matter. without his help i would  have reached this point. i hope that we may have hearings on this subject this year.
. we have the opportunity  to really work on new initiatives. i am always reminded of the great work accomplished by the senator from oklahoma in the international development association. a new idea which was developed in the senate. i am proud of my sponsorship of the adela investment corporation. which has become one of the most signal successes in aid in latin america in the development of any kind in the private enterprise field. i am highly pleased at the openmindedness with which the peace by investment corporation idea is being approached on .the part of the chairman of the foreign relations committee. and i hope also on the part of the senate. i agree that it is a matter of a unitary character. and should be a piece of legislation. probably coming from the committee or perhaps standing alone or perhaps as a part of the new concept of foreign aid which we shall ultimately see come into being in the  too distant future. in any event. it is an important effort to break through with new techniques of mixed public and private enterprise. of which comsat is a very good example. i am grateful to the chairman of the committee for his cooperation. i am sure this will turn out to be of inestimable value to our nation. i am also grateful to the senator from oregon and the other members of the senate for their cooperation and stimulus. in conclusion. i have a somewhat personal reason for being so pleased with this development. the author of the idea is my brother. benjamin a. javits. a distinguished new york lawyer and ecoist. he has been working on this idea for 20 years. and has been joined by leon keyserling. former chairman of the council of ecoic advisers and has had the benefit of his expertise. they have developed this concept to its present form.  they will have the help of government departments in articulating it in a way in which it will make the most sense. i am highly pleased that we have finally come to this point. with the gracious assurance of the chairman of the committee. i withdraw the amendment.
. one of the hidden costs of our continuing. tragic involvement in the vietnamese war. is the relative neglect of other foreign and domestic policy concerns which are of greater longterm importance to the national interest by the highest policy officials of our government. one of these concerns is the future of u.s. relations with western europe. the year 1973 has been characterized as the year of europe and it is my fervent hope that the termination of the vietnamese conflict in the very near term. will allow our highest political leadership in both the executive and congress to turn their attention to the problems of defining a new. sustainable. and friendly relationship with our key allies in western europe. this task takes on special urgency and importance since 1973 will be the year in which the enlargement of the common market to include the united kingdom becomes a reality. from the congressional point of view. perhaps the key congressional action that will be required if the "year of europe" is to become a successful endeavor. is the prompt passage of reasonable. forward looking trade legislation to mesh with the multilateral trade negotiations which are scheduled to open this september. only through reciprocal negotiations will the common market modify its present agricultural price support system and its policy of proliferating preferential trading relationships which are so inimical to the u.s. export interest and the open and liberal trading order of the free world. it is hard to foresee the passage of such trade legislation if the congress and the executive branch continue at loggerheads over vietnam. hopefully. too. with the resolution of the vietnamese conflict. the congress will hold off on any unilateral troop cutting action in western europe until the mutual balanced force reductionmbfrnegotiations are given a fair chance. the mbfr talks are scheduled to open at approximately the same time as the trade talks. also during this general period a most important annual meeting of the international monetary fundimfwill be taking place in nairobi. kenya. and it is the expectation of the world that this meeting will advance the longterm reform of the international monetary system. one of the most constructive statements that has been made on the present complexities of united stateseuropean relations and the opportunities inherent in the phrase "the year of europe" was made in new york on ember 14. 1972. by a european statesmandr. giovanni agnelli. the head of fiat. i ask unanimous consent that this fine speech be printed in the record at this point and that my colleagues will give it the close and careful attention it deserves.
i thank the senator. . i think that is important. because what was stated here as holy writ did  appeal to aher group of legislators who also heard the matter. the other thing that i think is important is the finding of fact in the other body that private investment is very desirable and that this is a very good way in which to foster it. indeed. one of the major recommendations made there was the fact that there should be a much greater outreach in looking for propositions in the developing countries and outside areas where there had been a concentration of guarantees. in order to be able to put up propositions that we backed. coupled with an opic guarantee. on the ground that this was the best way to deal with foreign aid problems. so far as we were concerned. i think this is very illuminating. because it strikes exactly the right e in my judgment. it should be an important factor because of what we do here. assuming the house deals with the matter and recommends. as i hope very much it will. a conference between the two houses. there will be a conference. as we all k. the closer it is possible to aline the viewpoint of each house in a given approach to a proposition. the more likely it is that some positive result will occur. one other thing that is important. and was mentioned in the debate yesterday. is that in 1969 opic was organized as an amendment to the foreign aid act to carry on the program which had been the responsibility of the aid organization itself. under an investment guarantee. as i mentioned yesterday. in 1949. along with representative vorys. of ohio. i was the author of this proposal myself. the various reforms were incidental. such as high premium rates. corporate management. and great solicitude for these questions. two every important aspects of the matter were encouraged in a kind of unforeseen situation which would have had a tendency to take away rather than to add jobs in the united states. we at that time understood that opic was to have 5 years in which to work out and develop its situation. it took about 2 years to get opic organized. because there was still a tremendous hassle about who would run it. i was very much in the middle of that. because there seemed to be insistence on the part of the white house to have somebody run it who. in my judgment and that of many others. would perhaps  give it a chance. we finally did get a very able man to run it. chosen by the white house.  by me. we finally landed the right fellow. and he remained on the job until the last few months. but 2 years were taken in that total demonstration period of 5 years. so i think the original idea which they came in with to extend the act for 2 years was right. in order to give a full 5year term for this corporation to demonstrate its capability and its relevance to the foreign policy objectives of the united states. in the course of the hearings before the subcommittee headed by the senator from idaho . of which the senator from new jersey is the ranking miity member. opic has been given a much longer term6 years. but it has been so hedged in. in the way of operations. that this 6 years is much worse than a straight 2year extension. really. in this body. it is impossible to go against the grain and simply to adopt a provision of 2 years as a substitute. after consultation with the officials of opic. we decided to go on and at least give them a reasonably fair opportunity to utilize this time in which to demonstrate conclusively to congress its ability to handle he job which congress entrusted to it. if we fall to adopt the amendment which i shall be proposing. authorizing yugoslavia and romania. it will affect the desirability of encouraging american business to be attracted into these east european nations. as to the other two amendments. if we do  adopt them. we shall really be hobbling this operation and preventing opic from succeeding. we can negotiate with insurers with that sort of dominance hanging over them. in the first place. it drains confidence from them-
madam president. i think it is important to lay out our case in advance of further debate. just as the e: disbursements (summary) 197075. 0. 1976. $366.000.000. 1977 (oct. 31). $98.000.000. total 197677. $464.000.000. d.c.) vol. 30.  12decomsenator from south dakota has laid out his case. the managers of the bill. insofar as i kcertainly that goes for myselfare opposed to this amendment. for the following reasons: if the amendment is to mean anything. it must be taken at its word in terms of its general purpose. and the united states must be committed to do everything it possibly can to carry it through. otherwise there would  be good faith involved in respect to the adoption of such an amendment. in other words. even though one could cynically dismiss this amendment and say. "well. all it does. really. when you get to its operative provisions. is require the u.s. executive director to oppose all such transactions which would contribute to such deprivations or violations. " then one could say. "ok. even if the u.s. executive director opposes it. if the other executive directors approve. the loan from the supplementary facility would be made. so what is all the argument about. if this is just rhetoric. let us just pass it and forget it." if we were to be that cynical about this matter. one would approach it in one way. but i can be that cynical. i believe too much in human rights. and i believe that is true of the great majority of people in this chamber. so we have to decide whether we really want to make this a criterion for the use of the supplementary financing facility. because in good faith. should we do that. we would expect that the secretary of the treasury and the president would use all their emous power and influence for the purpose of killing off any use of the suplementary financing facility by any nation which. as this proposal particularly says. engages in a pattern of violation of human rights or deprivation of basic human needs. madam president. in my judgment the real "nubbin" of this thing is found in the words "contribute to the deprivation of basic human needs."  in the human rights part of it. it is to be iced that these matters are joined. ody is going to condone torture or other inhuman activities which we pledge all our national ho to oppose in respect of anything the united states does. but when we deal with "deprivation of basic human needs" we completely nullify the purposes of the international monetary fund and its function and the reason for this supplementary financing facility. because the supplementary financing facility is only to be invoked as a banking matter. after all. this is a monetary organization. engaged in banking functions. it is only to be invoked for borrowing purposes when all else has failed. including the full utilization by the individual borrowing nation of all of its rights to draw on the international monetary fund. most nations which are members. and would therefore be eligible for the supplementary financing facility. have certain drawing rights. and those drawing rights are their right.  a privilege but a right. and so they can draw on them with very few conditions. they can do it in three stages. as their condition worsens. in the first stage there are practically conditions. in the second stage there are some conditions. in the third stage there are some more conditions. but e of these three stages involves conditions which are deeply severe. and would be as severe as the conditions which would be imposed. by the imf for the use of the supplementary financing facility. madam president. it is simply inconceivable. taking the definition of basic human rights set forth in the report section on this amendment. and that is the way the amendment would have to be read. that if you are going to impose conditionsand one must in this last resort use of the supplementary financing facility. otherwise what good is the financing facility. if it is just going to be a carryover loan with the same conditions which have drained away practically to the point of insolvency everything the borrowing nation has been able to do up to the point where it calls for the supplementary facility. then the imf would  be performing its banking function. and we would have business to go into it. what it has to be is a bridge to a better future. and in order to make that bridge to a better future there has to be belt tightening. and therefore it is bound to have an effect upon everybody in a given country which has come. through its own actions. to this condition. undoubtedly. without any question. looking at the definition. for example. of basic human needs which is contained in subsection (c) of this amendment. there would be a deprivation of basic human needs. it is inconceivable that people in that country will be able to enjoyto obtain. as the language ispublic services. including health care. education. clean water. energy resources. and transportation. as a matter of fact. there are many countries in which they could  be obtained under the best of circumstances. let alone if the country were reduced financially to the condition to which it is reduced. so. madam president. we would be dedicating ourselves to the defeat of the very discipline which is essential in order to restore these countries to some kind of a viable condition. so that they could go on. thereafter. without complete dependence upon an international corporation which can be made available to them. in financial terms. for any indefinite future. unless they commit themselves to a regime of very grave stringency. therefore. this amendment really. in essence. is based upon the theory that "you owe us this." i condemn that theory. time and again. neither we  any other nation owe it. a nation. as a price of nationhood. must have a certain amount of willingness and ability to sacrifice. otherwise it should remain some kind of part of some other nation. or ward of some other nation. we can simply have an international program which confers nationhood and at the same time accepts a custody and responsibility for a sovereign nation. if the developing countries are proud of their nationhood. as they are. then they should be proud of their willingness to sacrifice both in terms of defending themselves and in ecoic terms. in belt tightening. in order to put themselves in some kind of viable ecoic condition. the world represented in the international fund is recognizing the responsibility to help. but to help to what. to help to a condition where a nation that deserves nationhood is viable. this amendment would tend to negate the real purpose and effect of the supplementary financing facility. if we administered it honestly. the united states would be mandated to use all its vast authority and power in the world to deny the use of the supplementary financial facility to the very nations which would need it the most. because it is a monetary facility and  a political facility. we would still be engaging in bilateral aid. and in other activities of that character. which is perfectly proper but  germane to the supplementary financing facility. the senator from south dakota mentioned a very interesting case in point. jamaica. i would like to deal with that. if i may. an article appeared in the washington post of july 24. 1978. authored by art pine. on this very subject. this is the second of two artizles. i ask unanimous consent that both articles be printed in the record. though i will be dealing primarily only with the latter.
