the washington post has demonstrated in editorial after editorial that it does  have a good constitutional lawyer on its editorial staff. the editorials published in the newspaper demonstrated that fact constantly. in an editorial which appeared in this mornings issue of the newspaper there appears the following statement: "there is substance in senator morses charge that the resolution amounts to a predated declaration of war. " one wonders whether or  the editorial writer has ever read the joint resolution. one can read the joint resolution and the authority proposed to be given the president in the joint resolution without recognizing that it would clearly authorize the president to proceed to follow whatever courses of action are necessary in his opinion. and such action would constitute authority to conduct war. i should like to make an additional comment on a statement in the editorial in reference to resolutions passed by previous congress. in the body of the editorial the statement is made: "president johnson ed in his message to congress that similar resolutions have been passed at the request of president eisenhower in connection with the threat to formosa in 1955 and the threat to the middle east in 1957. the same course was followed in 1962 at the request of president kennedy to meet the missile threat in cuba." the editorial writer apparently had  read. or certainly had  read recently before he wrote that editorial. the cuban resolution. for there is similarity between the cuban resolution on the one hand and the formosa. the middle east. and the pending resolutions on the other hand. but returning to the comment of the washington post that there is substance in senator morses charge that the resolution amounts to a "predated declaration of war." i should like to read for the benefit of that unenlightened editorial writer of the washington post page 2 of the joint resolution: "resolved by the senate and the house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that the congress approves and supports the determination of the president."  the congress. but of the president"as commander in chief. to take all necessary measures to repel any armed attack against the forces of the united states and to prevent further aggression." the joint resolution thus gives the president warmaking power. i shall come to aher section of the resolution--same item in a moment. the commander in chief. the president of the united states. has the inherent constitutional power immediately to defend the united states in case of an attack. but he does  have the inherent power after that immediate defense to proceed to make war. that is the distinction which this unenlightened editorial writer of the washington post has never grasped. i care  who he isto article i. section 8. of the constitution in the carrying out of mutual security agreements. we should hold him to the approval of the congress before the fact and  after the fact. june 22. -970
. secretary weinberger. or anybody else has disguised the fact that we are in hostilities in the persian gulf. we are. that being the case. we either go ahead and agree or we say that we want to have control as to the total hardware and we want to have our share of control as to the duty imposed on us by the constitution and by law of how the hardware. the men and women and weapons. are employed. i will certainly  object to the unanimous consent request. but i want to put everyone on ice that i believe i speak  just for myself but for others who feel as intensly. this is  going to go away. believe me. it demeans us as a body. the longer we put decision time off. i would suggest that we get to it and vote on the war powers amendment before us. i might add when that comes i do  intend in any way to count votes and see who has what. it will be up or down.
i shall be through in just a minute. so long as the people of new york. more than 16 million strong. have shed their blood in the defense of the united states of america. and so long as the people in a great civil war saw fit to affirm the very values which are put in issue here. to wit. that we are a nation.  a collection of miscellaneous statesjust so long. i shall carry on. i am certain that many others in this body. with dignity and with complete respect for the sincerity of those who argue the other waywill strive with me in the humble effort to provide legislation which can be lived with by men and women who have had social customs with which many of us disagreeand i think the great majority of the people of the country disagree. and have disagreed for many. many years. so long as it is necessary to give them every opportunity to accommodate themselves to what is required by our constitution and the modern world. it is  a very pleasant occupation. and i promise i will  get so vehement about it as perhaps some other persons. but. . i feel. in deep conscience. and in pursuance of my oath as a senator of the united states. that i shall carry on
. yesterdays elections for a constituent assembly in south vietnam could be the significant first step that we have all been waiting for. the first concrete sign that our joint efforts are paying off. the two key indicators of success were positive: there was a large voter turt and there were hardly any charges of fraud. present figures are that over 5 million south vietnamese or almost threequarters of the eligible voters cast their ballots. we should be perfectly clear in our own minds. however. on the meaning of this success. it is  going to produce any new and miraculous harmony or a clearcut mandate. it was  a vote of confidence in any premier or political party. it is  even a definite sign that the south vietnamese are going to clean their own house and begin to pursue the war against the communists or their war against want in a more determined fashion. the success of the elections proves one thingcontrol. and this is what was really to be tested in the first place. the impressive voter turt demonstrates that the saigon government actually controls and is administering the territory of a great majority of the people. the communists. whatever they will  claim. were trying t6 sabotage the elections by frightening people away from the polls and candidates from running for office. a poor voter turt would have indicated that the south vietnamese people believed the vietcong was more powerful than the saigon government. in the test of wills and strength. the saigon government demonstrated it could deliver. the people felt safe egh with saigons protection to brave the communist threats. but the elections are only a beginning. and the task of constitutionmaking. with all the attendant political problems. lies ahead. it is very important that those chosen for this constitutiondrafting responsibility concentrate on drafting the constitution and do  busy themselves by taking potshots at the present goverinent. similiarly. the military junta should exercise restraint in allowing the duly elected delegates to write the constitution without military dictation. our job  is to convince the politicians and the military that they need each other. the military chain of command is the only structure that exists in south vietnam that can implement decisions. and the various political groupings represent the only way decisions can be both made and accepted by the people.
may i say to the senator that i agree thoroughly with the fundamental thrust of his thinking. i am  so sure about a de facto declaration of war. i do  k that there is such a thing. but i agree with him in general terms. all i am trying to do here is to retain without prejudice a basis for further legislating. if we wish to. i am  seeking in any way to define.  even in the limited way the byrd second amendment does concerning the presidents commander in chief power. to define what are the powers of congress. i feel that. as we did go ahead with some definition of the presidents powers. we had better balance that off by saying it does  mean we are giving anything up so far as the war powers given to congress in the constitution are concerned.
i would  say it is an order. i would only express my judgment as to where the constitution at that point leaves the president. it is  an order. i am glad it is  an order. i am very reserved about such an order. i am  a cosponsor of the mcgovern amendment. and neither is the senator from arkansas or most other members of the committee on foreign relations. i am very reserved about orders to the president under the american system. just as i am about orders from him. but i think it leaves him only with his constitutional authority. and this being a war that has gone on for 5 years and it can longer be justified on the ground of reaction to attack. i think it leaves him only the authority to liquidate it.
the war powers bill is one of the most important pieces of legislation in the national security field that has come before the senate in this century. the bills various sections are carefully interrelated and interdependent. as the senator who probably has had the longest experience with the evolution of the bill. i will concentrate my remarks on an explanation of the bill and how it is intended to work. and i shall try to dispel the allegations which have been made against it by the state department and other critics. i shall begin by dealing with the constitutionality of s. 2956. as well as its historical background and then proceed to a detailed explanation of the bill. in this connection we should begin with the words of the constitution itself because from what many critics of s. 2956 have said. it almost seems as if they have neglected to read what the constitution in fact does say about the war powers.
the constitutional basis is the power of congress to make laws necessary and proper about everything in the constitution. including the presidents power as commander in chief and including our own war powers. therefore. his power. once it changes its nature by the fact that you cease to repel an attack and you are in a state of war. is more unlimited than ours. and we have the authority under the constitution to define it. that is what we are doing. in other words. the implication of the questioni do  understand why the senator feels that should confound meis that the minute you say he has some power. that this power is unlimited and permanent. i say he does  have any power of such a nature at all. he has the power to repel an attack. that is a limited power. and we can define its limitation to repel an attack. and we say it is 30 days. after that. he is at war. and we want to join in that decision. we say that. and we have that authority to make that finding under the "necessary and proper" clause.
second. i assume the senator is trying more clearly to define the power of congress and the power of the president. in view of a statement from the administration which appears on page 291 of the hearing record of the committee on legislative proposals relating to the war in southeast asia which was held in april and may of 1971. in that statement the administration said: putting aside the question of the presidents general authority under the constitution to deploy troops abroad. we consider that the president certainly has the constitutional authority to take all reasonable efforts to protect the troops once they have been committed and to bring about their withdrawal under circumstances that contribute to a durable peace. the senator makes the point. as i understand itand i wish to evidence my concurrence with the senatorthat we are  giving the president. in our judgment. all that latitude. that he bring about the withdrawal "under circumstances that contribute to a durable peace." we use the word "disengagement" in order to demonstrate that we actually expect them to be disengaged. it is only the tactical situation relating to disengagement which we will countenance as an element of delay in the 30day period.  any other policy objectives such as achieving "a durable peace."
i realize that that is how the senator feels. and that is why i pointed out that the vote tomorrow will be a substantive vote.  a procedural vote. the senators who feel that this is either unconstitutional or will be an effort to change the constitution undoubtedly will vote for the reference. on the other hand. those of us who believe that the war power of congress is something that has been undermined. which has resulted untold impairment of the national interest. particularly circa 1962 to 1968. will vote against the motion.  has and that which congress has. directly to this bill. he comes out strongly and decidedly in favor of this measure. because i feel the letter should be available to all senators. and because it is  unduly long. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
if i may finish first. it is very comparable to the idea which preceded the civil war that you had to have a concurrent majority before you could do anything here. a majority from the south and a majority from the rest of the country. my feeling and my constant contention here  for many years. joined by many distinguished members and many distinguished legal scholars. has been that we have to find a way to observe the constitution. i think the chair is absolutely right in submitting these matters to the senate. but i do  believe that the senate. at the initiation of a session. can find itself absolutely frustrated from being able to carry out the constitution because of something which it has put in its rules which is itself unconstitutional. i remember very well the situation in 1959. when the compromise was offered by a senator who later became president. lyndon johnson. of twothirds present and voting as against an absolute twothirds of the whole senate. i remember very well when section 2 of rule xxxii was written into the rules. that section. if it is valid. would inhibit exactly what we are trying to do today. but it is  valid. and the senate is just as good a judge. under the constitution. as the supreme court. when it comes to its own actions. the fact is that i voted for that compromise in the final analysis. and i said at the time that i was able to so vote because i did  consider section 2 valid under the constitution. and. therefore. a nullity. which indeed it is
 to have confidence in us. in sharing the responsibility for foreign policy. we have to have some confidence in him. especially as we have a residual power. which i have just read. so that if the situation really threatens to get out of hand. we can make him pull back. and that is by law.  by interpretation of the constitution or anything such as that. it is by law. incorporated in the war powers resolution. because of the delicacy of the situation. the uncertainty of what may result. whether it needs to be 502 or 498. i think we are prejudicing ourselves if we get down to this kind of specificity and restriction. within the frame of reference in which we are operating today. i do  believe it is necessary. for those reasons. for myself. i oppose the amendment.
the constitution says such thing. the constitution makes him commander in chief. that is all it says. that is a very different thing from what the senator said. that gives him a very twilight zone set of powers. i could write a book on the subject to justify the war powers resolution. the war powers resolution does a lot. it is landmark legislation. but it does  settle this question of constitutional power which remains in controversy between the president and the congress as to what he can do to rescue americans. we did  include that in the war powers and it is in way added to or subtracted from by this resolution. he can do it for any commercial attach6 or any businessman in any country in the world. if he asserts that power. and he does.
