. in the time available for study this evening. against the actions taken on january 16 and january 30. i think this is a completely unsatisfactory step. i am glad that the obvious hole has been plugged. but when we consider such language as "in order to further insure that petroleum products in critically short supply are shipped from the area of greatest shortage in the united states". "it was felt advisable to make sure that shipments are made until supplies in this area are substantially increased". "if the critical shortage is continued. it may be necessary to extend the restriction beyond that date". "because of continuing petroleum shortages in the united states. importing countries are being asked to make further reductions in their requests for petroleum products in future quarters". how inadequate it is. i do  see how anyone can be satisfied that this goes far egh. certainly. in terms of the shipments made in the 39 days since the first of the year. it seems perfectly fair to insist that immediate further action be taken to reduce the allocations  annced by a minimum of 50 percent to meet the voluntary program undertaken by canada and extended last week to the end of april. you will e that this relief extends only to the end of march. everyone ks how long it takes to go through channels here. let us assume that this can be done by saturday. that will leave us only 46 days of partial relief. it may be argued this is a blind approach. possibly it is. but i submit it is blinder than the inexplicable moves which have been made since january 16. of course. it is encouraging to read that motor gas has been included in view of the warnings of shortages in gasoline and recommendations of rationing in some areas next summer. of course. it is encouraging that these countries are being asked to review immediately the first quarter allocations to determine whether further reductions can be achieved during the remaining 1 month. i regret that this did  occur to anyone in the department when the first quarter program was being set up and when everyone in the united states who reads a newspaper or listens to radio programs knew that the theast was in difficulty and that there was every chance it would be worse as the winter went along. lest there be any misunderstanding of my suggestion. and to cover the possibility of any reluctance to frame a prompt message to these countries. 1 think a cable such as the following would be thoroughly understood and would win immediate cooperation: because petroleum products are in critical short supply in this country and because we must insure that supplies in our shortage areas are substantially increased immediately. and because we may find it necessary to extend the existing restrictions beyond march 31 unless we can readjust the situation in this ccuntry promptly. we regret to advise you that we believe. in the interest of continuing production in this country. maintaining transportation and public utilities. keeping our schools and hospitals and churches and other institutions and individual homes heated to a minimum degree. and in the interests of being able to assist your government and your people. as the american people hope to do. we must ask you to accept a 50 percent reduction in the allocations to your country as annced by this department on february 9. effective immediately.
