madam pres unanimous consent to have this point in the record th parts of gov. nelson a. rocke turesthe socalled godkin i harvard university. entitled ture of federalism." publisi watertown (n.y.) daily time ary 10. 1962. i shall submit fi ord the text of the other lectu are given. is will lead there being objection. the lectures .c employees were ordered to be printed in the recunemploy- ord. as follows: ging to the as to us the [from the watertown (n.y.) daily times. to provide feb. 10. 1962] .o that this future of federalism  presume (by gov. nelson a. rockefeller) vhether the the f110. lecture 1: freedom and federalism force say it in the omis spring of 1939. a bright nsewhich. and sunny may 3 was a day marked by adolf a the final hitler with aher bellicose speech to the ore efficient reichstag calling for a showdown on poland. on the same day. the league of nations hat national opened its "peace pavilion" at the worlds n any local fair in new york city. should be and also on this same day. which seems e world war so remote from the present instant. there ed republic was published a vigorous critique of ameripand to the can political life by a visitor from abroad. t a crucially famed in intellectual and academic circles. t. the re- who had just delivered a series of lectures on ith on long the american presidency. ommunities. the visitor was harold j. laski. and the nd. but ob- obituary he wrote upon an historic american if republic political doctrine bore the title: "the obsoeton staff of lescence of federalism." how did professor laski conclude that the be broadest age of federalism was languishing near hese people death. help. they he did concede that "federalism is the apsmen whose propriate governmental technique for and go to waste. expanding capitalism." but. he declaimed. produce the "a contracting capitalism can afford the this country luxury of federalism." endence on leaping from this premise. he insisted o missiles- that the failure of the federal idea was unntracts that mistakably plain  only in the united states but also elsewhere in the worldin he plant is canada. australia. germany. and he exle. it is plained this universal failure in these words: done in the "whether we take the conditions of istiding loans. bor. the level of taxation. the standards of education. or the supply of amenities like hat defense housing and recreation. it has become clear g. that both that the true source of decision is longer any defense at the circumference. but at the center. of hance. this the site. we espouse "for 48 separate units to seek to compete rge that the with the integrated power of giant capitaland suspend ism is to invite defeat in almost every eleision. that ment of social life where approximate uninsider what formity of condition is the test of the good public plant life." the govern- the two decades since have dealt a harsh rt of all our retort to professor laskis proncement on f our long federalism in the united states. xecutive of it has been proven wrong in ecoic. )peal to the social and political terms. .1 delegation in the first place. the american ecoy ore positive has  contracted. but has continued its en. can dynamic expansion. r alternative private enterprise has become more vigorous. more creativeand better able to of work. s. like many members of the harvard faculty who are  with us today. i went to washington. in my case. this was in 1940more than two decades ago. after mingled accomplishment and frustration in various appointive posts over a period of 16 years. i turned to elective public office on the state leveland ran for gover of new york in 1958. i made this choice on the basis of my recognition that the critical political decisions in government are. and must be. primarily shaped and made by elected officials. or. as my latin american friends would say. by the authentic representatives of the people. it is with this particular perspective on our democratic processes that i underline my deep personal conviction that the future of freedom lies in the federal idea.
