i thank my colleague from rhode island very much for being so accommodating.  frank pace. jr. and david rockefellers chairmanship. has accepted nearly 400 individual businessassistance projects in 36 countries of latin america. africa. the middle east. and far east. more than 100 of these projects. in 17 countries. have been completed. iescs goal of taking on 400 to 500 new projects yearly is  clearly attainable. the aim of iesc projects is to improve the managerial practices and productivity of business firms abroad and thereby to strengthen the freeenterprise system in the developing world. this purpose accords fully with the foreign policy of this country as expressed in both the congress and the executive branch. the program also displays the spirit of america at its best. for the businessmen who serve as advisers to foreign firms are volunteers who give of their time and khow to serve the free world. they receive traveling and living expenses. but other compensation. most of these men are retired. free of their lifelong business commitments here. but still able and more than willing to offer their experience to follow businessmen who can make use of it. in some cases. iesc also borrows midcareer executives from american firms and returns them to their companies after the project is completed. in the majority of cases. the iesc volunteers have taken their wives with them and these fine women have also served their country by enhancing the reputation of americans for unselfish service. they have developed cordial associations in the local communities and have often assisted in educational and socialservice activities. on the average. the iesc volunteer spends 3 to 4 months on an assignment. for it is a cardinal feature of the program that he is there only to advise and consult with the management of the host firm. he is  running the company or "taking over." when he has made his analysis of the companys problems and submitted his recommendations. he comes home. it is up to the local management to consider his recommendations and carry on from there. the relationship between the client company and iesc is strictly businesslike. the firm pays a fee for the service and also pays the volunteers travel costs. the fact that steadily increasing numbers of foreign companies apply for assistance under these conditions is eloquent testimony to the growing receptivity to the iesc program. the range of businesses which have so applied covers the whole spectrum of ecoic activity: banking and insurance. mining and manufacturing. retail and wholesale marketing. food production and processing. communications. transportation and service industries. finally. a highly significant characteristic of the iesc program: it is a joint undertaking of the u.s. business community and this government. it is directed and managed privately. its board chairman is david rockefeller. who made one of the major proposals leading to formation of iesc. and his associates on the board are a blueribbon panel of american businessmen. all of its personnel. both paid staff members and volunteers. are private citizens. a portion of its budgetary needs is privately subscribed. the balance is underwritten by the agency for international development with funds appropriated by the congress. i believe that we here have been wise in providing this support for a new. imaginative. and successful program in international business relations. i trust that we shall continue to do so.
