here is aher quote from the speech by the senior senator from new york: passage will tell the business community that the rights of workers to organize or to decline organization will be protected fully. that there will be profit in law avoidance and if employees choose a union to learn to deal with it and to live with it amicably. . i have quarrel with that. and i believe that if a group of workers vote for a union there should  be these incessant delays that are placed in front of them. here is where i wish to ask my question of the senator from michigan. will he  concede that this bill goes way beyond that in two particular points. first. the reduction for the maximum time in which elections are held. i have had. as i believe the senator from michigan has had. scores of proponents of this legislation write and come through my office. and never has one suggested that the maximum time for holding an election of 45 days is delay or procrastination or flouting of the law. so my first question is: why in the world are the proponents of this legislation pushing for reduction of the maximum time in which elections may be held.  to the time of 45 days. which is the median time. but originally as the bill came in i believe it was 15 days. was it . within 15 days an election must be held. that was stretched out to 21 days in the house bill.
. today. april 28. 1982. is the fifth anniversary of the signing of the federal regulations implementing section 504. the disability civil rights provision of the vocational rehabilitation act of 1973. this day marks an important milestone  only in the lives of some 36 million disabled americans. but indelibly in the history of the ertire nation as well. throughout the week americans. disabled and able bodied alike. will be joining together  only to commemorate but to celebrate the signing of these regulations which in so many ways confer the same rights upon disabled americans as those guarantees first enumerated in the declaration of independence and the constitution. in enacting this civil rights provision. congress sought to provide the disabled with the same types of protections which it has historically accorded to all americans. in effect. the chief aim of section 504. as conceived by its framers. was to remove a miity class from majority politics and prohibit discrimination against individuals on the basis of handicap in programs and activities receiving federal financial assistance. for nearly two centuries prior to this time. americans with physical and mental disabilities were treated better than secondclass citizens. routinely. handicapped children were excluded from our nations schools. retarded and otherwise developmentally disabled individuals were warehoused in institutions unfit for human habitation. persons with mobility impairments were barred from employment by. in many cases. the presence of a 3inch step. in 1973. responding to years of effort on the part of the disabled community and other concerned citizens. congress sought to correct sut~h blatant and fundamental inequities in our system by including in the rehabilitation act a civil rights provision modeled after title vi of the civil rights act of 1964 and title ix of the education amendments of 1972. although there are still those who question whether congress knew what it was doing in passing such legislation. there can be doubt that in the nearly 10 years since its passage. congress indeed has recognized 504 as a civil rights statute. congress has on numerous occasions reaffirmed that the intent of enacting this legislation was to afford disabled persons with the same equal opportunities to participate in the mainstream of american life as enjoyed by all other citizens of this country. in 1978. in reauthorizing the rehabilitation act. congress expanded thelpurpose of the act to include the "guarantee of equal opportunity" for all disabled americans and provided rights. remedies. and procedures afforded to miities under title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. there is doubt that section 504 has assisted persons with disabilities to maximize their full potential and to become independent. productive taxpaying citizensthe aim of all american citizens. given the continuing commitment of the congress insuring civil rights of all americans. it is imperative that we be especially vigilant in preserving and maintaining the integrity of such laws as section 504 of the rehabilitation act. i would. therefore. call on my colleagues to become more familiar with section 504 and its impact upon disabled citizens in their own states.*
. because of the uncertainty over the interpretation of "current operating levels" i would like to obtain. for the record. the intent of this language as it relates to three critical programs for the disabled. with regard to the education for the handicapped state grants program. vocational rehabilitation state grants program. and the activities under developmental disabilities assistance and bill of rights act. what is your understanding of the levels provided for in this continuing resolution.
let me just wind up in sum relative to the comments just made by saying the following: if there are those who felt uncomfortable for 15 years. i suspect a great many more felt uncomfortable for 100 years. and if. indeed. the government is  in a position to run a school board. i might point out that the school boards were  in the position to run the schools for 100 years as they have differentiated between americans. we did  get to this 15year period except that we went through a 100year period of abysmal segregation and discrimination. i think we have come through it. obviously there is still more work to be done. but in the education area it stands as testimony to this independent judiciary and to this tripartite government that the resulutions worked. the senator from th carolina is correct. there is the color of a right to bring up his argument by virtue of aher portion of the constitution. it is a: debatable matter as to whether or  we have jurisdiction over the courts and all levels of the judiciary. but that is why that problem ought to be resolved here. that is why it is up to the legislative branch  to permit it to go to the courts but to say that we want to keep that independent judiciary and  politicize it. . i do  want to put the blame on the house of representatives or speaker oneill. or whoever over there. if this amendment does  move very fast. indeed. i and senator mathias and others will take full responsibility for 9 months of debate on this floor. there was  really much time for the house to act. and it will be 9 months more. as a matter of legislative history. george washington was a great advocate of the u.s. senate. thomas jefferson did  want to have a senate. he wanted only one house. the house of representatives. and one day at breakfastand this is a true storywashington and jefferson were discussing the new government. the possibility of the constitution. jefferson expressed his opposition to the senate and washington turned to him" and said. "tell me something." he said. "why is it that you take your coffee and pour it into your saucer." and jefferson responded "to cool it." and washington responded "that is why you need a senate." to cool the passions of the time. to give deliberation. to the issues raised before the american public. that is why there is the u.s. senate. all of us in this chamber support the distinguished senator from vermont and the distinguished senator from rhode island in their efforts in education. but at what price. at what price. at the cost of independence of the judiciary. at the cost of any time in the future any one of us who became unpopular being able to plead the justice of our cause before the courts. oh.  that is too high a price. and the time has come  to discuss this matter. and. indeed i welcome it because the last debate was a very silent one for a long period of time. this one will  be. whatever anybody feels that they gain in terms of being able to curse the courts. they have paid a terrible price in the protection of their own rights when the time comes to determine those rights
. it is my privilege today to annce that the gover of the commonwealth of massachusetts has declared this week. august 17. 1971. as "horizons for youthkiddie kamp week." this is a eworthy occasion. for the massachusetts kiddie kamp corp.. has been in existence for 33 years and has made an outstanding contribution to the enrichment of many culturally deprived children. the original concept for the camp was to present "democracy in action" through a summer recreation program. it was designed to draw children from all ethnic backgrounds into a rural setting where they could live. work and learn together. located in the lovely town of sharon 25 miles south of boston. the 3 camp sites are situated on 327 acres of wooded area with 1 mile of beach on lake massapoag. swimming. boating. hiking. crafts. archery. and an extensive dramatics program are some of the activities available. a capable staff of 85 collegeage youths. many from the same background as the campers. are hired each year. the staff is instructed to emphasize unity in the group and to administer individual attention to each camper. one significant goal is to provide the child with the personal support which he may  get in an inner city lower ecoic environment. twelve hundred young people are served during the summer. they come for 2week periods and are primarily from the city of boston. this year. for the first time. 35 children from new hampshire and 35 children from connecticut have been included as well. the kiddie kamp section accommodates 200 boys. ages eightandahalf to fourteenandahalf. pioneer village is geared to meet the needs of 50 teenage boys from ages fourteenandahalf to sixteenandahalf. a new addition this year is the inclusion of a girls section which presently has 50 participants but soon will be able to accommodate 150. all funds for the camps come from private contributions. fund raising activities continue throughout the year. and attract both large and small donations. the support of the press has been particularly positive and most helpful. pioneer village. which began last year under an hew grant is  being funded privately as well. thursday is govers day at the camp. the gover will be in attendance and has planned a program for the children which will include sports events conducted by celebrities in the various fields. contributors have been invited to view the events. and it is expected that from 400 to 500 persons will be in attendance. i commend all the efforts of kiddie kamp corp. and its able executors and look forward to seeing even greater expansion and success in the years to come.
it is further evidence of the fact that prince edward county is a striking illustration of retrogression in this whole matter. rather than progression. i call attention to state provisions which have been passed since 1954 in the states of alabama. georgia. louisiana. and south carolina. i have already referred to the georgia statute providing for the withdrawal of state aid from integrated schools. i ask unanimous consent that this table of state laws on that subject. like the georgia law. which i cited a few minutes ago. may be included in the record as a part of my remarks. as well as a tabulation from the hearings in civil rights legislation of the subcommittee on constitutional rights of recent state and local laws in this field. together with a memorandum setting out the most recent developments in public school desegregation.
. members of miity groups living in areas of the united states where their constitutional rights are flagrantly violated must find little solace in the democratic majoritys implicit stand that they "wait til next year." they k from experience that there is a strong miity within this chamberand within the democratic majority in the senatewhich seems to be determined that they shall wait  "til next year." but perhaps forever. within the next few weeks. millions of schoolchildren will return to their classes throughout the nation. and once again we can anticipate. with a gripping fear of the national embarrassment which always accompanies it. the difficulties which will arise in many communities where a premium has been placed on failure to ho the law of the land regarding school desegregation. indeed. where the agencies of state and local government are themselves dedicated to evading the law.
s average further when the bill is faced with the expected fight in the senate. the bills section on equal opportunity in employment. its mandatory prohibition against the use of federal funds to aid segregated federalstate programs. and its protection of rights under the 14th amendment to include other rights. in addition to public school desegregation. mark it as a practicable and major advance in the civil rights field. the bill is  ideal. but if effectively enforced as a law. would be capable of doing what must be done at this time. i think it is very important to point out that since the bill is a bipartisan product. after so much struggle. our colleagues in the other body understand that the bill has support in the senate. and that we think the members of the committee did a good job and did  run away from the issue or report a weak bill. i do  believe that the bill is a weak bill. it is a tribute to bipartisanship. which is absolutely indispensable in both the house and the senate. credit goes equally to representative celler. the chairman of the committee. and representative mcculloch. of ohio. the ranking republican member of the committee. it reflects the cooperation of the miity leader. representative halleck. it shows also that liberals k how to deal with a difficult situation and are neither doctrinaire  inflexible. i take particular pride in the role of representative lindsay. my own representative in new york city. and also republican representatives matmias. cahill. and macgregor. who helped to turn the tide. i support them in their actions.
. all of us have spoken to literally hundreds of students and have received tremendous numbers of letters and other communications. i have 100.000 right  in my office. without their having been opened. while i come from a populous state like new york and this undoubtedly is a maximum number. i am sure every senator is suffering from the same thing. i think. as we have received these expressions. we must also remember those students who wish to continue their studies. and i think they perhaps constitute a majority of the students. i hope very much that the college administrators and faculties will take into consideration the needs and desires of those students and will  be quick to close up universities or to eliminate classes. but will put it more on an optional basis so that students who feel they will benefit from political action may engage in that at such a critical time. and that those who wish to continue their studies will . against their wishes. be denied the academic facilities which are required for that purpose. the new york times. in an editorial of may 13. makes an eloquent and timely plea in behalf of such students. it states in part: to penalize them. in the interest of campus appeasement. would be to offer special privileges to one group while trampling on the rights of others. i ask unanimous consent to include this editorial as a part of my remarks and invite it to the attention of the senate.
. disfunctions in implementing these provisions abridge veterans rights and threaten to impose data requirements which can be met by institutions of higher learning. the inclusion of beog and seog students in the 85percent enrollment counts denies benefits to veterans in urban areas. in graduate programs. and in many institutions with large numbers of beoggrants and federal fellowships for education. if the temporary beog and seog waivers were to lapse. already staggering administrative and data requirements would skyrocket. even highly sophisticated management information systems serving as models for other colleges and universities would be unable to generate data meeting va requirements. costly reprogramming and revision of higher education administrative procedures would be necessary to allow for admission and transfer decisions based on the distribution of financial resources of other enrollees. rather than the educationally sound criteria of students needs. abilities. and program capacity. my bill will help solve problems caused by beog and seog counts and problems related to extensions of temporary waivers by eliminating students receiving grants from other federal agencies for the purposes of the 85 percent determination. the elimination of this language will ease tension between institutions of higher learning and the veterans administration. such tension has producedat last countover 20 costly lawsuits against the va on issues of institutional authority and state legal responsibility. veterans entitled rights are also denied by the "catch 22" nature of the 8515 rule. which puts the va in an incongruous position. there exist programs initiated and supported by va grants and contracts which are specifically designed to train paraplegic patients. mostly veterans. in such occupations as dental laboratory techogy. under the 8515 ruling. paraplegic veterans. otherwise unable to afford such training. would be ineligible for veterans benefits in these programs and denied the opportunity for useful participation in society. this bill solves these programs by removing the discretionary powers of the administrator in such matters and guaranteeing veterans benefits for special restorative training. while protecting the rights of veterans and those of institutions of higher education. the provisions of the bill insure against abuses of federal moneys in several ways. first. courses paid for by veterans benefits must lead to a standard college degree and must be offered by a proprietary profit or profit educational institution. second. the limitation on enrollment at 85 percent of students having all or part of their tuition. fees. or other charges paid to or for them by the educational institution still stands with respect to standard degree courses. thus limiting the creation of questionable veterans courses by a small number of institutions in an attempt to preserve institutional budgets at the taxpayers expense. today. the committee on veterans affairs is conducting hearings on the subject of benefits under the gi bill. the members of the veterans affairs committee will be the beneficiaries of telling testimony from gordon m. ambech who is presently executive deputy commissioner of the new york state education department. who will be invested as commissioner of education on july 1. the new york state education depart-
