. the distinguished columnist and author. walter lippmann. delivered the commencement address at boston university on sunday. june 7. mr. lippmann addressed himself to the theme. "our world in 1964" and held out a promise of hope for a world without war. at least on the battlefield. or in the air. reduction in international tension in his view will free our energies for the pursuit of solutions to domestic problems too long left behind in our struggle to preserve our security. i would like the house to have the benefit of mr. lippmanns incisive remarks and i ask unanimous consent to include his address following my remarks in the i am very sensible of the privilege of speaking to you and of the ho you are doing me this aftern. i can most truly express my gratitude by saying that for myself. as for the class of 1964. commencement exercises and diplomas are only punctuation marksin a process of learning which is never completed. for there is such thing as king it all. and only fools think they have hing more to learn. there is such thing as king egh. and wise men are always aware of it. in fact. the most important thing that can be gained from an education is to have begun to learn how to go about learning. so i need hardly tell yousince you k something about what is going on in the outer worldthat this country is  engaged---especially in this election yearin the vast and complicated process of reexamining. reappraising. rethinking. and relearning its beliefs about the problems of the united states in the world and about the problem of its own internal peace and progress. i realize. of course. that all of the teachers in the educational process of an election are  so disinterested and perhaps  so wellinformed as are the professors under whom you have been studying. but you can do something to check on them by listening to their opponents. there is hing unusual about having to relearn and rethink. it has been going on furiously throughout this century. this century of great changes. during which the united states has been transformed from a provincial and rural society into the leading industrial and military power in the world. indeed. though sometimes the evolution of ideas is rapid. and sometimes it is slower. we may say that the need and the ability to rethink and to relearn is the hallmark of a free society. it is most surely the inner principle of our own american society. the question to which the founding fathers of the republic sought an answer was. as alexander hamilton put it. whether "societies of men are really capable of establishing good government from reflection and choice." the commitment to establish such a government is the essence of the revolutionary turn in human affairs which created the united states. but for that. we could go on thinking what we always thought. with never a worry that we might be wrong. from time immemorial. men have been governed by custom and heredity. by accident and force. the newly liberated americans attempted to do what on the scale of a nation had never been done before. they had to invent. contrive. and learn how to operate a new kind of governmenta government established and operated by reflection and choice. this was a daring and revolutionary enterprise. and so it was held to be throughout the world. to attempt it. the founding fathers had to make certain assumptions about the nature of man and about the world he lives in. they had to assume that at least a sufficient number of americans would be capable of reflecting correctly and then of choosing wisely. for the founding fathers had illusions about the capacities of unregenerate and uneducated men. they did  assume that the capacity to reflect soundly would instinctively appear in every man when he became eligible to vote. on the contrary. they realized that the incentives and restraints of welldesigned political institutions were necessary to produce sound reflection. they had to assume something more. they had to assume that those who emerged and became the legislators and executives of the republic would be capable of something more than reflectionthat they would be inspired also with the grace to choose rightlyand that they would have the gift of preferring the good when they saw it. these are the fundamental assumptions of the american ideology. and insofar as they are lost in our schools and in our public life. popular government. as we intend to have it. becomes extremely difficult to make work. at the root of all these assumptions is a commitment to a continuing process of selfeducation and selfdiscipline. it is a vast and complicated process of reexamining. reappraising. rethinking. and relearning what goes into the making of public policy. i was graduated from the college across the river more than 50 years ago. i was entirely unprepared. i think i may say. for the fact that i would be living in a time of great wars and revolutions. it never occurred to me to doubt that the tranquil world i had been born into was built on solid rock and that after mans long struggle to go onward and upward. he had found the right way of permanent progress toward a better life. when i was in school and in college. there had  been a really serious war for many generations. the class of 1964 has had a very different experience. you. on the contrary. were born into a time when war. and the threat of war. and the preparation for war. have overhung and dominated your lives and the lives of your fathers. what i wish to say today is that  we have come to a different time. you willquite rightlytake what i am saying with a grain of salt and keep your fingers crossed. but it is true. i believe. that the threat of warthe threat of great nuclear war which could devastate the whole thern hemispherehas become decidedly less than it was a few years ago. while you were still in school and college. it is hard to believe that this is true. indeed. all of us have a kind of superstitious fear that we may be tempting fate if we dare to say that the danger. the greatest danger in the history of mankind. has receded. but i think you may believe that it has receded egh so that we can begin again to plan our lives and our public affairs on the assumption that our civilization is going to survive. this is an assumption which one has dared to make for decades. you can make it. you can look once more beyond mere survival to the improvement of our own affairs. i am. i must warn you. venturing onto dangerous and slippery ground. many men who have played an hoable and leading part in the wars of this century will say that if the people are allowed to think of peace. they will lose the will to prepare for war. they will cease to make the effort. they will refuse to accept the sacrifices. which are required if we are to play our part in the world. the older generation are haunted by the memory of how. after the first and again after the second world war. the country demobilized its military power as soon as an armistice was reached and long before peace was secured. i k i shall be warned that even if the cold war has in fact been. as i believe it has been. defused of its malignant nuclear sanction. it is a mistake to talk about preparing for peace. and indeed. it could be a catastrophic mistake. if the generation who are  taking over are incapable of continuing to prepare for war while they prepare for peace. then there is grave trouble ahead. i do  doubt that for some the mere talk of peace is a sedative and a sleeping pill. but i refuse to believe that we are doomed inevitably to make again every mistake we have made before. i am that much of an optimist. i do  believe that men are incapable of learning anything from experience. they can learn something. to be sure they do  learn egh. but they do learn something. and so. while i admit that the talk of preparing for peace may provide the selfish and the lazy with a reason for closing their eyes and folding their hands. i believe that we must speak of preparing for peace and that you especially must think of it. we must think of it because during the past 25 years--during long bitter years of world war ii and of the cold warwe have necessarily and unavoidably had to make heavy sacrifices. our material sacrifices were small as compared with those of our allies and of our enemies. in spite of war. the country has grown richer. but it has been too distracted by the business of waging war and of preparing against the threat of war to pay attention to its own internal problems. that is the heaviest price that the american people have paid for war and the threat of war. partly for want of public money. but chiefly for want of time. attention. and energy. we have been neglecting our own affairs. yet. in the quartercentury since the beginning of the second world war. the american way of life has been changing dramatically and at emous speed. but we have been too distracted by the war to deal effectively with these changes. our population has been growing explosively. we are  predominantly an industrial nation living in cities and -suburban areas. but we have  kept up with the needs of this growing urbanized population. we have hardly begun to replan and redevelop our cities and the great metropolitan areas. we have  come anywhere near solving the problem of getting in and out of these metropolitan areas or of moving about within them. we have  created the medical facilities these urbanized people need. our school system has lagged so far behind our needs that about onethird of the men examined for the draft can pass the tests. we are far behind the civilized countries of the world in providing our people with the civilizing amenities of social life. and. last but  least. we have been too distracted to put our minds resolutely on the redress. of the grievances which are the just cause of the negro protest. we have drifted into a dangerous internal conflict within the union. i shall  try to spell it. all out. i am sure i do  need to do that here in this place and on this occasion. it will be your business as citizens to read rightly the meaning of that reduction in danger and whether it is temporary or lastingthe danger which has hung over us for at least half a century. if you read the meaning rightly. you will understand that. for you. in the foreseeable future the way is open. as it was  open to your fathers and your grandfathers. to take up again the american quest of the good life in a good society.
s proposals: if the faltering faith of youth in the abllity of the american system to eliminate injustices is to be restored. congress must do better than this. these words are  idle threats or the plans of revolutionaries. ordinary. decent kids longer think that government stands for justice and they believe this principally because the draft has been unfair to them.  increasingly do they believe that government is relevant or has a capacity to act. the bill that i have introduced with the distinguished gentleman from new jersey and which. prior to the adoption of the restrictive rule. he had planned to offer in the nature of a substitute. contains comprehensive and farreaching reforms. there are three which i think are of particular significance and which i would like to mention briefly. the first is the clear need to adopt national standards and criteria in the administration of the selective service system and in the determination of who is eligible to be drafted. the establishment of national standards will mean that local boards. as presently constituted. will be basically recordkeeping units. and that all decisions on a registrants classification will be made in washington or a regional office. according to criteria that are applied to every other young man in america. some will argue that the local board is composed of citizens familiar with the problems of the young men of their community and that this will insure that each registrants circumstances are judged according to his personal situation. the fact of the matter is that in far too many cases the registrants circumstances are judged according to the personal whim of the draft board. the composition of which is  always representative. according to the mood of the members when a young man comes for his personal appearance. or even according to arbitrarily set quotas on the number of registrants to be placed in each classification. this is way to judge whether a young man will be sent to war. broad national standards would. in my judgment. be far more equitable than the local whim. second. and quite related to my first point. is the need to reduce the number of deferments and make those which are authorized scrupulously fair to all americans. our bill would. for example. continue student deferments but it would expand that definition to include students in junior and community colleges. in vocational schools and in apprenticeship or occupational programs as well as those pursuing baccalaureate degrees. when a young mans student deferment expires at age 25 or the end of his undergraduate course. he would be placed in the prime age group of draft vulnerability for 1 year. and could receive other deferment except in case of extreme hardship. all occupational deferments would be eliminated. in short. . i believe that it is the duty of this congress to insure that the draft is fairas it is  and that all young men face equally the possibility of induction. draft deferments should  become exemptions or havens for those who seek to avoid serving their country. but the congress will be derelict in its responsibility and bear the burden for further alienation of our young men and women if basic changes are  made immediately to insure that the draft is equitable.
. on october 24 in the capital of rhode island. a gala celebration will mark the 80 continuous years of service of the first providence boy scout troop. i would like to salute today the 20 men who have served as scoutmaster to the troop. the 16 men who attained the hoed rank of eagle scout under their leadership. and the hundreds of parents. friends. and fellow scouts who have made possible the troops achievements throughout its remarkable history. the first providence troop was organized in 1910 and listed 64 scouts in its first. charter. five troops comprised the rhode island boy scouts in that year and all were on the steps of the state house when their flags were presented to the wife of the gover on may 23. 1911. during that summer. the first summer camp devoted to scouting was in operation on prudence island in narragansett bay. a source of great excitement for the boys was the transmission. while they were there. of the first wireless mes. sage ever dispatched from the island. the approach of world war i brought national recognition to the boy scouts of our country. and the chartering of the organization as the boy scouts of america by congress was accomplished on june 15. 1916. a year later. the rhode island boy scouts. including the first providence troop. voted to merge and become the greater providence council.- boy scouts of america. the fundamental purpose of scouting is 0 0 0 to -promote. through organization and cooperation with other agencies. the ability of boys to do things for themselves and others. to train them in scmutciaft. and to teach them patriotism. courage. self reliance and kindred virtues. with emphasis on the scout oath: on my ho i will do my best to do my duty to god and my country and to obey the scout law. to help other people at all times. to keep myself physically strong. mentally awake and morally straight. these are the precepts the first providence troop. boy scouts of america has held fast. and has translated into action through 80 wonderful years. many are the men. women. and children of providence who could rise up in thanks to the scouts for their many gifts of food and clothing and the countless acts of community service. the leaders of the troop can be justificably proud. for the result of their selfless devotion to the. youth of rhode island has been a host of "strong. mentally awake and morally straight" men. today the troops membership reflects a crosssection of the diverse population of my statemany of its members are newcomers to the united statesand in scouting. they are enthusiastically learning good citizenship and duty to their fellow americans. we join with the first providence troop in the hope that its thousands of alumni and friends will guide it toward the year 2010. when it may celebrate a century of scouting.e
the next paragraph is confusing to me because the committee asks for a study. has  received a study. and then proceeds ahead regardler of the absence of the study. if i understand the next paragraph correctly. which says: the committee therefore directs the department to begin consolidation of the services war colleges under the natonal defense university to be administered by the department of army. the committee further directs consolidation of the command and staff colleges under the armed forces staff college to be administered by the department of the navy. am i missing something here. the committee asks for a report. did  get a report. and so is saying go ahead and do the consolidation anyway. am i correct in that.
. i am delighted to e the passage of legislation i introduced with senator moseleybraun to authorize the u.s. mint to create a coin commemorating crispus attucks and the more than 5.000 africanamerican patriots who fought and died during the revolutionary war. our bill. s. 953. kn as the black revolutionary war patriots commemorative coin act. was cosponsored by 63 senators from both sides of the aisle and every region of our nation. after approval by the citizens commemorative coin advisory commission. the companion bill. introduced by representative nancy johnson. was approved unanimously by the house of representatives. in 1986. congress approved construction on the national mall of a memorial celebrating the lives of the africanamerican men and women who served. fought. and died during our nations revolutionary war. ironically. many of these brave americans never experienced the freedom and independence for which they fought. a portion of the proceeds from sales of the coin will help to pay for construction of a memorial recognizing the contribution of these brave americans. as children in school. we all learn that crispus attucks was the first person to lose his life at the outbreak of the revolutionary war. but few of us learn about the valor and sacrifice of thousands of others who willingly fought to free a land that deprived them of freedom. harriet beecher stowe put it this way. they served a nation which did  ackledge them as citizens and equals * * * it was  for their own land they fought. but for a land that enslaved them. bravery under such circumstances. has particular beauty and merit. the vast majority of africanamericans who served in the continental army were from new england. and a great number were from my state of rhode island. in fact. in 1778. rhode island approved the first slave enlistment act and the black regiment of rhode island was formed. this was one of only two all africanamerican regiments. the other was the bucks of america of boston.  only did these men serve our nation. they served with distinction. regrettably throughout our history. their valor has been overlooked and nearly forgotten. men like jack sisson of rhode island. who expertly steered one of five boats involved in the daring capture of british maj. gen. richard prescott at newport in 1777. are barely mentioned in historical reports of the incident. jack sisson went on to join a regiment of some 200 africanamerican soldiers from my state. who. at the battle of rhode island. held their ground against several fierce attacks by britishhessian forces. thereby allowing 6 american brigades to retreat.
. in all of the concern over american policy in southeast asia. let me remind senators of a grave concern that all americans must keep foremost in their consciousnessthe concern for the 1.400 men who are being held prisoner by the th vietnamese. we must never allow these men to feel that they are helpless pawns in a larger game. as a nation and as individuals. we must keep constantly before us their plight and their needs. prisoners of war can survive brutality. bad food. bad living conditions. and the flood of enemy propaganda that pours over them. the one thing they find most difficult to overcome is the feeling of uncertainty and the feeling that ody cares. this alone can sap their morale and turn an extremely difficult experience into a living hell. we can let that happen to those americans who have served their nation in battle and  serve us still as prisoners of the enemy. we must do all in our capability to insure that these men k we americans care. and that we do  sit idly by while they suffer whatever abusephysical and mentalthe enemy can heap upon them. the great problem we must overcome is the lack of communication. the fact that most of these men have  heard from their families and their families have  heard from them. we simply do  k the fate of 80 percent of these men. we k they are missing. we assume many of them are prisoners. but we do  k for sure. it is this lack of kledge. this uncertainty. that has caused many of the wives and mothers of these prisoners to attempt. on their own. to find out what has happened to their men. these ladies have traveled to europe and to asia in a vain attempt to discover the truth. at every point they have been treated with callous indifference by the communist leaders whom they have met. the communists have attempted to use their concern for propaganda purposes. they have attempted to induce the women to take an active antiwar role with the implied promise that only through this can they learn the fate of their men. these american women have shown the same fortitude and calm courage as that displayed by their husbands during these trying months and years. they deserve our support as people and as a nation. our government is doing what it can to determine the fate of these prisoners. it must do more. it must make every effort. use every means at its disposal to bring an end to this agony of uncertainty that so grimly besets both the men and their families.
 and the congressto discontinue the development of high accuracy mirvs and to give the highest priority to negotiating international agreements which should include a permanent ban on the development and deployment of these and other destabilizing weapons. thus. we have more than half the faculty of mit. perhaps the nations foremost scientific and techogical university. offering their personal judgments that restraint in mirv development is practicable and essential. so far as i k. this petition is virtually unprecedented as a measure of scientific consensus in support of a ban on mirv testing and deployment. as the petition statesthe security of the united states is  automatically increased by the construction of every weapon that is technically feasible . . . on the contrary. some weapons. by destabilizing the strategic balance. can diminish the security of all. in this brief but sensible formulation these members of the mit community have set forth a balanced and needed perspective. a necessary criterion for guiding the destiny of a planet populated by techogically advanced. but politically underdeveloped nations. it is greatly in the interests of the american people that we learn to be more selective in the applications of our techogical skills. particularly in the realm of military systems. i was pleased to receive a distinguished delegation from mit last week. profs. francis low. lee grodzins. leo sartori. philip morrison. and george w. rathjens presented this important petition. i believe it will be of interest to the senate and the public as a able contribution to our national debate on strategic arms issues. i ask unanimous consent that my statement of last thursday and the text of the petition be printed in the record.
. the legislation which i introduce today would authorize the establishment of the springfield armory as a national historic site. commissioned in 1794. the armory was the first so designated to serve the united states. through the years until its deactivation in 1968. it produced high quality munitions that served to defend our nation well. its closing was regrettable because it signaled the termination of a facility to which generations of citizens of western massachusetts had rendered dedicated and highly proficient service. coupled with the armory is a museum founded in 1871 and operated by the city of springfield. the museum includes valuable collections of cans and guns dating back to the 14th century. owned by the department of the army. these instruments represent the most complete small arms collection in the nation that is open to public view. each year. more than 25.000 visitors tour the museum. including large numbers of school groups. the legislation which i propose would authorize the secretary of the interior to take control of the property. which is currently on loan to the city of springfield. as well as to make appropriate arrangements with the secretary of the army concerning the armorys arms collection and other museum objects. the secretary of the interior would also be authorized to negotiate with the commonwealth of massachusetts for the preservation of historic buildings and lands within the armory which are  owned by the federal government. i believe this is a most worthwhile proposal which will help to preserve an historic monument for future generations. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this bill be printed in full at this point in the record.
. h. r. 4051. as reported by the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. is the result of most careful consideration by that committee. it is clear recognition of the responsibility of the federal government in promoting the creation of new scientific kledge and the development of scientific talent among the young men and women of the nation. the necessity for favorable action may be found in the committee report where it is stated that "the committee is of the opinion that legislation of this character is essential to the preservation and fogtering of the national health. security. and prosperity. and to the full development of our scientific resources." other members of the committee will discuss fully the form of organization and its powers and duties. as the sponsor of subsection 4 (b). and for the purpose of emphasizing the fundamental reason for that provision. i wish to comment on it briefly. subsection 4 (b) is as follows: in exercising the authority and discharging the functions referred to in subsection (a) of this section. it shall be one of the objectives of the foundation to strengthen funcamental research and education in the sciencas. including independent research by individuals. throughout the united states. and to avoid undue concentration of such research and education. those who are familiar with the history of this legislation in the present session of congress will recall that as the companion bill was reported in the other body. formula for geographical distribution of any portion of the funds to be appropriated was recommended. but that during consideration of the bill an amendment was adopted providing for such a formula. we must recognize the fact that fundamental scientific research became highly concentrated during the war because of practical necessities. the policies of many of the large philanthropic foundations and of government agencies have been such as to indicate a very real possibility that this concentration might continue in peacetime. resulting from this concentration. there is the obvious danger of withdrawing the best teachers and graduate students from the smaller and newer institutions to the older and lar:er institutions with fortunate financial standing. moreover. anyone concerned with securing immediate results of research frequently finds a better opportunity for such results by devoting funds to projects assigned to established research institutions or laboratories. il. is my understanding that during the war approximately 90 percent of the funds spent under university contracts by the osrd were allotted to five institutions. while this was demonstrated to be a sound decision. it also contained elements of risk from a security point of view which had to be taken and which should  be perpetuated. consequently. we are  faced squarely with the extremely difficult problem of building up more research centers throughout the united states. this poses the question of whether that can be best accomplished through a formula requiring automatic distribution of a portion of the funds geographically or by leaving the matter for the decision of the foundation. with the clearly expressed congressional intention and mandate contained in subsection 4 (b) that one of the main objectives of the foundation in carrying out its program shall be the constant strengthening of fundamental research and education in the sciences throughout the country. to carry out that congressional intention and to discharge that mandate. a particular effort must be made by the foundation to encourage and develop sound projects in regions wh:ich are  today recognized centers of such research. and to accomplish the objective. the foundation must also make a determined effort to locate qualified persons in each of the states. territories. possessions. and the district of columbia for the award of scholarships and fellowships under the provisions of section 10. obviously. the recital of a policy is guarantee that the congressional intention will be realized. it is an unforturate. historical fact that many agencies of the government have devoted themselves to efforts to evade statements of congressional intention. but the method of selection of the members of the foundation provided in this resolution offers assurance that the powers and duties of the foundation will be exercised with a determination to carry out the expressed congressional intention. moreover. the program lends itself to the clearest kind of proof that the intention has been carried out because annually the foundation will make a report summarizing its activities. this will demonstrate both as to amounts of money and location of activities and individuals the success of the program in achieving the objective stated in subsection 4 (b). failure to carry out the congressional intention will result in a justifiable demand that some method. such as the formula of a fixed geographical distribution. be adopted. but. in the creation of the foundation. it seems to me to be a better approach to the problem to state the congressional intention in plain. unmistakable language and to rely upon the foundation to realize the objective rather than to attempt a solution through the arbitrary allocation of a fixed percentage of available funds. certainly the latter course would have the effect of limiting the foundation in exercising the powers and discharging the duties set forth in subsection 4 (a). too. it could result in creating a system of pressures arising from desires to participate in program without reliance primarily upon meeting the criteria and standards which must be established by the foundation. as the resolution has been reported by the committee. with this emphasis upon a clear congressional intention. the opportunity is given to every educational institution. to every qualified research organization. to every individual engaged in independent research. and to every qualified scientific student or scholar to participate. and it will be a simple matter for the congress and the country to measure the success of the foundations effort to realize the objective stated in subsection 4 (b) year by year. therefore. i hope that this subsection will meet with approval. will remain in the resolution. as adopted. and will be retained in the final version in conference. and i urge that any effort to establish a fixed formula be rejected.
 of mit. you remember his magnificent war record. does  his voice count at all with us. then read the sixparagraph letter signed by the chairman of the committee on science legislation of the engineers joint council. and scientists from california institute of techogy. johns hopkins university. carnegie institute of techogy. university of illis. new york university college of medicine. university of minnesota. university of colorado. and by  of the board. standard oil co. of indiana. i have tried my level best to get the evidence as i have it before you. because i k this is a tremendously difficult and a tremendously important decision. i hope one will approach the vote that is coming how in a few minutes without a full understanding of its significance. in my considered and mature judgment we are facing  one of the most challenging conditions and one of the most threatening situations we have ever faced in this nation. the national defense department advised me this morning that i was underestimating what they were doing in russia. yesterday i said that if they succeeded in their 5year plan they would turn out by 1952 700.000 scientists. how many will we have if we do  pass this bill. i esti- mated about 400.000. and that estimate is high. they will have at least twice as many scientists as we have. can we  understand that while that does  necessarily mean they will win the race. if they have two times as many minds working on this. what can be the result. twice as many opportunities of success. i plead for your support. do  chain or cripple the advancement of american science. i sincerely hope i have been able to help you some in making this tremendous decision. i will be amply repaid if you can make it one to satisfy yourselves in the years to come. since the vote was taken and the bill passed by such a satisfactory margin. i received further information and want to place it in the record of today for your consideration when the bill comes back from conference. it has to do with the estimates based on the best available information as to the progress in soviet russia. i am sure you will all be interested in this official account that comes to me from the national research council. while the council was unable to prepare all the information i desired in view of the shortness of time between my request and the vote. i was advised as follows: first. there apparently is a disagreement in the appraisals of the russian programs progress and i think we can all understand that. however. the best information does indicate that the russians increased their training facilities during the war. they selected from 1.500 technical institutes. with enrollments even during the war of 425.000. the ablest graduates for full technical scientific training through to the doctorate on federal scholarships. just contrast that with our unhappy record during the war when we made the mistake of drafting our able technical men and sending them into the armed forces. four hundred and twentyfive thousand in russia carrying through to doctorate on federal scholarships. from 1941 through 1945 we graduated with degrees of ph. d.. 7.479 able men and women. is that  something for us to consider. soviet russia graduated more than 56 times as many doctors and scientists as we did even when they were fighting with their backs to the wall. next. this 5year plan was started in 1946 and in 1947. as i understand. so it is fourfifths completed. even with their pool of trained scientific men. they went ahead with this further plan of intensive training in this area. there is evidence that the number trained in 1950 in the sciences. in techogy. will be twice the number graduated 3 years ago in 1947. the number of graduate students receiving research training in the sciences in 1941 was 12.000. in view of the emphasis on this 5year plan. it seems entirely probable that this number is very considerably greater at the present time although exact evidence is available to us. i was advised that with regard to the information i presented to you yesterday it may be said safely that this is the most significant information our technical staffs can bring together. i am told that it indicates clearly that the recent heavy enrollments in engineering and sciences were a temporary situation produced largely by the gi bill of rights and the strong interest produced by the war in technical matters among our veterans. present enrollment figures in our freshman and sophomore classes in the colleges and universities show quite definitely that the number graduated in these fields in the next 2 or 3 years will be sharply declining below the present level of demand for such personnel. this law creating this foundation is the only solution available to us. i am sure that you understand the difficulties of our trying to obtain exact information for your consideration. i am grateful. and i am sure you are. to the national research council for its efforts to assist us. i might add that i understand that the russians have set up a technical training program under which certain schools and universities teach only a certain subject so that everything relating to that single subject is taught at that one school. consequently. to get the full information i desire would obviously entail considerable research. however. i k that they and other associations of scientists as well as our governmental services are doing everything possible to develop all of this information and i trust it will be available to our conference committee.
i thank my colleague. i commend him for the initiative he has taken in this matter. it has been a pleasure and a privilege to be one of those associated with him in sponsoring this proposed legislation. i think it should be heartening to those of us who have joined the distinguished junior senator from new york [senator keating] in sponsoring the legislation aimed at investigating the adequacy of the present military draft system to learn that the white house is reviewing the approach taken to the problem in this legislative proposal. s. 2432. briefly. this approach calls for a comprehensive study of the draft system by competent civilian experts as well as by military representatives. i hope the administration will reconsider the opposition previously voiced by the department of defense to s. 2432. i ask unanimous consent that the letter from the secretary of defense of april 29. 1964. to the distinguished chairman of the senate armed services committee [senator russell] expressing opposition to the bill be printed at this point in the record.
s recommendations. in short. there has been sign that either the congressional leadership or the administration is giving selective service reform the high priority it demands. at a time when the unfairness of the draft affects the lives of so many millions of young americans. there is excuse for this inaction. lately. we have heard many speeches about what is wrong with the younger generationthey have had it too easy. they have respect for authority. they need selfdiscipline. these are familiar arguments in nearly every generation. but they do  meet the widespread disaffection of the concerned and responsible young men and women of today. high on the list of their priorities is the injustice of the present draft system. hing today is so disruptive of student. family or community life than a system which. in order to draft 300.000 men annually. keeps 5 million men in a state of uncertainty and insecurity for 7 of the most critical years of their lives. the continuous state of  king whether one will be able to finish school or embark on a new job occurs during a period when momentous decisions must be made about career. marriage. and family. it would be strange indeed if our young menand their familiesdid  question such a system.  is the uncertainty confined to when an individual will be called for service. just as unclear are the rules and guidelines determining who shall be called. why are some teachers drafted and others . why is one graduate student deferred while his roommate is . recently two young men. both single and both teachers in the same overcrowded elementary school in newark. n.j.. visited my office. one had received a deferment from his newark draft board because of the teacher shortage in that city. the other young man. registered with aher draft board just over the city line. had . surely we must have more uniform standards than those which permit such disparate treatment. there is the need. too. for a thorough overhaul of the arbitrary and inefficient workings of the selective service law. i am appalled at the frustrations endured by many young men merely in seeking information. why. for example. should it be necessary for a registrant to engage the services of an attorney to find out what his rights of appeal are. why should we tolerate a system that drafts a young father with four children. because he does  understand all the redtape and fails to file a report form. and is there any good reason to compound the inequities of the draft law through varying interpretations of more than 4.000 local boards. we need  look only at the glaring injustices in the system to k that something is wrong. it is beginning to take its toll in other. less obvious ways. there are  more than 5.000 young men who have exiled themselves. presumably for life. to evade the draft. desertion and awol rates are increasing and a growing number are simply refusing service. choosing instead to go to jail. these actions are  to be condoned. on the other hand. one can overlook the fact that they indicate deep discontent with the drf at. the selective service law does  expire for 2 more years. but there is reason to wait until then to act. indeed. there is every reason to bring about  a measure of justice and fairness to a system which each month requires some 28.000 boys to leave their careers and families to prepare for war. several months remain in this session of congresstime egh for both the house and senate armed services committees to hold hearings. and time egh for the administration to follow up on its commitment to make the selective service system reasonable and equitable. the administration and congress must do far more than either has done to make draft reform a reality.
. i am absolutely convinced that there is hing whatever to the argument that the amendment offered by the senator from kentucky and the senator from michigan would in any way adversely affect the outcome of the salt talks. i am convinced that that is  so. there are some who. though they concede all the weaknesses and wastefulness which have been charged against safeguard. still argue that its deployment should proceed because of its effect on salt. they claim that russia has shown more interest in eliminating or limiting the antiballisticmissile system than she has in any other area of possible arms control. from this it is argued that if we voluntarily limit or delay our deployment of safeguard we shall be giving russia something she wants without exacting anything in return and we will  be getting as good a deal at salt as we otherwise might. i do  lightly dismiss this argument. if the cooperhart amendment or any other with similar purpose would in any significant way diminish the chances for successful arms limitation at vienna or helsinki. i would certainly oppose it. so. i am sure. would every other member of the senate. having considered the matter as carefully as i can. i am convinced that e of the amendments which have been proposed would in any way endanger salt.  do i believe that the amendment already accepted by the armed services committee of the senate limiting safeguard deployment to the defense of minuteman sites would have this effect. let us assume that russia would like to prevent us from getting an effective antiballisticmissile system. how in the world can it be claimed that we are giving her what she wants in this regard by failing to deploy an ineffective. highly costly system such as safeguard. those of us who oppose deployment of safeguard in its present form all support continued research and development in the effort to find an antiballisticmissile system which will work and we support the authorization and appropriation of funds for this purpose. how it can be seriously claimed that we are giving russia anything when we decide  to deploy a system that serves purpose but to waste great chunks of the taxpayers money. moreover. the history of arms limitation is entirely against the proposition that it is necessary to deploy a weapons system in order to obtain an agreement for its limitation. in a brilliant and persuasive paper on this point dr. adrian s. fisher. dean of georgetown university law school and until recently deputy director of u.s. arms control and disarmament agency. has pointed out that things have worked just the opposite way. i ask unanimous consent that. at the conclusion of my remarks. if it has  already been done so by aher of my colleagues. dr. fishers paper be printed in the record.
. it is just inevitable with the members of the committee making amendments that it takes members of the committee to deal with them. i feel very badly about it. i have taken more than my share of the time. but it is unavoidable because when committee members move the amendments other committee members are supposed to k something about them. what my amendment seeks to do with the amendment offered by the gentleman from ohio is to use his formula. which i think is sound but to reject the deep cut in amounts. to separate out the technical assistance from the defense support part. but to restore the original figures. which aggregate $408.000.000. the difficulty with the amendment offered by the gentleman from ohio is this: it goes right to the heart of the proposition. it is  just a question of trimming off fat. in other words. it takes 10 percent off defense support. and if it took aher 10 percent off ecoic and technical aid it could  be argued that the program would die on that kind of reduction. but when it cuts the technicalassistance program. which includes commodities. by 50 percent. then it is really dismembered. for this reason. $315.000.000 out of the total of $408.000.000 is going where. it is going to three countries. which are the most critical in the far east. to us. right . it is going to formosa. it is going to indochina. it is going to india. in indochina there is actually a war against communism. incidentally let us pay a little tribute to the french here. the french are being really bled white in terms of real blood in indochina. they are spending a billion dollars a year in the indochinese war. they are losing the flower of their youtha very large percentage from among the young people who graduate from their ecole militaireare being killed or wounded in indochina every year. then it is going to formosa. which is very dear to the hearts of many people in this house as the remaining possibility that ultimately freedom may come back to china. finally. it is going to india. where the free peoples are probably fighting for all of asia. fighting for the devotion to the free peoples of 330.000.000 people. if there was ever shortsighted ecoy. it would be to adopt this amendment of the gentleman from ohio on the far east. i do  think this is the question of shaving this figure or of saying that the administration is inadequate. and that the figure ought to go down a few percent. this goes right to the heart of the program and cuts it right to its heart in these critical areasformosa. indochina. and india. it is for that reason. which is a fundamental and substantive reason. that i hope very much the house will turn down the amendment of the gentleman from ohio and adopt the amendment to it i have proposed.
. the miity leader has just expressed very eloquently the sentiments of many of us. and i wish to compliment the committee on foreign relations and my colleagues from minnesota and california. who have already spoken. i should like to add a few words. because i think they are important.  only have we a right to hope that other parliaments will join. as our miity leader has so eloquently stated. but we have a right to hope that the socalled neutralist powers. nations newly made free. from which news reports were read by our distinguished colleague from minnesota. will learn one thing. they are often impatient with us when we seem to be too careful with the soviet union. when we seem to insist upon what they consider too much in the way of preliminary agreements. when we say that we will take a certain step only when it is coordinate with aher step taken by the soviet union. they have the idea that we believe that the only way we can win the competition between us and the soviet union is by world war iii. which they do  want and we do  want. i hope this will be a salutary lesson to demonstrate that we act from a sense of security and protection.  only for ourselves. but for the entire free world. this situation demonstrates that the kind of action we have taken through the great bipartisan foreign policy. manifested so well by the support of the concurrent resolution. really is absolutely essential to the protection of the lives of all free peoples. as well as our own.
the senator from kentucky has stated admirably the views of those who sponsored the amendment with him. again we get down to the fundamental philosophical question: are we to have a program in which the only criterion will be whether the university or the vocational institution will admit the applicantwhich is the theory of the billor are we going to say. because these are peacetime veterans. that we have a visceral feeling that the veteran really wants an education and. in return for a loan. he is going to undertake some obligation. bearing in mind that if he gets the education he will earn more money. so he is only repaying the taxpayers. in a money ecoy. for having permitted him to earn more money. we should  be influenced by the pattern of the wartime veteran. to whom we have a different kind of obligation. qualitatively. i think this proposal discharges very fully what ought to be the national obligation. i hope the amendment of the senator from kentucky will prevail.
. i have been working upon the matter with the state department and with a number of distinguished american foundations. i  have every expectation that the fundamental objective which i sought to attain in my proposal at that time may be attained by action of the u.s. government and through the wise application of its policies. without committing it to the fact that those who study here will necessarily be communist student leaders in these riots. with the understanding that the greater amplitude  to be given to this program is in response to an accepted requirement. in the best interests of our government and in the best interests of the free world. that we expand the opportunity for study in the united states by japanese university graduates. i think the initiative which has  been taken is most fruitful and critically important. and i think it is a matter for real congratulations to the governments of the united states and japan that this agreement has  been consummated. i have every confidence that in the implementation of the program a very keen look will be taken toward the objective which i tried to carry through in the middle of last year. and that there will be a real effort to bring into the united states those who can profit the most from seeing our free society and our free institutions in action and those who can do the most to spread understanding of these ideas abroad in japan when they return. i close upon this e: it must be emphasized that when commander perry sailed into tokyo harbor over a century ago. very deep ties were established with the people of japan. i hope very much that we are in the process of restoring these ties after japans tragic aberration in its aggression in world war ii. as i think it is becoming generally ackledged throughout our own country that our current friendship with the japanese people stands as an important part of the structure in the free world which fortifies us all against the dangers of the loss of our freedom. also i believe that the majority of the japanese people  give every evidence of wishing to develop and cultivate their friendship with the united states. therefore it is necessary for us. in the days ahead. to move in every way possible with understanding and good will. as demonstrated by this agreement.
subsequently said: . i propose to speak concerning the new york city school system and the correction of its racial imbalance. i am presenting these facts in the morning hour. as we have been enjoined to do by the distinguished senator from new hampshire who thinks it is better for us to do this in the morning. hour. although i do  necessarily agree with him. i will do it when it can be done. first. i was much pleased to hear a good word said for new york by the distinguished senator from georgia in regard to the matter of cassius clay. i agree with the senator on this matter. i am proud of the statement made by gen. melvin l. krulewitch. chairman of the new york state boxing commission. i k him very well. he is an exmarine general who has an outstanding war record. itis typical of him and typical of my state that we are  panicked by the ukase of the world boxing association. that one should be deprived of his title because of some affiliation of which the association disapproves and .of which i disapprove. as general krulewitch so properly says. that is reason for taking a mans title away from him. that is  the american way. so i register my pride in new york for standing up in this way. as it always will. in my judgment. for the dictates of the basic constitutional functions of our country. perhaps it is a good thing to demonstrate to the country that whatever maybe the differences between the senator from georgia [mr. russelli and meand probably they are as pronced as any in this chamber on the issue of civil rightswe can also see eye to eye on a question such as this without inhibition.
. i ask unanimous consent that the text of my address. entitled "constitutional democracy and .the control of undeclared war." given at the albany school of law on april 19. 1971. be printed in the record. my remarks deal with the issues addressed in s. 731. a war powers bill i have sponsored. and which is the subject of hearings before the senate foreign relations committee. i would like to have my views available to the senate in anticipation of the testimony on behalf of the administration of the secretary of state on this crucial subject. which is expected in the near future.
this memorandum says: we will continue to send personnel to these schoolsthat is the schools which are otherwise blacklistedon a fully funded basis only if the institution offers a course which is in the best interest of national security. the military service. and the individual.  the report of the managers leaves us with really kledge of what will or will  be the future policy to be pursued by the department of defense except all that we k is that the department may or may  comply with this memorandum. which is very flexible in its nature. and i assume could be applied to practically any college or university. also. we k that certain exceptions have been made on a particular case basis and it is believedi only state that as a beliefwith the concurrence of the chairman of the house armed services committee. . . i must say with all respect that this is a pretty messy way to operate an army or to operate a congress. here we have a policy which is based upon a statement and a report on a bill emanating from the armed services committee of the house.  we have an amendment made by the senate showing the senate does  agree with that policy. and we have the house saying through its conferees that it wishes to stand by whatever it said in the original report on a bill which resulted in this policy. which leaves us completely up in the air as to what policy the department of defense is on. it seems to me that it should be very clear that the hands of the department of defense are completely untied if the senate and the house disagree. therefore. i will address a question to the chairman of the committee. senator strnis. for whom we all have such high regard. as to whether it is  legitimate to say that at the very least in this matter the house and the senate do disagree and that there is hing that has been done by the conferees to compromise the senates view
