. today senator baucus and i are introducing legislation to designate april 1989 as national recycling month. the importance of educating the publlc about the real benefits to society from recycling can be overstated. a public education campaign must be launched to inform consumers that garbage does  disappear when the sanitation worker loads it into the truck. our society must be made aware that there are very rel costs. both financial and environmental. associated with the continued proliferation of municipal garbage. in the united states today we are facing a crisis in solid waste managemnent. the united states presently is generating about 160 million tons of solid waste. almost double the amount we produced in 1965. if present trends continue. the united states will generate close to 200 million tons by the turn of the century. towns and cities across the united states are realizing that the city dump will be forced to close its gates in a few short years. in the meantime. during the last two decades the number of landfills accepting solid waste has been reduced dramati. callyfrom about 30.000 to 6.000. it is becoming virtually impossible to establish any new landfill sites because of the " in my backyard syndrome." and the rising value of land and real estate. when confronting an urgent crisis. such as the threat to human health and the environment from burgeoning mountains of trash. it is tempting to look to techmology to provide us with the easy solution. such techogical fixes. however. will  eliminate the undeniable need for significant changes in the way we conduct our .daily lives.  ony must we find more environmentally sound ways of handling municipal trash. but we must also greatly reduce the amount of garbage we generate in the first place. this will require a concerted effort on the part of consumers. manufacturers. and government. that is why we are introducing legislation to designate april 1989 as national recycling month. reducing the amount of household garbage we generate poses the most difficult of public policy problems: changing human habits. the purpose of this legislation is to encourage a public attitude that canallow these needed changes to take place. people must be made aware that their actions do have a crillcal impact on reducing the amount of garbage entering the waste stream. it is imperative that people learn sound disposal practices at an early age. so that by adulthood those practices will have become habit. the primary reason we have selected april as national recycling month is so that schools will have an opportunity to commemorate the month with appropriate educational activities centered around source separttion and recycling. . my home state of rhode island. for example. was the first state to pass a mandatory recycling law. citizens in west warwick and east greenwich. ri. separate recyclables such as glass. paper. aluminum and plastics for curbside collection. this recycling program will eventually extend to the entire state. recycling also creates employment. according to one recent study 10.000 tons of material spawns 36 jobs compared to 6 for laudflling the same amount. some communities have formed working partnerships with workshops for the disabled. developed and administered job training partnerships. or otherwise found work for unemployed labor in recycling programs. in my own state. the rhode island department of environmental management estimates that 300 jobs have been created by recycling. the exciting feature of the battle against solid waste is that it can be won. other- nations are doing far better than we are. drastic solutions are required.  are big sacrifices sought. relatively small changes in habits. modest incentives. and reasonable laws can produce victory. i urge my colleagues to help us move closer toward that victory by joining us in designating april 1989 as national recycling month. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the joint resolution be printed in the record.
. i believe the outstanding feature of the committee amendment as proposed to the senate is that it would produce substantially income to the federal government. it levies tax whatever on outstanding municipal and state securities. i believe that it should  levy a tax on them. but as it stands it brings out clearly the fact that present benefit will inure to the federal government in the way of income by the adoption of the committee amendment. that is important today. because what we are primarily seeking to do in this tax bill is to raise money for the federal government. this proposal of the committee would  do it. if we tax the income only from future issues of state and municipal bondsit was developed in the hearings that it might amount to a return to the federal government of only from $3.000.000 to $5.000.000 a year for the next few yearsit probably would  amount to anything really substantial for 10 years. it will take about 20 or 30 years before there will again build up issues of state and municipal securities corresponding substantially to the amounts  outstanding. therefore. as a war measure. it does  at all serve the federal government. yet it carries with it every bit of the detriment to the states and municipalities that has been involved in preceding amendments of this kind that have been presented to and voted down in the congress.
i think one thing needs to be pointed out. in the case of the big cities. in my state of new york is located. of course. the greatest of all american cities. i have lived in the city of new york all my life. and i k something about its municipal problems. the fact is that the city is passing through a very trying transitional period. the metropolitan area of new york contains approximately 12 million people. and if the outlying sections are included. the total area includes approximately 14 million people. many thousands of middleincome families. good taxpayers. have moved out of new york city into the suburbs. and the wage earners of those families come to new york city only to work. we shall have to solve those problems in some way. by means of some other types of taxation. and perhaps some other types of governmental organization. but in the meantime the cities are deteriorating terribly. and that development involves a great loss in ecoic terms to the country. this provision is included in the bill in an attempt to see them through this very. very difficult period. i am very glad my colleague. the senator from pennsylvania because i think it is essential that we understand clearly why a majestic city like new- york finds itself in very great difficulty. some of us think we can do much better in respect to the husbandry and ecoy under which our cities are organized. but essentially the difficulty has developed because the cities are in a period of transition. and the backbone families of the cities have to a very substantial degree moved into the suburbs. where the city taxes can reach them.
