. i wish to add my strong endorsement of the amendment introduced by the distinguished chairman of the committee providing an increase in social security benefits. the plight of the elderly has long been apparent to all of us. many of our older people. who have worked all their lives. find that upon retirement their social security benefits are insufficient to maintain even a minimum standard of living. i have had heartrending letters.. and i k most of my colleagues have also. from elderly people who have found upon retirement that they must give up their homes. live in dreary and unheated apartments. reduce both the quality and quantity of their meals. forego medical attention. and deny themselves the simple pleasures to which their retirement should entitle them. yet these people have helped to build america. and to make it great. surely we can and should do a far better job of enabling them to enjoy the rest and relaxation which they have earned in their retirement years. several important steps have been taken in recent days to make this goal a reality. yesterday. this body adopted an excellent amendment introduced by my colleague. senator murphy. providing that medical and drug expenses incurred by persons over 65or their spousesshall be fully deductible for income tax purposes. at the same time. it allowed persons under 65 to deduct in full such payments on behalf of dependent parents aged 65 and over. since medical expenses are often among the highest costs incurred by our older citizens. this amendment will be helpful indeed. in aher development yesterday. i am pleased to report that a number of senate amendments to the housing act of 1969 were tentatively approved by the conference committee. included were several amendments which i had sponsored providing for minimum payments by verylowincome persons living in public housing projects. if this bill becomes law. person in this category will be required to pay more than 25 percent of his income for housing. assistance payments provided by the federal government will make up the difference. the significance of these provisions should be clear whey. it is realized that of the 215.000 families who are presently paying more than 25 percent of their monthly income for public housing. 55 percent of them are over 65 years of age. and finally in this regard. it should be ed that the conference committee also tentatively agreed to the senate recommendation of $80 million in direct loans for housing for the elderly and the handicapped. all of these steps. coupled with the recommendations of the chairman of the finance committee that social security benefits be increased 15 percent. effective january 1. should provide some much needed relief to our older citizens. i. my state. alone. it will mean roughly $120 million in additional income for threequarters of a million people. this is still  eigh. by any means. i. for one. would like to see amendments adopted which would increase social security benefits to 20 percent. remove the earnings limitation and provide for a costofliving increase. but these measures will surely be considered in the next session of congress. where through hearings and committee recommendations the most equitable solution may be found for all concerned. in the meantime the first measure of relief is at hand. i wholeheartedly support the pending long amendment and strongly urge its adoption.
