. the continuing resolution incorporates a number of limitations on the use of appropriated funds by the corporation. one of these provisions has to do with the composition of the governing body of the grantee or contractor and requires that a majority be appointed by state. county. or municipal bar associations "the membership of which represents a majority of the attorneys practicing law in the locality in which the recipient is to provide legal assistance." we are aware that the legal services corporation currently provides funds for a number of recipients with multistate responsibilities. as chair. man of the subcommittee on state. justice. commerce. the judiciary. and related agencies. i feel it is necessary to clarify the effect of this limitation on these multistate organizations. requiring those programs to have the attorney members of their governing bodies appointed by bar associations of several states would be unduly cumbersome. accordingly. such recipients may comply with this subsection by having the state. county. or local bar association in which a recipient maintains an office perform the attorney appointment function.
i intend to refer to that in the second point. it will follow this point. therefore. i have  discussed it although i have referred to it once or twice. several such extraordinary circumstances relating to the withdrawals raised questions in the mind of the judiciary committee or. at least. in the minds of the miity of the judiciary committee. there also were withdrawals by two individuals who were directors of the bank and who maintained private corporations of which they were managers or owners. these. together. amounted to $25.500 more. there was a further interesting situation that carried conviction on its own face. i have said that the federal deposit insurance corporation for the united states guaranteed deposits up to $5.000. there were 17 cases of withdrawals in amounts ranging from $73.000 to $10.000. each. which. respectively. left in the bank. during that 10day period. a balance of exactly $5.000 or within $500 of $5.000. if anybody needed ice that people withdrawing in order to protect themselves and  in the usual course of business those 17 withdrawals of those large amounts during the 10day period would be sufficient ice to an ordinarily careful banker that something certainly deserved his consideration and needed his protection. the question also was asked during the hearings as to whether or  some withdrawals were made by persons connected with the city government or mayor hague. those were reviewed by the senator from nebraska. i merely mention the fact that there are at least eight cases of withdrawals identified in the record as made by persons doing business with the city or somehow connected with mr. hague. one of $7.000. aher of $12.600. aher of $14.000. aher of $3.500. aher of $1.200. aher of $23.414. aher of $10.089. and aher of $26.000. making a total of $97.803. i wish to leave that point just there. with the conclusion that this was a 3year liquidation. and that judge meaney as the attorney for liquidator received $20.000 a year throughout that period. at the end of that period. in april 1942. he was then removed by the new banking commissioner. who had succeeded to that office about february 1942. that brings me to what i referred to as the second point. the situation is clearer here as to responsibility than it was in the first instance. at least. there is disclaimer of it by mr. agger. as there is concerning the first point i have mentioned. the circumstances surrounding his re.. moval from office are important if such removal is to be followed by a promotion to the federal court. the facts are that the new commissioner. eugene e. agger. testified before the subcommittee as follows on page 64.
. at the time the absence of a quorum was suggested. i was presenting an argument in support of my amendment. and i wish to point out the parliamentary situation in order that there may be misunderstanding. the committee amendment before the senate is section 112 of the bill. the effect of it is to exempt from taxation only those state and municipal securities which are issued before january 1. 1943. my amendment to this proposed committee amendment is  pending before the senate. my amendment seeks to strike out from the committee amendment the words "before january 1. 1943". so that all state and municipal securities will continue to be exempt. as they are . therefore. in order to support the exemption of the state and municipal securities it will be necessary to vote "yea" on my pending amendment. i think there was a little confusion on that point at the time the senator from south carolina spoke. resuming the argument. i wish to point out that the congress has passed upon this point several times. the supreme court has held the committee proposal unconstitutional and has  reversed itself on the point. i believe that the case is sound and clear that the proposed federal taxation of the income from state and municipal securities is unconstitutional. as amounting to a federal tax and burden upon the borrowing power of our states and municipalities. third. as a matter of authority. i wish to call attention to the kind of witnesses who appeared before the senate committee and favored continuance of the exemption of state and municipal securities. included among those witn6sses were  only many representatives of states and cities. but also of the american bar association. the american municipal association. several state leagues of municipalities. the municipal finance officers association. the united states conference of mayors. the national education association: and the american federation of labor. professor lutz. professor of public finance at princeton. and professor fairchild. professor of ecoics at yale. also appeared. therefore. we have the support  only of previous action by the congress and of the supreme court of the united states. but also of leading students of this matter who were impartial in their consideration of the question. this is in addition to the substantially unanimous opinion of those who have had closest experience with this subject in our states and cities. there are at least seven distinct points of importance in this matter. i shall  attempt to reargue all seven points. because the senate has previously had this question before it. i shall mention five. and argue two. which i believe to be particularly conclusive on the issue.
. merely that i may be sure that i understnd correctly the parliamentary situation. and that the senate does. i understand that the law  provides that income from all state and municipal securities shall be exempt from taxation. the committee proposes an amendment to limit that exemption to those securities which were issued or will be issued before january 1. 1943. my amendment is to strike out that date. and to strike out the limitation. and therefore to leave the situation as it is at present. if my amendment shall be voted up. the situation will remain as it is . and municipal and state bonds will remain exempt.
. the shock waves of a new york city default which can be by means considered  to have been avoided. except in the terms of the months interval which we have been given by the literally heroic action of the gover and the legislature of the state of new york. would reverberate throughout the country with telling effect. the interest rate on municipal bonds has already jumped two or more points and some cities have been unable to market bonds at any price. several mayors have recently declared that it might be in their cities ultimate selfinterest to purchase big mac bonds . lest a new york city default permanently cripple the nations municipal bond market for every city regardless of credit rating. a new york city default could result in a grim financial toll among the nations cities. its most immediate and damaging effect would naturally strike new yorks own citizens. municipal payrolls could go unmet. thereby jeopardizing the safety of 8 million people. welfare checks would  be hoed. depriving the bare essentials of life to hundreds of thousands of recipients. let us never forget that millions everywhere identify new york with the united states of america. in this way it is even more than a capital city. before we allow new york city to plunge to the unkn depths of financial default. it would be wise to explore the implications such an act would have on the american financial system. both public and private. and on cities across the nation as well as on the citizens of new york city. i ask unanimous consent that an article from the new york times of september 7. 1975 by a. h. raskin be printed in the record to detail the full scope of the problem which confronts new york city and the nation as a whole. the article sums it up as follows:
i wish today to set things in a somewhat different perspective. for i believe that new york citys financial difficulties are closely related to the desire to provide to the people those municipal services that we associate with the values of the american way of life. nevertheless. . i close as follows. the bill and the amendment i introduce  were obviously triggered by the crisis in my native city. but they are the outgrowth of that all american cities must have. some last resort protection to the extent possible and with tight safeguards from the agony of financial crisis and the potential of default on cities obligations. if we feel an obligation to assist a corporation or a railroad with national significance when it is in trouble. as a result of bad management or decreased earnings or unfortunate market conditions. how much greater is our obligation to stand behind the cities in which our men. women. and children live their lives. if lockheed has an effect on the american ecoy that requires assistance from national government. then certainly the finances of new york. detroit. or denver have a comparable effect. it is because i believe our order of priorities requires us to recognize that municipal governments are part and parcel of the american system and must be treated as such that we offer this bill to assist municipalities who are threatened with bankruptcy. i thank the senator.
. i speak as a cosponsor of xhe municipal securities full disclosure act of 1977. while i reserve the right to differ in respect of particular aspects of this bill as it goes through the committee process. i believe that it is a goodfaith effort to assure investors of safeguards similar to those connected with corporate securities offerings. in the wake of the new york city financial crisis. our government is beginning to come to grips with the problems of urban policy and urban finance. we have in place  the seasonal financing act. which assures the city of shortterm loans from the federal government until june 30. 1978. motivated in part by the public attention focused on the new york situation. the administration has annced that it will publish a comprehensive urban policy by january of 1978. i have every hope that in 1978 we can begin at last to come to grips with the grave urban problem that has developed over the last several decades. the purpose of this legislation. by requiring more complete disclosure by municipal issuers and by setting standards of responsibility for both issuers and underwriters. is to make the financial markets more certain and more acceptable for municipal issues. at the present time. the only protection which investors and municipal issuers have is the antifraud provisions of the securities act. for when those acts are passed. municipal issuers were exempted from the disclosure requirements imposed on corporations. there is virtually case law as to what constitutes fraud in the issuance of municipal securities. and it is conceivable that over a long period of time the case law could catch up with some reasonable standard of disclosure for municipal issuers. but in dealing with this problem through the legislative route. we make the conscious choice that. with the new york city crisis fresh in our minds. we must take positive steps to protect investors in what is at present a grey area of the law. i might add that the problem has also become more pronced in recent years because of the high marginal tax rates for many working americans. and the increased attractiveness of taxexempt securities for a wider class of americans. so there is a substantial public interest to be served by legislation. although the new york city crisis has been the prime mover for this bill. it is also clear that the bill would help substantially in removing market uncertainties for smaller issuers. by setting standards of disclosure which should be made available with every offering. the bill would give underwriters and investors alike an opportunity to assess more realistically the risks associated with investment in municipal securities. i believe that. even with the expense to be incurred in complying with disclosure requirements. such a bill as this could ultimately reduce the overall costs of borrowing. many state and local borrowers pay a premium for market uncertainty. a fact which we saw in bold relief at the time of the new york financial crisis. more disclosure means more certainty. it is even possible that with effective disclosure legislation. an individual credit problem in one jurisdiction would  shake the market as much as did the new york city crisis in 1975. recently many cities. including new york. have practiced various forms of voluntary disclosure. and these need to be implemented into and taken account of in any legislation. i am also acutely aware of the fact that although the bill at hand will aidand should attractmunicipal borrowers. it will  solve the problems of new york city which in itself presents virtually the archtype of urban problems generally.  can it replace the federal seasonal financing program under which new york city currently operates. new york citys borrowing requirements for the year beginning july 1978. total approximately $4 billion. assuming that major wage hikes or other cost increases inflate the city budget further. what is needed at a minimum. in my view. is the continuation of the federal seasonal financing act. or an equivalent substitute. coupled with a massive and comprehensive restructuring of our urban policy of which the bill at hand should be a part. a future urban policy must correct the wrongs of the past several decades. wrongs which have encouraged businesses to leave central cities and have encouraged residents to live in suburbs. thus contributing to the deterioration of the central city tax base. as i believe that our urban problems are largely the problems of the countrys older cities. a new urban policy should be especially geared to those conditions. i am hopeful that the administration can bring out a comprehensive urban policy by the reported january target date. and i am encouraged also by reports that an urban development bank may become part of that program. it would be heartening if. in retrospect. we could call 1978 "the year of the cities." thus. i commend the senator from new jersey for his initiative in introducing the bill at hand and hope that it portends a comprehensive approach to our urban problems over the months ahead.
