the only disadvantage under which i labor is that i have  had dinner. i shall answer the senators question specifically and directly. this is  revelation merely because the senator has put the question very dramatically. as is his wont and his style. it is  revelation. because it has been said on this floor  5 times. 10 times. but 25 times or more. second. the answer. which is "yes" unequivocally. applies  only to this particular situation. but it applies to what i thought were only 28 injunction statutes. but i was corrected today and told that it applies to 40 statutes which have been on the books for generations. a number of these provide for injunctions and criminal violations at the same time. among them are the antitrust laws. the fair labor standards act. the securities and exchange act. and a dozen others which escape me at the particular moment. with respect to which courts have the perfect right to enter decreesand they do enter decrees. they punish for contempt of court defendants who are contems. thereupon and thereafter the attorney general or the united states attorney may. and does. institute prosecutions for crimes. that is why i said that it is  revelation. this is hing sensational. this is the case in this instance. as it is in connection with many other statutes which. so far as i k. have never been questioned or assailed as being unreasonable. unjust. or against the rights of man. i have heretofore pointed out that the punishment is  for crime. it does  involve loss of citizenship. or other disabilities which fall upon a man who is punished for crime. in this particular civilrights situation. the senator from minnesota. or any other senator might say. as to this particular situation. "i feel differently." however. i think it is only fair. in answering the question. that i mute the answer. and put it in the context of law. in which it belongs. rather than treat it as some great concession which has been wrenched from the opposition. finally. i hope the senator will allow me to state that what the senator from montana said was probably deserved. at least so far as i am concerned. for one is always spanked for a pretty good reason. even if the particular reason is  incident to the comment. i may say that i am very deeply concerned with this subject. and i feel very keenly about it. perhaps i have been at it too long. if other senators will help me. i will do my utmost to keep my peace for a considerable period of time. however. before i sit down i should like to say that much has been made of the fact that things have been revealed or disclosed by the debate. and that great concessions have been won. for example. by those who are on the other side of the issue. by striking out part iii of the bill. i should like to invite the attention of the senator to the fact that that is also true on this side. great weight has been given to the assertion that we do  trust allwhite juries and that we are insulting the people of the south. and do  have confidence in their jurisprudence. yet here we have an amendment accepted which completely strikes out one of the most critical aspects of the whole contention of those who stand on the other side of the issue. and it is  said that we can trust those juries and that we can rely upon them. and we do  have to worry about that situation. because new rules for jurors in federal courts would be established. whereas formerly the states could determine the qualifications of such jurors. such provision would  be stricken out. that is a concession which is  being made. and i am delighted that it is being made. however. i point out that these refinements and enlightenments. and the justice that is being done because we are engaged in debate. is  entirely onesided.
i do  think the senator from th carolina grasped my reply. certainly i do  believe that a fine in the amount of $50.000. plus a jail sentence of up to 5 years. is inadequate for the purposes of the antitrust laws. indeed. congress passed the amendment with the full understanding that we were raising the penalties to what they ought to be under modern conditions. but the point i make is. what will be the effect on that very amendment of the breadth of the proposed enactment contained in this bill. that is one of the questions we have suggested in respect to the very broad applicability of this measure. from its terms. as i say. i hope very much that the proponents of the amendment will address themselves to that very kty problem. also. i think they must address themselves to the grave problem in the circuit court of appeals. as well as grave problems raised under the national labor relations act. in respect of socalled national paralysis strikes. and various other provisions of that law. i am one of those who voted against the tafthartley act. i believe to this day that that was the right course to follow. and i would do it again today. if i had it to do over again. but that does  change the fact that it is the law of the land. and it is my sworn duty as a senator to see that i do hing to interfere with the enforcement of the law. so long as it remains the law of the land.
