. i introduced s. 2759. along with my colleague. senator rockefeller. to. help states with healthy state childrens health insurance programs remain strong. so that they may continue to provide highquality health care coverage to the children they serve. our bill achieves this objective by allowing states to keep $1.1 billion in expiring funds in the schip program and continuing current law redistribution rules through 2007. concerns have been expressed that s. 2759 would  reallocate schip funds in an effective manner and that states can utilize their current schip allotments. proponents of this view believe the expiring schip funds could be more effectively used for outreach and enrollment in the program. we fully support greater outreach and enrollment biat do  believe that it should come at the expense of providing adequate health insurance to children currently- served by the program. in 2003. due to state budget deficits. seven states capped enrollment in their schip. over the next few years. unless we extend the availabilityof existing schip funds and targetthem to the states with the most need. many states will lack adequate funds to meet their existing need. much less enroll more eligible but uninsured children. it is also important to e that ten percent of the amount states spend on coverage can be spent on administrative costs. including outreach. consequently. an increase in coverage would also increase the funding states have for outreach and enrollment. moreover. the robert wood johnson foundation currently provides schip o4treach grants to community health centers. hospitals. and faithbased organizations through its covering kids & familiesinitiative. aher criticism of s. 2759 deals with the amount of money states will have available in fiscal year 2005. states and territories will have $10.8 billion available to provide health insurance coverage to children in 2005. it has also been -estimated that states will only- require $5.3 billion in fiscal year 2005 to provide adequate coverage. although this is true in the aggregate. this funding figure does  take into account the realities of the existing schip financing system. these excess funds are concentrated in lowspending states that have  utilized their schip allotments in previous years. and they are  available tg states facing federal funding shortfalls. in the absence of a fundamental alteration of the current schip financing system. the aggregate funding in the program is  relevant to critical issue of whether there is adequate funding within specific states. lastly. it has been proposed that the secretary of the department of health and human services has the authority to redistribute unspent allotments from fiscal year 2002 to states where federal funding shortfalls are anticipated in fiscal year 2005. while it is encouraging that the concerns of states facing an immediate shortfall in 2005 would be alleviated under this approach. our larger concern about the longterm financial health of the schip in fiscal years 2006 and 2007 persists. eleven stateswould receive less in redistributed fiscal year 2002 funds under this proposal than they would otherwise receive. and they would  have. accegs to the $1.07 billion in federal schip funds that are scheduled to expire. the childrens health protection and improvement act addresses the longterm federal funding shortfalls in the schip prograin over the next 3 years. the govers of all 50 states have endorsed our proposal and view it as a comprehensive approach to addressing the federal schip funding shortfalls that will occur prior to the programs reauthorization in fiscal year 2007. we stand ready to work with the senate leadership and the administration to keep the schip strong so that it may continue to provide critical health care coverage to uninsured children through fiscal year 2007. when a more comprehensive resolution of the formula problems can be explored.
. i introduced s. 2759. along with my colleague. senator rockefeller. to. help states with healthy state childrens health insurance programs remain strong. so that they may continue to provide highquality health care coverage to the children they serve. our bill achieves this objective by allowing states to keep $1.1 billion in expiring funds in the schip program and continuing current law redistribution rules through 2007. concerns have been expressed that s. 2759 would  reallocate schip funds in an effective manner and that states can utilize their current schip allotments. proponents of this view believe the expiring schip funds could be more effectively used for outreach and enrollment in the program. we fully support greater outreach and enrollment biat do  believe that it should come at the expense of providing adequate health insurance to children currently- served by the program. in 2003. due to state budget deficits. seven states capped enrollment in their schip. over the next few years. unless we extend the availabilityof existing schip funds and targetthem to the states with the most need. many states will lack adequate funds to meet their existing need. much less enroll more eligible but uninsured children. it is also important to e that ten percent of the amount states spend on coverage can be spent on administrative costs. including outreach. consequently. an increase in coverage would also increase the funding states have for outreach and enrollment. moreover. the robert wood johnson foundation currently provides schip o4treach grants to community health centers. hospitals. and faithbased organizations through its covering kids & familiesinitiative. aher criticism of s. 2759 deals with the amount of money states will have available in fiscal year 2005. states and territories will have $10.8 billion available to provide health insurance coverage to children in 2005. it has also been -estimated that states will only- require $5.3 billion in fiscal year 2005 to provide adequate coverage. although this is true in the aggregate. this funding figure does  take into account the realities of the existing schip financing system. these excess funds are concentrated in lowspending states that have  utilized their schip allotments in previous years. and they are  available tg states facing federal funding shortfalls. in the absence of a fundamental alteration of the current schip financing system. the aggregate funding in the program is  relevant to critical issue of whether there is adequate funding within specific states. lastly. it has been proposed that the secretary of the department of health and human services has the authority to redistribute unspent allotments from fiscal year 2002 to states where federal funding shortfalls are anticipated in fiscal year 2005. while it is encouraging that the concerns of states facing an immediate shortfall in 2005 would be alleviated under this approach. our larger concern about the longterm financial health of the schip in fiscal years 2006 and 2007 persists. eleven stateswould receive less in redistributed fiscal year 2002 funds under this proposal than they would otherwise receive. and they would  have. accegs to the $1.07 billion in federal schip funds that are scheduled to expire. the childrens health protection and improvement act addresses the longterm federal funding shortfalls in the schip prograin over the next 3 years. the govers of all 50 states have endorsed our proposal and view it as a comprehensive approach to addressing the federal schip funding shortfalls that will occur prior to the programs reauthorization in fiscal year 2007. we stand ready to work with the senate leadership and the administration to keep the schip strong so that it may continue to provide critical health care coverage to uninsured children through fiscal year 2007. when a more comprehensive resolution of the formula problems can be explored.
. was a report compiled before the impact of the medicare program could be accurately measured. initial indications are that the demand for nursing home beds will far outstrip any estimates that were made when the medicare program was first passed. it has been the longstanding policy of the congress to draft legislation which would encourage the participation of private profit organizations in various health and public welfare areas. this has been most recently evidenced by the language of the elderly housing program which provides for longterm. lowinterest loans to such groups for construction purposes. in a sense then. my bill merely seeks to extend this encouragement of the private profit sector to the construction of badly needed nursing home facilities. the bill provides for a 2year program with authorizations of $50 million for fiscal year 1968 and $100 million for fiscal year 1969. the bill stipulates that all participating organizations must acquire proper accreditation. the nursing homes built under this program will also be required to meet the building and operating standards required under the medicare program.
. i have listened in astonishment to the presentation of this amendment this aftern and i have difficulty following the rationale that is being presented here. we went through a whole series of votes in connection with the veterans administration. we were assured by the chairman of the committee that the amounts provided were sufficient.  what is proposed at the last hour is to take $300 million out of the health function. out of functions that nave been aptly described here on the floor. the immunization programs. preventive care. nursing training. rural health. mental health. nih. and adding $300 million to a budget already in the area of $23 billion. i would appreciate it if the distinguishedi chairman of the committee. senator srmpson. would give me a little enlightenment on this situation. my specific question is. what has changed since the assurance the chairman gave us on the floor less than 3 weeks ago.
. it should be ed that may is older americans montha time to ho the american elderly who comprise 11 percent of the u.s. population. the aging" of america is  just a cliche. it is a fact. data from the 1980 census indicates that a larger than expected number of persons are living longer. 25.5 million americans are 65 or older. this is a net increase of 5 million in the last 10 years. population projections indicate that by the turn of the century there may be only five workingage persons for every one of retirement age. this growth will result in increased demands on the health care systems. on income maintenance programs. and other social support systems. there has been a dramatic increase in the proportion of older americans who are outside the work force. even though many are able to work beyond the conventional retirement age. smaller proportions do so. this places a greater burden on the social security system. it also means a decrease in availability of taxable income. demands on public housing. medicare. and medicaid also substantially increase. the growth in persons over 55 will have significant implications for public policy. in 1981. the attention of the country focused on federal policies relating to the aged. the debate over the budget and federal expenditures. proposals relating to social security and the white house conference on aging. centered public attention on issues facing elderly today. proposals to scale back social security eligibility and benefits met. in 1981. with intensely disfavorable reactions from congress and the public. just last week during debate on the first concurrent budget resolution. attention was again focused on social security. cost of living adjustments and the subsequent solvency of the system. further appreciation of aging issues was demonstrated in expanded opportunities for individual retirement accounts and in the reauthorization of the older americans act (oaa). the oaa is directed toward giving older. lowincome persons the opportunity to participate in all that this country has to offer. i strongly believe that this nation continues to be one of the most wealthy with regard to resources. and greater use of its elderly can only benefit this country further. the goals of the oaa are very much in tune with the trend toward an aging population even though the act was passed in 1965. the nutrition and employment concerns of the elderly are focused on by the various services provided for in the oaa. in particular. title vthe senior employment programprovides community service jobs for lowincome senior citizens. it also allows participants to retain a sense of dignity and worth. additionally. it results in a reduced need for public assistance. thereby freeing limited resources for those who truly are in need. all proposals that threaten the integrity of title v cause me to worry. particularly in light of the growth in our aging population. older americans month provides me with the opportunity to restate my strong support for title v and other programs that assist the elderly to remain a part of the productive. contributing segment of society. in the upcoming years. this nation has many decisions to make regarding the aging of america. i look forward to the challenge that those policy decisiong imply.*
. i wish to address several questions to the distinguished chairman of the budget committee (senator domenici) relating to the conference compromise budget resolution. in particular. i would like to inquire about programs which have been of special interest to me. these programs relate to education. health. especially medicare and medicaid. and maternal and child health and immunization programs. and low income energy assistance and weatherization programs. with regard to education. the senate budget resoution made cuts in the guaranteed student loan program. and provided that other education programs would continue essentially at the levels of budget authority provided for fiscal year 1982. am i correct in that.
all right. with regard to the health programs. as the chairman recalls when we debated this budget resolution on the floor. i offered amendments that increased the outlays over the next 3 fiscal years for the immunization program and for the maternal and child health programs. and the chairman of the committee was gracious egh to accept those on behalf of the committee.
one minute. . i hope all my col. audit and medical claim review.-the leagues will join in support of the con. medicare contracting budget for fiscal year ference commdttee. 1983. 1984. and 1985 would be supplemented
. i would have preferred that the senate make a much larger reduction in the deficit. i have voted for proposals that would do so. and these have failed. i and other senators offered an amendment last week that would have reduced budget authority for all appropriated spending by $17 billion over 3 years. and at the same time have increased defense and reduced defense spending. this amendment failed by a vote of 4846 on a tabling motion. therefore. i favor the baker amendment. it contains specific assumptions for increased spending in several highpriority defense areas. it is important to recognize that activities in the defense discretionary category have undergone significant reductions in recent years as congress has worked to bring spendirng under control. in 1980. defense appropriated programs accounted for 25 percent of all federal spending. but today they account for 17 percent. while it is essential for us to continue to restrain unnecessary spending whenever possible. our nation can afford to weaken its commitment in several areas which. if neglected. could result in profound costs for the united states in years to come. during the past year. congress and the administration have placed education at the top of the national agenda. americans have come to understand that our education system faces some serious problems with sobering consequences. education remains the soundest investment this congress can make in the future of our country. we can afford to jeopardize our prosperity. productivity. and technical invention by shortchanging education. there are positive signs that americans are committed to reversing the decline in educational quality. in states across the country. initiatives are underway to improve curriculum standards. raise graduation requirements. extend the schoolday. improve pay for teachers. and introduce performancebased standards. these reforms are costly. they are absorbing greater and greater proportions of state and local budgets. although the federal share of total spending for elementary and secondary education was over 8 percent in 1980. today it has declined to 6.4 percent. funding for programs in the department of education has dropped from 2.2 percent of the total federal budget in 1980 to 1.5 percent today. although spending in inal dollars for education programs has increased by $1 billion since 1980. the value of those dollars has been reduced by over 20 percent due to inflation. according to the congressional research service. the result has been a real deduction in important educational services to thousands of children. in such areas as compensatory education for the disadvantaged. in handicapped education programs. in bilingual education. instudent financial assistance. and others. it is time to reverse this trend and to strengthen our national commitment to education. the amendment being proposed today assumes a sufficient increase in defense spending to provide additional budget authority for education programs in the next fiscal year. health research is aher crucial national investment which is among the programs to have borne the brunt of spending reduction efforts in recent years. for every dollar spent on research. we have saved $13 in health care costs. health care today accounts for a staggering 10 percent of the gross national product. we simply can afford to shortchange these vital activities which can save both dollars and lives in our nation in future years. prior to the spending reduction efforts of recent years. the national institutes of health were able to provide funding support for 45 percent of health research proposals judged to be "excellent." today that percentage has slipped to 37. whereas nih was previously able to provide research training for 11.000 scholars each year. today the annual number of traineeshas dropped to 9.000. in order to bolster the national commitment to important biomedical research programs. this proposal contains the assumption that an additional amount will be spent on health research in the next fiscal year. to be shared by the national institutes of health and the alcohol. drug abuse and mental health administration. like health and education. our nation can afford to falter in its commitment to environmental protection. we must maintain vigorous efforts to enforce clean air and clean water programs. to clean up hazardous waste sites. to resolve the acid rain problem. and to continue other essential environmental protection activities. the amendment assumes an increase in budget authority for environmental protection programs to be available for the operating budget of the environmental protection agency and the superfund. this would bring spending for these programs to the level which administrator ruckelhaus requested from the office of management and budget last fall. the passage of this amendment will help to assure that in our efforts to reduce the deficit. we do  lose sight of other important national priorities. programs in the defense area have  been the leading contributors to the deficit. they should  bear the brunt of our deficit reduction efforts. eroding the effectiveness of our education. health research and environmental programs will have damaging and costly consequences for our nation and its people in future years.
. i do  desire to endanger the passage of this bill. there are too many good provisions in the bill and it does move us down the road on deficit reduction. however. i want to make it clear to my colleagues that an increase in the cigarette excise tax is the least difficult decision we will face in the coming years. this is a fair tax. it is a user fee and its time has come. i also want to make it clear that i will propose this cigarette tax again next year. and next year it will pass. why. because we will be facing a deficit reduction target of $108 billion and to meet that target. we will need to achieve an extraordinary amount of spending reductions and revenue increases. i strongly believe that it would be unfair to cut programs like medicaid and medicare rather than increasing a tax on a product that places such emous costs on those very same programs. although. i do  intend to offer my amendment. i want to share some information on the issue with my colleagues. each of us. whether a smoker or . pays for the health care needs of smokerseither through health insurance premiums or taxes. according to the office of techogy assessment. cigarette smoking accounts for $22 billion in medical care costs and $43 billion in lost ecoic productivity annually. cigarette smoking cost taxpayers $4.2 billion through the medicare and medicaid programs. dr. gerald oster. an ecoist with policy analysis. inc. of boston. testified before the house ways and means committee in june 1985 that reimbursement to society for all of these costs would require an increase in the cigarette tax to $3 per package. and reimbursement for medical care costs alone would require an increase in the tax to 30 cents a package. medical evidence of the incidence of tobaccorelated diseases among users of cigarettes demonstrates the correlation between smoking and increased health care costs. an increased federal excise tax on cigarettes is a tax imposed on tobacco users for the resulting excess health care costs they impose on our health care system. all of us clearly have an interest in promoting better health in the general population. the longterm benefits for federally funded health care programs are clear. in these times of fiscal austerity. we must closely examine the health care costs imposed on taxpayers by tobacco users. the deficit is increasing and health care spending accounts for a major portion of the federal budget. it is fair to ask smokers to contribute. more for the costs they impose on our health care programs.  only is an increased excise tax on this product fair. but it will also help discourage smoking. in the tax equity and fiscal responsibility act [tefrai. congress doubled the excise tax on cigarettes from 8 to 16 cents. in "cigarette taxation: doing good by doing well." author kenneth warner stated that the doubling of the excise tax caused 11/4 million adult americans to stop smoking and onehalf of a million teenagers to stop or  start smoking. teenage smoking decreased by 14 percent. adult smoking decreased by 4 percent. by helping to discourage smoking. an increased excise tax will help improve the overall health of the country. cigarette smoking is the  1 preventable cause of death and disability in this country. over 350.000 die of smoking related diseases annually. 9 million people suffer from chronic bronchitis and emphysema due to smoking. there are those who say that smoking is a decision each of us should make and that congress should  be attempting to influence these decisions through an excise tax. however. there are some personal decisions which have a great impact on all of societysmoking falls into this category. it creates an increased demand on our health care system. much of which is subsidized by the federal government. all of us. whether we smoke or . pay for the health care needs of smokerseither through insurance premiums or our taxes. last year. i held a hearing on the issue of an increase in the cigarette excise tax in the subcommittee on taxation and debt management of the finance committee. it was clear from those hearings that there is a great deal of support for an increase in the excise tax from a wide variety of health organizations. i ask unanimous consent that a list of these organizations be inserted in the record at this point:
. i would have preferred that the senate make a much larger reduction in the deficit. i have voted for proposals that would do so. and these have failed. i and other senators offered an amendment last week that would have reduced budget authority for all appropriated spending by $17 billion over 3 years. and at the same time have increased defense and reduced defense spending. this amendment failed by a vote of 4846 on a tabling motion. therefore. i favor the baker amendment. it contains specific assumptions for increased spending in several highpriority defense areas. it is important to recognize that activities in the defense discretionary category have undergone significant reductions in recent years as congress has worked to bring spendirng under control. in 1980. defense appropriated programs accounted for 25 percent of all federal spending. but today they account for 17 percent. while it is essential for us to continue to restrain unnecessary spending whenever possible. our nation can afford to weaken its commitment in several areas which. if neglected. could result in profound costs for the united states in years to come. during the past year. congress and the administration have placed education at the top of the national agenda. americans have come to understand that our education system faces some serious problems with sobering consequences. education remains the soundest investment this congress can make in the future of our country. we can afford to jeopardize our prosperity. productivity. and technical invention by shortchanging education. there are positive signs that americans are committed to reversing the decline in educational quality. in states across the country. initiatives are underway to improve curriculum standards. raise graduation requirements. extend the schoolday. improve pay for teachers. and introduce performancebased standards. these reforms are costly. they are absorbing greater and greater proportions of state and local budgets. although the federal share of total spending for elementary and secondary education was over 8 percent in 1980. today it has declined to 6.4 percent. funding for programs in the department of education has dropped from 2.2 percent of the total federal budget in 1980 to 1.5 percent today. although spending in inal dollars for education programs has increased by $1 billion since 1980. the value of those dollars has been reduced by over 20 percent due to inflation. according to the congressional research service. the result has been a real deduction in important educational services to thousands of children. in such areas as compensatory education for the disadvantaged. in handicapped education programs. in bilingual education. instudent financial assistance. and others. it is time to reverse this trend and to strengthen our national commitment to education. the amendment being proposed today assumes a sufficient increase in defense spending to provide additional budget authority for education programs in the next fiscal year. health research is aher crucial national investment which is among the programs to have borne the brunt of spending reduction efforts in recent years. for every dollar spent on research. we have saved $13 in health care costs. health care today accounts for a staggering 10 percent of the gross national product. we simply can afford to shortchange these vital activities which can save both dollars and lives in our nation in future years. prior to the spending reduction efforts of recent years. the national institutes of health were able to provide funding support for 45 percent of health research proposals judged to be "excellent." today that percentage has slipped to 37. whereas nih was previously able to provide research training for 11.000 scholars each year. today the annual number of traineeshas dropped to 9.000. in order to bolster the national commitment to important biomedical research programs. this proposal contains the assumption that an additional amount will be spent on health research in the next fiscal year. to be shared by the national institutes of health and the alcohol. drug abuse and mental health administration. like health and education. our nation can afford to falter in its commitment to environmental protection. we must maintain vigorous efforts to enforce clean air and clean water programs. to clean up hazardous waste sites. to resolve the acid rain problem. and to continue other essential environmental protection activities. the amendment assumes an increase in budget authority for environmental protection programs to be available for the operating budget of the environmental protection agency and the superfund. this would bring spending for these programs to the level which administrator ruckelhaus requested from the office of management and budget last fall. the passage of this amendment will help to assure that in our efforts to reduce the deficit. we do  lose sight of other important national priorities. programs in the defense area have  been the leading contributors to the deficit. they should  bear the brunt of our deficit reduction efforts. eroding the effectiveness of our education. health research and environmental programs will have damaging and costly consequences for our nation and its people in future years.
. i do  desire to endanger the passage of this bill. there are too many good provisions in the bill and it does move us down the road on deficit reduction. however. i want to make it clear to my colleagues that an increase in the cigarette excise tax is the least difficult decision we will face in the coming years. this is a fair tax. it is a user fee and its time has come. i also want to make it clear that i will propose this cigarette tax again next year. and next year it will pass. why. because we will be facing a deficit reduction target of $108 billion and to meet that target. we will need to achieve an extraordinary amount of spending reductions and revenue increases. i strongly believe that it would be unfair to cut programs like medicaid and medicare rather than increasing a tax on a product that places such emous costs on those very same programs. although. i do  intend to offer my amendment. i want to share some information on the issue with my colleagues. each of us. whether a smoker or . pays for the health care needs of smokerseither through health insurance premiums or taxes. according to the office of techogy assessment. cigarette smoking accounts for $22 billion in medical care costs and $43 billion in lost ecoic productivity annually. cigarette smoking cost taxpayers $4.2 billion through the medicare and medicaid programs. dr. gerald oster. an ecoist with policy analysis. inc. of boston. testified before the house ways and means committee in june 1985 that reimbursement to society for all of these costs would require an increase in the cigarette tax to $3 per package. and reimbursement for medical care costs alone would require an increase in the tax to 30 cents a package. medical evidence of the incidence of tobaccorelated diseases among users of cigarettes demonstrates the correlation between smoking and increased health care costs. an increased federal excise tax on cigarettes is a tax imposed on tobacco users for the resulting excess health care costs they impose on our health care system. all of us clearly have an interest in promoting better health in the general population. the longterm benefits for federally funded health care programs are clear. in these times of fiscal austerity. we must closely examine the health care costs imposed on taxpayers by tobacco users. the deficit is increasing and health care spending accounts for a major portion of the federal budget. it is fair to ask smokers to contribute. more for the costs they impose on our health care programs.  only is an increased excise tax on this product fair. but it will also help discourage smoking. in the tax equity and fiscal responsibility act [tefrai. congress doubled the excise tax on cigarettes from 8 to 16 cents. in "cigarette taxation: doing good by doing well." author kenneth warner stated that the doubling of the excise tax caused 11/4 million adult americans to stop smoking and onehalf of a million teenagers to stop or  start smoking. teenage smoking decreased by 14 percent. adult smoking decreased by 4 percent. by helping to discourage smoking. an increased excise tax will help improve the overall health of the country. cigarette smoking is the  1 preventable cause of death and disability in this country. over 350.000 die of smoking related diseases annually. 9 million people suffer from chronic bronchitis and emphysema due to smoking. there are those who say that smoking is a decision each of us should make and that congress should  be attempting to influence these decisions through an excise tax. however. there are some personal decisions which have a great impact on all of societysmoking falls into this category. it creates an increased demand on our health care system. much of which is subsidized by the federal government. all of us. whether we smoke or . pay for the health care needs of smokerseither through insurance premiums or our taxes. last year. i held a hearing on the issue of an increase in the cigarette excise tax in the subcommittee on taxation and debt management of the finance committee. it was clear from those hearings that there is a great deal of support for an increase in the excise tax from a wide variety of health organizations. i ask unanimous consent that a list of these organizations be inserted in the record at this point:
. as we evaluate the proposed budget resolution for the next fiscal year. i believe there are two questions which must be taken into account. first. how does it assign priorities for federal spending. and second. how adequately does it address the problem of the budget deficit. reducing the deficitwhile protecting priority programshas been the single greatest domestic challenge facing congress and the administration in the past several years. we can hope to restore american competitiveness and assure that there will be jobs for our citizens until we bring down the deficit which threatens our ecoic recovery if left unchecked. during the last congress we met this challenge. and after making some difficult budgetary decisions. we set the deficit on a downward path. we must  turn back. at the same time. our nation faces other challenges which can be igedsuch as providing adequate * health care. improving our education system. meeting the needs of the poor. and protecting our environment. if we fail to commit sufficient resources in these areas today. the nation will pay an incalculable price in the years ahead. budget proposal could completely satisfy everyones goals. the proposal which is  before us. as revised by the chairman of the budget committee. senator chiles. is  perfect. i would prefer a budget resolution which came closer to meeting the goal of the gram for the congressional competitiveness caucus. recently we released our shortterm agendaour list of concrete steps that congress can take to restore competitiveness. along with our recommendations. we made a point that i think bears repeating: the united states can have a worldclass ecoy if it does  have worldclass schools. this budget proposal protects the socalled safety net programs which serve needy americans and provides modest increases for priority programs such as the women infants and childrens nutrition program [wici. head start. and worker training and retraining programs. it provides additional funding for research into the prevention and treatment of aids and other diseases. it restores funds for the community development block grant program which the budget committee had sought to reduce. i remain concerned about the adequacy of spending for health care in this proposal. the proposal calls for savings in the medicare program of $3 billion in the next fiscal year. i believe it will be very difficult to achieve savings of this magnitude without jeopardizing the quality of health care which medicare beneficiaries receive. i am also concerned about the adequacy of funding in this proposal for the medicaid program. and i intend to pursue these concerns as discussion of the budget resolution continues. this proposal is  the ideal blueprint for federal spending in the next fiscal year. but it appears to be the best blueprint we have before us. it will enable us to continue to reduce the deficit and uphold our commitment to priority programs. and for those reasons i intend to support the proposal.
. in the report language. the committee recommends $5 million for ongoing treatment of posttraumatic stress disorders. i commend the members of the appropriations committee for dealing with this matter. this is an extremely serious problem that is affecting primarily veterans of the vietnam war. although it affects the other veterans as well. this is a special allocation that is in there for posttraumatic stress disorder treatment. it is very worthwhile. and i am pleased that it is included in the report. i thank the managers of the bill. (purpose: to express the sense of the senate that the space station should be adequately funded and that the budget al. location for the hudindependent agencies subcommittee be raised to accommodate such amounts and to address the array of other high priority programs funded by this bill)
. i would like to obtain clarification of the effect of the tax reform act of 1986 on the exemption of profit health maintenance organizations. the statement of managers reported that section 501(m). which was added to the code by the tax reform act. would  alter the exempt status of health maintenance organizations. that statement is  reiterated. however. in the explanation of section 501(m) in the finance committee report on this bill.
. i commend senator riegle for his continued efforts in this critical area of child health. i hope my colleagues agree that federal dollars for this legislation would be well spent and that even during a time of fiscal restraint it is sound ecoic policy to invest in the health of our children. by mr. deconcini:
. i am pleased to join senator bentsen and a majority of my colleagues on the finance committee in the introduction of an extremely important bill that will alleviate the complexity of section 89 of the internal revenue code. as we all k. section 89 of the internal revenue code was created by the tax reform act of 1986. and has been the subject of a great deal of controversy. this section was incorporated into the tax reform act to justify the federal tax subsidy given to employerprovided fringe benefits and to expand coverage for rank and file employees in plans that are already maintained by their employers. the original purpose of section 89 was to require coverage of employees who are  highly compensated that is substantially similar to the coverage enjoyed by highly compensated employees. i believe this requirement is fair and that we need rules to prevent discrimination in tax subsidized programs. according to the congressional budget office. the federal income tax subsidy provided through the tax deduction for employerpaid health and life insurance is $32 billion for 1990. the current tax subsidy for health insurance fulfills an important social goal: encouraging adequate health insurance coverage for all americans. allowing a tax deduction for employerpaid premiums on a health insurance policy maintained for the owner or the highpaid executives of a business. but  the rank and file employees. does  accomplish this goal. in my opinion. outright repeal of section 89 would be equivalent to allowing discrimination in favor of these owners and highpaid executives. we all agree that these rules are extremely complicated and impose an unreasonable administrative burden on the employers who provide fringe benefits to their employees. in addition. we k that something must be done to substantially reduce the comlexity in and costs of complying with the current discrimination rules. these issues must be adequately addressed to fulfill the original intent of the law to expand health insurance coverage and  cause employers to eliminate coverage. the bill which we are introducing will accomplish all of these goals. while maintaining the integrity of the original purpose of the section 89 discrimination rules. the first thing this bill will do is delay the effective date of the section 89 rules until january 1. 1990. the bill also repeals all of the current section 89 rules and replaces them with a simple design based test. that rquires a qualified health plan to olfer affordable health insurance to 90 percent of all employees. these provisions provide rules to prohibit discrimination in favor of owners and highpaid executives without complex administrative requirements. in addition. this bill addresses all of the concerns that have been raised by american businesses under the current section 89 rules and the other bills that have been introduced to amnend section 89. i urge my colleagues to join us in supporting a bill that will relieve the administrative complexity of section 89. while fulfilling the social goals inherent in providing a tax subsidy for employerprovided health insurance available to all employees.
. i support senator doles amendment which world replace the health insurjune 2.. 1989 ance tax credit portion of the abc bill with an increase in the earned income tax credit for lowincome families with young children. i was extremely distressed to learn that the health insurance tax credit had been added to abc. i do  believe that the original proposal is effective. senator bentsens amendment with a modified health insurance tax credit is even less effective. for the past 8 years. many of us. including the distinguished senator from texas. have worked tirelessly to improve the health care status of lowincome children and families by improving and expanding the medicaid program. we have struggled every year to find small amounts of money to pay for limited expansions in coverage. but today. we are suddenly talking about a $1.5 billion proposal which does  expand health care coverage at all. but rather subsidizes those families already receiving health care coverage. the estimate of the cost of this provision does  recognize any increase in insurance coverage for children. if we used this same amount of money to pay for an expansion of medicaid. we could assist up to four times as many people who are currently without any health care coverage. in a time of limited funding. it seems imprudent to consider a proposal which does  address increased access to care. this senator has been one of the most consistent and outspoken proponents of improved health care services for children and lowincome families. the health care tax credit will  achieve that goal. as one deeply involved in these issues. i strongly believe we can find a more effective way to spend $1.5 billion through the medicaid program. during this time of fiscal restraint our priorities should include providing health care to the 12 million children who are uninsured. providing a health insurance tax credit to families who currently have insurance should be a lower priority. employers who pay wages under 200 percent of poverty frequently do  even offer the opportunity to buy dependent coverage. in order to have health insurance. families have to purchase group coverage in the private marketat rates that we all k to be exorbitant. a $500 maximum credit for a family under $12.000 would  be sufficient to make this feasible. therefore. the majority of families who have the potential of benefiting from this proposal are those who do  have access to employersubsidized insurance. even these families would have difficulty taking advantage of this credit because most of them are to pay a substantial percentage of the premiums. in fact. it is  unr .nmon for employees to pay the enti. family coverage premiumat a cost ranging from $2.600 to $3.000 per year. again. the maximum credit of $500 would  be egh to encourage lowincome families to purchase the coverage. in preparing cost estimates on this proposal. the joint committee on taxation assumed behavioral changes in terms of those who currently purchase insurance and those who do . jct estimates that the $1.5 billion credit proposal will affect 14 million children. but. those 14 million children are already insured. it appears clear that very few children. possibly as low as 500.000 children will benefit from this propsoal. a few numbers will illustrate what i mean. in the income category this proposal would affect. there are approximately 8.8 million uninsured children. of these. there are only 1.2 million children that even have access to employerprovided insurance: that is. they are the children of employerinsured adults. this is the group that would theoretically be able to use the credit. but as a practical matter. fewer than half would be able to afford to. we can be doing much more for lowincome families with $1.5 billion. senator doles amendment would give a supplemental tax credit to families with incomes below $15.000. the goal is to allow families to offset some of the costs they experience in having small children. these costs may include child care. health care. proper nutrition. or anything that families provide for their children. my concern about the health insurance tax credit increased when i compared its effectiveness with the dole amendment. the health insurance tax credit would help families with incomes under $21.000. senator doles amendment would help families with incomes under $15.000. if we are going to use limited dollars to provide a supplement to families with small children. i believe it is most appropriate to concentrate on families at the lowest end of the income scale. as senator doles amendment does. some senators may object that the credit does  ensure that families will use the supplement specifically for their childrens expenses. however. i believe that families need the flexibility to use the money in the most effective and necessary manner. for example. the credit may enable a family to more easily pay the sliding scale fee for community heatlh clinic services while still leaving money available for child care or some other necessity. the act for better child care in combination with senator doles proposed eitc credit makes a significant step toward removing some of the barriers blocking lowincome families from selfsufficiency. last year we worked very hard to reform the welfare program. our efforts to help families get back on their feet will soon prove to be very successful. but our work must  stop there. we must enact the abc bill and the dole amendment to alleviate some of the burden of child care and other necessities. both of these measures will enable more families to continue on the path toward financial independence. we can afford to shortchange our children by spending $1.5 billion on a proposal that doesnt efficiently and effectively help them. i urge my colleagues to support the republican leaders amendment. and to defeat the seconddegree amendment currently under consideration.
. i commend senator bentsen for his continued efforts in this critical area of child health. i hope my colleagues will agree that federal dollars for this legislation would be well spent. and that even during a time of fiscal restraint. it is sound ecoic policy to invest in the health of our children.
i think that is a splendid provision. and i think the managers and the committee have done a good job on this legislation. i think it gives a lot of  solely financial relief but mental relief to those individuals who are called to active duty frequently in a very swift manner without being able to get their affairs in total order. this bill provides some relief for them  only when they go into the service but when they come back. in other words. they are entitled to their jobs again and are entitled to reinstatement of their accident and health insurance which is a new provision.
madam president. i would like to take a moment to discuss the pending amendment. i appreciate the intentions of my colleagues from vermont regarding the situation of dairy farmersindeed. i share their concern about. those farmers. however. at this time i am  sure that this amendment represents the kind of policy we should be shaping. while the amendment seems simple on its face. its impact is just  clear. we could be getting into a policy that would have serious longterm negative ramifications. for both the dairy industry and the consumer. under the amendment. the price paid by processors for class i milk would be temporarily increased by about $3 per hundredweight to the price level of august 1990. this increase is intended to help relieve financial pressure on dairy farmers. however. increasing the price that processors pay for storebought milk likely would cause the retail price of milk to go up. anywhere from 10 to 40 cents per gallon. in turn. that retail price increase would have its own ripple effect. first. higher prices would directly and negatively affect consumers. particularly those who are of low income. second. higher milk prices could lead to a drop in consumer purchases of milk. that  only means lower sales for producers and processors alike. but it means that consumers are cutting out an important nutritional component of their diet. third. higher milk prices could induce more dairy production. which could add to the perennial problem of dairy surpluses. aher important point to e is that an increase in the price of class i milk would have a significant negative side effect on nutrition programs that include milk as a basic component of their food package. one such program that is extremely important is the wic nutrition program for pregnant mothers and children. fluid milk accounts for over 23 percent of wic food package costs. indeed. wic participants consume over 150 million gallons of milk every year. a recent analysis by the department of agriculture. using an assumption that milk prices would increase by 10 cents per gallon. has estimated that this amendment would cost the wic program $15 million in the next fiscal year. and more thereafter. likewise. the usda analysis showed that other programssuch as food stamps and the school lunch and breakfast programswould also bear heavy costs: about $95 million for next year. these are some of the possible ramifications of the pending amendment. and they are of great concern to me. we simply do  k what effect this amendment will have. i am particularly concerned about its effects on rhode islanders. both on our dairy industry and our consumers. should this amendment exacerbate surpluses and reduce demand. it well could hurt  only dairy processors and consumers. but also the very dairy farmers that it is intended to help. in sum. i do  believe that the measure before us should be acted upon unless we can clear up some of these questions. this amendment represents a significant changetemporary or in dairy policy. given that we have just finished the 1990 farm bill. i believe that we should act carefully when considering further changes. that means prudent study by the agriculture committees and comment by the parties involved during the hearing process. it does  mean a quick vote on an amendment during an appropriations bill. we simply do  have egh information on just what the amendment will or wont do to -make an informed judgment on this measure. i am concerned that this amendment might do more harm than good for dairy farmers. dairy processors. and consumers. for that reason. i can support the leahyjeffords amendment.
. i am joining my friend from new mexico in his effort to ensure that the allimportant special supplemental feeding program for women. infants. and childre wicis  inadvertently caused considerable harm by the leahy dairy amendment that was approved yesterday by the senate. hence. i am voting against the motion to table the helms. and therefore. domenici amendment. first of all. i would like to say that i am sorry to see two wellintentioned effortsone meant to help dairy farmers  under fiscal pressure. and one meant to preserve important nutrition funding for mothers and childrenat loggerheads with one aher. there are dairy farmers in my state. and i am concerned about their ability to maintain their farms. likewise. the wic program is extremely important to my state. and i am concerned about making sure the program can reach eligible persons. but i think we acted too hastily on the leahy amendment. i did  support the dairy amendment. while it seemed simple on its face. its impact is far from clear. indeed. should it exacerbate surpluses and reduce demand. it could hurt  only dairy processors and consumers. but also the very dairy farmers that it is intended to help. we simply do  k if the leahy amendment will help or hurt dairy farmers. however. one thing that is far clearer is the negative impact that a milk price increase would have on both dairy processors and consumers. that is where the wic program comes in. and i would like to focus on this aspect. under the dairy amendment approved yesterday. it is very likely that the retail price of milk would go up. it is  unanimous. but that is the conclusion of usda. dairy processors. and consumer groups. that means consumersparticularly those of lowincomewould pay more for milk. that also means additional costs for those nutrition programs. such as wic. that include milk as a basic component of their food package. as my colleagues k. the wic program provides food vouchers to lowincome pregnant women. women with infants. and children under 5 who are at risk of serious nutritional deficiencies. as my colleagues also k. wic is easily one of our best and most costeffective programs. for every $1 invested in wic. we save about $3 in longterm health care costs. and with wic. we reach children at the critical early stages of development. we recognize the benefits of wic. and that is why every year when senator deconcini and i spearhead the drive for increased wic funding. we get an overwhelming. bipartisan response from our colleagues. last year 82 of us wrote to the appropriations committee asking for an increase in wic moneys. and i am pleased and grateful that the committee did just that. one more recent event: five corporate chief executive officers appeared before a house committee to strongly support wic. they called wic the health care equivalent of a triplea rated investment and endorsed full funding for wic. i mention this background on wic because i want to emphasize the overwhelming success of. and support for. the wic program. milk is an integral part of the wic food package. according to usdas food and nutrition service. fluid milk accounts for over 23 percent of wic food package costs. indeed. wic participants consume over 150 million gallons of milk every year. thus. it should come as surprise that usda has ed that "the impact of any significant rise in dairy prices on the wic program would be very significant and detrimental." so the widelyexpected increase in the retail price of milk from the dairy amendment would hit wic hard. a recent analysis by usda estimates that a milk price increase of 10 cents per gallon would cost the wic program $15 million in the next fiscal year. according to usda. a 10cent increase would reduce the monthly food packages by 400.000that means 35.000 fewer women. infants. and children would be served- each month. keep in mind that a 10cent increase is a conservative estimate. should the increase be 25 cents. which many feel is more likely. we could be looking at a loss in wic participation of anywhere from 40.000 to 100.000 women and children. other nutrition programs could also be affected. the usda analysis showed that food stamps. and the school lunch and breakfast programs. would also bear heavy costs from a 10cent milk price increase: about $95 million for next year. food package increases should  be taken lightly. last year. rises in food prices due to unexpected inflation had a significant negative impact on state wic programs. many statesincluding my ownhad choice but to drop participants. my point is: increases in food prices are real threats to state wic programs. to those who would argue that these figures are only estimates. and that milk prices would  necessarily go up under the dairy amendment. i would say then let us make sure that that is so. let us  hastily pass a major change in dairy policy that may or may  help the intended beneficiarydairy farmersbut almost certainly will have a significant impact upon other groups. let us let the bill be studied by- the committees. and until we are certain that the amendment: first. will help dairy farmers in the longterm. and second. wont hurt dairy processors. consumers. and nutrition programs. we should  go forward. that is why 1 strongly support and have cosponsored the amendment by senator domernci. i recognize that the senate agreed to the dairy amendment yesterday by a clear margin. but the senate should also ensure that its quick action does  decimate one of the best programs we have ever had: wic. this amendment will safeguard the wic program. and i urge my colleagues to support it.
i thank the distinguished floor manager. if the chair will let me k at the conclusion of 10 minutes. i would appreciate it. madam president. i think it is once again very important that we go back to why we are here. we are here because a situation that had existed for many years. was radically changed. the situation that had existed for many years was that under the regulations that were in effect from 1981 to 1988 under the reagan administration. a counselor. physician or whoever the individual may be in the clinic was required upon request to give to the requesting woman her three options. her options of carrying the baby to term and keeping it. the option of carrying the baby to term and putting it up for adoption or foster care. and the third option the termination of pregnancy. those were the regulations. and it was  an option on behalf of the counselor. it was mandated. it was required. life went along serenely until a group in hhs decided they did  like that and they wanted to change those regulations. and so what happened then was the socalled gag rule. bear in mind who we are talking about. a title x patient or client is a lowincome woman by the very definition. she is frequently young. she is. upon discovering she is pregnant. disturbed and wondering what she can do. and so she asks the question to the counselorit may be a nurse practitioner or it may be a physician"what are my options." she is entitled to her options. she always had that answer. there was beating around the bush. she had the answer. but in came these regulations. the gag rule. and if she asked. the nurse practitioner or whoever it was was forbidden to give her the last option. oh. yes. you can tell her that she could carry the baby to term and have it.- or carry the baby to term and put it out for foster care or adoption but  the third one. and furthermore. they were  even directed to tell her that they were  giving her her full options. . you might say. oh. everybody ks about the option of termination of pregnancy. well. that just plain is  so. certainly for the women in this condition. the reason she asks the question is she wants an answer. the problem with the cochran amendment is that again it does  guarantee she gets her answer. if you read the cochran amendment. it says that the individual. let us say the nurse practitioner. shall  be prohibited from providing upon request the information. i will  debate over what he means by legal option. he is  prohibited.  but he is  also required. so again she is left up in the air. under the cochran amendment. it is perfectly all right. written right into law. that he does  have to give her the full answer if he does  want to. furthermore. you say it is micromanaging to write in what happens. well. is it micromanaging to say that if the individual or doctor does  give her full options at least he ought to tell her. she asks. mind you. it is upon request. even in the cochran language. "provide upon request." the woman goes to the trouble of asking: what are my options. under the cochran amendment. he could give her option 1. he could give her option 2 and stop. furthermore. he does  say. "well. miss. i am  giving you everything. there are others. but you can go elsewhere for those." why is the chafee amendment so long. the chafee amendment is so long in trying to accommodate the distinguished senior senator from mississippi. because he raised what we thought was a rather sensible problem. what he said is suppose you have some doctor who. in a clinic. has through deep moral convictions the belief that he does  and is unable to give her the final option. the termination of pregnancy. what do you do then. it might be a catholic hospital. let us say it is holy redeemer hospital. we kind of thought that made sense. mind you. the senator voted against us when i brought this up in the other form last fall. he voted against it in committee. so i thought. well. he is an important player. leader in the senate: let us do what we can to accommodate him. that required four pages. let me just say there is something that we have all discovered around this senate. that the enemy of fairness is frequently simplicity. there is a great attraction to the word "simplicity." make it simple. but frequently. in writing statutes. simplicity is the enemy of fairness and here is it more important than in our tax code. example: make the tax code simple. tax everybody the same. somebody has 12 children over here. somebody has one child here. do  make any difference. keep it simple. tax them all the same. one over here is taking care of a wife in a hospital with alzheimers. or a nursing home. and the other has dependents. tax them the same. that is simplicity. once you start writing the code to take care of the medical situation. take care of the catastrophic loss. take care of the large family. that is when things become complicated. so when the distinguished senator talks about the charms of his amendment because it is five pages and it is being micromanaging. i would call to his attention the fact that we tried to take care of this very situation that he brought up. let us go back  to the catholic hospital. we provided hereby the way. these are frequently title x clinics in a catholic hospital. a woman goes in. she asks the doctor: what are my options. we provide in here that he does  have to give her the full options because in his particular situatio a female doctorthey have moral convictions or religious beliefs that would prevent them from mentioning termination of pregnancy. so we cover that. but by covering it. it lengthens the bill. does that take care of the woman who has asked a question.  it does . she has  received her full answer. so we require that that physician can fail to give her her full options but he does say to her "because of my situation. my beliefs. i am  outlining to you the full options that exist but if you go to soandso you can get your options." so we take care of that. then the senator says what do we do about the situation where that is the only facility within the immediate geographic area. what happens to her. she is in woonsocket. ri. and the nearest place is 50 miles away. is that fair to her.  we put a provision in that if they are going to fund one of these projects where she can get her full option that at least she can be told they will have aher place  too far away. accessible. where we provide she can get her full answer. is she entitled to that. i think she is. i will  spend time with each of the other objections that the senator raised. he objected principally. as i pointed out. to the length of it. but you have to take care of these provisions. for example. do we  want to take care of that individual within the clinic who does  give the full options because of the religious belief. suppose we have an administration come in that is extremely pro choice. they say we are  going to fund that clinic where they will  give the full options and. furthermore. if we do fund it. make sure that doctor gets fired because he has these religious beliefs that prevents the full listing of the option. so we provided a provision to protect that individual from being fired for that particular reason. is that ridiculous. i do  think so. but does it take some words. yes. it does take some words. is it unfair. is it a distortion. is it micromanaging. let us look at the present situation. we have to realize that running that department of his right  are individuals who we can say in the most benign statement are pro active. they feel very. very strongly in their beliefs that one should have information dealing with termination of pregnancy. and they are going out of their way to achieve it. so we provide in here that they can suddenly remove title x funds from every clinic in the united states that provides for the three options and restrict them only to those selected entities where the woman would  receive her options. so we provided that language that the senator objected to. i am  quarreling with what the senator says. he is going a long ways when he says it is entitlement or there is way of removing the grant. we say it can be removed for that particular purpose. can it be removed because they are sloppy. they do  keep records. the place is unclean. or because the statistics clearly show they slant their advice one way or aher. sure. but they can remove it because of providing or  providing particular advice concerning termination of pregnancy. so. madam president. if the charge is that it takes some words to accomplish everything we did. to accomplish namely what was an attempt to please the senator. i must say he is a hard man to please. we went out of our way. but we did  make it. but i am glad we tried. as the distinguished senator from illis said. it was a good point. i think we should take care of those who are in religious hospitals. for example. that is what we have done. so i hope that  only will we receive support for my measure as to the substitute. but also that we will reject the amendment by the distinguished senator from mississippi.
. would be a very great mistake. a very great mistake. so i just want to go on record here to say that. should the conferees come back using up the money we set aside for deficit reduction for aher purpose. i will  support that conference report. i believe it would be a great mistake. we in this body are determined to do something about these deficits. and to do something about it means we have got to make tough choices. it means we have to forgo attractive proposals. such as increasing the selfemployed health insurance deduction. i thank the chair. and i thank the managers for giving me this time.
i k there are going to be other speakers. and i k the senior senator from massachusetts has some charts prepared. and we are ready for all the evils. to hear about all the evils of the deficit reduction bill that we passed last evening. all right. we are used to that. but i would hope that whoever speaks on this floor will say how he or she is going to reach a zero deficit. it is all right to criticize what we have done. and i suppose you can come up with 35 items of how what we passed last evening was  correct. all right. that is fair game. but in return. i would hope that the critics come up with how they would do it. and in what year. and how and where the savings are going to come from. . is it going to be a cpi adjustment. or is it going to be keeping the medicare part b premium at 31.5 percent. or is it going to be a reduction in that. all of which costs money. if you change. how is that individual or those individuals proposing that we reach this zero deficit. i think that is a fair requirement for us to impose on the critics of the plan that we passed last evening. i thank the chair.
. the agreement that we submitted today in the press conference and have outlined here on the floor was remarkable for this fact: everybody agreed on every point. . that does  mean we started that way. but when we finished people did  say. "well. i am for points 1 through 4 but include me out on points 5. 6 and 7. but i am there for points 8. 9. and 10." everybody signed on for all of the points. that was tough. it was tough for the democrats to go to the $140.000 tax cut. it was tough for the republicans to agree on the medicare. cut. we think we could have done better on the medicare cut. we do  use the word "cut". "reduction in the rate of increase." in order to reach an agreement we all compromised. i think it was a wonderful effort. and along with the senator from louisiana. i commend it to our colleagues and hope they take a good look at it.
that is the point that i would like to get across to our listeners and viewersthat it is easy to be critical. it is easy to say. "oh.  do  fool with that cpi. that consumer price index. and the medicare figure is too high. we do  like what you have done on welfare. the republican govers do  like what you have done totally on welfare an area that has been mentioned before briefly. we make some savings out of medicare. or actually what we do is we reduce the rate of growth over the next 7 years. medicare. unless something is done. is truly going to go broke. people say. "oh. we. have heard you people say that around here on this floor before." all right. let us just look and see what has happened. we have two recent reports. the new york times reported last tuesday that the medicare hospital insurance trust fundwhich is the fund that pays the hospital bills for the elderlyoperated at a loss for the first 6 months of this current fiscal year. it fell short. the outflow as compared to the income. fell $4 billion short in that brief time. so once upon a time we were bringing in more revenue than we were expending and we built up a surplus.  the lines on the graph have crossed and the expenditures are exceeding the income. that is  going to change unless we do some things. yesterdays washington post reported the congressional budget office  believes the medicare trust fund will become insolvent in the year 2001. when we started on this exercise just a few months ago we thought it was going to go insolvent in 2002. so in just a few months we have seen the fiscal situation of the trust fund deteriorate by a year. so. unless something is done in this medicare program. along the lines that we have suggested. the medicare trust fund. which pays the hospital costs of the elderly in this nation. is going to go broke. that is something we ought to take very. very seriously. i read a comment the other day in the newspaper where somebody said. "oh. dont believe that. we are going to take care of it." it is  easy to take care of some of these situations once the downward spiral starts and the expenses exceed the income. once that starts there is really serious trouble ahead. i would like to  touch briefly on the consumer price indw. the consumer price index has clearly been overstated. what we do. as the senator from louisiana pointed out. in our group. we say let us state the consumer price index accurately. so that is what we have done. that results. fortunately. in dramatic savings.  just over this 7year period. but for the outyears as well. so. a key part of our proposal here is the recognition of the fact that the consumer price index is overstated. we hope our fellow senators. paying attention. listening and studying this situation. will come to the conclusion that we have. that it is essential to state the consumer price index in an accurate form. that results. as i mentioned. in our calculations. of a $110 billion savings over the 7year period with dramatic savings in the outyears. and which will mean. as the senator from louisiana briefly said. that social security and medicare will be here in the future years.
. the alternative that senator breaux and i and the others present today offers the senate the only opportunity to have a balanced budget for this nation this year. is it tough. certainly it is tough. the cpi change is  an easy vote.  is the vote to shore up medicare and the affluence testing on medicare. for example. but here you have a group of democrats and a group of republicans who have joined hands to take these important steps forward and to end the partisanship and to move forward in doing something about these horrible deficits that our country faces. so we ask each of you to join our efforts. for the sake of our children and our grandchildren. and the young people. all the young people of our nation. we want to pass this country on in better shape than we found it. here is the way to do it. i want to thank the chair.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee -on personnel of the committee on armed services be authorized to meet on wednesday. march 11. 1998. at 2:00 p.m. in open session. to receive testimony on the defense health program in review of the defense authorization request for fiscal year 1999 and the future years defense program.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee -on personnel of the committee on armed services be authorized to meet on wednesday. march 11. 1998. at 2:00 p.m. in open session. to receive testimony on the defense health program in review of the defense authorization request for fiscal year 1999 and the future years defense program.
. in response to the distinguished senator from south carolina. i will make several points. first of all. the senator keeps talking about busting the budget. he says we have to say "stop." i ask my distinguished colleagues on the committee. have we said "stop" to the defense budget. have we said "stop." what are we going to do with unemployment and the great assumptions made by the budget committee. i ask. what is the assumption for unemployment. will we say "stop" paying compensation benefits. if it means we will unbalance the budget. will we say "stop." what are the assumptions made by the budget committee when it comes to energy. are you going to say. " we are going to continue a balanced budget. so there is going to be money in the budget for the increased costs imposed upon us by opec." the problem is that this body did  say "stop" to opec. that is the cause of our inflation. they do  say "stop" to defense spendingand we will get to that in a minutewhich is the most inflationary spending of all. regardless of whether it is good or bad. ody will debate the fact that it is inflationary. eightyfive percent of the health budget is uncontrollable. it is  even up for debate here. and this little. narrow 51 percent which represents all the discretionary programs is getting zapped. for example. alcoholism and drug abuse: the distinguished senator from south carolina said my amendment will bust the budget with $200 million. we lose $53 billion. $53 billion from drug abuse and alcoholism alone. how about that one for budgetbusting. that is what goes out of the gross national product. but we are  going to invest $200 million. we would rather lose $53 billion. than invest $200 million in good programs. one ks about the $53 billion. just as one ks about the $18 billion off budget. so you are  going to balance the budget. anyway. i do  want to hear about busting the budget. what is being done here is guaranteed to bust the budget in 1982. 1983. and 1984. it is  balancing this years budget. and it is  licking inflation. we will pay the price. if  today. tomorrow.
this amendment is a compromise but a compromise in the best sense of the word. to begin with. ours is the only alternative which incorporates the three budget amendments which the full senate has passed to date. adding funds for education. health care for the unemployed. and prenatal care for lowincome mothers. as such it demonstrates this bodys continued commitment to health care and educational opportunity for all americans. especially those hardest hit by the ecoic recession. second. the amendment offers a middle way on defense spending. the budget committees resolution advocates a 5percent real growth for 1984. the domenicibaker substitute came in at 7.5 percent. and we propose a 6percent real increase for 1984. 5 percent for 1985 and 1986. this spending level would allow us to compensate for the rowth years in the seventies instead. we seek to encourage the administration to come up with aclear set of spending priorities within which the congress can work. while we are on the subject of priorities. our amendment assumes that the greater share of reductions from the presidents request will come from the accounts of hardware rather than readiness. on the revenue side of our compromise. we advocate a moderate revenue increase of $14.9 billion in 1984. $22.7 billion in 1985. and $34 billion in 1986. we allow the finance committee considerable elbow room within whic to achieve these goals. our amendment would cut the federal deficit by about $30 billion more over the course of the next 2 years than would the domenicibaker substitute. a final word on deficits: once upon a time officials within this administration made .a career out of preaching balanced budgets. these days the subject is barely accorded a passing reference in a 60minute speech. i am believer in the balanced budget as the great panacea. but i k that big deficits are dangerous. and recovery can only come through the private sector. it can only come through people building and buying homes. buying automobiles and other consumer goods. and if the federal government continues to crowd borrowers out of the credit markets to the tune of $200 billion a year. recovery will never come. what will come will be interest rates. the likes of which we have never seen before. two years of high interest rates have already helped to put thousands of small concerns out of business and millions of americans out of work. so when we are talking about the budget and its bottom line we are really talking about people. their lives and their futures. that is why i strongly urge my colleagues to support this compromise amendment. it is  just an exercise in numbers crunching. it has the needs and aspirations of all americans in mind. i realize the difficulties that confront all of us. certainly the difficulties that confront this senator and my colleagues within our party. and the difficulties that confront my colleagues on the other side of the aisle in terms of what they perceive as beingpolitical opportunity. but it seems to me there comes a time when partisanship is set aside and we at least make some attempt to do what is right for the constituency that we serve. in this instance the entire nation. . the bottom line is the fact that there are 12 million people out of work and theirs is a terrible tragedy. it seems to me. each one of the 100 in this chamber owe it to that 12 million to get them back on the job as fast as possible. the bottom lineand i can speak personally to this. as chairman of the small business committeeis that you had in 1981. 50 percent more bankrupcies than in 1980 and in 1982. 50 percent more than in 1981 of small bucinesses doors closed forever. "he fact is. as chairman of the appropriations subcommittee that handles the health care and education of this nation. in terms of the effect of this recession on the poor in the sense of health care. it is devastating. we had testimony from the commissioner of health from the city of philadelphia the other day and their infant mortality rate has gone up to 27 per thousand. there are just a few hospitals serving those that are indigent. seeing the mothers that come in for the first time. if you will. at the time of delivery and. yes. lives are being lost. . that is the situation while we continue this debate in the senate. i think everybody has made their point and there will probably be more to be made in the hours and the days ahead. but let us get on with this business. let us put a budget together. there is way this is going to pass except with both democratic and republican votes. we all k that. there has been considerable moderation of the amendment which i have before the body at this time.due to the wishes of other members on this side. and i am sure there are ideas relative to this matter that emanate from the democratic side. but let us put the budget together and let us get on with the entire constitutional process. because the only people that are paying right  are the ones that are out of work. the ones that are being hurt in the sense of their education. being hurt in the sense of health care. and the businesses that are closing. et cetera. everybody can sit on their prerogatives until kingdom come. but ody is hurting in this chamber. they are on the streets of america. the president is  going to get his way.  as far as this republican is concerned. but neither should the democrats get their way. what we want is a way which. in effect. discharges oui obligations to an entire constituency. and they do  give a damn whether they are republicans or democrats. they are human beings.
madam president. this amendment provides an appropriation of $140.061.000 for the action agency. the committee deferred consideration of this appropriation because reauthorization had  been considered by the senate in time for the committee to study the reauthorization bill. this amount is $30.331.000 more than the administration request and $10.740.000 more than the fiscal year 1983 level. for title 1 the amendment provides an appropriation of $15 million for vista. $1.8 million for the service learning program and $1.9 million for volunteer citizens and demonstration programs. for title 2. the amendment provides $27.445.000 for the retired senior volunteer program and $48.400.000 for the foster grandparent program. $18.016.000 is recommended ft- the senior companion program. this includes $6.000.000 which will be used to begin the inhome health care activities of that program. i am also recommending $27.5 million for program support. in addition. i have included bill languagewhich is similar to that in the 1983 appropriations billto prevent the agency from closing state and regional offices and i am recommending that the agency maintain a fulltime complement of  less than 525 fulltime employees. we are certainly aware that in many communities it is the volunteer efforts that enable the community to address the problems of poverty. this progtam utilizes the skills of the necessary numbers of elderly citizens to meet these needs. i recommend that we fund these worthwhile efforts and i move the adoption of this amendment. i ask unanimous consent that the following explanatory statement be included in the record.
. this conference agreement provides $96.531.883.000 in current year new budget authority. including advance appropriations for fiscal years 1985 and 1986. the amount of budget authority provided by this bill is $104.433.883.000. discretionary programs account for $32.077.974.000. let us look at that number a moment and then talk about the programs and. most importantly. the people served by it. to 1983 levels. we have added $3.3 billion. included in the total is $2.9 billion in forward funding for job training programs mandated under the job training partnership act passed by this congress in 1982. and by the way. funding that program through the first 9 months of fiscal 1985 has the effect of establishing a new program year which coincides with most federal education programs and should improve the coordination of our education and job training activities. the dollar amounts in this report are generous. there is doubt about that. but they are also carefully calculated. these are  the 1960s when we believed we could afford to put a stake on every social program that came along. our hearts were in the right place then. but that was  always true of the dollars. programs that didnt work have been weeded out over the yearsand in some cases secondgeneration programs have grown up in their place. programs that did  work from the beginning. like the head start program for lowincome preschoolers. have been strengthened over time. this bill provides both the dollars and the direction all these programs need to do an even better job in fiscal year 1984 and the outyears. so we are  throwing money at programs. we are investing it in people. the acid test of any piece of legislation that leaves our hands is the difference it makes in the lives of the american people. who are the people helped by this legislation and how. they are children who. with the aid of child welfare programs. can remain with their families. rather than be put up for adoption. they are elderly people whose tremendous skills and vast reservoirs of wisdom are  wasted but put to work through community service employment for older americans. they are men and women in the prime of life struck down by a disabling disease. as well as the valiant researchers who dedicate their lives to finding the cuves and the preventive measures to do away with such diseases. they are people of all races. all creeds. all walks of life. the one characteristic they have in common is that circumstances beyond their control have rendered them unable to provide these services for themselves. and we as a congress have an obligation to assist these people.  simply out of a sense of compassion. but because we are the leaders of a nation dedicated  just to providing for the common defensethat is going to be done to the tune of some $260 billion in fiscal year 1984. we are also pledged to promoting the general welfare and that is where the laborhhseducation appropriations come in. this is  the dessert of the federal budgetthis is the meat and potatoes. where the department of labor is concerned. $6.4 billion is going to help the longterm unemployed. people for whom ecoic recovery is something they read about in the papers but do  experience in their own lives. they are ecoically disadvantaged people without skills and factory workers who need new ones. the programs we are talking about include job corps. summer youth employment and training. dislocated worker assistance. and block grants that will enable states to design job training activities tailored to local needs. overall. more than a million individuals are expected to be served in employment and training activities in 1984. these are hot busywork jobs we are talking about but jobs that need doing. where health is concerned. this report addresses a wide spectrum of needsremote rural areas and innercity neighborhoods which lack their share of doctors and hospitals are provided for. as are coal miners who have contracted black lung disease. and motherstobe who can afford the medical care it takes to guarantee a healthy baby at birth. those of my colleagues who think we have got the infant mortality problem licked in this country should come home with me during the recess and talk to health professionals and the lowvincome mothers they care for in hartford. conn. the infant mortality rate in that city recently hit 28 per 1.000. the national average is 11 per 1.000. my colleagues from pennsylvania are doubt familiar with the most recent statistics from the city of philadelphia: infant mortality. 27 per 1.000 births. this bill provides. $399 million for maternal and child health. if provides scholarships to train students who are the health professionals of the future. especially those bright young people who can afford the costs of such training. it includes funds to help train young doctors to be family preaiitioners and to train nurses for advanced degrees. it provides moneys to alert doctors to new desvelopments in preventive medicine. these programs address the need to provide all americans with access to high quality health care at a reasonable cost. to promot~e good health and prevent disease where possible. to return the acutely ill to good health. and to improve the quality of life for the elderly. the chronically ill. and the disabled. altogether. this legislation provides more than $1.3 billion for these health training and development programs. a big increase is also appropriated for the national institutes of health. my colleagues have only to look at the news stories on the el prizes in medicine and the other sciences to recognize that the best research on this planet is going on right here in american laboratories and research centers. discoveries are being made daily that lengthen lives by decades and improve lives immeasurably. the total appropriation of just over $4.3 billion will allow the institutes to fund 5.000 new and competing research grants. pay full indirect costs on grant awards. and keep all of its research centers open. this appropriation reflects the understanding that tomorrows discoveries will  come without an investment today. this nation declared war on cancer and heart disease and other chronic and disabling diseases a generation ago. and many people are alive today because of it. we are  about to give up the fight. indeed. this bill mounts new offensives against illnesses such as alzheimers diseases. a form of senile dementia from which thousands of p~eople die every year. we have initiated a program of support for up to five special alzheimers disease research centers. we have also provided the institutes and the center for disease control (cdc) with $41.6 million to address the health threat posed by the acquired imune deficiency syndrome (aids). the cdc is also slated to receive increases for childhood immunization. venereal disease control. infectious disease prevention. epidemic control. occupational safety and health research and training. altogether. the cdc is due to receive a $40 million boost over last years budget. an amount fully deserved by this vital weapon in our nations diseasecombating arsenal. in recognition of the graying of america. the increasing proportion of our citizens 65 and older and its implications for the health of our nation this bill provides a 20percent increase over fiscal year 1983 for augmented re-
. the proposal which we introduce today calls for 3 percent real growth in defense budget authority and real growth in defense discretionary programs. and reduces spending for means tested entitlemerits by over $41 billion over 3 years. as i mentioned. the proposal would save $206 billion in federal borrowing needs over the next 3 years. and would reduce the 1987 deficit to $139 billion as compared to the $245 billion deficit under current law. one of the ways in which this plan differs from the other proposals  before the senate is that it allows defense discretionary programs to maintain their current level of services. this is an ackledgement that some of our nations programs. including education. job training. biomedical research. or health carehave borne a disproportionate share of the budgeteers axe. yes. there are low priority discretionary programs. but. education for the ecoically disadvantaged or the handicapped are essential investments in our future. so too is biomedical research. for every dollar spent on research. we have saved $13 in health care costs. with health care consuming 10 percent of our gross national product. a freeze is an ecoy we can afford. at current services. congress maintains the flexibility to weed out those programs which are longer required or which can be cut and redistribute funds to provide real increases for other programs or new initiatives. this. then. is the chafeemathiasweickerstafford proposal. a fuller description of which has been provided. we realize that our proposal is only one of many that have sprouted this spring. but we believe that it is ambitious. and fair. and we hope that it will serve as a blueprint for action the senate will take this week on reducing deficits.* (by request of mr. baker. the following statement was ordered to be printed in the record.)
this amendment is a compromise but a compromise in the best sense of the word. to begin with. ours is the only alternative which incorporates the three budget amendments which the full senate has passed to date. adding funds for education. health care for the unemployed. and prenatal care for lowincome mothers. as such it demonstrates this bodys continued commitment to health care and educational opportunity for all americans. especially those hardest hit by the ecoic recession. second. the amendment offers a middle way on defense spending. the budget committees resolution advocates a 5percent real growth for 1984. the domenicibaker substitute came in at 7.5 percent. and we propose a 6percent real increase for 1984. 5 percent for 1985 and 1986. this spending level would allow us to compensate for the rowth years in the seventies instead. we seek to encourage the administration to come up with aclear set of spending priorities within which the congress can work. while we are on the subject of priorities. our amendment assumes that the greater share of reductions from the presidents request will come from the accounts of hardware rather than readiness. on the revenue side of our compromise. we advocate a moderate revenue increase of $14.9 billion in 1984. $22.7 billion in 1985. and $34 billion in 1986. we allow the finance committee considerable elbow room within whic to achieve these goals. our amendment would cut the federal deficit by about $30 billion more over the course of the next 2 years than would the domenicibaker substitute. a final word on deficits: once upon a time officials within this administration made .a career out of preaching balanced budgets. these days the subject is barely accorded a passing reference in a 60minute speech. i am believer in the balanced budget as the great panacea. but i k that big deficits are dangerous. and recovery can only come through the private sector. it can only come through people building and buying homes. buying automobiles and other consumer goods. and if the federal government continues to crowd borrowers out of the credit markets to the tune of $200 billion a year. recovery will never come. what will come will be interest rates. the likes of which we have never seen before. two years of high interest rates have already helped to put thousands of small concerns out of business and millions of americans out of work. so when we are talking about the budget and its bottom line we are really talking about people. their lives and their futures. that is why i strongly urge my colleagues to support this compromise amendment. it is  just an exercise in numbers crunching. it has the needs and aspirations of all americans in mind. i realize the difficulties that confront all of us. certainly the difficulties that confront this senator and my colleagues within our party. and the difficulties that confront my colleagues on the other side of the aisle in terms of what they perceive as beingpolitical opportunity. but it seems to me there comes a time when partisanship is set aside and we at least make some attempt to do what is right for the constituency that we serve. in this instance the entire nation. . the bottom line is the fact that there are 12 million people out of work and theirs is a terrible tragedy. it seems to me. each one of the 100 in this chamber owe it to that 12 million to get them back on the job as fast as possible. the bottom lineand i can speak personally to this. as chairman of the small business committeeis that you had in 1981. 50 percent more bankrupcies than in 1980 and in 1982. 50 percent more than in 1981 of small bucinesses doors closed forever. "he fact is. as chairman of the appropriations subcommittee that handles the health care and education of this nation. in terms of the effect of this recession on the poor in the sense of health care. it is devastating. we had testimony from the commissioner of health from the city of philadelphia the other day and their infant mortality rate has gone up to 27 per thousand. there are just a few hospitals serving those that are indigent. seeing the mothers that come in for the first time. if you will. at the time of delivery and. yes. lives are being lost. . that is the situation while we continue this debate in the senate. i think everybody has made their point and there will probably be more to be made in the hours and the days ahead. but let us get on with this business. let us put a budget together. there is way this is going to pass except with both democratic and republican votes. we all k that. there has been considerable moderation of the amendment which i have before the body at this time.due to the wishes of other members on this side. and i am sure there are ideas relative to this matter that emanate from the democratic side. but let us put the budget together and let us get on with the entire constitutional process. because the only people that are paying right  are the ones that are out of work. the ones that are being hurt in the sense of their education. being hurt in the sense of health care. and the businesses that are closing. et cetera. everybody can sit on their prerogatives until kingdom come. but ody is hurting in this chamber. they are on the streets of america. the president is  going to get his way.  as far as this republican is concerned. but neither should the democrats get their way. what we want is a way which. in effect. discharges oui obligations to an entire constituency. and they do  give a damn whether they are republicans or democrats. they are human beings.
madam president. this amendment provides an appropriation of $140.061.000 for the action agency. the committee deferred consideration of this appropriation because reauthorization had  been considered by the senate in time for the committee to study the reauthorization bill. this amount is $30.331.000 more than the administration request and $10.740.000 more than the fiscal year 1983 level. for title 1 the amendment provides an appropriation of $15 million for vista. $1.8 million for the service learning program and $1.9 million for volunteer citizens and demonstration programs. for title 2. the amendment provides $27.445.000 for the retired senior volunteer program and $48.400.000 for the foster grandparent program. $18.016.000 is recommended ft- the senior companion program. this includes $6.000.000 which will be used to begin the inhome health care activities of that program. i am also recommending $27.5 million for program support. in addition. i have included bill languagewhich is similar to that in the 1983 appropriations billto prevent the agency from closing state and regional offices and i am recommending that the agency maintain a fulltime complement of  less than 525 fulltime employees. we are certainly aware that in many communities it is the volunteer efforts that enable the community to address the problems of poverty. this progtam utilizes the skills of the necessary numbers of elderly citizens to meet these needs. i recommend that we fund these worthwhile efforts and i move the adoption of this amendment. i ask unanimous consent that the following explanatory statement be included in the record.
. this conference agreement provides $96.531.883.000 in current year new budget authority. including advance appropriations for fiscal years 1985 and 1986. the amount of budget authority provided by this bill is $104.433.883.000. discretionary programs account for $32.077.974.000. let us look at that number a moment and then talk about the programs and. most importantly. the people served by it. to 1983 levels. we have added $3.3 billion. included in the total is $2.9 billion in forward funding for job training programs mandated under the job training partnership act passed by this congress in 1982. and by the way. funding that program through the first 9 months of fiscal 1985 has the effect of establishing a new program year which coincides with most federal education programs and should improve the coordination of our education and job training activities. the dollar amounts in this report are generous. there is doubt about that. but they are also carefully calculated. these are  the 1960s when we believed we could afford to put a stake on every social program that came along. our hearts were in the right place then. but that was  always true of the dollars. programs that didnt work have been weeded out over the yearsand in some cases secondgeneration programs have grown up in their place. programs that did  work from the beginning. like the head start program for lowincome preschoolers. have been strengthened over time. this bill provides both the dollars and the direction all these programs need to do an even better job in fiscal year 1984 and the outyears. so we are  throwing money at programs. we are investing it in people. the acid test of any piece of legislation that leaves our hands is the difference it makes in the lives of the american people. who are the people helped by this legislation and how. they are children who. with the aid of child welfare programs. can remain with their families. rather than be put up for adoption. they are elderly people whose tremendous skills and vast reservoirs of wisdom are  wasted but put to work through community service employment for older americans. they are men and women in the prime of life struck down by a disabling disease. as well as the valiant researchers who dedicate their lives to finding the cuves and the preventive measures to do away with such diseases. they are people of all races. all creeds. all walks of life. the one characteristic they have in common is that circumstances beyond their control have rendered them unable to provide these services for themselves. and we as a congress have an obligation to assist these people.  simply out of a sense of compassion. but because we are the leaders of a nation dedicated  just to providing for the common defensethat is going to be done to the tune of some $260 billion in fiscal year 1984. we are also pledged to promoting the general welfare and that is where the laborhhseducation appropriations come in. this is  the dessert of the federal budgetthis is the meat and potatoes. where the department of labor is concerned. $6.4 billion is going to help the longterm unemployed. people for whom ecoic recovery is something they read about in the papers but do  experience in their own lives. they are ecoically disadvantaged people without skills and factory workers who need new ones. the programs we are talking about include job corps. summer youth employment and training. dislocated worker assistance. and block grants that will enable states to design job training activities tailored to local needs. overall. more than a million individuals are expected to be served in employment and training activities in 1984. these are hot busywork jobs we are talking about but jobs that need doing. where health is concerned. this report addresses a wide spectrum of needsremote rural areas and innercity neighborhoods which lack their share of doctors and hospitals are provided for. as are coal miners who have contracted black lung disease. and motherstobe who can afford the medical care it takes to guarantee a healthy baby at birth. those of my colleagues who think we have got the infant mortality problem licked in this country should come home with me during the recess and talk to health professionals and the lowvincome mothers they care for in hartford. conn. the infant mortality rate in that city recently hit 28 per 1.000. the national average is 11 per 1.000. my colleagues from pennsylvania are doubt familiar with the most recent statistics from the city of philadelphia: infant mortality. 27 per 1.000 births. this bill provides. $399 million for maternal and child health. if provides scholarships to train students who are the health professionals of the future. especially those bright young people who can afford the costs of such training. it includes funds to help train young doctors to be family preaiitioners and to train nurses for advanced degrees. it provides moneys to alert doctors to new desvelopments in preventive medicine. these programs address the need to provide all americans with access to high quality health care at a reasonable cost. to promot~e good health and prevent disease where possible. to return the acutely ill to good health. and to improve the quality of life for the elderly. the chronically ill. and the disabled. altogether. this legislation provides more than $1.3 billion for these health training and development programs. a big increase is also appropriated for the national institutes of health. my colleagues have only to look at the news stories on the el prizes in medicine and the other sciences to recognize that the best research on this planet is going on right here in american laboratories and research centers. discoveries are being made daily that lengthen lives by decades and improve lives immeasurably. the total appropriation of just over $4.3 billion will allow the institutes to fund 5.000 new and competing research grants. pay full indirect costs on grant awards. and keep all of its research centers open. this appropriation reflects the understanding that tomorrows discoveries will  come without an investment today. this nation declared war on cancer and heart disease and other chronic and disabling diseases a generation ago. and many people are alive today because of it. we are  about to give up the fight. indeed. this bill mounts new offensives against illnesses such as alzheimers diseases. a form of senile dementia from which thousands of p~eople die every year. we have initiated a program of support for up to five special alzheimers disease research centers. we have also provided the institutes and the center for disease control (cdc) with $41.6 million to address the health threat posed by the acquired imune deficiency syndrome (aids). the cdc is also slated to receive increases for childhood immunization. venereal disease control. infectious disease prevention. epidemic control. occupational safety and health research and training. altogether. the cdc is due to receive a $40 million boost over last years budget. an amount fully deserved by this vital weapon in our nations diseasecombating arsenal. in recognition of the graying of america. the increasing proportion of our citizens 65 and older and its implications for the health of our nation this bill provides a 20percent increase over fiscal year 1983 for augmented re-
. the proposal which we introduce today calls for 3 percent real growth in defense budget authority and real growth in defense discretionary programs. and reduces spending for means tested entitlemerits by over $41 billion over 3 years. as i mentioned. the proposal would save $206 billion in federal borrowing needs over the next 3 years. and would reduce the 1987 deficit to $139 billion as compared to the $245 billion deficit under current law. one of the ways in which this plan differs from the other proposals  before the senate is that it allows defense discretionary programs to maintain their current level of services. this is an ackledgement that some of our nations programs. including education. job training. biomedical research. or health carehave borne a disproportionate share of the budgeteers axe. yes. there are low priority discretionary programs. but. education for the ecoically disadvantaged or the handicapped are essential investments in our future. so too is biomedical research. for every dollar spent on research. we have saved $13 in health care costs. with health care consuming 10 percent of our gross national product. a freeze is an ecoy we can afford. at current services. congress maintains the flexibility to weed out those programs which are longer required or which can be cut and redistribute funds to provide real increases for other programs or new initiatives. this. then. is the chafeemathiasweickerstafford proposal. a fuller description of which has been provided. we realize that our proposal is only one of many that have sprouted this spring. but we believe that it is ambitious. and fair. and we hope that it will serve as a blueprint for action the senate will take this week on reducing deficits.* (by request of mr. baker. the following statement was ordered to be printed in the record.)
. i ask unanimous consent that the senate proceed to the consideration of h.r. 3424. an act making appropriations for the departments of labor. health and human services. and education. and related agencies. for the fiscal year ending september 30. 1986. and for other purposes.
. as chairman of the subcommittee on the handicapped. i have listened to the debate this past week on tax reform with special concern for the impact the proposed changes will have on 40 million disabled americans. although all taxpayers will benefit from a proposed maximum tax rate of 27 percent. individuals with disabilities and their families will also benefit from at least three other provisions in the senate finance committee proposal which fosters employment opportunities and enables individuals to remain in their home environment. thus avoiding unnecessary costly public residential settings. i commend the committee on its efforts to assist the nations disabled population through proposed changes in our tax structure. the bill before the senate will reauthorize the architectural barriers removal deduction and a modified targeted jobs tax credit. it also will. for the first time. amend the medical expense deduction to allow disabled individuals or their parents to deduct the expenses for removing architectural barriers in their home. the architectural and transportation barriers removal tax deduction allows a taxpayer a deduction of up to $35.000 for expenses incurred in removing architectural or transportation barriers to make a place of business accessible to disabled individuals. this tax code provision. first enacted in 1976. has provided many new opportunities for disabled americans and has brought us closer to our national goal of a barrierfree environment. the targeted job tax credit allows employers a tax credit of 50 percent of the first years wagesup to $3.000when they employ individuals who are ecoically disadvantaged. including the disabled. the credit provides disabled individuals opportunities for employment which they might  otherwise be afforded. and which will enable them to become independent taxpayers. a recent national survey by louis harris & associates found that twothirds of all disabled americans between the ages of 16 and 64 are  working. the targeted jobs tax credit is an essential part of our congressional response to this serious problem. further. the bill contains a modification of the medical expense deduction which will allow. for the first time. coverage for expenses incurred in the removal of architectural barriers in the home. this modification is consistent with efforts to help disabled individuals remain in a home environment and to avoid unnecessary and costly public residential facilities. this change will benefit disabled individuals nationwide and begins to establish support within the tax code for disabilityrelated expenses as a subset of the medical expense deduction. however. in addition to medical expenses above the national average. persons with disabilities have disabilityrelated expenses they face every day in order to live more independently. in a recent national survey of over 200 families. the average costs on an annual basis associated with raising a handicapped child were $5.280. these extra costs included the purchase and maintenance of special equipment. adaptive aids and devices. speech. physical. and other types of therapy. special transportation. and respite care. in addition to barrier removal expenses. to raise a child with a disability to the age of 18 without an adjustment for inflation would cost a family $95.000. in addition to the costs associated with any child to cover food. clothing. and shelter. families of moderate income frequently suffer more than lowincome families because they are ineligible for state or federal assistance. yet they cant afford the large expenditures needed to help their children. adults with disabilities have a similar dilemma. with the assistance of a personal care attendant. many disabled adults are able to function more independently. be employed. and pay taxes. although the medical expense deduction will allow the deduction of the total cost of nursing home care. it does  allow disabled individuals to deduct the cost of the personal care attendant who is the only reason they remain in their own home and in the community rather than in more costly and restrictive nursing home or institutional settings. these disabilityrelated expenses are  frivolous. they are life sustaining. they are  by choice. but by necessity. the clarification of the medical expense deduction to include these types of disabilityrelated expenses is consistent with federal policy which otherwise seeks to assure that people with disabilities are able to live within their homes and their communities. therefore. i am concerned that the bill before the senate raises the threshold above 5 percent of adjusted gross income before an individual may count medical expenses as a deduction. it is my fear that such a change will decrease the attention of many disabled individuals to chronic medical needs because of the burden of personal expense. ultimately. they will become more dependent rather than independent in their lifestyles as medical concerns go unattended. while it is true that people with severe disabilities will still be likely to meet the higher threshold. they will etheless be forced to spend a greater percentage of their income on necessary medical and disabilityrelated expenses. additionally. they may well become more reliant on the federal and state governments to address their medical needs through such entitlement programs as medicaid and medicare. this proposed change is an example of false ecoy. the supposed tax savings will be more than offset by increased dependence on federal medical assistance programs. rather than assist individuals and families to survive the struggle at home. we will bear greater costs in more restrictive publicly financed hospitals and institutions. i attach for the record a letter from over 20 national disability organizations who express grave reservations about this proposed amendment to the tax code. i hope that my colleagues who will participate on the conference committee will consider these concerns as they attempt to resolve differences between the house and senate versions of the tax reform measure. the maintenance of the current 5percent threshold and a further clarification of the disabilityrelated expenses as a part of the medical expense deduction makes sound ecoic sense. the tax code should be consistent with all other federal policy that seeks to promote human potential rather than dependency for disabled americans. the letter follows:
$287 billion for them. $33 billion for all science. education. and health in the united states. that gives me a pretty good idea how this place is going to vote. i do  want to start that fight because i have a feeling i can finish that fight. so. in that sense. i would far rather say. "lets do the upfront thing and go look for the money. in the sense of the resources." which i am sure my friends on the budget committee will be able to find during the entire budgetary appropriations process. which we are  through with yet. either in conference or in terms of for action.
. i ice that the distinguished chairman of the appropriations committee is on the floor. i might add that the chairman happens to be one who can take as much credit as anybody in this country for building up the capabilities and strength of our armed services. but he will discover shortly. when he chairs the subcommittee markup on the labor. health. and human resources bill. that the sums allocated to science and medical research are pitifully small insofar as the total budget is concerned. i have to repeat that i have searched everywhere to find an answer. and finally i hit upon this concept where. in effect. the department of defense carries its own weight insofar as protecting its people is concerned. i am  asking them to do any more than that. again. i think the record is replete with the danger posed to our military personnel just by aids. certainly by malaria. certainly by the suffering and injury caused by burns. i would hope that i would have the support of my colleagues for this amendment which authorizes a new program within section 201 of the defense authorization bill. section 201 authorizes $8.4 billion for research and development in defense agencies in fiscal year 1988. under my amendment the secretary of defense will transfer $200 million to the national institutes of health in support of medical research conducted in the interest of health for armed services personnel. it is a 2year authorization. $200 million in fiscal year 1988 and $200 million in fiscal year 1989. the money is authorized from within existing funds. i might add that the type of medical research envisioned by this amendment is  specified. flexibility is retained so that maximum benefit to the health of armed forces personnel can be realized
. i have two questions i would like to propound to my distinguished colleague from new mexico. first. let us understand what we are talking about here. we are  talking about money to be taken from the defense budget and used for purposes outside of the needs of our military. to say that would presume that our military need benefits from medical research. clearly. they do. and it is time especially with the -moneys allocated with the military that they carry their fair share. they do  and i would like to have the specific figures regarding the statement that some of the $320 million spent for general health is subcontracted to the niil * the national institutes of health is our premiere agency in the conquering of disease. ody in the military and ody in private enterprise has the capabilities of the national institutes of health when it comes to biomedical research. the -senator from new mexico is well aware that aids is a big problem and a big worry to the military. the reason why the nih budget is being devastated right  is because aids is taking .an emous chunk out of the biomedical research budget that the administration repeatedly proposes to cut. i would -suggest that there is  the capacity for biomedical research within the military establishment that there is within nih. indeed. if we are going to benefit the nation and the military then all i am saying is let the military pay its fair share. the matter of malaria weighs far more heavily upon military personnel than it does civilians in the united states. and i can go down the whole check list of diseases. you have the money. at least pay your share and do  piggyback on this miniscule budget meant to lead the breakthroughs in science against disease. the distinguished senator from new mexico made the statement that ody asked for this money. that nih has  asked for the money. and the administration has  asked for the money. believe me. that falls on very. very sensitive ears. the administration has requested almost hing for nih over the past several years. it is the congress of the united states. republican and democrat. senate and house. that. in effect. has protected that national institutes of health budget. and. obviously. the personnel within nih have  made the request because they are under the direction of the executive branch. it is the congress of the united states. both parties. both houses. that has had to dig out the facts and ask for the money. so it should  come as a surprise to my distinguished friend from new mexico that i am here making the request and  the administration. they do  even ask for adequate -funds for the civilians of this nation that would be benefited by nih. never mind asking for more funds needed for the military. i am here to make the request. as i havei. many other requests. how much is involved here. onetenth of 1 percent of the budget being authorizedonetenth of 1 percentto assure that the health of our military personnel. along with that of the citizens of this country. is adequately provided for. i hope i am wrong. but i repeat: with the types of diseases we are confronted with today and their complexity. believe me. we need the help of the national institutes of health. i hope that the military would participate in paying the cost of that help. it does  come free. you have the biggest part of the budget. you have an easy ride. and they have a tough ride. if you could turn to me and say we are  benefiting from anything that they do. i would say. fine. but. indeed. the benefits flow more. if  much more. to the military than other institutions of this country. that is the purpose of the amendment.
i would suspect. in the other. big problem we face. responding to the distinguished sena- being frank with our colleagues. is we tor from new mexico. that it can are going to -have one amendment be very much because the facilities after aher to transfer department coming under that particular research of defense funds to other agencies. budget include walter reed. the naval this is  the first one. i would sugmedical research institute in bethes- gest that if this one passes we will da. the human systems division. probably have numerous amendments aerospace medical command. in san to do that. everybody wants to grab antonio: the armstrong aerospace for funding that they deem to be availmedical research laboratory in able. dayton. oh. the armed forces radio- we simply do  have the margin in biology research institute in bethes- the. department of defense budget da. and 18 other laboratories world-  to undertake these kinds of transwide. fers and still carry out the needs of i do  think there is going to be the national security of our country. much of that $300 million that goes to so i certainly respect the senator the national institutes of health. from connecticuts arguments. and i but. -in any event. i do k this: also have a tremendous respect- for his for the particular diseases that leadership in the field of health.. he threaten the military today. the great- has been an outstanding leader for a est capability for breakthrough exists long time. i k he is keenly aware at the national institutes of health. of the health needs and challenges of
 i will  but all of a sudden we are confronted with emergencies and what are we supposed to do about it. say we are operating under grammrudmanhollings versions 1. 2. 3. 4. or whatever version have you. you k as well as i do where the money is but most of the cosponsors of your legislation are  willing to do it. raise taxes. yes. i think we ought to raise taxes. i could  even get an additional $10 million- for aids. i won by two votes in the committee the necessary money for the research facilities at nih on aids. that was $20 million. does anybody want to go ahead and raise taxes. i will vote to go ahead and raise taxes to supply both lowincome energy assistance and whatever is required for research. are we going to get it from the defense department. $200 million to be devoted strictly to military personnel and their health care. i tried to do that on the floor of the senate. we could  even get an affirmative vote on that.  we found a new pot. those that have voice in the politics of this country. indeed.  only do those that suffer from aids have voice in the political sense. they are  going to have a voice. period. in a matter of months for most of them that are suffering from the disease. so there is a good pot to go to. but what about the future. i happen to be a great friend. personal and political. of the distinguished senator from new hampshire and if he had  raised it. the senator from florida intimated he was going to go ahead and raise it. you go ahead and raise it. gentlemen. and i am going to tell you we are going to have a grand time on this floor and we are going to go line by line by line on this budget that is totally skewed because of revenues and because of excessive defense spending. when it comes to the pittance that is left for the unfortunate of this nation. that is  going to take a few minutes. why do we  just give up on the whole business of aids. you are right. there is $1 billion there in terms of education and in terms of research. well. i k only one way to fight it and that is the way that is best described in this budget. if that is where everybody wants to take the money from. fine. this is a free body. i am  going to filibuster. you all stand up there and make kn your priorities. but is seems to me that this particular appropriations bill can be the senates finest hour. we spend 95 percent of our time arguing about grahamrudmanhollings. about the budget act. and about the defense budget. and that is about 95 percent of our time. i am sorry about that. we have been on the floor for a matter of a few hours on education. on science. on health. on the disabled. on the retarded. and they are crowding us. these people are crowding us. they are the ones that have created the deficits. you k as well as i do they have  created the deficits. you created the deficit because somehow or other defense spending is  spending. and ody has the guts to go ahead and vote the taxes. defense spending is what has put us in this hole. the lack of courage. to go live up to a campaign slogan: i will never raise taxes. i will never raise taxes. i will never raise taxes: i will never raise taxes. even though we have an aids epidemic on our hands. come on. but let us just do a 2percent cut. let us nick. let us nick the rest of these people. i just would suggest to you my only problem is  the fact that every one of us does  have a right to go ahead and propose our amendments. but to indicate this will only take a few minutes. king the way this body thinks. that is the way they would like to have it. but there is ody going to go sneaking off in the night on this. they are going to k exactly what happens.
. i commend the distinguished senator from new york for raising this question. the committee on appropriations was concerned about it. it was discussed at some great length. the distinguished chairman .f the hew subcommittee and i mentioned the serious situation that we are in with respect to some high priority health programs. for 2 years several doctor. nurse training. and other programs have been without authorizing legislation. we are  trying to place the blame on anyone. the main point to emphasize is that the programs are being phased out because they do  have authorizing legislation and appropriations. all we are saying is pass the legislation promptly so that we can increase the funding levels for health personnel training. for many health programs the house has provided for the current rate of spending or the budget estimate. whichever is lower. and this will. in effect. reduce or possibly eliminate some health programs under the continuing resolution. the rationale that the house used was that they reviewed all authorizing legislation which expired more than 2 years ago. and it was felt that the committee on appropriations could longer carry these programs without authorizing legislation. * hew has told the house that the programs which would be deleted or reduced under the continuing resolution do  require funding in the first two quarters of the fiscal year and obligations would be necessary during that period. expecting that the distinguished ranking member of the committee on labor and public welfare. the authorization committee. would raise this question. we called hew just this morning and ask them about this matter. they advised us that adequate funds are available for all nursing programs in the first two quarters of the fiscal year. therefore. we felt that an amendment such as the distinguished senator from new york has proposed would  be necessary under these circumstances.
. i am pleased to join with my distinguished chairman. senator magnuson. in presenting our budget recommendations for the departments of labor and of health. education. and welfare and related agencies for fiscal 1977. the laborhew bill is one of the largest and most important bills that come before congress annually. this year it provides more than $57 billion in new spending authority. including funds to administer the more than $100 billion in benefits available under the social security and other trust funds. it is accident that it is so large in size. for this is a "peoples" bill. providing for many of the needs and problems of the people in our nation. it is an instrument for reducing the effects of poverty. alleviating despair and improving life for all americans. consider. for example. what it is expected to do. through this bill we provide funds to retrain people for more productive jobs. improve the conditions in which they work: provide for the financial security and health of millions in their old age. attack and seek cures for disease. strengthen health care for people at all stages of life. aid the handicapped. broaden and strengthen education at all levels. provide for the poor. the near poor and the unemployed. and battle discrimination. i could go on and on. in fiscal 1977 we shall continue the progress already made in these areas. but we also will step up our efforts in a number of areas. most ably in the fields of research into cancer. diabetes. spinal cord regeneration and nutrition. we also are beginning new. expanded and more extensive efforts in the areas of education of the handicapped. disease control. and assistance to older americans. our senate bill provides a total of $57.142.638.575. this is $937.426.575 more than the amount in the house version. and $4.524.230.575 above the very unrealistic amount in the budget estimates. still we are about $9 billion under our subcommittee allocation ceiling for appropriations and about $5.7 billion below in outlays. this does  mean there is a lot of room to add funds to the bill. we regard the committee bill as very tight in terms of the budget ceilings because there still are a number of additional items to be funded when the authorizations become available. these include health manpower. higher education. and public service jobs programs. let me run down some of the highlights of our bill. labor in the area of labor our bill provides a total of $10.1 billion. slightly more than the house allowance. in particular we provide $2.2 billion for the ceta programs. including $1.8 billion for training and $400 million for 50.000 public service jobs. we also provide $595 million for 1 million summer jobs for young people. also included is $5 billion for unemployment benefits. taken together this reflects the fact that our nation continues to have a high rate of unemployment and that continued government assistance is necessary. our committee also provides an additional $10 million to strengthen the compliance aspects of the occupational health and safety program. health for health we recommend more than $300 million above the house figures. a substantial portion of this stems from my amendment to increase the resources of the national cancer institute by $76.5 million over the house level. we hope the additional funds will help us to better understand the causes of this virulent disease and develop more effective treatments which will reduce the physical pain and mental anquish associated with cancer. these additional funds will enable the institute to expand research on environmental causes which are  estimated to cause between 60 and 90 percent of all cancers. additional emphasis will be placed on early detection which is  our best hope of cure. (at this point.  and i have been very careful to see to. because there was some feeling that we were  spreading the health dollars as much as we could. we tried to do it in this bill. we believe we did it in this bill by increasing all of the budget allowance for the national institutes of health. time simply does  allow the enumeration of the many worthwhile efforts our recommendations will support. but i would mention two important programs. the committee feels that there is some good indication that spinal cord regeneration is possible. we hear some success in this area has been achieved by soviet doctors. accordingly. we have directed the national institute of neurological and communicative disorders and stroke to substantially increase research and training programs in this field which could benefit thousands of accident victims with spinal cord injuries. the other institute of particular interest to me is the national institute of child health and human development. although our nations infant mortality rate has declined during the past 6 years. 14 other developed countries lay claim to lower infant death rates than the united states. this institute will step up its efforts in providing a sound nutrition program for mothers and children and investigate promising new leads into the causes of sudden infant death syndrome. the efforts of the institute will be supplemented by programs under community health services and maternal and child health. in both instances we have directed the department to increase the provision of early and periodic screening. diagis. and treatment of children. the $4 million senate increase for research and training under maternal and child health will permit a broadening of training programs offered for the care of mentally retarded and multiplehandicapped children. i was particularly glad to support the provision of additional funds for 25 new community mental health centers throughout the country. states will be given additional assistance in establishing effective detection and referral programs for the 23 million americans suffering from hypertension. and family planning services will be expanded to help insure that those desiring this information will have access to it. in passing the health planning and resources development act. congress placed many responsibilities for the efficient provision of health care at reasonable costs on the newly established health systems agencies. to enable the lisas to meet our mandates. the appropriations committee has recommended $102 million for these agencies. this will provide average funding of 41 cents per capita and allow for the authorized minimum of $175.000 for the small agencies. the reation of public health service hospitals is necessary in many areas if these facilities are to meet lifesafety codes. accordingly. the committee has allowed $11 million for this purpose and an additional $9 million above the house for general operations. this will maintain the public health hospital system at least years level of services and personnel. two specific areasnutrition and diabetesreceived close attention by the committee this year. we have earmarked money in several different areas to support new initiatives on a coordinated basis. our increases for diabetes. together with the amounts available in the house bill. will begin one of the most comprehensive and intensive attacks on any disease in this country. with the money allowed for nutrition in the health services administration. the center for disease control. and the national institutes of health. a new momentum in research and dissemination of nutrition information will be achieved. we strongly feel that this area which is basic to good health has  received sufficient attention in the past.
i thank my distinguished colleague from indiana. . i am glad to join with senator magnuson in recommending adoption of the conference report o h.r. 14232. the fiscal year 1977 labor hew appropriations bill. this is a bill of major importance to the nation. it is a measure which tends to the human needs of the people of the united states providing funds for both training and jobs for the unemployed. for medical care and medical research. for education at all levels. and for assistance to the poor and near poor. to cite only several of the major areas covered. the bill as it stands after conference totals $56.618.207.575. this is $3.999.999.575 above the very low budget requests of the administration. and $412.995.575 over the level recommended by the house. however. the final bill is below the senates level by $593.431.000 and it is well below the congressional ceiling for laborhew. as i am sure many k. we have come through a long and difficult conference with the house. there were 76 senate amendments to the house bill. and these were resolved only after lengthy debate. still. the senate was able to prevail on some 44 percent of its increases to the house bill. for health. 47 percent of the senate increases over -the house were sustained by the conference committee. the percentage of senate increases sustained in the education area is 46 percent. thus while the senate did  get all it felt was necessary. i believe we have come out with a reasonable bill and one we can live with. let me briefly relate some of the specific results of the conference. labor since both bodies had agreed to a level of $90.6 million for the jobs for the elderly program. the amount of funding was  an issue in conference. however. there was a question as to whether all of the funds should continue to be administered by national contractors or whether state and local government should receive a share. as provided by law. the conferees resolved this by providing that 18.800 jobs will go to national contractors and that 3.800 jobs be allocated to the states according to the formula in the basic law. i am advised that this language will permit the labor department to enter into contracts with public and private profit organizations. as well as those serving black. spanishspeaking. and other miity groups seeking to operate jobs for the elderly programs. i believe this is appropriate. on occupational safety and health. we provide $3.5 million for 178 additional personnel for the osha compliance effort. the conferees also resolved several language problems by providing for elimination of penalties for first instance. serious violations except where a business is found to have 10 or more such violations. the conferees also adopted house language exempting farms with 10 or fewer employees from regulation and enforcement under the osha law. health in health. we agreed to an increase of $35 million over the house level for grants to the states under the health services administration. funds are allocated to continue the important research into sudden infant death syndrome and to expand the research and training efforts of the university affiliated facilities which serve the multiplehandicapped and retarded child. family planning services will be increased by $13 million which is the first addition to this budget in several years. new efforts in dealing with hypertension will be assisted by a $9 million program level in fiscal year 1977. because of. a lack of authorization. the house did  consider project grants for vd. childhood immunization programs. rat control or leadbased paint poison prevention. however. the authorization was enacted in time for the senate to fund these programs and the conference agreed to provide $52.5 million for these activities in the coming year. for the national institutes of health. the conferees accepted $90 million of the $215 million senate increase over the house. for cancer. the conference agreement is $815 million. this is a $41.5 million i..crease over the house level of $773.4 million. i was glad the conferees agreed with my effort to increase the national cancer institute budget over the $800 million level. cancer continues to be the leading cause of death after heart disease and one of the leading causes of death cxxii- 1744part 22 in children. it is a major killer. and we must  let up our efforts to conquer it. according to the nci. the $815 million level will allow for the expansion of research into the cause and prevention and detection and diagis of cancer. and in the treatment of cancer victims. nci says the funds will further encourage research into the promising areas of nutrition and pain control and will support a greater effort in identifying environmental causes of cancer. the conferees also agreed to substantial increases in the budgets of the national heart and lung institute. the national eye institute and the national institute of child health and human development in light of the promising research being carried out in these areas. for the alcohol. drug abuse and mental health administration $763 million will be available in fiscal year 1977 to continue research. training. and community programs. these funds also will allow for much needed expansion of community mental health clinics into areas  yet served by these facilities. the newly established health systems agencies should be better able to carry out the many responsibilities assigned to them by virtue of a $5 million increase over the house allocation for these activities. since most of the health manpower programs are  yet reauthorized. the conference bill provides funds only for the nursing programs: capitation and educational research grants. contracts and fellowships. funding for the other health manpower programs must await the enactment of the necessary authorizing legislation.
. i urge all my colleagues ments of 1976. and was passed by the to respect the subdivision of its allocahouse as a whole by 374 to 3. the legis- tion that the finance committee has lation also has broad support among made. if we did otherwise. we would. in consumer groups such as the national effect. be directing the finance commitassociation for retarded citizens. the tee to take funds from one program. american association of retired persons. such as medicaid or aid to families with and a variety of other publicinterest dependent children. in order to finance groups. i believe that the time has come increases in other programs. this could to make good on our oftrepeated prom- greatly heighten the risk of exceeding ises to encourage alternatives to insti- the ceilings of the congressional budget tutional care as this legislation is de- and adding to the deficit. signed to do. this the amendment before therefore. i urge all my colleagues to us does. support h.r. 10210 as reported by the
i thank my distinguished colleague from new york. the laborhew bill. even without its massive trust funds. is one of the largest bills the congress must handle each year. it often has been called a people bill because of its focus on human problems and human needs. it is a measure that in one way or aher touches the lives of every american. consider. for example. the programs it covers. through this bill. we provide money for jobs. job retraining. and unemployment benefits. we fund programs to improve the health and safety conditions in which people work. we attack and seek cures for disease. strengthen health care for people at all stages of life. assist the handicapped and broaden and strengthen education at all levels. in addition this bill must provide for the poor. the near poor. and the aged. i could go on and on. the bill before us is designed to continue the progress already made in many areas. but we also will step up our efforts in a number of important fields. in health. for example. we plan expanded research into cancer. diabetes. multiple sclerosis. spinal cord regeneration. disease control. and nutrition. we also are beginning new. expanded. and more extensive efforts in the areas of education of the handicapped and assistance to older americans. let me briefly discuss a few of the specifics of this bill: in labor. we provide more than $2.2 billion for ceta training programs. including $400 million for public service jobs. we also provide more than a halfbillion dollars for 1 million summer jobs for youth in 1977. our bill includes $90.6 millionthe highest level everfor the program of jobs for people 55 years of age and older. the socalled older worker. these are the last hired and the first fired. many have skills that can be used by our society and would like to work. we need to give as many of them as possible the opportunity and can do so through the increased fliids in this bill. in health. in addition to appropriating funds for a variety of important health programs. including direct care and training. our bill also provides $2.4 billion for the vital research carried out by the national institutes of health. nih. our level of funding is $90 million more than the amount provided by the house. one of the most significant decisions by our two bodies was to substantially increase funds for cancer research. almost half of the budget increase over the house for nih---some $41.5 millionwill go to the national cancer institute which will receive $815 million in fiscal 1977. cancer continues to be the leading cause of death after heart disease and one of the leading causes of death in children. we must step up our effort to combat it. with the funds we have provided. this will be possible.
. let me provide the senate with the highlights of our bill: labor our total for the department of labor is $5.9 billion. this is an increase of $433.2 million over the house level. $424.5 million under the budget request. and $13.6 billion less than in fiscal 1977. the re+ 2. 180.000 --------------------------------------385.000 --................................ -----------------duction from the 1977 level is due primarily to recurring unemployment benefit costs and the fact that public service jobs have already been forwardfunded into fiscal 1978. there is need at this time to provide further amounts for the public service jobs program. beyond this. our committee has provided increased funding for two other jobs programs. for summer jobs for youth we provide $893 million. or $298 million more than the house allowance. under the senates bill we increase job slots from the present level of 1 million to 1.5 million. it is estimated the number of disadvantaged young people eligible for these jobs total about 2 million. so we would only be 500.000 under the total eligible. for older workers we provide $200 million. this is $19.6 million above the house allowance. the senate bill will provide 50.000 job slots. or about 12.600 more positions than are presently provided. the jobs go to lowincome persons 55 years of age and older. we also have made one other substantial change. under the occupational safety and health administration we have shifted $3 million to the federal compliance effort so as to provide additional inspectors. particularly in the area of worker health. the funds have been shifted from state osha programs where there appear to have been surpluses in the past. health our total for the health function is $6.423.033.000. this is $392.633.530 more than the amount in the house and $888.485.000 above the administration request. in the area of services. we have provided additional funds for emergency medical services. for hypertension. for maternal and child health grants. for sudden infant death. for family planning. and for public health service hospitals. let me call particular attention to three of these areas. for sudden infant death. sids. our committee provides additional funds for both counseling and information and for basic research. sids is also kn as crib death because of the number of infants who die in their cribs while asleep. sids is the leading cause of death of infants between 1 and 12 months. it takes an estimated 7.500 infants lives each year. but. as our subcommittees recent oversight hearing on sudden infant death showed. the parents of the infants also are victims. they  only are left in a state of shock. but may also feel they were negligent in caring for their babies. it is clear they need counseling from trained professionals. however. we found that the hew information and counseling program is poorly funded and does  provide for at least one project in each state. our committee thus increased funding for sids counseling from the $1.7 million in the budget to $3.6 million. the full amount of the authorization. we also have provided increased funding for sids research by the national child health institute over the $7.7 million  in the budget. our level could more than double the allowance for sids research. for family planning services we provide $140 million. an increase of $16.3 million over the house and the budget. it is estimated that the recommendation will support an additional 600.000 persons in need of family planning services. particularly lowincome women and teenagers. it is our committees intent that these funds be used only for title x projects and that e of the money be transferred. administratively or otherwise. to other hew programs. our committee also has provided an additional $74.4 million for public health service hospitals and clinics to assist in meeting all costs which were incurred during fiscal year 1977 but for which funds were appropriated. the committee has provided aher $60 million to reate and modernize these facilities. for the national institutes of health. our committee has attempted to restore some balance to the funding of the various institutes. under our approach most of the institutes receive a 15percent increase over their fiscal year 1977 appropriation. because its appropriation has been rising rapidly. the national cancer institute was given an increase of over 12 percent to $920 million. this is some $88 million more than the house allowance. a substantial increase. clearly. our committee is  in the least downgrading the battle against cancer. cancers appropriation is rising and is  nearing the $1 billion mark. we believe that ever so gradually cancer research is paying off and that the program is on the right track. although the research is expensive and timeconsuming. nci must. as our report points out. "have adequate financial resources to continue its humanitarian work." in other areas of biomedical research. we give special emphasis to diabetes. arthritis. central nervous system regeneration. high risk pregnancy. communicable diseases. diseases of the eye. the aging process. and genetics. i could go on at length citing the many research priorities in our bill. we have also provided more funding for alcoholism in particular because of our concern about the drinking problems of women and teenagers. other increases over the house are for community mental health centers. for health planning. health professions and nursing education.
s budget request. in this case. it is under by $425.409.000. this is achieved through lower welfare requirements as a result of prior year overestimates. still. the senate was able to prevail on many of its additions to the house bill. of the 89 senate amendments. our body receded completely on only 16. while we did  get all we wanted. i believe the bill is a reasonable compromise. i would make only one exception to that statement. i am very displeased with the bill language limiting the use of transportation to deal with illegal school desegregation. this language is a blatant attempt to restrict hews responsibilities under title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. it is an unconstitutional provision. and i am confident it will be challenged in the courts. aher language amendment deals with abortion. this amendment is reported in complete disagreement and will be taken up after we complete the conference report. let me discuss some of the other important results of our conference. labor i am pleased to report that the senate was able to convince the house to retain $98.000.000 of the increase we had recommended for summer youth employment. the $693.000.000 which the bill provides will support parttime summer jobs for 1.165.000 young people ages 14 through 21. the unemployment rate for black young people in this category  ranges up to 40 percent. for older workers. the conferees agreed to a level of $190.400.000a $10.000.000 increase over the house bill. this amount will provide funding for about 47.500 community service jobs for persons 55 years of age and older. the conferees also agreed that 80 percent of the job slots would be administered by national contractors and 20 percent by the states. according to the formula in the basic law. in the area of occupational safety and health. the conferees provided an additional $1.500.000 for an added 100 health compliance positions. health for health programs. the senate conferees were able to convince the house to accept more than half of the senates recommended increase in the house bill. for the sudden infant death information and counseling program. i am pleased to report that the conferees agreed to a level of $3.000.000. this will provide for a 75percent increase in this small but important program to aid the families of sids victims. the increase will allow expansion of the program to most of the 30 states and territories which do  presently have any sids projects available. it will provide thousands of parents of infants struck by this littleunderstood killer with help in coping with their loss. for family planning. the conferees agreed to $135.000.000. this is $11.300.000 more than the house recommendation and $21.000.000 above the current year level. the increase will permit expansion of family planning services to more than a half million additional highrisk persons. particularly teenagers and lowincome women who need services but can get them. the conferees agreed to an additional $50.000.000 to improve the productivity of the public health service hospital and clinic system and to begin the expensive task of upgrading the existing facilities to comply with fire and safety codes and to make urgently needed repairs. under disease control. the conference bill provided increases for expansion of venereal disease screening projects. immunization of children. and leadbased paint poisoning prevention projects. the total for these three programs is $65.250.000. i am pleased to report that the conferees agreed to substantial increases for all areas of biomedical research at the national institutes of health. the nih total was $2.704.835.000an increase of $82.700.000 over the house allowance and an average of 12 percent above the prior year level. for the national cancer institute. the conference bill provides $867.136.000. this is an increase of $35.200.000 over the house and $48.200.000 over the budget request. still. the conference result is well below the $920.000.000 provided by the senate for this important research institute. with cancer claiming some 385.000 deaths a year. it is essential that we  only maintain. but also expand. our research into this most feared of all killer diseases. the increase provided by the conferees will just about take care of inflationand more. i earnestly hope that in fiscal 1979 it will be possible to do better for the cancer program. for most of the other institutes the house agreed to more than half of the senates recommended 15percent in. crease over last year. for the national eye institute and the institutes on aging and environmental health sciences. the conferees agreed to the higher house figures. i also am pleased to report that the conference allowance for the national child health institute will provide a total of $12.500.000 for direct and related research on sudden infant death. this is some $4.800.000 more than provided in the budget request. in the area of community mental health. the bill provides $26.387.000 for first year operations of about 45 new community mental health centers. the increase will bring the total number of centers to about 715 nationwide. still less than half the number set as a goal by authorizing legislation. but a significant improvement etheless. for community alcoholism projects. the conferees provided $78.758.000 to expand services to high risk and underserved groups including women and teenagers. under health resources. i am glad to report the conferees restored the $19.000.000 cut for capitation grants to medical. osteopathic. and dental schools. accepted $5.000.000 of the proposed senate increase in national health service scholarships. for a total of $60.000.000. and accepted the higher senate figures of $12.000.00.0 for advanced nurse training and $22.500.000 for nursing student loans.
. for the miity. i would also like to commend senator bellmon because i said prior to the time he came into the chamber i knew his only concern was that of the fiscal responsibility of this congress and it has always been his concern. and i am sure it will always be his concern during his distinguished career in the u.s. senate. i want to thafik him for understanding this matter and agreeing  to push an amendment to reduce cancer funding but to accept a compromise here of $12.5 million. for the miity i accept the amendment. as modified. of the distinguished senator from indiana. as cosponsored by the distinguished senator from tennessee . by the distinguished presiding officer. the senator from ohio. and the distinguished senator from minnesota . and since. as i said. i had offered an amendment in committee for $1.016 billion. i ask unanimous consent that i be added also as a cosponsor to the amendment. as modified. of the distinguished senator from indiana.
i thank the senator from connecticut. i am a member of the triumvirate of senators who are sponsoring the amendment. in the district of columbia subcommittee of the appropriations committee. i offered the amendment. and in the full appropriations committee i supported the amendment when the senator from minnesota offered it. i am happy to be a cosponsor of the amendment in the senate chamber. in my opinion. everything the senator from connecticut has said in support of the amendment is eminently sound. and hardly needs be developed further. i also agree with what the senator from pennsylvania has said about the desirability of maintaining stable family relationships. it seems to me that is an overriding consideration. and  only is one of humanity. but also is one of commonsense. it is highly desirable to maintain parents in the home. rather than somewhere else in order to qualify for relief. that is obviously most desirable. as for the amount of tax funds required. certainly that will be less if the parents are maintained in the family home. rather than if we were to continue the maninthehouse rule. in that connection. i call attention to a study published by the washington chapter of the national association of social workers and the commission on human resources. the study is entitled "public welfare crisis in the nations capital." in the report it is pointed out that the cost of maintaining a child in the junior village is $185 a month. and that all of that amount is paid with district of columbia funds. and that the cost of maintaining a child in a foster home is $57 a month. for clothing and medical care. but the report shows that the cost of maintaining a child in a home receiving an adc grant in october 1962 was $32.43. and that more than half of that is reimbursed with district of columbia funds. but this amount is insufficient to maintain a child in his own home. however. a comparison of these figures makes clear the high cost to the taxpayers of having the department handle dependent children in this category. there is argument. so far as i can determine. except one that the present arrangement is better than to encourage immoralityalthough i think the reverse is true. in the long ru one based on a desire to make the district of columbia unattractive to colored migrants from the south. i do  go along with either of those arguments.
in summary. i urge my colleagues to support inclusion of the competitive foods provision in s. 1420. it just does  make any sense to me to have the federal government spending an emous quantity of money on nutrition programs in the schools on the one hand and on the other hand to sit quietly by while vending machines are dispensing products which compete with and undermine these programs. exhibit 1
. i present. for appropriate reference. and ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. a resolution adopted by the ninth district dental society. of new york. relating to tax benefits for selfemployed persons.
. the role of the consumer in our domestic ecoy is its most appropriate hallinark. ours is truly a consumers ecoy. in many respects. conscious choice determines ecoic trends and the state of our ecoy. and the safeguarding of the interest of the consumer therefore is properly an object of policy. the importance of the u.s. consumers ability to influence the nations ecoy may be seen in the fact that twothirds of our gross national product in 1958 was used to supply the goods and services * required to meet for consumers needs. needs which are of the most vital concern to our national ecoic health and growth. i have regarded it as essential that congress consciously recognize and give special attention to factors which have a major impact on the buying habits of 176 million people. and therefore introduced legislation to establish a select senate committee on consumers. this committee would study ways and means by which the consumers interest can be specifically considered in such matters as decisions by federal regulatory agencies affecting prices. quality. and availability of goods and services. a study of the role of the consumer is discussed in the new york times of june 13. i ask unanimous consent that the feature. entitled "consumer ecoy." by edward h. collins. be printed in the record.
i believe i am a fair kind of chairman. and that i tried fairly to summarize it. i would like to read to the senator the last paragraph on page 143. which was the report at the time: in his summary. senator javits said that there could be health coverage for the aged in which the federal and state governments would make some contribution as well as the individual concerned depending upon his income. different plans for different states were indicated because of the widely different range of costs. standards. and available facilities. the federal share in any plan might be covered by some form of tax. but appropriations out of general revenuesmaking the program voluntary for the individual rather than an added social security tax making it. in effect. compulsoryseemed indicated. i do  wish to put words into the mouth of everyone who participated. or in any way tie them into backing the principle of my program or supporting my bill. but i did  think that at the time this matter was discussed i tried to  give a fair summary of the discussion at the conclusion. i will say this to the senator. i have little doubt thatif the senator will look at the people who participatedanyone will say that this was a loaded seminar.
. this is a pretty tragic situation. i have strongly urged in this speech. therefore. that the administration. at the very least. try to redeem its fault of omission by encouraging. supporting. backing. and requesting that there be agreed upon a bill. as between both sides of the aisle. or those of us on both sides of the aisle in any position to agree as to this type of proposed legislation. so that at least when the congress comes back into session in january we can be ready to "go to town" with a bill which has been agreed upon. which would  require hearings and a reconciliation of varying points of view as between various people who are in favor of this type of legislation. in respect to that particular subject. i wish to make a few observations. because the hearings before the ways and means committee of the other body have shown why it is necessary to do far more than we have yet done. or. apparently. than the administration has in contemplation doing. there developed in the hearings before the committee on ways and means on the other side of the capitol a very strong difference on the question of cost. there were cost estimates of the program under a social security scheme offered by the administration. related to the socalled andersonking bill. and they ranged from $152 million in 1962 to $2.640 million annually at the end of the century. the effort to finance the program was to be based upon 11/2 percent of payroll. threequarters of 1 percent each from the employer and the employee. with an increase of the social security tax base from $4.800 to $5.200 per annum. these figures were very sharply challenged by the insurance companies. which estimated the cost as early as 1963 at $2.179 million per annum. a level  expected to be reached. according to the government witnesses. until sometime between 1975 and 1990. the estimated cost in 1964 is $2.483 million. almost the same cost as was calculated by the federal government witnesses for the year these are very marked and very alarming differences. indeed. the question of cost is a very critical one in this regard. we already observe the difficulty which is created on the question of cost by an estimate made by the special committee on aging. whereas we thought the kerrmills medical assistance program would cost an aggregate of $600 million in its first full year of national operation. in all the states. the estimate of cost  has been raised to $800 million. roughly half of which will be provided by the federal government. indeed. expenditures under the kerrmills program are getting within "shooting range" of the expenditures which my republican colleagues and i predicted would be adequate for a general revenue plan for medical care for the aged. we had estimated overall costs in the area of $1 billion to $1.2 billion. with federal participation of about $600 million. to relieve us of all the arguments and difficulties inherent in the social security approach.
the reason is that the payers of social security will be paying into the fund. so the fund will have taxation money arising out of social security payments. although  paid by those who will be getting the benefits. the senator from nebraska may recall that this was one of the great problems i had with the idea of social security financing. and why i called it regressive. but i pointed out the other dayand i am very glad to do so again at this momentthat i have felt. and i have ascertained to my own satisfaction over the course of the last 2 years. in round figures. that the younger people. those under 65. who would be paying. as it were. for those over 65. who have  paid anything on this particular account. are willing. from my observation. to do so. and want to do so. it seems to me there is a very strong sentiment-- unanimous. by any means. but this is my own judgment. and all of us in public life have to have some instinct about these matters--to pay the social security tax for health benefits. and even to begin to pay it . although the health benefits for most social security payors will be long deferred. so the answer to the senator from nebraska is: yes. what the senator has said is perfectly true. the beneficiaries will  have paid. but i feeland i am speaking unilaterallythat those who will be paying into the trust fund will be willing to do so in the expectation of the future benefits that will flow to them.
i deeply appreciate the senators understanding. taxes will begin for the taxable years starting after december 31. 1962. also. we separate the trust fund. there will be a separate federal medical trust fund. which will enable us to see precisely the viability of the whole enterprise. which is important. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record an analysis of that provision made by the senator from new mexico and myself.
i thank the chair. i conclude my statement as follows: the senate faces a crucial and basic decision. it is very well kn and very widely advertised that. matter what we do here. the other body will  follow suit. i do  believe we should legislate in that way. especially on an issue of such great importance. and. from the point of view of this body. of first impression. we have  passed a medical care for the aged bill in this congress. we did in the previous congress. but  in this one. i deeply believeand i shall deal with the subject in great detail on aher appropriate occasion during the course of this debatethat there is great need for this program. just as i am convinced that the overhelming majority of our older citizens need medical care for the aged and that our society can afford to allow them to have it. i finally came to the conclusion that we should proceed under the social security system. though i consider it as regressive. i considered it just as regressive in 1960. when i argued against it. in the sense that. it is a welfare tax on those of lower income levels. rather than a tax on the capacity to pay. the basis on which the income tax is fixed. it would have been much more equitable to pay for the care out of general revenues. however. i came to the conclusion that the very people who would bear the heaviest burden of the tax. the younger americans. who would pay for the longest period of time. are in favor of it. it is a rather interesting sociological development in our society that the younger workerthe worker of 30 or 35. or even of 25is happy to pay a social security tax that will provide medical care for his father or mother. uncle or aunt. and from which he himself will eventually benefit. i came to the conclusion that if that were the case. and if we could  achieve a consensus on a medical aid program without social security financing. i had to favor social security financing. there is one matter of importance which should be brought to the attention of my colleagues. who worked as hard on this subject as they have on anything else. if we followed the administrations line. we would be responsible for a process. with respect to which the opponents had made the point that could be built up as time went on. whether it was actuarially sound or . we came to the conclusion which was affirmed by one of the most distinguished groups that ever considered the matter. namely. the national committee on health care for the aged. that the builtin gover which should be established in respect of the whole program is the private enterprise sector. which would take the risks and provide the benefits above the minimum hospitalization which could be expected from the federal government. that is the essence of our proposal. which is omitted in the proposal of the senator from tennessee . for present purposes. i advise the senate that i shall urge my colleaguesand we are a completely cooperative partnership in this respectwho were associated with me in this amendment. that if they consider it wise. as i do. we should attach part b. or at least offer that part of our plan as an amendment to the long amendment. if the gore amendment is agreed to. i shall support the gore amendment because i see it as the way in which the door can be opened to a really comprehensive plan of medical care for the aged.
. one other realistic aspect of the bill represents a long standing campaign of my beloved friend and colleague the senator from vermont . i am sorry that he is  in the chamber at the moment. he always insisted that in the transitional period. until social security coverage really covered practically all of our citizens over 65. those who were   under the social security system. variously estimated at 2 million to 3 million. would have to be taken into any medical care program. we. on this side of the aisle. contended for that principle in the bills we introduced. i speak with reference to the senator from kentucky . the senator from new jersey . the senator from california . the senator from maine . the senator from hawaii . and the former senator from new york. mr. keating. when he was in the senate. all of them were deeply concerned with the problem. the bill  covers that aspect and provides general revenue funds to cover those of our older citizens--estimated at about 2 million during the transitional periodwho are  under the social security system. in addition. in rendering available voluntary and supplementary coverage. mainly physicians services. i e with the greatest interest that the federal government will contribute from $500 to $650 million. depending on how many take advantage of the plan. in order to facilitate the plan. pretty much as it does for government employees.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record a very interesting and fine statement on the problem of hunger in america issued just today by the secretary of health. education. and welfare. mr. finch. this statement by the secretary is specific proof of the determination of the nixon administration to deal vigorously with this issue and. i think. is a very clear indication of its intention with regard to our vote tomorrow on the budget for the select committee on nutrition and basic needs.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to help meet the crisis in health care caused by serious shortages of registered and practical nurses. this bill would aid recruitment into the nursing professions. my proposal would expand the present nurse talent search program. of which i was the author. to: include licensed practical nurses as well as registered nurses. permit more widespread identification of potential nursing candidates from miity and disadvantaged groups. provide for the development and demonstration of new and effective ways of assisting young people to overcome the effects of cultural. ecoic. and educational deprivation in order to become nurses. broaden the base of the program to include older individuals rather than just youths" as in the present law. thus giving recognition to the fact that many older women ably serve as nurses. entering the professions later in life. expand the present authorization to include grants as well as contracts. thus providing flexibility in achieving the objectives of the program. and authorize $300.000 for fiscal year 1970. $750.000 for fiscal year 1971. $1.25 million for fiscal year 1972 and $1.75 million for fiscal year 1973. the dimensions of the crisis in the shortage of nurses was dramatically described by the new york state joint legislative committee on the problems of public health and medicare. the lent committee. which observed that the "single most important health problem in new york state and the nation is how to increase the number of professional registered nurses." at a time when the proportion of high school students choosing nursing as a career has declined and negroes comprise only 3 percent of nursing studentsalthough 11 percent of the populationit is apparent that we must intensify efforts to recruit individuals into the nursing professions if we are to supply adequate health care for our people. at present rates of recruitment. the nation will be short 151.000 nurses in 1970. this dearth of nurses has already curtailed hospital services. for example. last year the district of columbia general hospital was obliged to close a wing because of a nursing shortage. in addition. many parts of the nation are very adversely affected. while the national average is 313 registered nurses per 100.000 population. the actual range is from a high of 536 in connecticut to a low of 133 in arkansas. other states having less than 200 registered nurses per 100.000 population are georgia. alabama. kentucky. mississippi. tennessee. louisiana. oklahoma. and texas. while new york fares better. the fact is that in new york city vacancies range from 20 percent of the vital nursing positions in some of our best run hospitals to an incredible 75percent vacancy in some proprietary and in most municipal hospitals. today. with changing hospital techniques. most bedside services are performed by licensed practical nurseslpns--and nurses aides. yet the lpn registries are only able to fill about threefourths of the calls made on them for personnel. my bill would for the first time establish a program for recruitment of lpn students to help relieve this situation. this bill is identical to the measure i sponsored in the last congress which was included in the health manpower act of 1968 as it passed the senate. but which was dropped in conference.
there are many laws which may have a different motivation. but the courts have held since i was a boy that the law means what it says regardless of our motives when it was placed on the books. this is one of those laws. i refer the senator to the authorities. i am  going to read section 102(b). authorization for appropriations in public law 91177. that section reads as follows: withstanding any other provision of law. unless expressly in limitation of the provisions of this section. of the amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (a) of this section * * * the director shall for each fiscal year reserve and make available  less than * * * so much moneyfor the purpose of local initiative programs authorized under section 221 of the ecoic opportunity act of 1964 and the remainder of such amount shall be allocated there is a long list of allocations relating to work training programs. special impact programs. special work and career development programs. head start. follow through. comprehensive health. emergency food and medical services. family planning. senior opportunities and services. rural loans. migrant and seasonal farmworkers. and so forth.
. many of our people complain that people in public office do a lot of talking about this. but there is appreciable action. i believe much is being done both publicly and privately. with a tremendous emphasis on the vast extent of the private efforts as well as the public effortsexemplified by the abovementioned efforts--but we simply do  have the enabling legislation and the implementing appropriations to do what needs to be done. for example. new york state. whose $65 million budget for drug abuse community efforts last year exceeded the total national commitment has regrettably. because of its fiscal constraints. cut back its funding and a valuable bilingual program by the hispanic association to provide urgently needed bilingual services for education and rehabilitation in addiction--an ideal program for funding under the legislation introduced todaywill be lost to the young people in need. i do  believe any one method of treating narcotics addicts is "the answer" and it is urgent that we evaluate a variety of treatment modalitiestraditional institutional treatment. therapeutic communities. psychiatric outpatient modelaftercareprobationparole. behavior modification. crisis centers. halfway houses. methadone maintenancecalled by the nimh director. and with which i agree. "the most effective modality in engaging large numbers of addicts in treatment in a brief period of time"as that is provided for by the legislation we introduce today. only by finding out what causes narcotics addiction and drug abuse and by curing it. even if we just have to dam the flow. as we do with methadone. will we get on top of the problem. i hope the public will  assume that because we advocate the medical approach. the preventive approach. the research approach. it means that we are oblivious to and will  support and will  be in the forefront of urging strict enforcement of the law and the penalties for the pushers and sellers. who are the worst enemies of the youth of america. by mr. bellmon:
 nixon in his state of the union message that america must become "the healthiest nation in the world." we must have the skilled health personnel to provide essential health services. health care systems can operatelet alone expand and improveunless the supply of such key wellprepared "manpower" is increased. there is a critical present shortage of 150.000. among the total of 850.000 nurses.  needed. in 1980. it is projected we will need 220.000 more nurses than are available according to the statistics furnished congress by the health manpower bureau of nih. this compares with similar figures for doctors of 48.000 presently and a projected need in 1980 of 26.000. nursing is the most universally used aspect of health manpower and is required on a more intensive basis over a longer period of time than .any other single kind of health service. while our nations population during the last decade increased from 180 to 204 million. the demand for nursing services has also increased but at a much greater rate. since nursing care is primarily focused on the patient and his needs and it is the very young and the very old who have the greatest need for nursing care. existing law has done much to increase the nurse supply and its distribution. and to improve and expand our nursing schools. but more needs to be done. the future health of the nation and the quality of life of its people will depend in large measure on decisions made . the future availability of nurses whc provide continuity for a patients care will be a critical factor in the successful operation of the health care system. the committee bill includes provisions of s. 1614 and s. 1183 which seeks to achieve these goals by providing: first. extended and broadened authority for special project grants for nursing schools. also for agencies. organizations. and institutions to achieve national priority goals. such as encouraging curriculum reform. increasing education opportunities for disadvantaged students or increasing the availability of personal health services in an effort to promote preventive health care. priority is given to applications for special project grants solely on the basis of the merit of the proposed project. there is also new authority to support projects to develop programs for cooperation interdisciplinary training among schools of nursing and schools of allied health. medicine. and other disciplines and would also encourage the development of training programs across disciplinary linesincluding among the respective levels of nurse traininglicensed practical nurses. nursemaids. et ceterafor training of students for the use of the team approach to the delivery of health services. twenty million dollars is authorized for fiscal year 1972. $25 million for fiscal year 1973. and $30 million for fiscal year second. extended and broadened construction grant authority to include guaranteed loans and interest subsidy programs. the loan guarantees and interest subsidies program would extend the reach of federal assistance beyond grants. where loans can be negotiated. i would emphasize that it is the purpose of this guaranteed loan and interest subsidy provision to supplement the existing grant program.  supplant it. in the face of more than $46 million of approved but unfunded grant applications. i believe we can longer rely solely upon the grant mechanism to meet our schools needs. we must take this inative step of guaranteed loans and interest subsidies to overcome the substantial unmet needs. forty million dollars is authorized for fiscal year 1972. $45 million for fiscal year 1973. $50 million for fiscal year 1974. third. extended authority for meeting the critical need for additional financial relief due to unexpected accreditation or other program requirements by authorizing financial disaster relief grants to schools of nursing in decreasing annual $10 million amounts. beginning with $30 million in fiscal year 1972. although the substantially increased capitation grant program provided by this bill should alleviate the financial distress in schools of nursing a number of these schools may need temporary financial assistance before their fiscal problems can be solved. fourth. extended and broadened authority to meet the increasing demand for student assistance and the need for alternative avenues of financial aid. the existing nursing student assistance programs are liberalized both in respect to student loans through schools under title 48059 0 - 72 - pt. 19 - 48 viii of the public health service act and in respect to guaranteed student loans under title iv of the higher education. act. the maximum yearly loan to a nursing student is increased from $1.500 to $2.500 while the aggregate loan to any such borrower goes from . $6.000 to $10.000. forgiveness for nursing student loans is authorized at a rate of 20 percent per year up to the maximum amount of the loan for fulltime employment in a public or profit private agency or institution. including neighborhood health centers. the forgiveness rate is increased to 331/3 percent per year for fulltime employment in a health care shortage area. also. the commissioner of education is authorized to make direct loans to nursing students where they are unable to secure a guaranteed loan under the higher education act of 1965. finally. federal repayment of. both guaranteed and direct nursing student loans where the student is in exceptional financial need and unable to complete his studies. the total student loan assistance authorization is $25 million in fiscal year 1972. $30 million in fiscal year 1973. and $35 million in fiscal year 1974. fifth. extended and broadened authority for the present nurse talent search program. which i authored and which was enacted in 1966 as an amendment to the nurse training act. to include potential nursing candidates regardless of age. experience. education. or financial need. i understand that contracts awarded thus far under the program have demonstrated the effectiveness of this kind of effort and support in identifying potential nursing candidates among disadvantaged youth previously untapped source and enrolling them in nursing education. i believe this type of recruitment could be equally successful with other groups to broaden the nurse population. this provision is similar to a bill i introduced in the 91st congress. s. 1540. to encourage and assist older people and members of other cultural. educational. and occupational groupsincluding inactive or retired nursing personnel totaling 282.000 under 65to undertake a second career in nursing. to achieve these goals $5 million. in fiscal year 1972. $7 million in fiscal year 1973. and $9 million in fiscal year 1974. is authorized. sixth. extends authority for the present program of traineeships for advanced training of professional nursing. seventh. extended and broadened authority for the existing nursing student scholarship program for 3 years with the formula for distribution of scholarship money among eligible schools increased from $2.000 to $3.000 times onetenth of the number of fulltime students. estimated at $55 million in fiscal year 1972. $58 million in fiscal year 1973. and $59 million in fiscal year 1974.
. the action which was taken with respect to these supplemental appropriations really is in only one respect a cause for any satisfaction. in many other respects it is well nigh disastrous. and. as we will be going at these things again in other supplementals and other appropriations. i will  engage my colleagues in extended debate on the acceptance or rejection of the fiscal year 1972 supplemental appropriations conference report. i think it is critically important to make the record clear as to manpower training. health manpower programs. neighborhood youth corps. and so forth. the conferees agreed. in regard to manpower administration. on about onehalf. in round figures. of the some $80odd million which was added by amendment in the senate. having met with the house in conference on these matters myself before. i think that result is by means anything to cheer about. it is certainly far more of an accomplishment than many other items in this bill. i k. as i have been with the senator from louisiana . the senator from th dakota . the senator from new hampshire . and the senator from washington . at these conferences that they do try to sustain the senates position. i realize this and thank them for the utilization of their prestige and the weight of their position. in order to gain what they did gain on this item. i am very grateful to them. and hundreds of thousands of youngsters will be as well. so. let us emphasize the affirmative before we get into any other part of this bill. i wish to express that unequivocally. and standing all by itself. where we would suffer. in my judgment. disastrously. is in respect of a number of items which relate. as was stated by the senator from th dakota
s position regarding a particular provision. rather. the consideration and passage of this bill will provide the necessary timeframe for congress to work its will regarding all of the provisions and to bar an executive budget recommendation from determining either what health programs are to live or die. or how these programs are to be modified. improved. and implemented. by mr. javits:
. the need for this bill was dramatically illustrated recently when maryland police seized a truckload of bootleg cigarettes on its way to new york city from th carolina. i e that maryland officials estimate that this shipment alone--consistirg of nearly 16.000 cartons of cigaretteswould have represented a tax loss to the city and state of new york of over $30.000. it is estimated that the city and state of new york annually lose over $85.000.000 in total tax revenues because of cigarette .smuggling. new york is  the only victim. consider the estimates: connecticut. an annual loss of $21.000.000 in taxes. pennsylvania. annual tax loss of -between $35 and $50 million. for new jersey. the annual tax loss is estimated at between $3 and $5 million. organized crime began to find cigarette smuggling attractive in the mid1960s when a number of state and local governments. feeling the revenue pinch. started increasing cigarette taxes. the resulting disparities in cigarette costs from one state to aher provided profitable opportunities for rmuggling. for example. th carolina has the nations lowest tax2 cents per packwhile new york city and state taxes can total as much as 23 cents per pack. the difference of over $2 per carton allows smugglers to sell th carolina cigarettes in new york city well below local prices and still make a handsome profit. this bill. similar to one i and senator buckley offered last year. has three major objectives: first. to help eliminate racketeering in the sale and distribution of cigarettes. second. to afford greater protection to legitimate cigarette dealers from this unlawful and ruis competition. and third. to reduce a serious drain on needed state and local revenues by providing more effective enforcement of cigarette tax laws. the bill would further these purposes by prohibiting transportation of "contraband cigarettes" in interstate commerce. "contraband cigarettes" are defined as quantities of greater than 20.000 cigarettes. lacking appropriate -state tax stamps. in the possession of anyone except those who can properly possess such cigarettes. namely. a cigarette manufacturer. a licensed distributor. an officer or agent of the u.s. government. or a common or contract carrier. a violation of the provisions of the bill would be a felony under federal law and would carry a fine of up to $10.000 and/or imprisonment up to 2 years. a 1972 new york state commission of investigaticn report on cigarette smuggling made the following major findings: cigarette smuggling is a national problem. involving many states other than just new york. huge amounts of money are involved in cigarette smuggling. as ed above. the city and state of new york are believed to lose over $85.000.000 in sales and excise taxes alone. and organized crime elements are extensively engaged in. and account for a major portion of. cigarette smuggling. this bill offers congress the chance to provide a timely solution to a serious organized crime problem. to help honest businessmen. and to increase substantially tax revenues of many fiscally distressed cities and states at relatively little cost to the federal government. i ask unanimous consent that an article of march 12. 1973. in the new york times and march 2. 1973 in the washington post discussing this situation be printed in the record together with a text of the bill.
. i introduce for appropriate reference legislation suggested by the administration to amend the javitswagneroday act in three ways: first. to shorten the name of the committee for purchase of products and services of the blind and other severely handicapped to "committee for purchases from the blind and other handicapped." it is my intention to further amend the administrations bill by adding the word "severely" before "handicapped". second. to expand the definition of "direct labor" to include services. as the present definition pertains primarily to commodities. and third. to provide authorizations beyond the current fiscal year. in introducing this administration measure. i wish to make clear that i retain freedom of action with respect to the consideration of other proposals to amend existing law which might be desirable. by mr. muskie (for himself and mr. church): s. 26q0. a bill to amend title xviii of the social security act to liberalize the conditions under which posthospital home health services may be provided under part b thereof. referred to the committee on finance. by mr. church:
. i believe all the american people are entitled to have health care servicestheir tax dollar supports 50 percent of the cost of medical schools operationsand it is clear. based upon the evidence that only one avenue is available to achieve this objectiveservice by all gra4uates in designated shortage areas upon the completion of their education. as i said. their education was in great measure paid for by the american taxpayer and the taxpayers entitledif only for a brief 2year periodto be assured that the health professionals will be there. wherever it is. to provide health care. i am  convinced. having carefully reviewed the testimony of all the administration witnesses during the course of the hearings of the house subcommittee on public healthin regard to the administration bill i introduce on request today and other related measuresthat the decision to withdraw capitation support for nursing schools is because we have overcome the serious shortage and maldistribution of nurses. my data indicates there is a shortage of 500.000 fulltime practicing registered nurses. once again. such action was consistent with an office of management and budget budgetary philosophy of zero budget requests over recent years. it is  consistent with congressional priorities. only last year the senatepassed appropriation bill provided $38.5 million for capitation support for schools of nursing. moreover. this office of management and budget philosophy was reflected as far back as 1971. at that timewhen i introduced the nursing education act of 1971i expressed to the administration my grave concern about the lack of separate nurse training funding authorities and the need for a balanced program of support to nursing schools and nursing students. even then the administrationfor the same fiscal office of management and budget philosophyref used to support the nurse training philosophy expressed in my bill and cosponsored by all the republican members of the senate committee on labor and public welfare. fortunately the philosophy expressed in my bill was in great measure adopted and became public law 92158. having set forth my deep concerns about the administration bill i believe it is appropriate that i also point out some of its good features. however. i am  convinced that such standing alonewithout the provisions in the bills developed and introduced today by senator kennedy and iadequately respond to our nations health care needs. i support the bills national priority incentive awards provision which would seek to increase the number of health professionals who enter critical health shortage specialities by providing: first. an award to each school of medicine and osteopathy an amount equal to $2.000 for each of its graduates who enters a residency in the practice of family medicine. and second. grants to pay part of the cost of planning. developing. and operating for an initial period to exceed 3 yearsprograms of graduate or specialized education or training in family medicine. pediatrics. internal medicine. and other health care shortage fields. unfortunately the administration hearing testimonypreviously citedwith respect to these efforts raises serious concerns about budget requests to accomplish the worthwhile objectives of this provision. the administrations continuation and consolidation for the special project grants for health professions and the health professions health manpower education initiative awards authority is commendable. i commend the concept of the administration bill which provides special assistance to the disadvantaged. for training in the health care field. by authorizing the payment to eligible individuals of stipends. with allowances for travel and for dependents. for postsecondary education or training required to qualify the individual for admission to a school providing health training. or to assist a person in undergoing the training. however. its limitations on assistance with respect to nursing. pharmacy. and public health administration are. i believe. inappropriate. moreover. as previously indicated in other provisions of the bill. there are limitations on the future funding of health professions and nursing student loan funds to the amounts required to continue loans to students previously assisted from the funds. and provision for such future assistance. the rhetoric regarding the need for such service to overcome specialty maldistribution is clear throughout hews letter of transmittal of their bill. unfortunately. the appropriate meanswhich i believe is called for in the bills senator kennedy and i introduced todaywas either  found or taken by their measure. in conclusion. any national health insurance scheme is doomed to failure unless it provides the necessary support for a massive expansion of medical. dental. nursing and other health manpower. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the department of health. education. and welfare letter of transmittal and bill be printed in the record.
. i believe all the american people are entitled to have health care servicestheir tax dollar supports 50 percent of the cost of medical schools operationsand it is clear. based upon the evidence. that only one avenue is available to achieve this objectiveservice by all graduates in designated shortage areas upon the completion of their education. as i said. their education was in great measure paid for by the american taxpayer and the taxpayer is entitledif only for a brief 2year periodto be assured that the health professionals will be there. wherever it is. to provide health care. i am  convinced. having carefully reviewed the testimony of all the administration witnesses during the course of the hearings of the house subcommittee on public healthin regard to the administration bill i introduce on request today and other related measuresthat the decision to withdraw capitation support for nursing schools is because we have overcome the serious shortage and maldistribution of nurses. my data indicates there is a shortage of 500.000 fulltime practicing registered nurses. once again. such action was consistent with an office of management and budget budgetary philosophy of zero budget requests over recent years. it is  consistent with congressional priorities. only last year the senatepassed appropriation bill provided $38.5 million for capitation support for schools of nursing. moreover. this office of management and budget philosophy was reflected as far back as 1971. at that timewhen i introduced the nursing education act of 1971i expressed to the administration my grave concern about the lack of separate nurse training funding authorities and the need for a balanced program of support to nursing schools and nursing students. even then the administrationfor the same fiscal office of management and budget philosophyrefused to support the nurse training philosophy expressed in my bill and cosponsored by all the republican members of the senate committee on labor and public welfare. fortunately the philosophy expressed in my bill was in great measure adopted and became public law 92158. having set forth my deep concerns about the administration bill i believe it is appropriate that i also point out some of its good features. however. i am  convinced that such standing alonewithout the provisions in the bills developed and introduced today by senator kennedy and meadequately respond to our nations health care needs. i support the bills national priority incentive awards provisions which would seek to increase the number of health professionals who enter critical health shortage specialities by providing: first. an award to each school of medicine and osteopathy an amount equal to $2.000 for each of its graduates who enters a residency in the practice of family medicine. and second. grants to pay part of the cost of planning. developing. and operating for an initial period to exceed 3 yearsprograms of graduate or specialized education or training in family medicine. pediatrics. internal medicine. and other health care shortage fields. unfortunately the administration hearing testimonypreviously citedwith respect to these efforts raises serious concerns about budget requests to accomplish the worthwhile objectives of this provision. the administrations continuation and consolidation for the special project grants for health professions and the health professions health manpower education initiative awards authority is commendable. i commend the concept of the administration bill which provides special assistance to the disadvantaged. for training in the health care field. by authorizing the payment to eligible individuals of stipends. with allowances for travel and for dependents. for postsecondary education or training required to qualify the individual for admission to a school providing health training. or to assist a person in undergoing the training. however. its limitations on assistance with respect to nursing. pharmacy. and public health administration are. i believe. inappropriate. moreover. as previously indicated in other provisions of the bill. there are limitations on the future funding of health professions and nursing student loan funds to the amounts required to continue loans to students previously assisted from the funds. and provision for such future assistance. the rhetoric regarding the need for such service to overcome specialty maldistribution is clear throughout hews letter of transmittal of their bill. unfortunately. the appropriate meanswhich i believe is called for in the bills senator kennedy and i introduced todaywas either  found or taken by their measure. in conclusion. any national health insurance scheme is doomed to failure unless it provides the necessary support for a massive expansion of medical. dental. nursing and other health manpower.
the revenue sharing is about $263 million a year. in addition. there is education support. and various other types of federal payments such as medicare and public assistance. my estimate. right off the top of my head. would be for new york city alone. let alone the stateremember. the state will be an obligor-
i have heard everything senator proxmire said. i guess i have been new york citys most ardent advocate. i have been very grateful to senator hansen for supporting us. it was rather surprising to me and i am very gratified. of course. our hero is senator proxmire. i would like to subscribe to everything senator proxmire said. the figures he has given are very accurate. they are $2.5 billion in this fiscal year. the public assistance of $528 million. medicare $126 million. medicaid assistance of $834 million. revenue sharing $263 million. other miscellaneous items of $770 million. i would like to point out what was said about the amendment. which i opposed and senator proxmire had before. it was that he knew they were going to be on such a tight schedule that the whole thing. again. could be vitiated if it just kicked around here in congress for 30 days. which under the senators amendment it would. so i would hope very much thatwith this assurance. i thoroughly agree with the senatorthe senator might see fit to let us go ahead and breathe. as the saying goes.
. this is the amendment to which i referred relating to nursing education. the purpose of this amendment is technical and conforming. it deletes section 305(c) in title iii of the bill. which authorizes $35 million for fiscal year 1976 for loans for nursing students. that provision. which i authored. is redundant and longer required. on july 26. 1975subsequent to the committees adoption of my amendment--the senate overrode the veto of s. 66. the nurse training and health revenue sharing and health services act of 1975. and authorized such funding for nurse training. this measure was enacted into public law 9463.
. i rise at this time. as a cosponsor of the kennedy amendment. to express my great concern over the adequacy of the funding level provided in the second supplemental appropriations bill for the "supplemental food program for women. infants. and children." commonly kn as wic. i was an active supporter of the first wic legislation in 1972. a cosponsor of the 1974 legislation extending the wic program through 1975. and a cosponsor of s. 850. the 1975 amendments to the child nutrition act authorizing an annual appropriation of $250 million for the supplemental food program. for this reason i was most disturbed to learn that the food and nutrition service had asked for only $106 million for the first 7 months of fiscal year 1976 and for only $80 million for the remainder of the fiscal year. the balance of the $250 million authorization. about 62.5 million. was the subject of an order from the administration to defer actual appropriation until the transition quarter. the house of representatives disapproved the deferral order in april. and thus expressed the sense of the house that the remaining 62.5 million was to be appropriated for fiscal year 1976. but. by its failure to request that the remainder of the authorization be appropriated in fiscal 1976. the usda has attempted a de facto deferral. if this amendment does  pass. only $186 million will be appropriated for fiscal year 1976.  the $250 million authorized to be appropriated in fiscal 1976 by an act of congress. which became public law 94105. on october 7. 1975. there is need for me to elaborate at this point on the importance of the supplemental food program for women. infants. and children. suffice it to say that this program is one of the most important that we provide for underprivileged americans. time and time again. medical experts in obstetrics and pediatrics have testified on the relationship between low income. low birth weight. and infant mortality. the informative report of the senate select committee on nutrition and human needs entitled. "to save the children." concluded in this regard that. the prevalence of low birth weight and premature babies among low income faintiles is staggering. to a large extent. these small babies are the result of poor fetal nutrition. we k . . . that up to 50 percent of low birth weight infants may. if they survive. be too dull to fend for themselves. it has been estimated that 7585 percent of all mentally defective children are born in a poverty environment. all the statistical data available reaffirms the connection between poverty and malnutrition. between malnutrition and disease. together with the supplemental food program. the wic program represents the major effort of the federal government to ameliorate the problem of maternal and infant malnutrition. what i find so disturbing about the failure of usda to request full funding for this vital program is that it reflects a lack of awareness of the long run costeffectiveness of the wic program. it has been accurately estimated that protein supplementation costs about $10-$20 per pregnancy. while the cost of correcting maternal iron deficiency and anemia is about $2-$5 per pregnancy. if these minimal amounts are  expended. however. the cost of optimal care for malrished premature infants could run to $300 million. furthermore. the total cost of an entire citys supplemental food programbetween $100.000 and $500.000is less than the estimated lifetime expenses of caring for a few retarded infants. even more significant. in my opinion. is the fact that supplemental feeding for pregnant women and infants deemed to be "at nutritional risk" ultimately will save us millions of extra dollars in hospital and medical care. in specialized eduucation and tutoring. and in a variety of programs which  are designed to assist children and adults who are mentally defective as a result of poor fetal nutrition. in the long run. therefore. the wic program will pay for itself by providing the ounce of prevention needed to break the cycle of poverty that results from inadequate maternal nutrition. i support the amendment to restore $62.5 million to the fiscal year 1976 appropriation. therefore. so the supplemental food program for women. infants. and children will receive its full authorization of $250 million.
while to many here in washington. new york citys problem is a matter of facts and figures to millions in the city itself. it is a matter of sudden and drastic cuts in the delivery of essential services. although i believe that the city can live up to the financial plan. i am  as confident that it can do so without severely impairing further and perhaps divisively. its ecoic and social fabric as the nationsand indeed. the worldsprincipal city. therefore. at the end of my report i raise what i believe to be the tough questions of national policy which we must answer in order to keep this problem from becoming a monument to our neglect of. and indifference to. what is a critical national phee. it is a national phee which is shared by the countrys older cities of the th and the theast. to date. the citys austerity program has been both painful and controversial. during fiscal year 197576. approximately 40.000 city employees were laid off. and city serviceslibraries. day care centers. hospitals. adult educationwere cut to the tune of more than $200 million. more layoffs and even greater cuts are in the offing for the  current fiscal year. on may 24. 1976. the mayors $12.5 billion expense budget for fiscal year .1977. and a spartan $1.5 billion capital budget. were approved by the board of estimate. already the effects of the spending cuts implicit in that budget are being felt as follows: further reductions in the police budget will be added to staffmng cuts of 13.7 percent which have already taken place. with regard to fire protection. one marine fire company and several parttime squad companies will be eliminated. adding to the 16 firefighting companies and the 13.7 percent of total staff which have already been cut in the 1976 budget. additional cuts in the sanitation budget mean that collection trucks. mechanical sweepers. and manpower in the sanitation department will be cut back still further from present levels. since january 1975. sanitation department cuts have totaled 18 percent of its work force. with regard to social services. 28 day care centers have already been closed in new york city. and savings in welfare costs are expected to total $30 million by june 1977. forty percent of playgrounds in the city are understaffed. and the condition of municipal parks and playgroundswhich has always been a problemis deteriorating still further as grass cutting and reseeding have been substantially reduced. recreation programs for senior citizens have been cut back. as have preschool centers and other recreation department activities. in education. security guards have been dismissed. 10 percent of the school secretaries have been dropped. as have 25 percent of the social service workers. 14 percent of the guidance counselors. and 10 percent of the teaching staff. with regard to higher education. the problems are only just beginning. we have the unprecedented case of a major university actually closing down temporarily for sheer lack of funds to stay open. the city university of new york has educated generations of immigrant and other lowincome new yorkers. for millions of such students. the city university was their only ticket into the middle class. dr. jonas salk. ralph bunche. and many others are among those who could  have afforded to pay for a college education. but who have contributed vitally to the country as a result of this unique city institution. hospital facilities have been cut. and several city hospitals have been closed completely. admissions have been closed to the nursing schools which are operated by the health and hospitals corporation of the city of new york. an impressive document put out by the city lists 185 general areas which are being closely monitored by the city in its cost reduction program. recently the major city employee unions excepted in principle a $24 million cut in their total wage and fringe benefit package. while i welcome this news. i am concerned that the budget cuts which the city must endure in its 3year financial plan may prove to be too much for its social and ecoic order to carry. as can be seen. the budget cuts go to the heart of everything that a city government stands for: health services. welfare. day care. city parks. recreation and taxation and the ability to do business.
just 1 minute. . we dealt with this question which has just been referred to in the committee report. i believe the questions raised by the senator from michigan are so important that we should include that whole section of the report which deals with this matter in the record. it is found at page 10. relates to the amendment to section 4(f) (1) which is  in the bill. and makes it very clear that we intend that employers may establish a mandatory retirement age that is lower than age 70 where the requirements of section 4(f) (1) can be proved 1 by the employerthat is. where the employer can demonstrate that there is an objective. factual basis for believing that virtually all employees above a certain age are unable to safely perform the duties of their jobs and where. in addition. there is practical medical or performance test to determine capacity.
let me read it to the senator. because i think it is important: the committee intends to make clear that under this legislation an employer would  be required to retain anyone who is  qualified to perform a particular job. for example. in certain types of particularly arduous law enforcement activity. there may be a factual basis for believing that substantially all employees above a specified age would be unable to continue to perform safely and efficiently the duties of their particular jobs. and it may be impossible or impractical to determine through medical examinations. periodic reviews of current job performance and other objective tests the employees capacity or ability to continue to perform the jobs safely and efficiently.
