 the next morning. that was back on december 13. somebody must have kn the boston marine hospital was being reconverted but it was  stopped. i have the items of reconversion and the dates of reconversion right here in the district. i would assume you would agree with me that in view of what has been happening in the district here. if we use the words "shortage area." as is suggested. the district of columbia is a shortage area. as are th carolina. virginia. maryland. new jersey. the whole theast. illis. and clear into minnesota. we are all short this year. prominent and informed witnesses. the secretary of defense. mr. forrestal. the secretary of the interior..mr. krug. max ball. and others. have told us that we are  facing this problem for just this year. but that we are going to continue to face it for 5 years at least. on that basis. and on the basis of national security every drop. every gallon. we can save we must save. this limitation i am suggesting is simply to say to the federal works agency positively. "thus far you have gone. do  go one step further. do  spend a single dollar out of this appropriation to convert to oil." my responsibility is oil. there are other members here who have 200.000 people out of work. there are 15.000 out of work in the pittsburgh area. those gentlemen will speak to you about the question of whether you should include natural gas. but go along at least with us on the oil. i will place in the record later the telegram and interpretation of the telegram from the gover of massachusetts which i already told you about. i was incorrect in using 52 as the multiple there. it should be 42. in the 20 to 25 days up there in that area. we have had temperatures of 27. 37. and 47 degrees below zero. that is pretty tough. some of those people are sick. there are young children and there are old people. some of our industries are forced to close down. our situation does  get nationwide attention such as the detroit area when 200.000 people are out of work. i k our colleagues from pennsylvania will agree that the welfare of the whole area there is in jeopardy unless we can convince you here that you should join hands with us this aftern and say to the responsible federal agencies. "you have gone far egh. and we say to you stop right here." here is the washington story: 301 independence avenue. date of conversion. september 1946. 1626 k street. date of conversionall of this is coal to oilseptember 1946. 1624 h street. october 1946. that was when we all had kledge that we might be faced with this threat of the coming shortage. our committee had hearings beginning in july. and again in december.  we learn that even then someone was actually going ahead and permitting conversions. briggs school. october 1946. 1757 l street. september 1946. here is aher significant thing. i call your attention to the arlington. va.. project at 705 columbia pike. the contract has been stopped. there is a 14day escape clause in there. and the contractor is trying to find out how they can exercise it. but listen to this: "it is proposed to start work again on april 1." seven hundred and eleven twelfth street. contract stopped. proposed to start work again after april 1. i ask you to help us call a halt to this and let us tell them about this if they do  k yet that we are cold and in trouble in parts of this country. we have been trying to tell them that. and i beg you whose constituents are in comfort. and we are glad they are. to try to help us out this aftern. if you do  like my amendment. i will change it any way you want. i have taken out the natural gas. i will call them shortage areas or anything else you want. i am sure our colleagues from michigan and pennsylvania will  agree with me as to this. but we have a different problem in new england. will you  help us out until
