. the community selfdetermination act. which i am joining in introducing today. is a comprehensive effort to meet the problems of our decaying central cities and depressed rural areas. of central importance in this bill are the provisions for industrial turnkey contracts. designed to encourage industrial and commercial enterprises to take an effective interest in new business and new opportunities for these urban and rural communities. the bill provides tax incentives to profitmaking companies to enter into turnkey contracts with the community development corporations. under such a contract. the company sets up a viable business or commercial establishment or facility. trains people from the community to accept management responsibilities. and eventually transfer the activity to the corporation itself. a number of american corporations have already begun to explore the possibilities of this approach. among them is an outstanding firm in the fifth congressional district of massachusetts. e.g. & g.. inc. of bedford. headed by a most imaginative person. bernard j. okeefe. recently. e.g. & g. purchased a plant in the roxbury business center and has entered into an agreement with a negro community organization to eventually turn over both management and ownership to that organization. the e.g. & g./roxbury experiment is described in a memorandum prepared by dean r. ericson. of mit. and i ask unanimous consent that his paper be included at this point in the record:
the response of the public to the pleas of the government -was more than halfhearted. the temptation to chisel and to profiteer. as long as the other fellow wasindulging in similar practices. was too great for too many. and here i pay tribute to those patriotic americans who last autumn. when the nations ecoy was drifting dangerously on a turbulent sea of politics attendant upon the ember elections. patriotically carried on. with the welfare of their country rather than their own immediate personal and financial gain as their first consideration that voluntary controls and selective or partial controls are ineffective and useless. at the same time. the inevitable consequence of so inexcusable an experience was a desperate national ecoic condition when the ecoic stabilization agency was finally established. i emphasize the statement that the inevitable consequence of so inexcusable an experience was a desperate national ecoic condition when the ecoic stabilization. agency was finally established. it made the mobilization and stabilization tasks assigned to  has recommended. would be substantially reduced. but the uncertainties of human life and the exigencies and vicissitudes of politics being what they are. many of us are unwilling to take the gamble which s. 1397 requires. consequently. instead of s. 1397. we  have under consideration s. 1717. which is very different from the administrations bill. the committee report and the statement by the chairman of the banking and currency committee. in supporting s. 1717. have covered most effectively its background. content. and purpose. to a considerable degree i concur in these presentations. for example. the rent control provisions which are included in the bill and replace provisions in the housing and rent act of 1947. seem to constitute a very reasonable and equitable solution of a most difficult and controversial problem. by these provisions the basic principles of local determination and local auton my are preserved. in other words. federal rent control can be imposed in any state or locality of the country which does  desire such control. and which has its own rent control setup with standards that are as high as those established by the operation of federal rent control itself. regardless of the "critical defense area" status of the state or locality conce rned. i repeat that. because it is the essence of the provision on rent control in the bill. as i understand. federal rent control can be imposed in any state or locality which does  desire such control. and which has established its own rent controlwith standards that are as high as those established by the operation of federal rent control itself. regardless of "critical defense area" status of the state or locality concerned. this provision assures both a high quality of standards in force in every critical defense area of the country and the sanctity of the great american principle of home rule. on the other hand. i am  satisfied with the termination date for titles iv. v. and vi of the act. which is february 29. 1952. it seems to me that the present outlook is altogether too uncertain to extend the defense production act beyond some date within the current calendar year. in this connection. it should  be forgotten that 6 months or so ago we were being told by various socalled ecoists and other dopesters that this summer. the present summer. there would be a sizable shortage in durable goods. such as automobiles. electrical equipment. home appliances generally. etc. all of us k that such an eventuality has  occurred. to be sure. we are told  that it is a bit difficult to obtain a cadillac. but at the same time we are informed that there is a tremendous surplus of nearly every other make of automobile. indeed. the automobile dealers warn us that the usedcar market is clogged completely with a great mass of used cars which are  being sold. only recently we have witnessed the unusual spectacle of "price wars" in certain sections of the country in which many items falling within the category of durable goods and containing materials which are presumed to be scarce were being dumped on the consumer market at bargain prices. please do  misunderstand me. i am  finding fault with these price reductions or with the anxiety of certain merchants to undersell one aher. the public has been the great beneficiary in these controversies. but the fact remains that the conditions to which i refer. have had the effect. rightly or wrongly. of convincing many of those in business generally that the predicted shortages have only been figments of the imagination. and that we may be faced actually with the danger of serious deflation rather than with any menace of greater inflation. or even with a continuation of the inflation we are  experiencing. i do  k the answers to the questions in the conflict of opinion between those who are predicting serious scarcities of consumer goods during the coming fall and those who insist that such prediction should be classified with the prophecies of the past winter. to which i have referred. i have my ideas. of course. it is pointed out that the pessimistic progticators were wrong then and that they may be wrong . on the contrary. they may be right. and it seems to me that the preponderance of present evidence sustains their predicitions. if they are proved to have been right. if serious scarcities in essential goods do occur at a time wlen employment is higher than ever before and there is more money to spend by consumers than ever before. if such conditions do arise when price and wage controls are either inadequate or existent. then in all reverence i say. "heaven help the american people." hence. as i have stated. it has seemed to me that titles iv. v. and vi of the defense production act of 1950 should be extended. but  beyond some date in the current calendar year. and i am  in agreement with the bills termination date for these three particular titles. which i regard as too remote. i think february 29. 1952. is altogether too remote with conditions as they are. and with the bill in its present form. indications are that the congress will be in session during the greater portion of the present year and that we can well consider a still further extension of the act in the late fall. furthermore. i can well understand the attitude of those who feel that the office of price stabilization should  be left with so much authority to roll back prices during the 8 months extension which is provided in the bill. in fact. i first yoted in committee in favor of section 2 as it is written in s. 1717 because it seemed to me that the limitation on price rollbacks which is contained in this section should be conducive to clarifying and stabilizing a situation which has been and is very foggy and uncertain. i voted for it because the office of price stabilization has had 5 months in which to do all the rolling back of prices it desired to do. and it seemed to me that such a period of time should have been ample for the effectuation of any rollbacks which may have been justified and necessary. i voted for it with the realization that rollbacks can still be made until july 1. i voted for it. hoping that its adoption would encourage greater production. it seemed to me that. on the whole. this provision might be beneficial to the ecoy. however. my attention has been called to certain pheena connected with the price rollback problem and the wagestabilization effort. in the first place. increased production of consumer goods is out of the question when there are shortages of materials for such production. furthermore. it would appear that the enactment of this bill with the present section 2 in it either would do a great injustice to many businesses in the country. which last year voluntarily held prices down and thus would be caught in an inequitable. and in many instances damaging. freeze. or would require that these same businesses be authorized to raise their prices in line with price increases in other industries. with which they are connected or by which they can be or are being adversely affected. mr. eric johnston has told me that such an adjustment upward would mean an average manufacturing price increaei point out that this is an average increaseof from 5 to 6 percent. thereby necessitating aher round of wage increases which. in turn. would further aggravate and complicate and augment our dangerous inflation difficulties. after most careful and thorough consideration. i have reached the conclusion that the proposed rollback restriction should  be allowed. rather. we should curtail greatly the period of extension for title iv. as i have indicated. i have submitted in the committee report accompanying s. 1717 .a statement of my individual views regarding section 2. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks the text of that statement.
. i rise in support of h.r. 18253. to increase the availability of guaranteed home loan financing for veterans and to increase the income of the national service life insurance fund. this legislation would establish an investment fund of $5 billion. to be transferred from the national service life insurance fund over a 5year period and used to purchase both guaranteed and direct loans. the interest rate would be that which is currently applicablepresently 81/2 percent. of which 1 percent would go to the veterans administration to pay the costs of administering the program. and the remainder would be returned to the national service life insurance fund for future investments. at the going interest rate. this would mean a return of 71/2 percent from this program. the national service life insurance fund currently invests in special treasury obligations at an average interest rate of less than 4 percent. so this would be a significant increase of return on investment. it is argued that 220.000 veterans obtained gi home loans in 1969more than any year since 1957through federal national mortgage associationfnmacommitments and this figure is expected to be met if  increased in 1970. however. the significance of this figure pales when one takes into account that in 1957. 302.047 guaranteed home loans were financed82.047 more than in 1969yet the number of living veterans that might be interested in receiving such loans has increased by some 4 million in those 13 years. and in the last 6 months approximately 495.000 npmbers of our armed services have been released from active dutyover twice the number of all veterans receiving loans in 1969. h.r. 18253 will require an initial outlay of approximately $1 billion per year in its first 5 years of operation. and increase va general operating expenses by $2.650.000 in its first year of operation. however. as the veterans committee has previously stated. this $2.650.000 figure is merely an advance of funds. and would soon be reimbursed by the 1 percent fee. it is my opinion that in the long run the financing of such home loans would be a sound investment program. it will also allow an additional 256.300 veterans over the next 5 years to secure guaranteed and direct home loans in this period of tight mortgage money. this is the least we can do for these individuals who have given productive years of their lives to the service of their country. and for this reason i strongly support h.r. 18253.
i would like to finish but i would like to make my presentation. what we did in the reform that has emerged from the finance committee is to get rid of the tax shelters and lower the rates and let the american people spend their money in the fashion they think best. without the federal government. through the code. making the choice that this is an allowable deduction but that is  an allowable deduction. this is a credit we allow. but we do  allow a credit for that. thus. we ended. for example. the 100percent deductibility for meals. we ended tax credits for home energy solar fixtures. we ended the limited partnerships in real estate. we ended the r&d tax shelters. what we are saying to the people of america is: you make your choices. we are  going to make those choices for you by giving. special breaks through the code. what the provision proposed by the senator from texas and the two senators from washington and the senator from south dakota is that on certain deductions that are based upon home mortgage loans. you can obtain the deduction for the interest. for example. they outlined the following three: improvements on your home. education for your children or yourself. and medical expenses. these are all right. they say. but if you borrow on your home to raise money for other purposes. and some of them have already been delineated on the floor hereto put your child into business. to make a loan to your child so he can buy a homethey say the interest on that mortgage is  deductible. i do  think anybody will argue that that is what they are proposing. they have outlined that. those are the things we are trying to get behind us. we do  want the federal government to be saying once again this is good and. therefore. it is deductible. and that is bad and. therejune 129 1986 fore. it is longer deductible. so that is my first objection. i feel that if an individual taxpayer has a home in which he has built equity and he wishes totake a mortgage out on that home and spend it for whatevery purposes he choosesit might be a trip around the world that he and his wife sought for many yearshe ought to be able to get the deduction for the interest payment on that mortgage as much as for the three purposes that they have set forth that they would permit the interest to be deductible on. i just do  want the federal government to be making these choices for us. the second reason is a more pertinent one dealing with the state that i represent. the state that i represent builds more sailboat hulls than any other state in the nation. we have become. clearly as defined here. a major builder of sailing vessels. boats of all sizes and indeed power boats as well. but principally we have concentrated on sailing vessels and sailboats. that is why for the american contenders for the americas cup that is going to be competed for in australia. the great majority of americas cup contestants. and there are several of them. have been built in rhode island. it seems to me totally unfair for a person who wishes at the culmination of his careerhe is retired. he and his wife wish to make a major investment in a sailboatthat they are  permitted to have the deductibility on the interest on that should they choose to increase the mortgage on their home or obtain a mortgage on their home for that purpose. why should we restrict them in. that fashion. why should we say you can do something but you can do something else and particularly as its regards sailboats. so. . face and they have a problem. and i first. that the thrust of the tax reform recognize that. bill has been to get the federal gov- but the solution to their problem is ernment out of determining what we an appropriate one. in my judgment. can do and what we can do. deregu- the finance committee did  relation. if you would. and because it strict what you could do with the particularly affects the state that i mortgage that you obtained upon your represent. i will vote against the pro- home. you can use that for whatever posal. you wish. you can call that a loophole.
i would like to finish but i would like to make my presentation. what we did in the reform that has emerged from the finance committee is to get rid of the tax shelters and lower the rates and let the american people spend their money in the fashion they think best. without the federal government. through the code. making the choice that this is an allowable deduction but that is  an allowable deduction. this is a credit we allow. but we do  allow a credit for that. thus. we ended. for example. the 100percent deductibility for meals. we ended tax credits for home energy solar fixtures. we ended the limited partnerships in real estate. we ended the r&d tax shelters. what we are saying to the people of america is: you make your choices. we are  going to make those choices for you by giving. special breaks through the code. what the provision proposed by the senator from texas and the two senators from washington and the senator from south dakota is that on certain deductions that are based upon home mortgage loans. you can obtain the deduction for the interest. for example. they outlined the following three: improvements on your home. education for your children or yourself. and medical expenses. these are all right. they say. but if you borrow on your home to raise money for other purposes. and some of them have already been delineated on the floor hereto put your child into business. to make a loan to your child so he can buy a homethey say the interest on that mortgage is  deductible. i do  think anybody will argue that that is what they are proposing. they have outlined that. those are the things we are trying to get behind us. we do  want the federal government to be saying once again this is good and. therefore. it is deductible. and that is bad and. therejune 129 1986 fore. it is longer deductible. so that is my first objection. i feel that if an individual taxpayer has a home in which he has built equity and he wishes totake a mortgage out on that home and spend it for whatevery purposes he choosesit might be a trip around the world that he and his wife sought for many yearshe ought to be able to get the deduction for the interest payment on that mortgage as much as for the three purposes that they have set forth that they would permit the interest to be deductible on. i just do  want the federal government to be making these choices for us. the second reason is a more pertinent one dealing with the state that i represent. the state that i represent builds more sailboat hulls than any other state in the nation. we have become. clearly as defined here. a major builder of sailing vessels. boats of all sizes and indeed power boats as well. but principally we have concentrated on sailing vessels and sailboats. that is why for the american contenders for the americas cup that is going to be competed for in australia. the great majority of americas cup contestants. and there are several of them. have been built in rhode island. it seems to me totally unfair for a person who wishes at the culmination of his careerhe is retired. he and his wife wish to make a major investment in a sailboatthat they are  permitted to have the deductibility on the interest on that should they choose to increase the mortgage on their home or obtain a mortgage on their home for that purpose. why should we restrict them in. that fashion. why should we say you can do something but you can do something else and particularly as its regards sailboats. so. . face and they have a problem. and i first. that the thrust of the tax reform recognize that. bill has been to get the federal gov- but the solution to their problem is ernment out of determining what we an appropriate one. in my judgment. can do and what we can do. deregu- the finance committee did  relation. if you would. and because it strict what you could do with the particularly affects the state that i mortgage that you obtained upon your represent. i will vote against the pro- home. you can use that for whatever posal. you wish. you can call that a loophole.
. s. 1267. the financial institutions act. is one of the most important pieces of legislation to be considered by the senate in this congress. fia will make significant. and in some cases longoverdue. adjustments in the way our nations depository institutions do business. the committee report very well describes the conceptual framework for the legislation. which i believe is sound. and i shall  repeat that rationale here. however. because of the extensive debate which continues to surround the subject of interest rate ceilings on time and savings deposits. i would like to take this opportunity to explain my thinking on the subject. the motivation for the 1966 extension of interest rate ceilings to time and savings deposits in thrift institutions appears to have been a desire to assure an adequate supply of mortgage money for housing. because thrift institutions must "borrow short and lend long." they are particularly vulnerable to the ."credit crunches" which occur from time to time and have occurred with greater severity since 1966. most thrift institutions have portfolios consisting of mortgages acquired over many years. and they can afford to bid aggressively for funds as market interest rates rise. by extending interest rate controls to thrift institutions and by permitting a differential between the interest rates which thrift institutions and commercial banks may pay. the congress in 1966 sought to protect the solvency of the thrifts .and to assure the availability of residential mortgage credit at "reasonable rates." it was also expected that this in turn would moderate the impact of "credit crunches" in the vulnerable homebuilding industry. as one who is deeply concerned about the health of our nations housing industry. i can appreciate the motivation of those who sought to "protect housing" by imposing regulation q interest rate ceilings on deposits in thrift institutions. however. having reviewed the history of how these ceilings have affected the housing industry. i must conclude that they have been of little. if any. help to housing. and they may over the long run have worked to the detriment  only of thrift institutions. but of the homebuyers and homebuilders whom they are supposed to help. clearly. they have worked against the interest of the average saver. between 1966 and the present. interest rates payable on regular accounts at thrift institutions have  been allowed to exceed 514 percent. however. during the same period. the rates payable on treasury bills and es and on the safest commercial paper have at times risen much higher than 51/4 percent. moreover. inflation has proceeded at high rates over this period. reaching into ."double digits" during several months in the last year. the saver has. as a result. watched his savings diminish in "real dollars." even after taking interest payments into account. of course and this trend can be expected to continue. and in my opinion. only the attractiveness of governmental deposit insurance has so far prevented much greater disintermediation than has already occurredand the resultant insolvency of a number of thrift institutions. regulation q ceilings have  prevented disintermediation and -may. in fact. have aggravated mortgage credit crises. having experienced rapid disintermediation. thrift institutions have been reluctant to resume mortgage lending activities when a money crunch ended. even after savings inflows resume at mal levels. thrift institutions are  slow to increase mortgage lending activities or to reduce mortgage interest rates. while the interest rates these institutions pay on deposits remains relatively stable. interest rates on the mortgages they originate never seem to return to the rates prevailing prior to a period of disintermediation. if interest rate ceilings were ineffective. but harmless. it would be one thing. but what concerns me most about these controls is that they work against lowerincome savers in order to favor highincome homebuyers. studies show that savers as a whole have lower incomes than mortgage borrowers. yet regulation q forces savers to subsidize borrowers by making savers take an artificially low rate of return on their savings. the retired school teacher or the elderly couple who live on a fixed income must watch their life savings erode through inflation while upper middleincome homebuyers enjoy the use of their money at controlled interest rates. at the same time reaping all the tax advantages associated with a large home mortgage. can anyone seriously argue that this is good public policy. but while interest rate ceilings are ineffective in aiding housing and unfair to the average saver. they can. unfortunately. be removed immediately without having a severe adverse impact on some thrift institutions and if regulation q ceilings were abolished immediately. these institutions would likely be faced with insolvency. the committee in its report on the financial institutions act recognizes this problem. fia extends regulation q authority for 51/2 years. with provision for a report to the congress by the secretary of the treasury 6 months prior to termination making recommendations and findings regarding the need to continue deposit rate ceilings. the report states that the regulatory agencies are to exercise regulation q authority during the 5 /2 -year period "in a manner which prevents disintermediation and- maintains appropriate levels of mortgage credit." the committee expects the financial regulatory agencies to give careful consideration to the effect of any changes in interest rate ceilings. however. to say that regulation q ceilings can be abolished immediately and must be adjusted carefully. is  to say that hing can be done to improve on the present situation. the committee in its markup sessions recognized the ineffectiveness and unfairness of regulation q ceilings and. on my motion. included the following language in the committee report: as conditions permit. the committee expects the financial regulatory agencies to move interest rate ceilings closer to market rates in an orderely manner in order to protect depository institutions from disintermediation and to assure a fair return to the saver. i would expect the financial regulatory agencies. as conditions permit. gradually to increase the ceiliigs on interest rate at both thrift institutions and commercial banks. while maintaining the present differential. this would give thrift institutions time to adjust their portfolios to increase the profitability of their investments. with the expanded powers conferred by the financial institutions act. this -task will. it is hoped be made easier. the issue of interest rate ceilings :on savings accounts is  a widely discussed consumer issue. but it could easily become one. consumer groups have appeared before our committee advocating reform of regulation q. and i believe that the potential public support for changes in regulation q ceilings would be broadbased if the issue were brought to the public. it is apparent that regulation q is  really helping the home buyer and it is hurting the saver. and i think that congress and the financial regulatory agencies should move  to correct this situation. the tax provisions contained in title vii of the bill constitute a more effective and fairer way to provide an indirect subsidy to the homebuyer and the housing industry than does regulation q. and i hope the finance committee will give these provisions early consideration.
. i feel that the risk of the fnma under the 40year plan is a much greater risk. because of the individuality of the investment. in addition. the investor sanction is important. under the administrations plan the only buyer would be fnma. a government agency. and if congress appropriated the money. the fnma would buy. but that would have relationship to whether the project was being run well or being run badly or whether the security was good or was bad. if congress appropriated the money. the plan would be put into effect and the mortgages would be placed. and the fnma would pick them up. but under this plan there will be only $100 million of government financing. and it would have to have solid investor acceptance. otherwise it would  work. so this plan will utilize the private enterprise system. and will utilize it on the basis of real intelligence. and will constitute. so to speak. a check or balance. in view of the fact that the government can always be in the area. to apply the checks and balances. furthermore. the plan i propose will provide only 90 percent of the cost of the project. and therefore will require some investment by the sponsors of the project. that is important. in addition. of course. a 6percent return will be assured. but under the administrations plan. return at all would be guaranteed the sponsors. furthermore. many of us who have had experience in this field realize that. on the basis of experience. in order to make viable such a proposal for housing for families of moderate income. it is necessary to have. in addition to a low interest ratealthough a low interest rate is probably the most important factor. and such a rate is assured under the plan i have proposedalso the hope of making some arrangement with municipalities for lower tax rates. which would be of great advantage to municipalities in encouraging the development of such projects. and. in addition. there is need for the power of condemnation. in order to make possible the purchase of land at a reasonable price. and in units of sufficient size. and in strategic locations. so as to make the projects viable. under the plan i am proposing. in the state of new york we have already seen that such sponsorship is precisely the most conducive to the making of such arrangements with the municipalities. and is the most conducive to obtaining from the state the condemnation authority. the plan i am proposing has experience behind it. and therefore provides that the sponsoring agency may be a state agency. or it may operate through a state agency. that is precisely what would happen in the state of new york. and that might be true in other states. so this plan has that great element of flexibility and also that great power to attract what is really needed in order to make modern income housing successful. aher point which i think is very important in this entire area is that. frankly. the administration plan deals with an experiment. :in that connection. we find that the committee states very frankly on page 4 of the report: the committee. therefore. feels that it would be wise to treat this new program as an experimental one which could be reviewed by the congress before extension beyond july 1. 1963. and on page 3 the committee itself calls this programthat is to say. the 40year. ownpayment programtemporary. experimental. the cornmittee itself calls it that. and it is that. indeed. whereas the program i am proposing to the senate is a tried program. with which there has been experience. and under which homes for people have been built with great success. and it has actually been. working. the senator from alabama has argued that the state of new york is  the united states. of course i agree. but the state of new york is a very big laboratoryin fact. the largest the congress will ever find in which to try out. as a pilot plant. such a program. the empire state is really an empire. it stretches 450 miles from th to south. and 450 miles from east to west. and has a population of 17 millionlarger than most countries in the world. and has farms. factories. large cities. and small cities. this program has been a state of new york program. and it has been twice approved by the voters of new york state. so if senators are looking for a plan proven by experience and one which has actually been demonstrated to have great viability. the senate should certainly take this program. rather than the administrations program.
the purpose of the amendment is to raise the ceilings on conventional mortgages for. generally speaking. owneroccupied one-. two-. and threefamily houses. that is in the interests of family houses. it is the traditional fha mortgage pattern. this amendment is necessary in order to deal with the problem of high costs in areas around the great cities. recognizing fully that the committee has endeavored to do so. by its formula. passed in 1967. which has just been modified to some extent by the amendment of my colleague from new york . for public housing. and so forth. we are advised by those who do the actual building of houses in and around our major cities that the application of the formula alone will  be adequate. that there is a very strong case for encouragement of this type of construction and that we must deal with the increased costs which are being faced. i have read the miity views of the senator from texas with the greatest interest. i agree with him that we should  go "hog wild" on this thing and necessarily keep up with costs. it is like the tax collector. we have to cut without cutting the bone and. at the same time. do all we can to deal with the situation.
. what we have at the moment is  monetary restraintit is monetary repressionand i submit that the responsibility for this lies  only with the fed. which formulates monetary policy. but also with the administration. which is on record as supporting it. some explanation for this fundamental change in policy can be found by examining policy statements of administration ecoic advisers over the course of the past several months. what emerges is the distinct impression that the makers of monetary policy have panicked. and have abandoned their previous approach of firm restraint. that approach was originally designed to slow down the ecoyto head it back onto a inflationary path. the policy of firm restraintin the words of secretary kennedy last februarywas to last "until there are unmistakable signs" that we are headed back on this path. but the same secretary kennedy in october has been looking for different signs. according to secretary kennedy. the administration still wants the signs to be unmistakably clear. but this time he says the signs must also show "that the balance of risk has shifted from inflation to recession." in other words. the administration and the fed plan to slam on the brakes. and  to let off until there are unmistakable signs that the brakes may lock. while the administration does  formulate monetary policy on a daytoday basis. it does closely coordinate its longrange objectives with those of the federal reserve board and. in the final analysis. bears primary responsibility for the state of the ecoy. i urge the administration and the federal reserve board at this time to heed the growing concern of ecoists and legislators including the joint ecoic committee itself. and bring monetary policy on to the track of a slow but stable increase in the money supply. at the same time. so that the administration can realize significant budget surpluses for the near future. i urge that congress in the housesenate conference on the tax reform bill reexamine the tax rate reductions in the reform bill  before us. including the very worrisome action which the senate took in raising the personal exemption to $800. i do  put the selffinanced social security increase in the same class. we should  expect the social security trust fund to finance the government debt as it is presently doing. failure to act in both these policy areas and on both these levels of government could quickly bring this country into the grim situation of continued price inflation coupled with a mild or  so mild recession. in some sectors of the ecoy we have pretty grim conditions right . if the housing industry. for example. reflected the state of the ecoy as a whole. we could say we were in the middle of a fullblown recession. also. federal. state. and local government financing has been hard hit by soaring interest rates. prices of stocks are at a 3year low. we have viewed with alarm the omis weakening of the employment market this year and ember culminated a 4month slide in industrial production this year. i believe that two of the most important areas determining the nations ecoy are housing and unemployment. housing for two decades the stated objective of federal housing policy has been to provide every american with "a decent home and a suitable living environment." only last year this objective was translated into a specific national housing goal of 26million units in 10 yearsor 2.6 million annually. on the basis of present housing starts we will  even approach that goal. at the beginning of this year. housing production was at 1.9million units. it  stands at 1.3 million. and by the end of this year it is said that we will be building houses at a rate of only 1 million units a yearwell under half the production needed to meet the national goal. probably the single most important reason for this failure has been the pattern of rapidly escalating costs in the building industry. in excess of increases in the cost of living. increases in the cost of money have been most dramatic. interest rates have gone up so high that the housing industry is today on the verge of a major recession. the tragic irony of the situation is to be found in the contradictions of federal policy. in 1 year we enact bold new housing programs and establish national housing goals. yet. in the next year. the administration supports changes in both tax legislation and monetary policy which could make it impossible to implement the national housing policy which has been authorized. it would appear that periodic crises in housing are built into our ecoic system and the present structure of our financial institutions. and that housing will always bear the major burden of tight money. but this need  be so. i believe that these institutional inadequacies can and must be corrected. so as to attract government and institutional funds into the mortgage market. and to prevent disintermediation by the smaller investor out of that market. in a word. housing must be sheltered from the full impact of a high interest rate policy. among the reforms which i support are the following: first. requiring the federal reserve to deal in the open market in certain major government mortgage securities. as a means of implementing monetary policy. and under conditions consistent with orderly markets for these securities. in hearings on this subject in the house banking and currency committee this october. federal reserve chairman martin conceded that a requirement of this sort which was directed toward improving the market for housing issues along with sound monetary policy was  objectionable. i believe. therefore. that there is a difference between this proposal and any other approach which would merely amount to a "pipeline" from the housing industry to the fed. second. i would urge placing similar requirementswith similar safeguardson government trust funds to invest certain percentages of their portfolios in residential mortgage paper. third. two new types of mortgage paper were authorized by the 1968 and 1969 housing acts. the first is the federally guaranteed mortgage pool secured obligations authorized under section 804 of the housing act of 1968. the second is the "tandem" or "passthrough" approach authorized in the 1969 bill. which has just been sent to the white house. under which (xtinny maeserviced mortgages can be discounted to fanny mae. i recommend full utilization of the mortgage pool authority. and of the tandem approach when enacted. fourth. i urge the treasury department to pay greater heed to our housing needs in its debt management policies. i have mentioned the potential of government trust funds. but i would also urge that the treasury department seriously consider raising the minimum deination on shortterm treasury bills and es to an amount far greater than the $1.000 minimum  on the market. in its search for lendable money. the federal government should compete with. but  be in a position to overwhelm. savings institutions which support the housing market. a raise in this minimum deinationto $15.000 to $20.000would discourage disintermediation from such institutions and bring more money into those financial intermediaries which can most actively support the housing market. in addition to these recommendations. i support actions by both the labor department and the building trades unions toward reducing barriers to entry into the building trades. to the extent to which inflation in the housing industry has been caused by a tight labor market. a loosening of this market through reducing these barriers will help solve a social problem. as well as this ecoic one.
. this is simply the second part of the amendment which senator brock has already dealt with. it relates only to the fact that the interest rate on mortgages from states which have state usury laws. and so forth. may  include the discount points and other charges collected in connection with mortgage transactions in determining whether the interest rate on any such mortgage exceeds any state usury ceiling. what it does is to utilize the preemptive authority of the federal government for that purpose. the reason for it is twofold: one. it does offer aher route should senator proxmire and his colleagues decide they want to use it. if it does  apply there and the proxmire amendment stays in the billand i support itit also takes care of a situation where the usury rate still creates difficulties. even if you go to the 9.259.5 percent ceiling. and provides some flexibility in that regard. we have talked to hud about this. they do  seem to have any objection. for all those reasons. i hope the amendment will be accepted.
. this amendment provides that where a bank makes a loan to a person who acquires a cooperative apartment. and gets as security the stock and the cooperative lease which the tenant has. and then is compelled to foreclose on that loan. the bank may be subrogated to the tenant shareholders position for a period of 3 years. that is important in order to encourage cooperative ownership of apartments. the mal amount involved. in cities. is about $3.000 a room. what the amendment does for the bank is that the bank is then able to pay the rent on the apartment. pay its share of the maintenance. and hang onto the apartment so that it can be sold. whereas it could  do so otherwise because it is  an individual under the law.  would it get the benefit of the tax treatment the shareholder gets for interest on the basic mortgage and for taxes. the thought is to encourage banks to be able to make loans on cooperative apartments without suffering because they are  in the position to be subrogated to the tenant shareholders rights.  to make that forever. but to limit it to a short period of time to give them time to dispose of the apartment. the suggestion is 3 years. but if the senator from louisiana feels that is too long. for any other period. just so long as it is practical to give the bank a chance to dispose of the property. we have worked this out. we feel. with the staff of the committee on internal revenue taxation. and i have just explained the amendment to the senate.
