. on behalf of myself. and my colleague. the junior senator from new york . i introduce. for appropriate reference. two bills to extend coverage under the old age and survivors insurance provisions of the social security act to dependent and orphaned children in two additional categories. the first bill. which is being sponsored in the house by representative russell mack of washington would raise from 18 to 21 years the maximum age for receiving benefits under title ii of the act in the case of children who continue to attend school. the second measure provides that in a case where an individual has assumed full parental responsibility for a mi 5 years or longer even though legal relationship exists. childs insurance benefits may be received. both these amendments are certainly in step with present administration policy to broaden social security coverage to include a larger proportion of our population. and to correct inequities. right . the abrupt discontinuance of survivors insurance benefits for dependents when they reach 18 often imposes an unfair financial burden on widowed mothers determined to secure a college education for their children. in many more cases. any hope of a higher education is out of the question and the childs schooling ends. if my proposal is enacted. however. it is estimated that approximately 115.000 young people between the ages of 18 and 21 would be eligible to receive an average of $42.30 in social security benefitsup to a maximum of $87 each month so long as they remained in school. at a time when some 200.000 young people who merit it reportedly do  continue their studies primarily for lack of funds. this bill would make available an additional $507 annually on an average and materially assist dependent children in obtaining the type of advance training in science. techogy education. and the arts so essential to our society in the space age before us. the cost of such extended coverage is estimated to be $75 million for the children and $30 million for the mothers. and is minimal when viewed as a percentage of payroll taxable under the oldage. survivors and disability insurance programs. it would constitute 0.08 percent of the total. the second bill i am introducing plugs a gap in title ii coverage which can result in undue hardship and deprivation for young children as well as teenagers. the social security act does  presently apply in a case where a child has become completely dependent upon a person who. although legal or blood relation. has in fact taken the place of a parent. i think it is only fair that individuals involved in such situations should be eligible for childs insurance benefits in full under the oldage and survivors insurance provisions of the act. of course. this extension would increase the number of children who could receive substantial educational benefit if the maximum age for receiving benefits is raised to 21. . the latter bill was drafted as a result of a request from a watertown constituent. charles m. rueckwald. a chiropractor. he originally wrote senator ives who directed him to us. outlining his own family situation. for several years. he wrote. he has been supporting the children of a relative by marriage and for all practical purposes has become their parent. the children are canadian by birth. but will become american citizens. and the constituent wants to be reassured that should anything happen to him. these children will be eligible for social security benefits just as if they were his very own. feeling that similar situations undoubtedly exist in many families throughout the nation. he requested a bill which would extend social security coverage in such cases.
