i have stated repeatedly in the remarks i have made about this matter. that the responsibility for what has happened. so far as. our domestic ecoy is concerned. is necessarily vested and placed right squarely within the executive department. they are charged with partial responsibility for the overseas ecoy. but they are charged primarily with the responsibility of our own ecoy and the safety. comfort. and welfare of our own people and our own industries. tt seems to me that they give altogether too much weight as to what might happen if they do  fill this want of critical articles overseas. that matter has  been satisfactorily screened. i have tried to develop it. we were told that 1.600.000 barrels of oil were to be shipped to japan and the ryukyus. that was cut downi to 10c.000 barrels. and to this moment one has brought up any explanation as to how it could possibly have been thatsuch a request would come in here. be aepproved. and within 30 days cut back by 1.500.000 barrels. it just does  make sense. if i understand the law correctly. the secretary of commerce by the act that we passed here last december is charged with the very definite responsibility of certifying that the export of material should be undertaken which would mitigate against and be to the detriment of our own domestic ecoy. so far as i k. there is  a single certificate on record anywhere to that effect. and on the basis of that you and i have to explain to our people why it is that some homes are cool or cold. why they have to conserve. why industrial production is down in certain areas. why millions in wages were lost. and that sort of thing. i am convinced that up to  it has been the responsibility of the executive. whatever has happened. from here on. as soon as this bill is reported. it is our responsibility.
. i am extremely proud of the role of the miity on the pending bill. the manager of the bill. the senator from oregon. has already paid his tribute. i am the ranking miity member on the committee on labor and public welfare. i am extremely proud of the constructive and statesmanlike work of the ranking miity member on the subcommittee. the senator from vermont . that is true of every member of the committee and the subcommittee in the way they have handled the bill on the floor. uniquely. because we were blocked from making amendments. we arguedand we feel very strongly about itto latch into the bill in an effective way. in terms of its administration through the agreements arrived at with the administration. mally the subject would have been encompassed in an amendment. but because of the embargo on amendments. these points represent agreements for administration between the committee. as it were. and the hew. which will administer the law. it is important that the senate be seized of this information so that the senate will be able to act upon the bill in the light of those agreements. a number of which are incorporated in letters exchanged between the chairman of the subcommittee. the senator from oregon . and the department of health. education. and welfare. i therefore ask unanimous consent that i may have printed in the record and included as a part of my remarks a list of the 13 subjects upon which we have agreed in terms of administration with the department of health. education. and welfare as an essential condition for enacting the proposed legislation. i should like to call attention very quickly to one or two of them.
