. what this amendment does is it would prohibit the importation of electricity generated from foreign fossil fuel utilities unless the administrator of epa satisfies that the nation. principally canada. from which electricity was imported has established and implemented emission controls standards equal to those of the united states. in other words. it seems to have a nice ring to it that we are cleaning up. we are imposing these requirements on our plants. 2.5 pounds of sulfur dioxide. more than that can be emitted per million btu by january 1. 1995. why should  the others who are sending electricity into our country be subject to the same requirements. if epa can certify that those nations have the same requirements. then that electricity can be imported into this country. that has a nice ring to it. but i would like to point out the following flaws: first of all. this is clearly a violation of the general agreement on tariffs and trade. one can say we do  care about that. that is what the united states is currently trying to get the rest of the nations in the world to agree to in the socalled uruguay round. this is extremely important to us. we are a fundamental underpinning of the general agreement on tariffs and trade. the gatt. for us. as one of the prime pushers for gatt. which means so much for the future of our trade.  only in the items that are currently covered by that. we are trying to get those extended. but we are trying to move into new fields such as goods and services. such as financial services. banks. insurance. items that currently are  covered. we are pressing for that through gatt at the uruguay round. for us. of all people. to violate gatt would be a great mistake. furthermore. in connection with cananda. just in january of last year. a litt..e over a year ago. there went into effect the united states and canada frectrade agreement. something titt this nation and canada had woited extremely hard for. which passed this body overwhelmingly. i can remember the vote. if the opposition got more than 10 votes. i would be surprised. maybe 15 votes. the canadian freetrade agreement overwhelmingly passed. that freetrade agreement specifically prohibits implementation of new import restrictions. it says it right there. so this provision by the distinguished senior senator from idaho would violate that freetrade agreement. what does the freetrade agreement do. it has a mechanism. as it says. disputes will ever arise between us and canada. of course . if we expect disputes to arise. that could possibly be one of them. but that freetrade agroement has a provision for handing these disputes. it has in it a dispute settlement panel. what one does is ubmit this complaint to the dispute settlement panel for them to come up with a determination. what is the dispute settlement panel. it is a panel that the united states has some members on. and canada has some members on. they consider the matters that are brought before it and render a decision. that is the way to proceed under this particular amendment.  sut violate the agreement flat out. also. it seems to me that this amendment raises broader issues than solely gatt or solely the canadian freetrade agreement. it raises the issue of whether one nation should unilaterally. that is. by itselfin other words. the united states alonepass a law that imposes restrictions against other countries that we believe do  meet our air pollution control standards. what happens if a country has standards that are tigher than ours. this has all kinds of possibilities. first of all. this is a rather vague area. you can always tell whose standards are the tighter. suppose somebody has a less tight standard that goes into effect earlier. that is. a tighter standard or a less stringent standard. it is clear that in many instances the scandinavian countries have tighter air pollution control standards than we do on their books . are we going to say to the sandinavian countries. it s all right. it is a free market . it is a free playing field. if scandinavian countries want to impose -import restrictions on us. products. that is fine by them.
