. i am pleased to support final passage of the conference report on the appropriations bill for the legislative branch. the managers of the bill have done a laudable job in their continued efforts to reduce spending. and i am particularly delighted that they were able to include my amendment on books for the blind. this amendment. which makes a very small change in current copyright law. will make an emous difference to our nations blind children and adults. it has the approval of the authorizing committees in both chambers. as well as the support of the national federation of the blind. the american foundation for the blind. the american printing house for the blind. recording for the blind and dyslexic. the american council of the blind. the association of american publishers. and the u.s. office of copyright. the amendment which i offered with senators frahm. stevens. leahy.
i think the senator from virginia is  taking into consideration the fact that there is an emous body of case law on "substantially" which implements the law and helps any regulatory agency to determine what it is supposed to do and what criteria to follow in its judgment. when the senator asks if i can cite him a case which precisely defines "substantially." i can give him a hundred cases which have defined it. but the senator may  be satisfied that they are precise egh. the omahoney amendment was mandatory. the omahoney amendment provides that the regulatory agency "shall." that was the wording of the amendment. i call the attention of the senator to page 6. line 1: the regulatory agency shall  grant consent where it finds competition has been substantially lessened. on the other hand. the bill which we are  considering providesand again the words of the bill are before us. on page 2. line 13-"the appropriate agency shall also take into consideration." i agree that we should  make the language mandatory. we can think of all the exceptions which ought to be made if the language is mandatory. with all respect for the senator from wyoming. i do  think he thought of all the exceptions. i voted against his amendment. when we establish the criteria of judgment. we should use the word of art which is most used and is well established in the antitrust laws. and which is the word which will be used. in turn. by the attorney general of the united states if he decides to sue.
one point is the allegation that the price increase is absolutely essential to allow the company to modernize and reequip and develop new sources of raw materials. at the end of the statement. it is indicated that the avails are expected to be used in supporting continuous research. it states: the financial resources supporting continuous research and resultant new products as well as those supporting new equipment are therefore vital in this competitive situationand so on. these are desirable objectiveswe expect they would be achieved. however. without a price increase. they are in contemplation in the new tax bill  being considered by the finance committee. it is emphasized that great efforts are being made to cut the weight of steel. and thereby to do with less steel a great many tasks which heretofore have taken more steel in weightand steel is sold by weight. in short. the steel industry by this type of action is very likely to get in hot water with the people of the united states. who did  look for such a development. who thought confidently that a price increase has been forestalled. it seems to me that. if the industry wishes to restore itself in the publics eye. it can do so by utilizing and making available through the price increase effective research and modernization which will bring down the price of steel to the consumerwhich is the acid test. it is my opinion that the industry will incur an adverse opinion and reception if it does  assure the public that that is precisely what it will do with the proceeds of the price increase. and do it effectively and be in a position. in the very reasonably near term. to go forward along those lines. i heard the interesting presentation of the views of the senator from tennessee (mr. gorej. i think he instructs us in what to do. in a sense. and what  to do in this situation. i. too. deplore the price increase and feel that it represents a getting of the industry into "hot water" with the public. which is  a very good thing for american business generally. yet. i must say i can go along with a threat to business. to prosecute under the antitrust laws. or through action by the federal trade commission or by some other agency under the law. as contained in the senators presentation. it seems to me. speaking  as a lawyer. if a business is guilty of a violation of the antitrust laws. of the federal trade commission act. or of the clayton act. that business should be prosecuted whether or  it suddenly puts out a price increase. i think it depreciates our argument and writes it down somewhat if we take the position. "well. since they have increased prices we are going to throw the book at them and go after them with respect to all the laws applicable to competition." when the senator suggests various alternatives which the country may have to adopt. if it faces serious problems of this character in respect to prices. that is aher matter. one may differ with the senator from tennessee upon the particular ideas he presents. it so happens i like very much the idea of some consumer medium in the country. whether it be a department of consumers. or a joint committee of consumers in the congress. on the other hand. i may  agree with some other aspects of the possible legislative remedies. certainly every senator is entirely within his rights. and i think proceeding quite constructively. when he lays out various alternatives he wishes to propose in a legislative sense for dealing with a situation of this character. in summary. i deprecate and deplore the price increase. i think it is most unfortunate. second. i think the industry faces an acid test with the public. indeed. i think this will have some reflection on the way in which the private ecoy and the private enterprise system operate generally. the price increase. which the company affirms it is seeking for constructive ecoic purposes--to wit. for modernization and for researchshould be properly used. i think the industry undertakes a very material obligation to see that the increase is actually used for those purposes. which could translate themselves in lower real prices for steel. we will all be watching with the greatest of care and the greatest of interest how that eventuates. the steel company owes the public a full accounting on that score. third. and speaking  as a lawyer. i hope that we shall separate in our own minds any idea of "well. we are going to throw the book at them" in terms of all the involvements coming from the antitrust laws and other laws. from the possibilitywhich is a possibilityof the need in terms of legislation to effectively handle our ecoic processes in our country so as to keep abreast of a situation which might be caused in this way. i think if we approach the problem in that way we shall be fair to the american people and to the american ecoy and. at the same time. we shall  be improvident in the remedies which we seek in a particularly serious situation.
. the new york times recently published a letter from dr. howard hanson. distinguished director of the institute of american music at the university of rochester. stressing the importance of the revision of the copyright law. dr. hanson. a writer. composer. and conductor. has had his works performed by major orchestras and bands both here and abroad. he also has served as guest conductor in leading cities in the united states and in foreign countries. he won a pulitzer prize in 1944. received the george peabody award in 1946. and the huntington hartford foundation award in 1949. he is a member of the new york state council of arts and has served as a consultant to our state department. in view of his outstanding record in the musical field. i feel that my colleagues in the senate will be interested in reading his views on the copyright revision bill which has passed the house of representatives and is  under study by the senate judiciary subcommittee on patents. trademarks. and copyrights. i ask unanimous consent that dr. hansons letter. as published in the new york times of april 14. 1968. be printed in the record.
