what my colleague and i are trying to do. i point out to the distinguished senator from louisiana and to our pennsylvania colleagues. is to emphasize to the senate and. by this process. to the congress of the united states. that there is a moral obligation involved. and that this is a slightly different situation from what has occurred where other indian reservations are concerned. there is really place for the seneca indians to go unless they can develop the land left to them after the reservoir or dam is constructed. i think we should follow this matter in a way in which we have never followed anything of the kind before. because we have this responsibility thrust upon us. and upon the congress of the united states.
i thank the senator from rhode island for his interest in this matter. the kinzua dam project is located in the state of new york. and the seneca indians are constituents of my colleagues and mine. and. of course. both of us are very much interested in the bill which my colleague and i joined in sponsoring in the senate. so i thank the senator from rhode island for his interest in these indians.
. i would  undertake to interrupt the senator in his presentation except for some remarks made by the senator from pennsylvania. i wish to speak my own views. and i feel it incumbent upon me to bespeak also the views of a senator who has gone to his great reward. and who. representing the state of new york. was a member of this body with me when i was his junior. he had a very deep interest in this whole matter. indeed. i think it is fair to say that senator ives made a moral pledge to the senecas. who were concerned at the time that their lands were being taken for this purpose. and did  oppose. as he might very well have. the whole kinzua dam project. because of his feeling that the construction of the dam should be facilitated in the interest of the county. depending on congress to give a real measure of justice to the seneca nation of indians who were concerned. i remember very well being with senator ives on the floor of the senate when he spoke most feelingly. indeed emotionally. because he felt so deeply about this subject. it is one thing to say that the seneca indians are being treated as other indians were treated whose lands were taken. it is aher thing to read the treaty to which the nation was a party in 1794. and to see. as my colleague and i have seen. the emous outpouring of concern.  only from newspapers. such as the new york times but from millions of people in new york who are deeply sympathetic to the plight of the senecas. also. we must realize that here we are. almost in the fall. with almost 500 people facing eviction without any real plan as to where they ought to go within a short period of time because their lands would be flooded. i take issue with my friend from pennsylvania on the moral question. i believe that a very deep moral question is involved. and that we are by means in the right. so far as this is concerned. unless we really give these people a meaningful chance for rehabilitation in the future. second. i can agree at all with the senator from pennsylvania that this is a generous settlement. it is  generous at all. the department of the interior recommended a bill including $29 million for compensation and rehabilitation. the house reduced the amount to $20 million. the senate reduced it to $9 million. the matter is settled. i urged the senator from idaho to settle it. but it is * critically important that the record shall  stand as the senator from pennsylvania might have left it without these answers being made. for this reason: the legislation  only contains compensation for the senecas. it also contains a sharp cutoff provision. with respect to withdrawal of federal supervision over the nations property and affairs which has  been compromised to take effect 3 years after enactment. in 3 years. the secretary of the interior is directed to submit a plan for complete withdrawal of federal supervision over the property and affairs of the nation and its members. the bill represents the belief that the amount which is allowed will be sufficient to set the senecas up in a proper environment and to give them a future. so that they will longer need federal supervision. it is for that reason that i believe that this settlement is very important. because we shall perhaps be considering other legislation on this subject within the course of the next 3 years. the congress should give a long look before such a plan is implemented. the senecas are much concerned about this provision and. i can tell the senator. are unhappy about it. they do  like it at all. it is important that those who come after us and who read the record shall  reach the conclusion that the senecas have received tremendous largess and that. therefore. further serious consideration need  be given to them. with respect to what will happen when the plan for withdrawal comes from the department of the interior. one hopes more than i. that the rehabilitation will be adequate and that a satisfactory arrangement will be arrived at for the senecas. i want to say. however. in deference to the senator from idaho and the senator from colorado. who brought about this result. that the mere fact that they are here with an agreement. after all the weeks that have elapsed. is a very fine thing. for which i am most grateful. i believe the senecas are also grateful. but i felt. in view of the statement made earlier that this is a supergenerous award. the record should reflect evidence of the emous amount of testimony which was received on the subject bf appropriate compensation together with the views of the senecas themselves. the recommendations of the government departments concerned. the departments of interior. army. and bureau of the budget. the recommendation of the other body. and the compromise. which provided a basis for the amount finally agreed upon. as i said when i began. i speak in this particular caseand i am sure senators will understand me when i say thisalmost as a trustee. because i k that if irving ives were here. and if his spirit watches over us from heavenand i am sure it is the same heaven to which the indians gohe would want me to utter these words as a continuation of an echo in this chamber. which remains in my mind. of what he said time and time again on this subject.
