. a number of days ago. i had lunch with our distinguished and respected colleague. bill widnall of new jersey. over coffee. bill told me of a letter that he had recently received from his daughter. mrs. barbara williams. a graduate of middlebury college. who. with her husbanda young officer in the u.s. armyand their two young children. is  residing in venezuela. the press. radio. and television tell us daily of the alienation of american youth. of the rejection by our younger citizens of the values and institutions upon which our nation was constructed and has prospered. congressman widnall. at my request. shared his daughters letter with me. and although some might disagree with some of the points which she makes. it struck me at once as an eloquent statement of a young americans faith in her land. but i think that it is more than that: it is an anguished plea to those of us who have the high responsibility for guiding our countrys course to commit ourselves again to the traditional virtues which have given full meaning to the american adventure. and to the le and majestic standards which have given our nation strength and vitality for almost two centuries. in order to share a young americans deep feelings about her country with my colleagues. i insert mrs. williams letter at this point in the record: dear dad: this is the first letter that i have written to my congressman. what is going on in our nation. i have read and read. and listened and talked and can find anything for which we americans can be proud. please tell me what i can do. as an american who loves her country. to help our nation. living overseas is an experience which i have found very enlightening. recently we have been exposed to increasing doses of overseas americans who live very well and who do  pay taxes but who very vociferously dence and criticize everything our country is doing. we are also constantly questioned by venezuelan acquaintances about what is going on in our nation and what will happen. many venezulean people i k are extremely concerned about our problems. it seems that they like us and want us to be strong but are  interested in siding with weakness. we have  displayed strength within our nation  in our foreign dealings. one has ever respected weakness. i am appalled at the magnitude of the campus problems. i am aghast at the lack of carried out authority by the administrations. every child on this earth. be he 5 or 25 or 45. needs a firm discipline of self learned by operating within a sound set of standards. one can be effective if he is undisciplined. one only learns to take and take and expect more for having done absolutely hing constructive. it seems to me that most of these troublemakers in our schools and cities are asking for a firm hand and a sense of direction and they would respect such. just as a small child does  really want his own way all the time. for many years i have been thinking of having a "mothers march on washington." i have been bothered by many things. one of these is that as the wife of a military man i can speak out freely on many subjects. i can vote and i have voted in every election. at this point i do  believe that voting is egh. i want to do more for my country. which i love so dearly. tomorrow evening my husband and i will be attending the memorial service for a friend of ours. lt. col. fred hampton. he was shot down in vietnam earlier this year. when he was piloting many young marines into khe sanh. this whole planeload of men was lost. for what. it would seem worthwhile to die for the saving of a nation. but to die when we do  have a policy of trying to win.. this we wives and mothers do  understand. i am also sure that if i planned my "mothers march on washington". that i would  be given permission to pitch my tent by the lincoln memorial. where on this earth has our yankee common sense vanished to. dear congressman of mine. i k i have said egh but yet  egh. i feel so strongly that time is running out and we must all think beyond ourselves to the future and stop this selfish thinking for the moment. somehow i pray i can find a way to help my country. your most loyal and devoted constituent. bobbi.
