let me restate it because it is very important. i have desire. and we are  trying. to pacify senator helms or senator domenici so that they feel what they want to do can be done. i think we are engaged in a very important question of construction of the law. let me state it unilaterally. without in any way binding the managers. just for myself as a senator. as i read the amended sections 503 and 506 . in my judgment that opens the door to an agreement between a state and the secretary of labor in which. while certainly  excluding the federal presence and responsibility in any sensehe can send an inspector in or anything elsehe can by agreement see that certain responsibilities within that state respecting the enforcement of the law are carried out by state agencies. provided that they meet all of the acts requirements as set forth in sections 503 and 506. the federal government is  relieved of four inspections a year. and so on. it seems to me. again speaking entirely unilaterally. that given that opportunity it would be a misallocation of resources if the secretary did  take fair advantage of the fact that in certain states they prefer to undertake mine safety and health enforcement under this act. the only thing i was saying is that the law allows it. that is all. i was  trying to put ideas in the senators head. or anything like that. senator helms was gone from the chamber at the moment that i pointed out some very material differences between his amendment and this idea i was giving voice to. of the differences. for example. two of them were. first. that he called only for the state enforcement of the mandatory standards of the metallic and metallic mining act. which were very inadequate. as the comptroller general has so criticized them. second. he called for a minimum of one inspection a year. whereas we were providing for a good many more. there may be other differences. but those were two that leap out. that is all. i am only trying to point out it can be done. whether it will be. i do  k. i pointed out. also. that both california and new york had opted out of the state plan. those are the two biggest states in the nation. so it is by means the most popular way of doing it. this is unilateral and in way binds "the managers of the bill." but this was the way i read these two sections.
