i would like to commend the senator from idaho for those very thoughtful and pertinent remarks. i join with him in his concern. as the senator from idaho pointed out so ably. there are a whole series of measures that have developed in this country during the past several years that have actually acted as disincentives to this countrys effort to achieve greater exports and greater earnings abroad. he has touched on one of them. the section dealing with the unfair taxation of american citizens working abroad. aher area that i might mention is the foreign corrupt practices act. we are all against bribery overseas. but we have enacted laws that are so detailed and so disturbing to our companies that u.s. firms shy away from operating abroad for fear that they will be charged with criminal wrong doings under these provisions. the foreign corrupt practices act is responsible for billions of dollars in lost business every year for this reason. the united states is a tremendous market. and there is a great temptation for our companies to eschew operating abroad. feeling that the efforts. the tasks. and the difficulties are too great. so. they adopt an attitude that it is  worth the effort and they concentrate just on the great u.s. market. but if this country is going to shore up the dollar. if we are going to do something about imbalances in our trade. we must encourage foreign trade. the problem is  all due to imported oil. . it is due to a whole series of factors. i might point out that 1978 was the first time in the history of the nation that we had a deficit in our manufactured goods. in other words. the great industrial nation of the united states was importing more manufactured goods than we were exporting. due to a great deal of interest in the senateand i see the distinguished senator from illis here. who along with the senior senator from delawarehas led this effort by establishing the senate export caucushopefully in 1980 we can concentrate on these issues and can work to encourage greater exports by the united states. and have incentives for trade instead of disincentives on our companies. i ed just a few days ago that one of the largest construction projects in the world is soon going to take place. namely. the construction of a causeway from saudi arabia to bahrain. this is one of the last billion dollar projects in the world up for bid. in 1976 the united states had the largest amount of construction contracts abroad. in 1977 the united states dropped to third place. in 1978 the united states dropped to fifth. behind the koreans. behind the west germans. behind the italians. and behind japan.
. i want to commend those on both sides of the aisleespecially senator mcconnell and senator borenwho played a leading role in shaping the campaign finance reform legislation that we have debated this week. there are four goals which i believe a campaign finance reform bill should meet. first. it should limit the ability of special interests to influence the actions of those in government through political campaign contributions. second. it should improve competition in congressional campaigns. in which incumbents currently enjoy a number of advantages which inhibit the ability of challengers to compete. third. it should reduce the rising costs of campaigns. which exert tremendous pressure on all candidates to undertake virtually ceaseless solicitation activities. and fourth. it should be a bipartisan bill which does  put in place a system with builtin advantages or disadvantages for one political party. i believe s. 2595. which i joined with senator mcconnell in sponsoring. offers the best approach for achieving these goals. it was my hope that this weeks debate would lead the senate to adopt many of the elements of our legislation. i am disappointed that this was  the case. and i must oppose the bill that is  before uss. 137. senator borens legislation. unfortunately. s. 137 remains a bill that will do little to improve competition in congressional campaigns and will. in fact. leave in place many of the most troubling elements of the present system. s. 137 has been promoted as a reform measure chiefly because it would limit the amounts that can be spent by congressional candidates. this would be a dramatic step for our democracy to taketo impose an arbitrary limitation on the amount that a candidate can spend in an election. it may be a step that would be worth taking. if it were part of a system that truly was a level playing field. but spending limits by themselves are  a panacea for improving our campaign system. if we are going to limit what a candidate can spend in an election. fairness dictates that we also limit all the other spending that goes on during an election campaign. including funds spent by those who are  themselves candidates. when viewed with this in mind. s. 137 is by means fair. its proponents point to the limits which the bill imposes on the use of socalled soft moneyfunds that are raised by entities that are  subject to federal rules. yet spent in behalf of federal candidates. but the bill is selective in the type of soft money it prohibits. it would outlay such expenditures by the democratic and republican party organizations. yet permit socalled independent expenditures to continue. thus. candidates and political parties would be limited in what they could spend. while specialinterest entitiesunions. corporations. trade associations. and so forthcould spend whatever they wish to influence the outcome of an election. in my view. our failure to impose any limits on these expenditures is the most disappointing aspect of this weeks debate. i am also troubled by the bills reliance on the use of funds from the federal treasury to provide an incentive for candidates to abide by spending limitations. it has been estimated that. when applied to both house and senate candidates. the federal funds to be made available by this legislation could total $400 million over 2 years. at a time when the intractable budget deficit is constraining our spending in a number of worthwhile areassuch as health care. education. and drug treatmenti find it difficult to explain to the taxpayers that we can afford to embark on a new program offering federal subsidies for congressional candidates. s. 2595 would have helped keep the efforts to influence elections centered in a candidates home state. by sharply reducing the amounts that can be contributed by individuals who reside out of state. this change is  included in s. 137. in addition. s. 2595 would have reduced the single costliest element in modern campaignstelevision advertisingby requiring broadcasters to make lower advertising rates available to all congressional candidates. s. 137 fails to make this change. our legislation. s. 2595. would also have greatly improved competition in campaigns by putting in place a mechanism for seed money to be made available for democratic or republican challengers. through the political party organizations. s. 137 includes such provision and. indeed. commences a system of spending limits which is inherently advantageous to incumbent candidates. i am disappointed that amendments offered by a number of my republican colleagues to make this a truly bipartisan bill were defeated. it is my hope that before we adjourn for the year. we will be able to enact a truly bipartisan. evenhanded bill. augusti. 1990
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on seapower of the committee on armed services be authorized to meet at 9:30 a.m. on tuesday. may 16. 1995. in open session. to receive testimony on the requirements for continued production of nuclear submarines. submarine industrial base issues. procurement strategy. and associated funding in review of s. 727. the defense authorization act for fiscal year 1996 and the future years defense program.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on seapower of the committee on armed services be authorized to meet at 2:30 p.m. on tuesday. april 22. 1997. in open session. to receive testimony regarding the department of the navys shipbuilding development and procurement programs in review of s. 450. the national defense authorization bill for fiscal years 1998 and 1999.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on seapower of the committee on armed services be authorized to meet at 2:30 p.m. on tuesday. april 22. 1997. in open session. to receive testimony regarding the department of the navys shipbuilding development and procurement programs in review of s. 450. the national defense authorization bill for fiscal years 1998 and 1999.
i thank the senator. the point i am making here is. who asked for this. who asked for it. where are all the cards and letters asking us to "please pass this amendment so that the politicians will be taken care of". they told us to produce a revenue bill so we could get people back to work. so we could get the ecoy going again. we certainly have received mail relative to the real problems and priorities that exist. but where are the cards and letters asking for the pastore amendment. i have  received one single letter suggesting that a federal campaign fund is a priority.
. i intend to discuss our obligations and our responsibilities for a few minutes this morning. both insofar as the legislation which did  pass yesterday is concerned. and the legislation which i hope to get passed on monday. as i have indicated relative to the weicker amendment to the white house personnel authorization bill. the reasons given by others for  supporting my position is that there is legislation on the way. that members of the executive branch of the government are doing everything possible to bring about reform. and that we in congress should  act in haste. i have just indicated to the senate what happened to the senate amendment on the treasury appropriation bill which would have required ice to bank customers who are having their records investigated. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a letter from the commissioner of internal revenue service. donald alexander. to mr. aubrey gunnels. staff assistant. subcommittee on treasury. postal services. and general government. committee on appropriations of the house of representatives.
. a new member of the committee on post office and civil service is subjected to quite a baptism by fire. particularly when he is assigned to serve on the subcommittee on postal rates and an alltime high record rate bill is proposed. as one who left a post as a newspaper editor when elected to congress. i thought i knew a good bit about postal operations before i came here. i soon learned my kledge was inadequate to the task of helping shape a complex postal rate increase bill. i have acquired a considerable education in the past 5 months. one of the first things i learned is that the postal deficit is  what it is supposed to be. while the postmaster general sometime speaks of a $1.2 billion "deficit." the true revenue deficiency is only about half that much. the law in effect since 1958 recognizes that there are certain necessary. desirable. and expensive functions performed by the post office department which do  belong in the deficit. for example. there are post offices located in practically every hamlet. for the convenience of area residents. the postmasters salary in many of these third- and fourthclass offices often exceeds the revenue received but as a matter of public policy these losing operations are continued. obviously. the cost of operating such offices would  be continued if the postal service were run as a purely business operation. logically. the congress has determined that such costs are  properly chargeable to users of the mails and should be borne by taxpayers generally. the operation of small post offices in hamlets is just one example of many that have been earmarked by congress as public service costs. the total bill for public services by the post office is  about $600 million. and this sum needs to be subtracted from the alleged deficit of $1.2 billion. so the true deficiency is about $600 million.  $1.2 billion. anybody who uses the $1.2 billion deficit figure is iging the law of the land. the postal policy act of 1958. as amended in 1962. the pending bill. h.r. 7977. would make change in that law. the postmaster general did  recommend any change. and the committee did  vote for any change. in his testimony before the subcommittee on postal rates last may. postmaster general lawrence f. obrien discussed public services in these words: in the last analysis. postal services are paid for by the people of the united states. either directly. through the purchase of our services. or indirectly. through taxation. for the nation as a whole. there is and can be postal deficit. the cost of postal service has to be paid one way or aher. the major question throughout the entire history of the postal service has been one of equitywhat proportion of the cost should be borne by those who use the mail. and what proportion should be borne by the people generally. should these deficits be paid from general tax receipts or from the earnings of those whose demands for postal service caused the deficits. the postal policy act of 1958. as amended in 1962. went far to answer that question. it specified certain types of postal service as legitimately the concern of the nation as a whole. the cost of which should  be borne directly by the postal patron. and should  be considered in calculating rates. but rather should be paid from the general treasury. testimony was presented to the subcommittee by mailers that there are a number of public services that have  been identified and included in the setaside. with costs to be borne from general revenues instead of recovered from mailers in the form of higher rates. i believe it would have been fruitful if the subcommittee had explored this area. i hope that such an investigation can be made before the next rate increase bill is presented to congress. for example. the cost of maintaining rural routes and star routes is only reflected under present practice to the extent of 10 to 20 percent of their cost. and the law enforcement activities of the postal inspection servicenecessary and fruitful as they are in the war on crimeare  included among public services at all. i am convinced that a thorough study would uncover other costs incurred for public welfare purposes that should be included in the public service category. we have to recognize that the post office is much more than a maildelivery service. it does many things having hing to do with the mail. such as register aliens. sell savings bonds. report forest fires. and sell duck stamps. it is proper that these activities be carried out as a part of the public policy. however. these costs should  be included in the price of mailing a letter. a newspaper. a magazine. a catalog. a book. or a parcel. the post office is an essential national communications network. the fact that it recovers about 80 percent of its operating costs through charges and fees makes it less expensive to operate than any other government department. even without the increased revenue we are about to vote in this pending bill. to a newcomer who has taken a crash course in postal ecoics all summer. a primary lesson has been the realization that public services consume a considerable share of the postal expense dollar and that legislation we enact should properly reflect that fact. since our subcommittee concluded hearings. postmaster general obrien has supplied aher example of the public service role of the post office. he has annced that rural delivery service has been extended to less densely populated areas.  mail is delivered in areas -where the population density is only 1.5 families per mile. the previous minimum to receive mall delivery service was two families per mile. this is a perfect example of a public service. naturally the cost of this additional service will exceed the extra revenue generated. of course. if the postal system were operated purely as a business. remote families would  receive delivery service. that day should never come and to keep that day from ever arriving. we should once again engrave on stone the fact that "postal service is public service."
the senator from arkansas proposes a $45.6 million cut. including a 10percent. or $27 million. cut in federal contract research centers. a $2 million. or onethird. cut in research by foreign institutions. a 20percent. or $5 million. cut in project agile. counterinsurgency work. which includes largely techogical work.  just social and behavioral research. $3 million from other social science research. and $8 million. or 25 percent. from project themis. a program for university research. if the department of defense distributes the committees 12percent cut in the research budget evenly across all categories. the federal contract research centers will be reduced. by more than senator fulbright has proposed. all the categories that the senator has mentioned are subject to the large cut the committee has imposed already. unless the defense department considers them of such high priority that other programs are reduced disproportionately. . moreover. social and behavioral research on foreign military environments and policy planning studies are specifically cited by the committee as an area to be reduced by 12 percent. or by $1.5 million of the $13.3 million. and by the recommended transfer of approximately $4 million in projects to other agencies with responsibility in these areas. for example. some policy planning studies might go to state. acda. and aid. and some more basic research might go to the national science foundation. work in these areas already has been reduced by approximately 11 percent since fiscal 1968 and by the effects of inflation. which the senator has  mentioned. and which i am sure he would want to take into consideration. thus. a thorough pruning of work in this area is already assured by the committees action. apparently. senator fulbright has several concerns: allegedly worthless research. defense connections with the universities. the supposed hazards of doing research under defense auspices in foreign countries. on the assumption that it may lead to engaging in military action there at some time. . many kledgeable people agree that some of the research involved might better be carried out under other auspices. and the committee has provided for this. but unless the state department and other agencies obtain greater authorizations. this of course. will be impossible. thus. the effect of adopting the fulbright amendment simply would be to reduce further what is widely recognized as an inadequate national effort in social and behavioral research. surely. we should first seek to create better mechanisms for funding work in this general field before we trim the limited effort already underway. if it is insisted that all defense research must be strictly tied to dod missions. we would have to cut out all basic research in physical sciences as well.
let me give a further assurance. our current plan in the appropriations committee is  to put any further public service jobs money in the regular 1978 laborhew bill until we see what the unemployment situation looks like and how the expanded public service jobs program is working. we are  wedded to anything in 1978 until we k what the facts are. is that correct.
. i share with the distinguished occupant of the chair representation of a state which in the post office service has an emous representation of the number of employees affected. we have in the new york post office alone 35.000 employees. everyone ks that there has been a great amount of interest expressed by postal employees in the proposed increase in their compensation. i think there is one point that must be emphasized as we consider the amendment and as we consider the bill. and that is that i believe postal employees will feel that they have by means attained the result which they have been seeking. i think we will be fortunate if we give them the 7 y percent if they feel that this is even a small measure of justice. i have attended a great many meetings of postal employees. and i have talked  only with the bread winners of the families. but with their wives. who have to make ends meet. and i have talked with many postal employees who must hold down two jobs in order to make a living. or have their wives work. withstanding that they do a full days work. for which they ought to earn egh to support a family. it is a matter of disgrace for an official of the united states to have to face this kind of justifiable criticism on the part of employees. let us never forget that if the postal employee is to receive any kind of ecoic justice. we must give it to him. he has other remedy. he does  have the privilege of ecoic bargaining. he can get aher job unless he wishes to leave the service and relinquish years of investment in his own future security. he has opportunity to go into business for himself. only we can give him justice. the ultimate verity in respect of whether a 7/2percent increase is the very minimum that we possibly can give is found in a comparison of the rates of compensation between the employees who are included in the bill and those engaged in similar endeavors in the private ecoic system. and also between the employees included in the bill and those engaged in public work. such as policemen. firemen. and other employees in municipalities and in states. when we make such comparisons we find that even after we give government employees the proposed increase. they will still be under par. for some reason or other it is disadvantageous to work for the federal government in terms of compensation. for that reason the argument that in order to retain an effective work force we must meet ecoic competition is an extremely sound one. finally. all of us are deeply concerned about international tensions. and we realize the tremendous responsibility which is vested in our government employees to maintain at the highest peak of efficiency our government machinery today in the face of international tensions. there is great dissatisfaction especially in the postal service. a dissatisfaction which we will  satisfy. completely by what we propose to do here. but which will make considerable progress toward meeting that dissatisfaction. finally. we are urged to keep within the budget in terms of the surplus which we expect to attain. i feel as keenly about that as any other senator. what we have to remember. though. is the great american tradition which we enforce on corporations. just as we should enforce it on government itself. and that is. that we do  take it out of the backs of our employees. i would like to repeat that. because this is an important point. we do  take that kind of ecoy out of the backs of our employees. every legitimate survey which we have had made shows that the united states is able to pay its bills and is able to carry out its responsibilities. where we must deal with this question of the budget and the savings. we must make certain that we do  take it out of the backs of our employees. if we can find other way. we will have to consider the continuation of certain taxes. it seems to me we must face that issue squarely and honestly. if we must do everything we are doing and must spend all that we are spending in every way which is  encompassed in the budget. rather than taking the necessary savings out of the back of our employees. who are solely dependent upon us for ecoic justice. we must deal with it in our tax bill and continue taxes which we might otherwise  wish to continue. in order to see that the united states does this measure of justice to the people who make it what it is.
. i invite attention to an important development with respect to defense procurement. the decline in new yorks share of defense procurement continues unabated. it is  at a 10year low of less than 10 percent9.9 percent of the prime contracts moving out of the department of defense. this has occurred withstanding the fact that new yorks scientific and techogical capacity is equal to that of any other state. perhaps superior to all except california. california and new york rank about the same in that respect. yet new yorks share has fallen to less than 10 percent of the procurement. while californias has risen from 14 percent in 1954 to almost 24 percent today. in the last fiscal year. californias share was 23.9 percent. new yorks share is at a 10year low. in the critical area of experimental. developmental. test. and research contracts. which account for an increasing share of total prime contract awards. california received 40 percent of all such awards in fiscal year 1962. new york only 11 percent. there is virtually scope for price competition in contracts of this type. and thus there are few restraints on administrative decisions that determine the geographic allocations of such contracts. the close correlation of the award of prime contracts to california and its predominance in edtr work. according to the defense department study. is closely associated with a stronger emphasis on missile production which is heavily concentrated in the pacific and mountain states. more than one half of all missile contract awards are in the edtr category. in other words. those who get the missile contracts get the edtr contract along with it. i am frankly concerned by these uninterrupted trends. i do  hold that there have been irregularities in the awarding of defense contracts. but i do ask if administrative inertia has  denied business enterprises in many highly industrialized states throughout the nation a fair opportunity to present their qualifications and make their offers. in negotiated contracts. which account for an overwhelming proportion of total defense procurement. the department of defense asks several firms to submit bids and these firms tend to be confined to the west coastoften in the state of california. i have long contended that the principal factor behind this pattern of procurement is the defense departments unchanged emphasis on awarding close to 90 percent of its procurement contracts on the basis of negotiation rather than formally advertised procedures. i believe in the widest possible use of formally advertised open bidding. when negotiated contracts are required. i believe there should be a more conscientious search for qualified firms to submit bids. i believe the result of such practices will be a more equitable distribution of defense contracts and will further the national interest in procuring the best quality defense equipment at the lowest possible cost. the practice of negotiation has been followed. withstanding the expression of congress in public law 87653. enacted at the end of last year on this subject. and withstanding the fact that the secretary of defense himself has said that he believes a 25percent saving can be made on each dollar shifted from competitive to competitive procurement. the awarding of a substantial share of such contracts on a competitive basis would strengthen the national ecoy by sustaining the private sector in areas of the country  hampered by unemployed men and idle capacity. during the 87th congress i introduced a bill specifically designed to provide congressional direction for increased competitiveness in defense procurement. in september of 1962. a very similar proposal was passed by congress. public law 87653. and became effective in december 1962. the facts show. however. that during fiscal year 1963 negotiated contracts continued to account for 87 percent of total military procurement actions. during januaryjune 19636 months following the enactment of public law 87653formally advertised procurement accounted for 12.9 percent of such awards. exactly at the same level as during the identical period in 1962. therefore. in order to obtain the facts fully. i am asking the secretary of defense to explain in detail why there has been increase in competitive bidding. withstanding the law enacted by.congress expressly to that effect. at the end of last year. and to inform me of what steps are being taken to carry out the congressional direction. when i have the secretarys answer. i shall make it available to the senate. this is a matter that vitally interests my state. which is fully prepared to handle a much greater share of defense work than it is getting. especially as the state of new york is responsible for 20 percent of the federal tax revenues and has the greatest industrial and research complex in the nation. i firmly believe. that should competitive procurement become the rule rather than the exception in defense procurement. new york state and other states in a similar situation would obtain a much more substantial share of total defense procurement than it has been able to obtain under a system of predominantly negotiated procurements. new york states scientific and techogical capacity needs explanation. industrial research in my state is big business. approximately 1.100 research laboratories are located in new yorkby far the greatest concentration of laboratory facilities in the country. this number is greater than the combined totals of massachusetts and california combined. these research laboratories employ more than 70.000 personsof whom 50.000 are scientists and technical personnel. thus. it is selfevident that should new york be given a fair chance to compete we could make an even greater contribution to the nations defense effort than we do at present. i believe senators from other industrial states are entitled to a similar explanation for the failure of the department of defense to comply with this law which congress passed at the end of last year to help remedy the defense procurement situation. apparently it  only is  helping but has worsened the situation. we ought to k why. accordingly. i have demanded an explanation from the secretary of defense.
. i call at- a stalwart in the other body as the sententionto an amendment which my col- ator from alabama has league was most ingenious been a stalwart in.the senate. we shall in drafting. to provide muchneeded all miss representative rains. i hope urban planning assistance in areas dis- that his career in public service has  advantaged by the removal of defense come to an end. and that in some way his installations. the amendment was ac- emous talents will again be enlisted cepted by the conferees. in this instance. in the service of his country. i persontoo. both he and i owe a debt of grati- ally shall miss him as a friend and shall tude to the senator from alabama for his miss him also as a wise and considerate support of this amendment. which was legislator. adopted on the floor of the senate. which i also commend the senator from alathe senator from alabama felt was de- bama for the excellent work which he has sirable. and which the other conferees done in connection with the passage of fully supported. the bill.
. i have had contact with the matter of pay for postal and other civil employees for many years. both in the other body and in the senate. there are two promises that congress made them years ago. but which were never fulfilled. they are  kept in this bill. the first is comparability with pay in private employment. the other is the keeping pace with the cost of living. the rise in the cost of living is  the fault of postal and other civil employees. it is the fault of congress. if we are  running the country right. on page 6 of the committee report. we read that the consumer price index. which was 110.4 when congress increased federal salaries in october 1965. is  112.5. an increase of 1.9 percent in 6 months. but the pay increase provided in the bill gives the federal employees an increase of only 1 percent net. the report is quite clear on that. for myself. i would  wish to shortchange federal employees by  even giving them the raise as of july 1. but they might be shortchanged further by deferring the raise. on the issue of the general ecoy. we had a magnificent debate about 2 hours ago. led by the distinguished miity leader . it is clear that if we are to meet our responsibility. we must do justice to the federal employees. who have only us as the representatives of their employers. we can do them justice. and if. having done that. in the exercise of our responsibility. the tax revenues are inadequate to the purpose. it is our duty to increase taxes by facing the issue squarely. that is our responsibility. i shall be happy to do it. every senator who wishes to grant an increase of this kind must face his conscience.
i was very interested in the senators remarks in connection with the meat amendment. i have read it. i came upstairs because i heard it was pending. i do  intend to let it go by. i wish to ask the senator this question. is it  a fact that the situation with respect to these additions. making this a "christmas tree" bill. is  the fault of the sponsors. but it is our fault. we could vote down every amendment. we could table every amendment. we do  have to do what we do  wish to do. i wish to point out. in connection with this "christmas tree" billi do  k how the senator voted. but is is immaterialand specifically in connection with the tax credit to parents with children in college. 20odd senators voted against it. that measure is extremely popular. i have received an emous amount of mail on it. and i may vote for it. the senator. as well as other senators. has voted against other amendments. the miity leader. the majority leader. or any of us could move to table amendments. why are we so helpless to deal with the situation which confronts us in connection with this bill. twothirds of senators can enforce cloture. there is question about the fact that the bill has been debated to death. i am willing to sign a petition today to have cloture invoked in connection with the bill. and we could have cloture in 2 days. why are we so powerless.
. much as i respect the senator from missouri. i think he is jumping at a conclusion that is unwarranted by the facts. in the first place. if the senator is correct. the defense department should never have issued the regulations to which the senator from mississippi referred. because those regulations do establish a procurement preference when the hard core are unemployed. all we are trying to do is to lift a geographical limitation. if the defense department is doing what the senator says it is. it obviously confounds the argument made against the amendment. . the other point is that we want the procurement officers to be alert to this opportunity. that is precisely why i proposed the amendment. on the question of inefficiency. we are  intervening with any provision which would undercut the performance of the contract. we say this is a practical solution. finally. shades of rosy the riveter. what happened during wartime is that we took precisely these people and put them to work. and they worked out all right. a publication of the republic aviation corp. states that a 30- to 45day training and indoctrination program has proved adequate in the past with respect to dealing with precisely these kinds of employees. there are two kinds of jobs in defense work. some of these jobs can be learned within a short time by merely being able to manipulate hands. eyes. and ears. some work is very complicated. the defense department has already said this can be done. but they are limiting it geographically. what i am trying to do is to make the opportunity available wherever the manufacturing or procurement takes place. that completely negates the argument made against the amendment.
.  the rest of the amendment is  material to the niain .point. which is this: shall w6 write into the. criteria for public service employment aprovision which6nables the secretary to make it transitionalleading -to somethingrather -than necessarily the same job for an indeterminate period of time. or. shall we leaveitas it is  in the bill. which would enable the secretary to carry on a public service employment program for persons for an indeterminate period of time. on a theory. similar to revenue sharing. there is s need. indeed. i am a stanch advocate of revenue sharing. there is need in the cities and in one way or the other. the federal government will have to do something about it. i have been deeply troubled that this bill. which is essentially a manpower training bill. may. by a sense of indirectionand the senator from wisconsin is  trying to mislead anyoneget itself into the revenue sharing. that is the reason i offer this amendment. the bill does a number of things which move toward the concept which i have. the bill provides on page 122. lines 9 to 12: for the purpose of providing employment and related training and manpower services for unemployed and underemployed persons. . . . accordingly. in its fundamental purpose. the bill does pay some respect to the fact that a job shall include related training and manpower services. -the second thing that the bill does is to require as one of its conditionsand this was inserted. incidentally. by the senator from vermont and myselfbeginning on page 124. line 21. assurances that special consideration will be given to the filling of jobs which provide sufficient prospects for advancement or suitable continued. employment by providing complementary training and manpower services designed to (a) promote the advancement of participants to employment or training opportunities suitable to the individuals involved. whether in the public or private sector of the ecoy. (b) provide participants with skills for which there is an anticipated high demand. or (c) provide participants with selfdevelopment skills. ... finally. on page 126. line 22. the bill requires: procedures pursuant to which participants. after one year and prior to the end of two years of employment in jobs providing public services under this title. will be interviewed and their employment and advancement prospects reviewed by an appropriate agency. and in the event that any such participant and the reviewing agency find that the participants current employment situation will  provide sufficient prospects for advancement or suitable continued employment. maximum efforts shall be made to locate employment or training opportunities providing such prospects. and the participant shall be offered appropriate assistance in securing placement in the opportunity which he chooses after appropriate counseling. in short. we have. as it were. tipped our hat to these concepts. however. fundamentally unless we provide that the concept of public service employment shall be essentially transitional. we really are  accomplishing anything too material. the fact remains that this bill could create a permanent 250.000 job program in public service employment.  necessarily related to training. i use those words " necessarily" advisedly. the secretary could hitch it to training in whatever contracts he made. he could make them transitional. however. he does cxvi----2044--part 24 -  have to. he could easily make it tho 250.000job public service employmen * provision. that has worried me anc 6 that is why i propose the amendment) have. i i shall be greatly interested in any reactions senators may have to my amendment.
. i am the ranking republican member of the committee on labor and public welfare and joined in managing s. 31. which is a 2year bill for public service jobs and would provide 150.000 jobs the first year in public service and 200.000 in the second year. the house has seen fit to pass an even broader public service bill. and we will get to conference on it late this week. i believe. for people like myself. the problem is. what will $2 billion produce according to title i of this bill. s. 575. the figure in the labor field is 170.000 jobs. that sounds very good. the difficulty with it is that when we last had this program at its peak. in 1964. it produced only 45.500 jobs for a total federal and other expenditure of $1.7 billion. we have $2 billion of federal money here. so that the relationship looks like about 1 to 3 in terms of the utilization of that money. in addition. the senator has properly pointed out that the locus of the jobs will be extended throughout the country. needed or . and whether they are piled on an already full employment situation in construction. for example. whereas. with public service jobs. we have the opportunity to be selective. in view of the fact that this may  be the final stage of legislation either in this field or in the public service jobs field. i would think we ought to keep our powder dry. both the committee and we ourselves. before approving this conference report. i am deeply concerned that the conference procedure and the house rule will exclude what we have already passed and undermine the ability of the senate to change house modifications of senate bills.
. my reason for taking this brief time is to make the point. which is important. if we are going to be fair to the department that will administer this act. that the other body has restricted the administration expenses to $50 million. the department feels that this may  be adequate if it is really going to do the job required. however. they are doing their utmost to live within it and they want to put these funds into effect. they do  want to get into a conference . the senator should k there is serious concern on their part about it and they may have to approach us again in a supplemental or otherwise in order to do the job we want them to do. however. the $50 million is acceptable. aher point is very important. the senator from th dakota . in order to save time. has asked me to point out that the report accompanying the bill says specifically that the committee directs that special consideration be given to vietnam veterans in filling the public service jobs provided by this appropriation. that is critically important. it deals with two points. first. that veterans get the jobs. and. second. it gives the priority we wish them to have.
the department has expressed the same objection with respect to title ix. . i believe the miity has done its best to hoas far as it couldany such views by making provision in section 1033(c) (2). contained at page 97. lines 16 to 21. in which the secretary is authorized: (2) the secretary is authorized to make whatever arrangements that are necessary to carry out the programs assisted under this title as part of any general manpower legislation hereafter enacted. except that appropriations for programs assisted under this title may  be expended for programs assisted under that title. a similar provision is contained in the other title. in other words. the appropriation can be pulled out. second. i wish to point out that at my strong urging a very material reduction was effected in the authorization part of the bill which related to title x. the senator from west virginia . who authored that particular amendment. cut the amount for fiscal 1973. from $140 million to $100 million. and for fiscal 1974. from $210 million to $150 milion. to comport in each case with the amounts authorized under the title xi. we have put a very serious caveat there. the administration is  expending given sums of money for public service employment under the emergency employment act of 1971. a special bill which we passed. the number of workers that are engaged approximates 170.000. i should like to ask the senator from missouri . if i may have his attention. a question that he may  wish to answer. but which may cause a dilemma. if we pass this bill. and it becomes law. the administration might say to us for example. "look. that is finethat is. if you want to spend money for those who are 45 years old or 55 years old and over. and forget all about the other categories contained in the public service employment program. we will simply devote the money for that purposes." so i think that if wei say this to the senator from missouri as one who is very sympathetic to the bill. and joined with him. indeed. in sponsoring ithad some expression of view on the part of the managers. to wit. the senator from missouri and the senator from maryland
i would like to express to the senator my pleasure that he is doing this. i have introduced a bill. senator buckley has introdu ed a bill. and there are other measures. but hing would come as authoritatively as from the chairman of the committee which the senator heads. i think it presages action upon an extremely constructive way -in which public service employment can be used for a permanent improvement of a highly constructive character because it will produce income. et cetera. which we could  otherwise get. i would like to pay a tribute to the unions concerned in this matter who axe seeing the constructive nature of getting the job done as it helps them. even though superficially it would seem that it is gi-.ng jobs to others. they understand that this is the only way in which the total project which they will have a big part in can be formed. i thank my colleague.
. the senator has already stated the facts. we are very anxious to consider this amendment. there are in excess of 20 percent of those who have public service jobs who are vietnam veterans. etheless that may be inadequate and gross in specific application in given areas. so we have undertaken. at least i have and the senator has already talked with senator williams. but it is adequate if i do. to see that this amendment is specifically considered and an opportunity offered for testimony to be given and. indeed. i would get the chairmans permission that senator dole or senator tunney or both appear before the committee next week when we hear the ceta bill generally in order to testify on this matter. if i may say so. the senator is characteristically understanding and public spirited in his belief in this bill which has a particular purpose of national morality and integrity. and i k how deeply he feels about this matter. but i feel it is a fine demonstration of his total problem that he is staying his hand and  offering it on this particular bill.
. after a long journey. a bill to extend the authorization of title vi of the comprehensive employment and training act.  reaches the senate floor for debate and passage. the intervening steps along the way have included consideration by the committees on budget. appropriations. and by the full senate in its prior actions with respect to first concurrent resolution on the budget. and with the passage of the emergency supplemental appropriations act (public law 94266) in april 1976. the chairman of the subcommittee on employment. poverty. and migratory labor. senator gaylord nelson. is to be commended for his sponsorship and leadership in the design and shape of the legislation. senator harrison williams. chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare must also be cited for his guidance and support. the contributions of senators cranston. mondale. and kennedy must be specially ed. especially in their efforts before the committee on budget. where they urged the adoption of the direction to which this legislation points. that is. targeting of public service employment to those most in need. the original enacting legislation "the emergency jobs and unemployment assistance act of 1974" (public law 93567) was signed into law on december 31. 1974. as an amendment to the comprehensive employment and training act. ceta. title vi established a nationwide countercyclical public service employment program to deal wtih an unemployment rate which was spiralling upward. whereas title ii established a public service employment program in "areas of substantial unemployment" which had an unemployment rate of 6.5 percent for 3 consecutive months. title vi is a nationwide program. with a formula based upon unemployment. this emergency program was authorized for fiscal year 1975. at $2.5 billion. the authorizing legislation thus expired. in june 1975. funds previously obligated allowed the program to be operational until june 1976 when all funds were to expire. the emergency supplemental appropriations act passed in april 1976 contained $1.2 billion under title ii of ceta had sufficient funds to carry those public service employment jobs through january 1977. although some prime sponsors will  have egh funds to carry the program until then.
