a bill designed to catch a felon will catch an inent victim. the way the committee has interpreted the particular provision which it is  insertingwhich is new languagemeans. in my judgment. and in the judgment of people who have a great deal at stake in this matterand i have named who they are. there is secret about it. as the senator well ksthat this arrow will miss the target. and will hit a completely different target. i suggest to the senator that we have tried very hard to agree upon what should be the thrust of the bill. if the senator would hear me on some of the examples which have been referred to. then perhaps it might be possible to refine the issues. in order to give assurances which appear to be lacking in the language of the bill and in its interpretation as contained in the report. i wish to give some of these examples. which have been furnished to me. they are typical situations. it is claimed that registration might be requiredalthough. from what the senator says. this is  so at all. all of us are very well aware that hundreds of american companiesbusinesses engaged in the production of oil. automobiles. aluminum. steel. and other metals. also chemicals. rubber. office equipment. and in the international telephone business--operate abroad in a very widespread field. if my memory serves me. we have approximately $70 billion invested in direct investments throughout the world in many of these operations. here are some of the instances which are submitted to me as being placed in jeopardy by the way in which the statute is interpreted in the committee report. the u.s. oil companies international operations would like the interior department to increase the import tax on residual fuel oil among the major beneficiaries would be its subsidiary in venezuela. where production would be increased. nevertheless. a great beneficiary would also be the american company concerned.. aher example is an automobile company which has a german subsidiary which assembles and markets cars in europe. the germans propose a tax on horsepower. which would have the effect of discriminating against cars of the type handled by subsidiaries of u.s. companies. but would benefit smaller german cars. the parent company wishes to discuss the subject with the state department. that is. an american company seeking to discuss the question with the state department. so that the state department might intervene to prevent a subsidiary of the american company from being discriminated against. a brazilian subsidiary of a u.s. utility is threatened with expropriation or with unfair competition from a governmentowned company. the parent wants to familiarize the executive branch and the congress with this situation. an american cosmetics company. with a french subsidiary which manufactures perfume. wants to testify in behalf of lower u.s. excise taxes on cosmetics. if the excise tax were lowered. a principal beneficiary would be the french perfume subsidiary. whose production would increase. an american electrical appliance manufacturer. interested in increasing its capital investments in its subsidiaries in latin america. wishes to see the u.s. investment guaranty program strengthened and desires to present its case to the executive branch and to members of the appropriate congressional committees. the investment guarantees would apply. of course. to the foreign subsidiaries. an integrated american aluminum company. obtaining its raw material. bauxite. from a subsidiary incorporated abroad. is alarmed by the threat of a tariff that would decrease its foreign production and wants to express its views to members of the executive branch and the congress. an american metal producer markets in various parts of the world through foreign subsidiaries. it finds that the russians are killing the market in certain countries by dumping the metal. for political reasons. and it wants to speak to officials in the executive branch. a u.s. computer manufacturer incorporates a manufacturing subsidiary in belgium in order to better compete in the common market. it wishes to bring a number of belgians to this country to familiarize them with a new line of products. and desires to facilitate visa arrangements with the justice department. the beneficiary would be a foreign national. an american chemical company wishes to expedite an export license at the commerce department for some materials urgently needed at the plant of its subsidiary in central america. an american rubber company has a european subsidiary which manufactures tires. the subsidiary wants to begin marketing its production in certain african countries. and asks the parent to obtain information from the commerce and state departments about u.s. attitudes toward private investments in that area. political conditions. marketing data. and so forth. there are other examples. the senator from minnesota and i have been very instrumental in the establishment of a great private investment company kn as adela. the atlantic development group. which is going to be incorporated in luxembourg. a very large number of the investors in that enterprise will be american. the preponderant investment will be here. interestingly. under the proposed bill. e of these activities would require registration if the foreign operations were conducted through a branch. if. however. the foreign operation is conducted through a subsidiary. registration would appear to be required. then there are a great many very important foreign companies which have subsidiaries in the united states. the activities of such subsidiaries might be very. very much confined to the benefit of the subsidiary. a number of examples are as follows: first. contacts with the executive branch or the congress on tariff legislation. or appearances before the tariff commission concerning trade negotiations. second. discussions with appropriate government officials concerning disposals from the strategic stockpile which could affect the u.s. market for various materials. third. meetings with internal revenue service on the application of various u.s. taxes to the domestic subsidiary. fourth. discussions with the food and drug administration regarding a spice which a u.s. subsidiary imports from a foreign parent and wishes to use in a food product marketed in this country. fifth. negotiations with the customs bureau concerning the proper tariff classification of an imported product. sixth. appearances before executive agencies and the congress on customs simplification matters. seventh. informing the foreign parent on discussions held with the council of ecoic advisers concerning possible u.s. government actions to increase interest rates or to enforce the wageprice guidelines. eighth. discussions with the state and commerce departments concerning u.s. attitudes toward trade with the soviet. ninth. discussions with the state department concerning interpretation of tax treaties. tenth. representations concerning the effects of federal excise taxes on markets in the united states for a product whose raw materials are supplied by the foreign parent. eleventh. attempts to combat a drive to impose burdensome labeling requirements on imported products. indeed it is claimed that there really was  presented during the committees investigation any evidence indicating any necessity to require registration by legitimate companies. primarily american in their ownership and base. conducting mal liaison relations with the u.s. government on subjects of basic commercial importance. i think that is borne out. as i have said. by the phrase which i found in the presentation of the senator from arkansas . which seemed to me so clear. i think if the justice department really follows out that intent. and. in view of all the examples which i have stated. requires registration as a foreign agent of persons who engage in commercial activities in order to reach objectives which may be partially politicalalmost any american business pursues those objectives all the timewe shall indeed have a very much broader registration requirement than we have . and there will be considerable jeopardy to the individual companies. in that regard. in order to incorporate in precise language what i have in mind. i send to the desk an amendment to the bill. and ask that it be stated by the clerk.
