i appreciate that. i am  suggesting that the senator from nebraska is reducing. us to mere platoonsize forces.  at all. but i worry about the trend. is the budget committee figure exactly right. who ks. can it be reduced somewhat. probably. i do  think there is anything magic by coming down some. if need be. below that. but it seems to me that what the senator from nebraska has proposed is a $7.6 billion reduction. he has suggested that you can lengthen out the procurement schedules and so forth. but i think we all k that the way you get dollars is to. reduce people. that is the only quick way to get dollars. the proposal of the senator from nebraska is to take place within 1 single year. within 12 months. on top of what the military is already proposing to reduce. so. . we are clearly in danger of losing that industrial base because a suggestion is being made that we longer construct submarines in this country once these currently under order are completed. that really worries me. yes it worries me because submarines are built in my area. but it further worries me because of this industrial base that i believe is so important to maintain. it is in danger of being terminated and clearly will be terminated if deeper reductions are made than already proposed. let me close by ing we are dealing with human beings here. we are dealing with human beings. those in uniform and those in civilian jobs. it behooves us to treat those individuals with as much concern as possible. giving them lead time to plan for their future. many of these solders. sailors. airmen. marines. and civilian employees planed their career in themlitary or with the military. that longer will be possible. we recognize that. because of these reductions. but let us make those reductions in an understanding fashion. such would  be true i believe. or could possibly  be. true. under the proposed amendment. therefore. i hope it will be rejected.
. i think the senator from new york is following hi. habitual practice. to make us understand better the problem which is. for many ol us. a little bit in the esoteric area. the senator from new york has the kind of conscience which requires him to keer our es. as well as his. to the grindstone on matters of this kind. i agree with his purpose. with this exceptionperhaps i am  sure i disagree even on that point--it may be that i do  understand his thinking completelybut in the prouty amendment there is a provision on page 125. lines 6. 7. and 8 thathing in this paragraphand that paragraphshall be construed to preclude persons for whom the foregoing programs are  feasible or appropriate. i wonder if there would be some way of making the same kind of exception without destroying substantially the senators objective by writing some language similar to that or for the same purpose applicable in his amendment. i am thinking about older people for whom a great number of public service jobs would be available in the area of very simple tasks. but important tasks. such as raking leaves and things that people sometimes make fun of but ought  to because we all do it ourselves at our own places. there is hing wrong with raking leaves or cutting grass or doing the other kind of things which need to be done and which would greatly improve our environment. would there be some way of providing that work so that the older people would be happier and more content in doing such work. although it did  lead to a job.running a computerand i am just saying that in an exaggerated fashion. but the older people would  be precluded.
. for the past 24 years. wallace bennett has graced this chamber with his quiet. efective. and deeply thoughtful leaderhip. we have come to expect wallace [ennetts leadership in many areas. but tone more so than the crucial realms of anking and finance. few men have played so large a role n determining tax. trade. social security nd financial legislation of this country. one of the most inative and imagiiative pieces of legislation in recent nemory. revenue sharing. could  hiave achieved the success it has without the enlightened imprint of wallace bennett. we are all immeasurably richer by virtue of his dedicated public service to this new federalism. the people of utah are fortunate because he has worked exceptionally hard to improve all aspects of their life. for example. a critical water shortage has been alleviated because of measures wallace bennett has steered through congress. and thanks to his efforts. the spectacular canyon national park was preserved in utah. i am proud to have worked with my friend wallace bennett during our years in the senate. it is indeed gratifying to e all the richly deserved tributes being paid to the great senior senator from utah and i wish for him. mrs. bennett and his family all happiness.
