. it is my great privilege to pay tribute to a rhode islander. lieutenant colonel mi.chael david. who will soon complete 23 years of distinguished service to our nation. as friends and colleagues gather to ho lieutenant colonel davids retirement from the u.s. air force. i would also like to extend- to him my heartiest congratulations. indeed. the state of rhode island is very proud and fortunate to have had a native of warwick. ri represent us so well. i join with all rhode islanders in expressing thanks to lieutenant colonel david for the wonderful job he has done. .a graduate of the u.s. air force academy. lieutenant colonel david has shared his expertise as he trained service men and women to fly the t38 and c141 aircraft at air force bases across our land. he has served as a t38 instructor pilot. a c141 instructor and evaluator pilot. in addition. he has flown and led many worldwide airlift and formation airdrop missions. at present. he is charged with aiding the pentagons -top brass in leading the armed forces into the 21st century. equipping our military to meet the challenges of the 21st century. along. the way. lieutenant colonel david has- been awarded numerous decorations including: meritorious service medal. 2nd olc.. aerial achievement medal. air force commendation medal. air force achievement medal. combat readiness medal. armed forces expeditionary medal. national defense service medal. southwest asia service medal. small arms expert pistol ribbon. air force legacy service award. air force training.. ribbon. joint meritorious unit award and the air force outstanding unit award. lieutenant colonel david currently has the defense superior service medal pending approval by the chairman. joint chiefs of staff. that is an impressive list. out hats are off to lieutenant colonel david for these tremendous accomplishments. yet. we all k it is the military family that also deserves the recognition and congratulations for the years of travel. leaving family and friends. and for their tireless energy and support of the united states armed forces. for their outstanding dedication. i wish to commend and congratulate lieutenant colonel davids wife. the former bernadette louise brennan. of providence. and his two daughters. ashley nicole david and stephanie michelle david. in closing. i am pleased to offer my very best wishes to lieutenant colonel david for happiness and fulfillment in his new endeavors. his contributions certainly will be remembered for generations to come..
. i rise to e the recent death of marine corps col anthony walker. a rhode islander who served his country with the highest distinction. after graduating in 1939 from yale college. mr. walker enlisted in the marine corps. was commissioned a second lieutenant in 1941 and was deployed to the south pacific during world war ii. as a raider company commander. he led part of the successful attack on viru harbor. new georgia. he was wounded in new georgia. at the battle for bairoko. returning to combat. he fought in the campaigns of emirau. guam. and okinawa. in okinawa. he commanded the 6th marine divisions reconnaissance company. leading numerous night patrols and attacks. the end of the war marked 30 continuous months for him in the pacific theater. colonel walker later served tours of duty as a u.n. observer in kashmir. as a battalion and regimental commander in the fleet marine force. as a commander of marine barracks at fort campbell. ky. and at guantanamo bay. cuba. he was a student and an instructor at the u.s. naval war college in newport. and in 1971 concluded 32 years of active duty. including a year in south vietnam as the operations officer of the joint military assistance command. in the marine corps. this vietnam war veteran was kn as "cold steel" in recognition of his particular skill in c lose combat and small 1 tactics. colonel walker was highly garded for his tactical and leadern skills. his decorations included silver stars. the purple heart. a pi dential unit citation. a navy i commendation and the legion merit. a devoted military historian. he lished two books and numerous cles. many on the revolutionary a his book. "so few the brave." is definitive history of the rhode is] regiments in the revolution. colonel walker served as presider middletown little league and we volunteer for the sachuest point m life sanctuary. he was a member of sons of the american revolution. marine corps heritage foundation. the middletown historical society. colonel walker leaves behind ju walker. his wife of 57 years. three s william w. walker of winstonsa" nc. daniel a. walker of hartford. and lt. col. andrew d. walker. us retired. of poolesville. md. and grandchildren. colonel walker was a man of in rity and honesty. a leader respe and loved by his family. friends. leagues and military alumni in newport area. he will truly be mia
 harry truman chaired during his senate tenure from 19411944. that committee demanded the strictest accountability from defense contracting and thus saved our government billions of dollars. i agree with the aim of senator dorgans amendment. and look forward to supporting legislation in the future that would establish a special committee to review war and. reconstruction contracting. given the great cost. length and importance of the war on terrorism. i think it is appropriate to convenelsuch a special committee to ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely. however. senator dorgan offered this piece of authorizing legislation on an appropriations bill. the procedural vote was whether the senate should set aside rule xvi. which prohibits such authorizing on appropriations. there is a troubling history of legislating on appropriations. from 1995. when the senate voted in effect to overturn rule xvi. until 1999. when the rule was established. there was a proliferation of socalled "legislative riders" on appropriations bills. authorizing committees territory is safe without firm lines clearly differentiating between authorizing work and appropriations work. moreover. from 19951999 many of the riders were aimed at undermining environmental laws. to avoid returning to this practice. i support rule xvi and its prohibition against adding authorizing amendments to appropriations bills. and thus voted to oppose senator ])organs amendment. again. i state this to make clear that my vote was to uphold an important senate rule. and  to oppose senator dorgans amendment.
. i rise today to ho the life of mg john w. kiely. major general kiely was a man of exemplary service to our state and country. a veteran of three wars. he ascended to the rank of colonel. regular army as well as serving as brigadier general. national guard of rhode island. adjutant general of rhode island. and also was promoted to the grade of major general and commanding general. general kiely was a model soldier. receiving a purple heart. 2 bronze stars. valor. and 3 legions of merit. along with 22 other federal government awards and decorations. as well as the rhode island cross and the rhode island star. his military kledge and service to our nation will be dearly missed. and my deepest condolences go to mrs. marilyn l. kiely and the kiely family in their time of mourning.*
. it is with great sadness that today i reflect upon the life of joseph odonnell.  of the board of keough kirby associates. inc.. as a trustee of landmark health systems. and in other board positions for numerous business and civic organizations. as a panelist on the coffeean radio program in his later years. joe odonnell contributed his kledge of politics. his great sense of humor. and his penchant for gourmet cooking to a larger audience. his name is on the wall of ho at the marine maritime academy for outstanding lifetime achievement. and he was a recipient of the admiral joel r.p. pringle society award from the naval war college foundation in newport. it is with heavy hearts that stephanie and i send our deepest sympathies to mrs. yolande odonnell and their six children. of all his accomplishments. i k he is most proud of the closeness of his family.*
. it is my great privilege to pay tribute to a rhode islander. lieutenant colonel mi.chael david. who will soon complete 23 years of distinguished service to our nation. as friends and colleagues gather to ho lieutenant colonel davids retirement from the u.s. air force. i would also like to extend- to him my heartiest congratulations. indeed. the state of rhode island is very proud and fortunate to have had a native of warwick. ri represent us so well. i join with all rhode islanders in expressing thanks to lieutenant colonel david for the wonderful job he has done. .a graduate of the u.s. air force academy. lieutenant colonel david has shared his expertise as he trained service men and women to fly the t38 and c141 aircraft at air force bases across our land. he has served as a t38 instructor pilot. a c141 instructor and evaluator pilot. in addition. he has flown and led many worldwide airlift and formation airdrop missions. at present. he is charged with aiding the pentagons -top brass in leading the armed forces into the 21st century. equipping our military to meet the challenges of the 21st century. along. the way. lieutenant colonel david has- been awarded numerous decorations including: meritorious service medal. 2nd olc.. aerial achievement medal. air force commendation medal. air force achievement medal. combat readiness medal. armed forces expeditionary medal. national defense service medal. southwest asia service medal. small arms expert pistol ribbon. air force legacy service award. air force training.. ribbon. joint meritorious unit award and the air force outstanding unit award. lieutenant colonel david currently has the defense superior service medal pending approval by the chairman. joint chiefs of staff. that is an impressive list. out hats are off to lieutenant colonel david for these tremendous accomplishments. yet. we all k it is the military family that also deserves the recognition and congratulations for the years of travel. leaving family and friends. and for their tireless energy and support of the united states armed forces. for their outstanding dedication. i wish to commend and congratulate lieutenant colonel davids wife. the former bernadette louise brennan. of providence. and his two daughters. ashley nicole david and stephanie michelle david. in closing. i am pleased to offer my very best wishes to lieutenant colonel david for happiness and fulfillment in his new endeavors. his contributions certainly will be remembered for generations to come..
. i rise to e the recent death of marine corps col anthony walker. a rhode islander who served his country with the highest distinction. after graduating in 1939 from yale college. mr. walker enlisted in the marine corps. was commissioned a second lieutenant in 1941 and was deployed to the south pacific during world war ii. as a raider company commander. he led part of the successful attack on viru harbor. new georgia. he was wounded in new georgia. at the battle for bairoko. returning to combat. he fought in the campaigns of emirau. guam. and okinawa. in okinawa. he commanded the 6th marine divisions reconnaissance company. leading numerous night patrols and attacks. the end of the war marked 30 continuous months for him in the pacific theater. colonel walker later served tours of duty as a u.n. observer in kashmir. as a battalion and regimental commander in the fleet marine force. as a commander of marine barracks at fort campbell. ky. and at guantanamo bay. cuba. he was a student and an instructor at the u.s. naval war college in newport. and in 1971 concluded 32 years of active duty. including a year in south vietnam as the operations officer of the joint military assistance command. in the marine corps. this vietnam war veteran was kn as "cold steel" in recognition of his particular skill in c lose combat and small 1 tactics. colonel walker was highly garded for his tactical and leadern skills. his decorations included silver stars. the purple heart. a pi dential unit citation. a navy i commendation and the legion merit. a devoted military historian. he lished two books and numerous cles. many on the revolutionary a his book. "so few the brave." is definitive history of the rhode is] regiments in the revolution. colonel walker served as presider middletown little league and we volunteer for the sachuest point m life sanctuary. he was a member of sons of the american revolution. marine corps heritage foundation. the middletown historical society. colonel walker leaves behind ju walker. his wife of 57 years. three s william w. walker of winstonsa" nc. daniel a. walker of hartford. and lt. col. andrew d. walker. us retired. of poolesville. md. and grandchildren. colonel walker was a man of in rity and honesty. a leader respe and loved by his family. friends. leagues and military alumni in newport area. he will truly be mia
 harry truman chaired during his senate tenure from 19411944. that committee demanded the strictest accountability from defense contracting and thus saved our government billions of dollars. i agree with the aim of senator dorgans amendment. and look forward to supporting legislation in the future that would establish a special committee to review war and. reconstruction contracting. given the great cost. length and importance of the war on terrorism. i think it is appropriate to convenelsuch a special committee to ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely. however. senator dorgan offered this piece of authorizing legislation on an appropriations bill. the procedural vote was whether the senate should set aside rule xvi. which prohibits such authorizing on appropriations. there is a troubling history of legislating on appropriations. from 1995. when the senate voted in effect to overturn rule xvi. until 1999. when the rule was established. there was a proliferation of socalled "legislative riders" on appropriations bills. authorizing committees territory is safe without firm lines clearly differentiating between authorizing work and appropriations work. moreover. from 19951999 many of the riders were aimed at undermining environmental laws. to avoid returning to this practice. i support rule xvi and its prohibition against adding authorizing amendments to appropriations bills. and thus voted to oppose senator ])organs amendment. again. i state this to make clear that my vote was to uphold an important senate rule. and  to oppose senator dorgans amendment.
. i rise today to ho the life of mg john w. kiely. major general kiely was a man of exemplary service to our state and country. a veteran of three wars. he ascended to the rank of colonel. regular army as well as serving as brigadier general. national guard of rhode island. adjutant general of rhode island. and also was promoted to the grade of major general and commanding general. general kiely was a model soldier. receiving a purple heart. 2 bronze stars. valor. and 3 legions of merit. along with 22 other federal government awards and decorations. as well as the rhode island cross and the rhode island star. his military kledge and service to our nation will be dearly missed. and my deepest condolences go to mrs. marilyn l. kiely and the kiely family in their time of mourning.*
. it is with great sadness that today i reflect upon the life of joseph odonnell.  of the board of keough kirby associates. inc.. as a trustee of landmark health systems. and in other board positions for numerous business and civic organizations. as a panelist on the coffeean radio program in his later years. joe odonnell contributed his kledge of politics. his great sense of humor. and his penchant for gourmet cooking to a larger audience. his name is on the wall of ho at the marine maritime academy for outstanding lifetime achievement. and he was a recipient of the admiral joel r.p. pringle society award from the naval war college foundation in newport. it is with heavy hearts that stephanie and i send our deepest sympathies to mrs. yolande odonnell and their six children. of all his accomplishments. i k he is most proud of the closeness of his family.*
to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate had passed a joint resolution and bill of the following titles. in which the concurrence of the house is requested: s. j. res. 300. joint resolution to create a temporary national ecoic committee. and s. 2783. an act to amend the china trade act. 1922. as to the duration of the china trade act corporations. the message also annced that the senate agrees to the amendments of the house to bills of the senate of the following titles: s. 3227. an act for the relief of mr. and mrs. chester a. smith. and s. 3512. an act for the relief of elizabeth cory. the message also annced that the senate had adopted the following order: ordered. that the secretary be directed to request the house of representatives to return to the senate the bill to facilitate the control of soil erosion and flood damage originating upon lands within the exterior boundaries of the angeles national forest in the state of california. together with senate engrossed amendments thereto. the message also annced that the senate had passed without amendment bills of the house of the following titles: 0h. r. 7764. an act to authorize the sale of surplus power developed under the uncompahgre valley reclamation project. colorado. and h. r. 9258. an act to authorize the secretary of the navy to accept on behalf of the united states certain land in the city of los angeles. calif.. with improvements thereon. the message also annced that the senate agrees to the report of the committee of conference on the disagreeing votes of the two houses on the amendments of the senate to the bill entitled "an act for the relief of officers and soldiers of the volunteer service of the united states mustered into service for the war with spain and who were held in service in the philippine islands after the ratification of the treaty of peace. april 11. 1899.".
s council on youth fitness. his efforts were chiefly responsible for inspiring spontaneous youth fitness committees to spring up from coast to coast. thanks to his vigor and imagination. schoolteachers. religious leaders. parents. and business and professional leaders banded together in voluntary. independent workshops to put the fitness program into effect. radio. television. and the press give generously of time and space to publicize the work. and the idea is sballing. national youth fitness week. the first full week in may. promises to become an annual event. all 50 states have responded to dr. maccarthys call for youth fitness action--govers have convened 37 state conferences on youth fitness. this. in turn. has stimulated countless community meetings on the subject. shane maccarthys own words best illustrate the problem. and what should be done about it. to expedite our breakneck process. we have millions of miles of turnpikes for traffic. while giving little consideration to trails for humans. * * * as the human being moves up the rungs of the ladder of material progress he is prone to measure the advance by the amount of ease. comfort. and leisure he has acquired. * * * it is basic that we as citizens strongly supplement. if  replace. our present scheme of materialistic values by a rebirth of the true needs of human personality so that men and women. boys and girls. come before machines. * * the youth fitness challenge is in the way we live at home. in the educational system in the school. in the urban design of communal living. on the playground and on the sidewalk. wherever boys and girls of any age live. all of his life. this genial gentleman from cork city. ireland. by way of boston. mass.. has been actively associated with parent. youth. teacher. social. fraternal. and veteran organizations. during world war ii. he served as a lieutenant commander in the u.s. navy. he has held responsible posts in various federal agencies. and has taught the political and social sciences at georgetown university and the catholic university of america. i am proud that shane maccarthy is my friend. as he steps down from a post to which he has brought such ho. i join with the ed columnist. dr. peter j. steincrohn. in saying: never have i met a more personable and dedicated man. may he have health and vigor for many years so that he can follow through to completion the plans he has for your children and mine.
. i rise to wholeheartedly urge support of the amendment introduced by our colleague. the gentleman from wisconsin to appropriate $150.000 necessary if the u.s.s. arizona memorial at pearl harbor is to be completed by december 7. 1961. as he has so eloquently pointed out in his remarks. this memorial is more than just a monumentit is the tomb of 1.102 american navy men who gave their lives for our country in the shock attack 20 years ago. our fellow citizens have contributed more than threefifths of the total cost of this memorial. i have every confidence that the congress will  lag in approving the amount necessary for its completion. and. in so doing. i k we have the support of every american citizen. as we do so. our hearts echo the le words of thucydides: the sacrifice which they collectively made was individually repaid to them. for they received again each one for himself a praise which grows  old * * * their glory survives. and is proclaimed always and on every fitting occasion both in word and deed.  only are they commemorated by columns and inscriptions in their own country. but in foreign lands there dwells also an unwritten memorial of them. graven  on stone but in the hearts of men.
s. military leaders. scientists are among the targets of their angry polemic. i have long respected dr. riesman for his scholarship. he is a brilliant social scientist. but i fear that those who joined the riesman cult after reading "the lonely crowd" will be sorely disappointed in "the american crisis." this is  to say that i do  agree with some of the things the authors have to say: i subscribe to their major thesis-"the improvement of the american political climate" and certainly i defend their right to advance their formula for the improvement of the fabric of american society so as to permit greater political understanding and participation. i was vaguely reassured by their statement that "we are. of course.  opposed to rationality." but their treatment demonstrates a disdain for rationality. and an indifference to or an igance of the nature of communisms ideology and its clearly stated goals. equally disturbing is the authors lack of real understanding of the high purposes of our own republic. i am fully aware of the dialog that has occupied many great american minds in recent years with regard to national purpose. but i would hope that i could offer at least a brief restatement of what the vast majority of americans deem to be the rationale of the united states of america. i hope that the authors will agree with me that the united states is in business as a nation to provide an environment in which men may live in liberty and dignity with an opportunity to pursue their highest spiritual. social. cultural. ecoic. and political aspirations. i would agree with doctors reisman and maccoby that perhaps our nation is  fully achieving its purposes. but these. etheless. are. i think. the le goals to which our national existence is directed. i speak today as one as deeply concerned with the achievement of a rational peace as are the ed authors of "the american crisis." i speak as one who spent a number of years on the faculty of one of our great american universities. i speak as a cosponsor of the bill to create the arms control agency. enacted by this congress last year. i speak as one who testified in favor of the bill before the house foreign affairs committee. anticipating the need for greater public understanding of the terrible problems that the prospect of nuclear war creates. but i say to dr. reisman and dr. maccoby that in order to create the political milieu in which alternatives may be effectively discussed they must first gain the confidence of the american people. this can be done by completely iging the essential fact of the cold war and of the nuclear age: the dedication of the communist world to enslave freemen. on the one hand. the authors. to whom is available the entire history of the communist movement. insist that the communist leaders. from marx and engels to khrushchev and mao. are  to be believed when they proclaim as their goal the total victory of communism. on the other hand. they contend that somehow they are men to be credited with the same standards of decency. integrity. and justice that govern freemen. they say. "it is wrong to insist that one must choose between slavery or freedom." but they ige the fact that that is exactly the choice world communism offers. they say that some americans put "full blame on the russians." but they refuse to remember that every tension. every crisis. has come about because of the belligerence of communist leaders. i was troubled. too. by the statement that "as the cold war continues. it becomes increasingly difficult for decent americans. humane egh to prefer peace to an egocentric national ho. to be outspoken and genuinely anticommunist." i honestly believe that the overwhelming majority of decent and humane americans are anticommunist. and will remain so. proudly and confidently. so long as communism remains a threat to the peace. freedom. and justice of the world. they will remain so. in spite of their preference for peace. until it has been demonstrated that the communist world has given up its imperialistic ambitions. but. let me return to the authors main thesis. i find it difficult to understand their political paraa. without taking anything away from the british. i think it is more difficult for a man. fired with honesty and conviction. to discuss alternatives to nuclear war in the united states than it is in the united kingdom. i do  believe that the american people are less interested. less aware. less intelligent. less objective. or less concerned than are their british cousins. if the words of the left are  heeded. perhaps the fault lies with them. perhaps the contempt which some spokesmen of the left have for many aspects of american life and for many personalities on the american scene has caused an erosion of public confidence in their proncements. perhaps the failure of the left fully to understand the basic ingredients of the cold war equation has cast doubt on the validity of their conclusions. the united states has. again and again. demonstrated its disposition to negotiate. its willingness to work toward a program for meaningful arms control. i. for one. hope that these efforts will continue. but i hope. too. that those americans whose intellectual achievements guarantee their words wide circulation. will take a second look at the history of the last 20 years. it was bernard baruch who said: every man has a right to his own opinion. but man has a right to be wrong in his facts. as the authors said: human reason. slender threat though it be. is the thread on which our hopes hang. but let them k that reason. matter how perfect. applied to faulty facts can but lead to error. let us hope that the democrats who control this administration and this congress will  be seduced. the road of error is  the road to peace.
ial unit citation badge. this. indeed. was "the glory that was hers." her retirement from active service closes a long and proud history of one of the most powerful ships in the u.s. navy. it is my sincere hope that the navy department will see fit to annce soon that a new and powerful unit of the fleet will continue to carry the name of the great state of massachusetts so that the tradition. valor. and history of its predecessors will live on. the minutemen of 1776 will ever be on the alert against those who would attempt to trample that liberty which has been purchased and kept by the blood and sweat of those who have served on the u.s.s. massachusetts. her namesakes preceding her. those who will carry her great name. and in all the armed services.
i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the gentleman from maryland on what i deem to be a kledgeable and reassuring reply to the uninformed charges that have been made with respect to our antisubmarine defense. the gentleman from maryland. who had a distinguished naval career in world war ii. has today revealed himself as a scholar of naval science. and i think he has made a able contribution.
. the bill before us today provides a much needed missing link in our medical treatment of american veterans. as a former deputy administrator of the veterans administration. i am familiar with the high quality of care. and treatment afforded our veterans under present law. but i am also familiar with the fact that we are lacking in adequate intermediate care for the veteran who has received all he can from a veterans hospital. but is still unable to care for himself completely. by providing an additional 2.000 nursing home care beds. this legislation will insure that the veteran is helped along the road to complete recovery. this will  only aid the individual veteran. but will cut down on the number of serious relapses due to inadequate posthospital care that would make new demands on the veterans hospitals. i urge the adoption of this legislation.
. it has come to my attention that there exists a severe inequity between the retirement benefits available to amputee veterans of world war n and those who retired since the passage of the career compensation act in 1949. the act provided for the retirement of amputee veterans. thus entitling them to receive all benefits available to other retired officers. including commissary privileges and hospitalization for themselves and their dependents. world war ii amputees. however. were medically discharged. thus they receive veterans administration compensation but  retirement benefits. i am introducing legislation today to correct this inequity. the defense department has recognized the justice of providing retirement benefits to disabled amputees since 1949. this will enable the department to extend this policy to world war ii amputees.
. the overthrow by a militarj junta of the military junta which overthrew the diem regime in south vietnam dramatizes once again the deteriorating situation in southeast asia and points up more sharply the need for hard data about the progress of the war. whether out of confusion or design the administration has issued this week alone less than three conflicting accounts of the vietnam crisis. on monday the secretary of defense reported gloomily to the house arnied services committee that the vietcong communist guerrillas have made considerable progress since the fall of the diem regime. on tuesday. the secretary told a press conference that there has been a very iceable improvement in the operations. at this point in the review. the washington post called the administration statements a retreat from candor and called for an end to the verbal ambiguity on vietnam.  to be deterred. however. the secretary told the armed services committee wednesday: the new government * * * has considerably more popular support than its predecessor and the military revolutionary committee is beginning to take action to intensify military operations and to improve civil administration. at that very moment. the military revolutionary committee was being ousted by military dissidents who accused the ruling generals of negotiating with france to neutralize vietnam. i am confused by this turn of events and i think the american people are also confused. as the washington post suggested in its editorial: isnt it time for the administration to show more faith in the intelligence and good sense of the american people. we k that some 15.500 american military troops and advisors and technicians are in south vietnam. beyond that we k little. the highly touted strategic hamlet defense system is generally agreed to be in shambles. the vietcong have made military advances in recent weeks and have killed and wounded more men and captured more weapons than the anticommunist forces. james reston put the matter well this week when he wrote that the "first casualty in every war is truth" and commented that the official statements on vietnam are "so confusing that ody can quite make out what the official view of the war actually is." i think that the congress and the people of the united states must be told the facts about the situation in vietnam. if the administration. as it increasingly appears. does  k what is going on. we must be told why we do  k. with all the americans present in the country. with a direct line from saigon to washington. someone must have the facts and they should be presented clearly and objectively if the administration expects to retain support for its operations in vietnan. under unanimous consent. i include the post editorial of wednesday. january 29. and the column of james reston which appeared in the new york times and the boston heraldtraveler of the same date in the record. [from the washington (d.c.) post. jan. 29. 19641
. i share the shock and grief of other members of the house at the passing of melvin d. eddy. national commander of the veterans of world war i. as deputy administrator of veterans affairs and as a member of congress. i had frequent contacts with mr. eddy and found him always a gentleman. always concerned with the welfare of veterans of all wars. although his primary activities were on behalf of the veterans of world war i. mr. eddy was an active member of the american legion and the veterans of foreign wars. long active in massachusetts veterans affairs. mr. eddy was a wellkn figure and his untiring effort on behalf of veterans was kn all over the commonwealth. i was proud to call melvin eddy my friend and i share the grief of his wife and family on this sad day. he leaves a le legacy of public service that will  be forgotten.
. i k of a great many deserving individuals who suffered great loss during the horrible years of world war ii who are ineligible to receive compensation merely because of the establishment of an arbitrary date. they are individuals who have made outstanding contributions to our country. i hope that the judiciary committee will act promptly to make these important changes in the war claims act. similar legislation has been introduced in the other body and its sponsors are doing their best to secure action in that chamber as well.
in this regard. let me say to the gentleman that an explanation of the failure was made but it did  seem to me to be a satisfactory explanation. however. i point out to the gentleman that in my view. the two situations are somewhat differentthe october 1962 missile crisis and the present dominican situation. however. i do feel strongly. as the gentleman does. that it would have been proper and feasible to have ified the oas before the troops landed. the second criticism to which the administration has responded is that there should have been unilateral u.s. intervention. in this regard. let me make it clear that we do  dispute the necessity of the intervention. we agree that the united states. indeed any nation. would be justified in extending protection to their own citizens who are in danger in foreign uprisings. we also agree that in view of the statements made by the president as to the imminence of a communist takeover. our action. the action of the united states. was a necessary response. third. the administration claims that its critics have attacked american actions on the ground that there was need for such a large force of more than 20.000 marines and paratroopers in the dominican republic. we do  criticize the number of troops. rather we criticize the failure of the administration properly to explain to the american people and to the world why that number was necessary. last. a criticism which is referred to in this article is that the intervention was impulsive. it is  our suggestion that the intervention was impulsive. quite to the contrary. we indicate that the action was justified and certainly immediate action was essential if the lives of american citizens were to be protected. so with this background.  kennedy was able to secure oas support for the naval quarantine in the 1962 cuban missile crisis in less than 24 hours. it is clear that the administration could  have waited this long in the current crisis. but. at the very least. it could have informed the oas of its intentions before they were implemented. the oas could have been told that we were going to send the marines in. that we would prefer to wait for an oas decision but time did  allow. and that we hoped that a force authorized by the oaswhich in all likelihood would have included u.s. forcescould assume responsibility at the earliest possible moment. this course might  have been fully satisfactory either. but it would have provided evidence of our good intentions. the course the administration followed seemed. to many latin americans. tantamount to saying to the rest of the hemisphere that we did  really care what they thought.
. i rise in support of s. 944 as reported by the house merchant marine and fisheries committee. in my judgment. this legislation will put the efforts of the federal government. in cooperation with private industry and the universities. in the field of marine sciences on a par with those in space and related techogies. the advances that have been made in developing our kledge about the seas around us have been tremendous. few americans realize that 20 federal departments. agencies and bureaus are spending more than $140 million on these studies. the work of the navy has been particularly outstanding. just a few weeks ago we had a dramatic demonstration of the state of our kledge in this field with the successful aqualab experiments off the coast of california. one of the imperatives of modern civilization must be to maximize the effective and prudent use of all our resources. human and physical. we have barely tapped the wealth of resources of our ocean floors. biological. geological. and chemical. any effort on the part of the federal government must have unity. proper coordination. sufficient impetus and maximum utilization of funds. in my judgment the creation of the proposed commission. composed  only of appropriate governmental officials. but industrial and academic experts as well will be most beneficial. in my testimony before the house merchant marine committee. i cited the comments of dr. harold e. edgerton. a distinguished professor of electrical measurements at mit and chairman of the board of the firm of edgerton. germeshausen & grier. who is convinced that the high quality of work  being done by industry and the universities assures the government of effective and enthusiastic cooperation. in his judgment. "a strong national commitment to ocearaphy would certainly be a step down the road" to that effective usage of resources of which i spoke. i hope that the house will approve this legislation and thereby affirm the conviction of the congress that the development of our kledge of the marine sciences is deserving of priority attention.
. as do many who warmly support the war on poverty. i welcome the news that its outstanding director. sargent shriver. will be devoting full time to the office of ecoic opportunity. in the year and a half that mr. shriver has been directing both the peace corps and the war on poverty. it has been abundantly clear that his record has been replete with tremendous accomplishments. in a nation once apathetic to the plight of the invisible poor. today poverty is an issue in every city and hamlet of this nation. the new hopes and new programs for the betterment of our society have infused the thinking of concerned citizens and leaders everywhere with a new and positive vigor. most encouraging is that among the most constructive voices are the voices of the poor themselves. already taking their places in the society once closed to them. it is hard to imagine that any man could have done more to provide leadership for this immense and inspiring effort. yet we k that sargent shriver will do more. he ks other measure of effort than the fullest and expects as much from all who serve the nation. it is fitting. i believe. that i take this opportunity to thank mr. shriver for his brilliant leadership of the peace corps and to assure him that we who passed the law that declared war on poverty remain committed to its aims and confident in the leadership he is providing.
. i am pleased to join with my colleagues today in commemorating the 34th anniversary of the congressional charter for the disabled american veterans. as a former deputy administrator of veterans affairs from 1958 to 1960. it was my pleasure to work with the dav and its officials and i have always been impressed with their diligent and comprehensive devotion to the interests of our disabled war veterans and their families. the dav has seen its mandate as the provision of service to our disabled veterans. it has fulfilled this role with distinction in a partisan spirit of helpfulness. its leaders have been men of character and integrity. men like the present national commander claude l. callegary. our colleague. the gentleman from indiana . and my good friend judge david williams. of concord. mass. they have served their fellow veterans with a spirit that is in the highest national tradition of civic responsibility. it was a wise act of the 72d congress in 1934 to approve the charter incorporating the disabled american veterans. an organization that had already been in existence for 15 years in the interests of the disabled veterans of world war i. i am proud to join today in commemorating the anniversary of that legislative action. i k all of us here in the house have every confidence that the dav will continue its remarkable success in the future.
. nationalism exists in varying types and levels throughout the world. it is a highly elastic term but one becoming increasingly common in explaining the problems we face today in our foreign relations. for these reasons it is important  only that we recognize its importance but that we understand it in the proper perspective as we reconsider our policies. there is a great deal of ambivalence about nationalism in american attitudes. particularly in relation to the vehemence of de gaulles nationalism. its infectiousness in europe. and the nato crisis. we seem to have been puzzled. if  hurt. by what seems to be a defection on the part of our allies. this is  the time for reaction. however. but a time for taking initiatives. it is a time for understanding the reasons. an article in the september issue of fortune magazine. by max ways. entitled "europes new nationalism" is an extraordinarily perceptive. sensitive. and sensible analysis of the situation. such thinking is necessary. i feel. in our efforts to reaffirm the close ties of the atlantic alliance. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
. on sunday. may 21. the national broadcasting co. televised an hourlong "conversation with gov. averell harriman." although gover harrimans service to the nation is well kn and universally respected. few of us are really aware of how intimately he has been associated with nearly every major diplomatic decision. and crisis of world war ii and the postwar period. among his attributes as a statesman. a distinguished ambassador. and an effective international negotiator. gover harriman is a committed partisan of his political party. a number of his comments during the conversation reflect that party loyalty. nevertheless. his comments have the ring of personal recollection and will be an important source for historians of the period. in that spirit. i include the text of govers harrimans conversation with nbc newsmen joseph c. harsch. chet huntley. and ray scherer in the congres-
. i sincerely regret that the distinguished majority leader has left the floor of the chamber. as i said earlier. i was pleased that he took the time to respond to an address that had  yet been delivered on the floor of the house. and i am grateful. as my colleagues are. for the qualified endorsement which the distinguished majority leader. speaking i presume. for the administration. made to the proposal that i shall set forth  on behalf of several of my colleagues on the miity sidethe gentleman from oregon . the gentleman from michigan [mr. eschi. the gentleman from new york . the gentleman from maryland . the gentleman from ohio . the gentleman from pennsylvania . and the gentleman from vermont . i would also like to call the attention of the majority leader to the fact that my colleagues and i. who have worked on this proposal for several months. have alreadyin a spirit of what i deem to be responsible concernmade our proposal available to the administration several weeks ago. it is disturbing to us that the recent public discussion of the war in vietnam has polarized into rigidly opposing sides. the one urging military escalation in the hope of a quick settlement of the war. the other urging total withdrawal or complete cessation of bombing in the th as the only key to peace. both of these points of view. in our judgment. reflect their advocates lack of understanding of the nature of limited war. in addition. they are essentially negative and do  offer any positive approach to the tragic problems of southeast asia. what both sets of critics have forgotten is that the conflict in vietnam is a limited war. this fact imposes special requirements  only on our military planning but on our diplomatic efforts as well. we do  for a moment believe that the proposal we will make later in these remarks is the only hope for settlement. but we do think that discussion of the kind of diplomatic initiative we will suggest would contribute to a more balanced appraisal of our problems and perils in vietnam.
. i thank the gentleman from new york for his comments and i would like to ackledge the significant contribution that the gentleman has made in the preparation of the proposal which we jointly make to the house today. making the cessation a pause minimizes its risk and its effectiveness. too. the only positive value a sudden and complete cessation of the bombing of th vietnam would have would come if the bombing were stopped for such a long time that th vietnam became convinced of the genuine nature of u.s. motives and had the opportunity to make a diplomatic initiative of its own which would appear to be unrelated to the bombing cessation and would thereby  cause any loss of face to the ha government. but in all likelihood the period of time required would be so long as to involve serious military risks in allowing the reestablishment of freeflowing supply and support channels to the south. in other words. a complete bombing pause would  prove the genuine sincerity of the united states while a complete bombing cessation long egh to prove the genuine sincerity of the united states would involve a great military risk to the united states. in still other words. a complete bombing pause would  prove the genuine sincerity of the united states but a complete bombing cessation long egh to prove the genuine sincerity of the united states would  in any way assure the genuine sincerity of th vietnam. it might. therefore. prove to be a greater impetus to instability than to stability. while the administration rejects both of these suggestions from its two sets of critics. its position is also a dubious one it is an attitude which may reflect a misunderstanding of the nature of limited war. for it asks the enemy to risk losing face. the administration insists on publicly putting the government of th vietnam on the spot by insisting that she back down first. it is a position which comes dangerously close to changing the atmosphere of restraint to an atmosphere of powerand a limited war can stay limited or be ended in an atmosphere of power. significant military escalation. sudden and complete cessation of the bombing of th vietnam. and a rigid devotion to the status quo all fail to meet the limited war criteria of a promising policy to bring about hoable negotiations to end the war in vietnam. does a viable policy option exist. to qualify such a policy must meet the following criteria: it must  risk expansion of the limited war to total war. it must  risk significant erosion of the current military advantage of the united states in vietnam. it must induce a growing atmosphere of mutual confidence. it must permit each side the opportunity to claim initiative. it must  require either side to "lose face." it must be susceptible to presentation. verification. and implementation through the private channels of diplomacy.
. i am glad the distinguished chairman of the committee on armed services could take part in this debate. as i said before. if after the first 60day period the th vietnamese have  taken any step toward deescalation. then the bombing could be resumed. and the plan would come to an end. but if something were forthcoming of a meaningful. verifiable. and measurable nature. then in five successive steps the united states would gradually cease all bombing of th vietnam. each step after the first being dependent upon similar and comparable deescalation by ha.
it may well be. . but i think that those who advocate total intensification of the military effort overlookas i sought to point out in my prefatory remarksthe fact that this is a limited war and that it is in the national interest of the united states that it remain so.
i certainly do . as i sought to make clear to the chairman of the house armed services committee. i believe those who advocate an intensification of the escalatory effort overlook the fact that we do have a limited war situation. and it is in the interest of the united states to keep it as such.
. on july 10. last monday. on behalf of myself and seven of my colleagues. i delivered a detailed proposal for a reciprocal graduated deescalation of the war in vietnam. starting with a first step of the united states in halting bombing in th vietnam th of the 21st parallel for a period of 60 days. i spoke at that time on behalf of the gentleman from oregon . the gentleman from michigan [mr. eschi. the gentleman from new york . the gentleman from maryland . the gentleman from ohio . the gentleman from pennsylvania . and the gentleman from vermont [mr.
i thank the scholarly gentleman from oregon. i would like to add that the 36day pause in december 1965january 1966 certainly offered a better hope of securing a positive response. but here. too. the motives of the united states might well have been obscure to the th vietnamese: was it a trick. was it a sign of weakness. furthermore. it offered the th vietnamese  just the opportunity to make their own peace initiative. but it also offered them an opportunity to gain military advantage by increasing supplies to the south. and. as we k. they chose the latter course. finally. it should be recalled that the administration expected from ha a giant response to its own giant. initiative. in effect. ha was asked to end support of the south in one dramatic step just as we had "ended" bombing the th. in one dramatic step. but did ha have egh reason to believe u.s. sincerity to justify such a major change in policy. on july 10 we wrote: a complete bombing pause would  prove the genuine sincerity of the united states while a complete bombing cessation long egh to prove the genuine sincerity of the united states would involve a great military risk to the united states. in still other words. a complete bombing pause would  prove the genuine sincerity of the united states but a complete bombing cessation long egh to prove the genuine sincerity of the united states would  in any way assure the genuine sincerity of th vietnam. it might. therefore. prove to be a greater impetus to instability than to stability. our proposal for graduated deescalation of the bombing in the th. by stopping it in stages starting th of the 21st parallel. involves such major military risk. it does  assume th vietnamese sincerity. it requires proof in the form of reciprocal deescalatory steps. the military risks involved come only when the bombing is halted in southern th vietnam where the supply routes are concentratedand by that time the th vietnamese would have had to demonstrate their own genuine interest in deescalation by verifiable steps of their own. thus. the plan protects american military forces by  envisaging a full cessation of bombing in th vietnam until there is clear * evidence in the acts of ha that a cessation would  merely increase th vietnamese supplies to the south. but our proposal has aher very relev vant and significant feature. it does  ask of either side a giant step toward peacea step so large that neither government could take it without great risk. it asks only small steps. taken one at a time. through which mutual confidence can grow. it does  say we will stop the bombing and you stop the support of the south. it says rather. let us take it slowly. we will stop part of the bombing and you respond with a similarly small identifiable step. the cumulative effect may be that giant progress is madebut it can be expected to come in one single dramatic act before any mutual confidence has been established. as we wrote on july 10: the best chance for peace lies  in giant power or giant concessions. it lies in small steps. taken quietlysteps that make the position of each side credible to the other.
. last thursday i inserted in the record several editorials commenting on the proposal put forward a week ago today by eight republican members of the house for a staged deescalation of the war in vietnam. since that time. my colleagues and i have been made aware of additional favorable comments in some of the nations leading newspapers. i include at this point in the record editorials from the chicago daily news. the st. louis postdispatch. the cleveland plain dealer. the easton. pa.. express. and the adrian. mich.. daily telegram. [from the chicago daily news. july 13. 1967]
. although it is  a memorial formally adopted by the oregon state legislature. i have received a memorial petition signed by a great many members of the oregon state legislature. i think it deserves the attention of the congress because it deals with an aspect of the war in vietnam that congress and the american people have preferred to ige ever since our involvement began. it concerns the children born in vietnam of asian mothers and american fathers. the situation there is reminiscent of that which prevailed for many years in korea. and still causes considerable anguish in that country. harry holt. of creswell. oreg.. undertook a magnificent program to bring these orphans of american fathers back to the united states for adoption. mr. holts program was remarkably successful. yet similar program has been undertaken for the vietnam war orphans. in order that this subject may receive some thought on the part of the congress and the american public. i ask unanimous consent that the memorial. which was introduced in the oregon legislature. be printed in the record.
. together with my seven republican colleagues who proposed a mutual. gradual deescalation of the war in vietnam on july 10. i continue to be gratified by the heartening response we have received from the editorial pages of the nations press. today i include for the record four. editorials which have appeared in massachusetts in the past few weeks in the andover townsman. the merrimack valley advertiser. the berkshire eagle. and the holyoke daily transcript: [from the andover (mass.) townsman]
. i call the attention of the house to additional expressions of editorial interest and support for the proposal for a gradual. mutual deescalation of the war in vietnam put forward by eight republican members on july 10. 1 include editorials from the pueblo. colo.. star journal. the waterbury. conn.. republican. the des moines. iowa. tribune. the iowa city press citizen. the wichita eagle. and the idaho falls post register: [from the pueblo (colo.) starjournal. july 14. 1967]
. in continuing to call the attention of the house to the favorable editorial support for the july 10 proposal of eight house republicans for the gradual. reciprocal. deescalation of the war in vietnam. i include for the record today editorials from the belleville. ill.. news democrat. the new alabany. ind.. tribune. the newton. iowa. news. the carroll. iowa. times herald. the somerset. ky.. commonwealthjournal. the corbin. ky.. sunday times. and the bowling green. ky.. park city news: [from the newsdemocrat. belleville. ill..
. i continue to call the attention of my colleagues to the favorable editorial comment on the proposal put forward on july 10 by eight republican members for the gradual. reciprocal deescalation of the war in vietnam. today i include editorials from the niagara falls gazette. the ithaca. n.y.. journal. the jackson. mich.. citizen patriot. the owosso. mich.. arguspress.. the lynn. mass.. daily evening item. and the attleboro. mass.. sun. [from the niagara falls (n.y.) gazette.
. i continue to call the attention of the house to the favorable editorial response that greeted the proposal of eight house republicans on july 10 for the gradual. reciprocal deescalation of the war in vietnam. i include in the record today editorials from the troy. n.y.. record. the keene. n.h.. sentinel. the st. paul. minn.. dispatch. the suffolk. n.y.. sun. and the auburn. n.y.. citizen advertiser: [from the troy (n.y.) times record.
. i continue to call the attention of the house to the favorable editorial comment that the july 10 gradual. reciprocal deescalation of the conflict in vietnam put forward by eight republican members has received around the country. today i include for the record. editorials from the harlan. ky.. enterprise. the middleboro. ky.. news. the east liverpool. ohio. review. the- portsmouth. ohio. times. the salisbury. n.c.. evening post. and the bismarck. n. dak.* tribune: [from the harlan. ky.. enterprise. to escalate on to deescalate. "we are winning the warbut ...." was the message given to robert mcnamara by field commanders during the ninth visit by the secretary of defense to vietnam. the "but" translates into a call for still more troopsperhaps 100.000to be added to the 466.000 there at present. this number we are told. is the minimum needed to complete the job begun by a relative handful of american advisors only a few short years ago. yet behind the  somewhat guarded and muted predictions of eventual victory for the cause of democracy lies the sobering belief of the generals that this many troops -will be required solely to keep us on top of the viet cong and th vietnamese during the coming months. for the fact is that escalation has been met by escalation since the beginning. communist troop strength is higher than it has ever been. despite the bombing of th vietnam and everincreasing battle losses. mcnamara described more than the immediate situation when he said at da nang. "our casualties are high but we have also inflicted high casualties on th vietnamese army units." what he described was the situation as -it was in 1965 and 1966 and as it is likely to be in 1968. only the numbers have been changedfor the higher. it is often forgotten that escalation is  the prerogative only of this country. options open to the communists include a stepup of terrorist bombings in saigon and other south vietnamese cities. the infiltration in even greater numbers of the large th vietnamese standing army. the use of communist "volunteers" from other countries. the opening of diversionary action in korea. this was emphasized by eight republican congressmen the other day as they introduced a scheme for a deescalation of the war that would steer a middle course between "those who would bomb more and those who would bomb less." representatives morse of massachusetts. dellenback of oregon. each of michigan. horton of new york. mathias of maryland. mosher of ohio. schweiker of pennsylvania and stafford of vermont propose a halt to all bombing in th vietnam th of the 21st parallel for 60 days. this would exempt the city of ha but  the port of haiphong. if the th vietnamese responded with a similar deescalatory step. such as dismantling major supply depots along the ho chi minh trail. the united states would then end all bombing th of the 20th parallel for a like 60day periodand so on down in five steps until the 17th parallel dividing th and south vietnam was reached. the staged deescalation plan would produce a growing atmosphere of mutual confidence. think the congressmen. its virtue is that most military targets are in southern th vietnam. thus should the th vietnamese fail to respond to the first bombing limitation. bombing could be resumed th of the 21st parallel without having caused the military effort in south vietnam any disadvantage. would such a plan work. the congressmen honestly dont k. their proposal is put forth  as a panacea for vietnam but in the belief that the best chance for peace lies in small steps. taken quietly. that make the position of each side credible to the other. that we are willing to invest aher 100.000 men in vietnam is probably quite credibleand acceptableto ha. that we are ready to deescalate by small steps. however. is something that does  seem to have been made as credible to them as it might be. [from the middlesboro (ky.) news.
. in continuing to call the attention of the house to the favorable editorial support for the july 10 proposal of eight house republicans for the gradual. reciprocal. deescalation of the war in vietnam. i include for the record today editorials from the easton. pa.. express. the haer. pa.. evening sun. the pottstown. pa.. mercury. the pottsville. pa.. republican. the harrisburg. pa.. patriot. the spartansburg. s.c.. journal. the mitchell. s. dak.. republic. the el paso. tex.. times. the nacogdoches. tex.. sentinel. the salt lake city. utah. tribune. and the rutland. vt.. daily herald: [from the easton (pa.) express. july 11. 1967]
. in continuing to call the attention of the house to the favorable editorial support for the july 10 proposal of eight house republicans for the gradual. reciprocal deescalation of the war in vietnam. i include for the record today editorials from the barremontpelier. vt.. times argus. the burlington. vt.. free press. the bennington. vt.. banner. the huntington. w. va.. herald dispatch. the fond du lac. wis.. commonwealth reporter. the wisconsin rapids. wis.. daily tribune. the green bay. wis.. press gazette. the milwaukee. wis.. journal. and the racine. wis.. journal times: [from the barremontpelier (vt.) timesargus. july 12. 1967]
. i continue to call the attention of the house to the favorable editorial support for the july 10 proposal of eight house republicans for the gradual. reciprocal. deescalatlon of the war in vietnam. i include for the record today editorials from the fort madison. iowa. democrat. the washington.. d.c.. post. the nation. wcbs editorial broadcast. and the des moines. iowa. register: [from the fort madison (iowa) democrat. to escalata on deescalate. "we are winning the warbut .... "was the message given to robert mcnamara by field commanders during the ninth visit by the secretary of defense to vietnam. the "but" translates into a call for still more troopsperhaps 100.000to be added to the 466.000 there at present. this number. we are told. is the minimum needed to complete the job begun by a relative handful of american advisors only a few short years ago. yet behind the  somewhat guarded and muted predictions of eventual victory for the cause of democracy lies the sobering belief of the generals that this many troops will be required solely to keep us on top of the viet cong and th vietnamese during the coming months. for the fact is that escalation has been met by escalation since the beginning. communist troop strength is higher than it has ever been. despite the bombing of th vietnam and everincreasing battle losses. mcnamara described more than the immediate situation when he said at da nang: "our casualties are high but we have also inflicted high casualties on th vietnamese army units." what he described was the situation as it was in 1965. and 1966 and as it is likely to be in 1968. only the numbers have been changedfor the higher. it is often forgotten that escalation is  the prerogative only of this country. options open to the communists include a stepup of terrorist bombing in saigon and other south vietnamese cities. the infiltration in even greater numbers of the large th vietnamese standing army. the use of communist "volunteers" from other countries. the opening of diversionary action in korea. this was emphasized by eight republican congressmen the other day as they introduced a scheme for a deescalation of the war that would steer a middle course between "those who would bomb more and those who would bomb less." representatives morse of massachusetts. dellenback of oregon. esch of michigan. horton of new york. mathias of maryland. mosher of ohio. schwelker of pennsylvania and stafford of vermont propose a halt to all bombing in th vietnam th of the 21st parallel for 60 days. this would exempt the city of ha but  the port of haiphong. if the th vietnamese responded with .a similar deescalatory step. such as dismantling major supply depots along the ho chli minh trail. the united states would then end all bombing th of the 20th parallel for a like 60day period--and so on down in five steps until the 17th parallel dividing th and south vietnam was reached..the staged deescalation plan would produce a growing atmosphere of mutual confidence. think the congressmen. its virtue is that most military targets are in southern th vietnam. thus. should the th vietnamese fail to respond to the first bombing limitation. bombing could be resumed th of the 21st parallel without having caused the military effort in south vietnam any disadvantage. would such a plan work. the congressmen honestly dont k. their proposal is put forth  as a panacea for vietnam but in the belief that the best chance for peace lies in small steps. taken quietly. that make the position of each side credible to the other. that we are willing to invest aher 100.000 men in vietnam is probably quite credibleand acceptableto ha. that we are ready to deescalate by small steps. however. is something that does  seem to have been made as credible to them as it might be. [from the washington (d.c.) post.
 to fulfill his. if we agreeand i think we mustthat the congress should. to an appropriate degree. influence the conduct of major foreign policy undertakings. then i think we face the question: has the congress fully exercised its role in regard to our policies in southeast asia. in particular in regard to the war in vietnam. the only direct expression of the congress on the subject. as we all k. was made in the gulf of tonkin resolution on august 10. 1964. at that time. the war in south vietnam was clearly and unquestionably a vietnamese war being fought by vietnamese. today it is increasingly an american war being fought in large measure by americans. in august 1964 there were 16.300 american troops in vietnam. today. in september of 1967. there are 465.000 americans fighting in that country and more are on their way. in august 1964. american casualties in vietnam numbered 182 killed and 1.909 wounded. today. 37 months later. more than 13.000 american men have lost their lives in vietnam and more than 83.000 have been wounded in battle. the number of casualties mounts tragically as each day passes.
. i certainly do  pretend to the expert kledge on the seato treaty and its application to the gulf of tonkin resolution which the gentleman has. but i find his argumentand that made before the senate foreign relations committee  long agorelevant to the technical validity of the gulf of tonkin resolution. i think we ought to remind ourselves. too. that in august 1964 there was bombing in vietnam. and today. as we all k. we are bombing targets perilously close to chinese territory and soviet vessels in th vietnamese ports. many of our pilots and other servicemen are prisoners in th vietnam. there are thousands of american civilians involved in pacification efforts in that country. this. it seems to me. clearly is  the situation which was considered by the congress when it adopted the gulf of tonkin resolution in august 1964. it is a new wax. i believe. also. we ought to point out it is a new congress. there axe 123 members of this body alone who were  members of the 88th congress which passed on the august 1964 resolution and who -therefore have never had an opportunity formally to express their views in a formal consideration of the war by the congress. a little arithmetic tells us that the representatives in the 90th congress of more than 50 million people have  had an opportunity formally to vote on this most critical national issue. to suggest that this subject be raised before congress at this time is  to suggest that the will or the determination of the congress is any less than it was 3 years ago.  is it to suggest that the will of the people of our nation has diminished. but are we. in the conduct of what has become a major war. to rely forever on one resolution passed in a different time and under totally different circumstances. i personally believe it is appropriate and necessary for us to recognize that the time has come to review the situation and to review the role of the congress in it.
. the congress has received proposed legislation to extend the life of the arms control and disarmament agency for aher 3 years. this proposal comes at an auspicious time. the agency has been engaged in a major effort to obtain agreement on a treaty prohibiting the spread of nuclear weapons. a milestone in that effort was reached last week when the united states and the soviet union agreed on a complete draft proliferation treaty. including a safeguards article. the text of the draft proliferation treaty presented by the united states and the u.s.s.r. to the 18nation disarmament conference january 18 is the result of many years of persistent. patient and conscientious effort to devise an agreement which promotes the security of all mankind. as a congressional adviser to the 18nation disarmament conference. i have followed the course of these negotiations with great interest. devising a means to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons is the most urgent task of our time. the danger implicit in the indiscriminate proliferation of these weapons is clear. if we fail to continue the search for a way to contain the spread of nuclear weapons. then it will ultimately matter little what other progress we achieve. the momentum attained by agreement on a draft proliferation treaty must be sustained through continued congressional support for the operations of the arms control and disarmament agency. i sponsored a bill to establish the agency and i believe its continued pursuit of peace and security must be encouraged and supported by the congress.
. this last weekend i had the privilege of joining my friends of the merrimack valley tricommittee of the armenian revolutionary federation in massachusetts. to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the independence of armenia. in my speech. i traced the long and hard struggle of the armenian people throughout the centuries to maintain their national and cultural individuality and to gain their freedom and their sovereignty. their spirit and determination is inspiring. the existence today of the armenian revolutionary federation. and their celebration of this anniversary is a sign of the hope and the spirit that will continue. in 1965 the house of representatives commemorated the 50th anniversary of the turkish geide against the armenians in 1915. today we are commemorating the feat of those who escaped deportation. retreated to the caucauses to join their kinsmen. and formed the core of what later became the independent republic of armenia. when. in the midst of world war i peace negotiations. turkey broke the peace and pressed into the caucauses. these survivors knew they had to win or face the same fate meted out to the armenians of turkey. it was a lastditch fight. and despite the decimation of almost onehalf the nation by those same brutal forces 3 years before. the armenian people fought alone and won. on may 28. 1918. the armenian national council declared armenia an independent republic. these people had reforged armenias independence for the first time in 500 years. the independence of greater armenia. comprising both the sections that had been under russian and turkish rule. was provided for by the treaty of sevres in 1920. it was the climatic act of a long and bloody struggle for armenian emancipation. and on april 23. 1920. the united states joined in recognizing armenian independence. although only a few months later. vastly superior invading soviet forces proclaimed armenia a soviet republic. plunging the people back under a foreign ideology and foreign domination. may 28 clearly stands in the history of the armenians as a date of unsurpassable importance and as a decisive landmark. the following verse. which was printed on the program of the anniversary celebration in massachusetts. expresses the spirit which has allowed the armenian people to exist. and endure the hardships throughout the centuries. and which will allow them to continue to hope: armenia the blood that will  wash away the heart that will  go astray to many souls both brave and true that land of bright red. orange and blue stands for broken faith and broken words. but to me these thoughts do seem absurd for. pray. how can a land be betrayed when so many still in their hearts convey thoughts which bring crowned glory.  shame glory that sings and rings of past fame. name of my mothers land--sweet sorrow armenia.  lost. for theres yet tomorrow. -anne ataian. the history around that day in 1918. and the significance of may 28. 1968. 50 years laterfor all armenians and for all suppressed nations throughout the worldhas been eloquently and expertly presented in an editorial by the armenian review printed in the hairenik weekly. i consider it an ho to be able to call the attention of my colleagues to this chronicle of courage and determination and hope:
 should act to increase significantly the amount of surplus food stocks. relief moneys. combat aircraft. and such other vehicles of transportation as may be necessary for relief purposes. and that this relief assistance should be made available to and at the request of the january 23. 1969 coin organization of african unity. unicef. the international committee of the red cross. and such other suitable religious and charitable relief agencies  or hereafter operating in the area with the consent of the responsible authorities. and (2) that the government of the united states should solicit the cooperation of other nations in this humanitarian effort. over 100 members of the house have indicated their support in this endeavor to congressman don fraser and myself. as chief sponsors of this resolution in the house. it is our hope that. through this action. the united states can work toward fulfilling its humanitarian obligations while avoiding the diplomatic and military pitfalls of direct involvement in the war itself. and the cold war polemics that paralyze more effective action by the u.n. i am pleased to annce that 52 members of the senate joined an identical resolution introduced into that body yesterday. the house sponsors of the bill include: brock adams. democrat. of washington. joseph p. addabbo. democrat. of new york. john b. anderson. republican. of illis. leslie c. arends. republican. of illis. thomas l. ashley. democrat. of ohio. edward g. biester. jr.. republican. of pennsylvania. jonathan b. bingham. democrat. of new york. john a. blatnik. democrat. of minnesota. edward p. boland. democrat. of massachusetts. richard bolling. democrat. of missouri. john brademas. democrat. of indiana. william s. broomfield. republican. of michigan. george e. brown. jr.. democrat. of california. john buchanan. republican. of alabama. phillip burton. democrat. of california. daniel e. button. republican. of new york. shirley chisholm. democrat. of new york. barber b. conable. jr.. republican. of new york. silvio 0. conte. republican. of massachusetts. john conyers. jr.. democrat. of michigan. james c. corman. democrat. of california. john c. culver. democrat. of iowa dominick v. daniels. democrat. ol new jersey. harold d. doue. democrat. ol massachusetts. john j. duncan. republican. of tennessee. don edwards. democrat. of california. jack edwards. republican. of ala. bama. marvin l. esch. republican. of michigan. dante b. fascell. democrat. of florida. hamilton fish. jr.. republican. of new york. thomas s. foley. democrat. of washington. donald m. fraser. democrat. of minnesota. peter h. b. frelinghuysen. republican. of new jersey. richard fulton. democrat. of tennessee. robert n. giaimo. democrat. of connecticut. jacob h. gilbert. democrat. of new york. william j. green. democrat. of pennsylvania. gilbert gude. republican. of maryland. seymour halpern. republican. of new york. lee h. hamilton. democrat. of indiana. james m. hanley. democrat. of new york. julia butler hansen. democrat. of washington. william d. hathaway. democrat. of maine. ken hechler. democrat. of west virginia. margaret m. heckler. republican. of massachusetts. floyd v. hicks. democrat. of washington. lawrence j. hogan. republican. of maryland. frank horton. republican. of new york. andrew jacobs. jr.. democrat. of indiana. harold t. johnson. democrat. of california. joseph e. karth. democrat. of minnesota. robert w. kastenmeier. democrat. of wisconsin. hastings keith. republican. of massachusetts. edward i. koch. democrat. of new york. donald e. lukens. republican. of ohio. paul n. mccloskey. jr.. republican. of california. joseph m. mcdade. republican. of pennsylvania. martin b. mckneally. republican. of new york. catherine may. republican. of washington. thomas j. meskill. republican. of connecticut. abner j. mikva. democrat. of illis. joseph g. minish. democrat. of new jersey. patsy t. mink. democrat. of hawaii. chester l. mize. republican. of kansas. william s. moorhead. democrat. of pennsylvania. f. bradford morse. republican. of massachusetts. charles a. mosher. republican. of ohio. william t. murphy. democrat. of illis. lucien n. nedzi. democrat. of michigan. james 0. ohara. democrat. of michgan. thomas p. oneill. jr.. democrat. of massachusetts. richard l. ottinger. democrat. of new york. claude pepper. democrat. of florida. bertram l. podell. democrat. of new york. tom railsback. republican. of illis. thomas m. rees. democrat. of california. ogden r. reid. republican. of new york. henry s. reuss. democrat. of wisconsin. howard w. robison. republican. of new york. peter w. rodi jr.. democrat. of new jersey. fred b. rooney. democrat. of pennsylvania. benjamin s. rosenthal. democrat. of new york. philip e. ruppe. republican. of michigan. william f. ryan. democrat. of new york. fernand j. st germain. democrat. of rhode island. herman t. schneebeli. republican. of pennsylvania. fred schwengel. republican. of iowa. robert t. stafford. republican. of vermont. j. william stanton. republican. of ohio. louis stokes. democrat. of ohio. robert taft. jr.. republican. of ohio. charles m. teague. republican. of california. frank thompson. jr.. democrat. of new jersey. robert 0. tiernan. democrat. of rhode island. john v. tunney. democrat. of california. morris k. udall. democrat. of arizona. charles a. vanik. democrat. of ohio. jerome r. waldie. democrat. of california. lowell p. weicker. jr.. republican. of connecticut. g. william whitehurst. republican. of virginia. lawrence g. williams. republican. of pennsylvania. charles h. wilson. democrat. of california. lester l. wolff. democrat. of new york. john w. wydler. republican. of new york. sidney r. yates. democrat. of illis.
. throughout torial for july 16 states his conclusion. the hours of july 20 and july 21. most of he recognizes the state of international the world watched what is probably one politics for what it is: a balance of terror of the* most spectacular events in the maintaining the peace. and nuclear history of mankindthe lunar landing terror at that. he feels it is sensible. at of the crew of apollo 11. scientists from the very least. to keep the balanceand all nations will benefit from the infor- the peaceby constructing the safemation they bring back with them. the guard. entire world waited with shared antici- the editorial is well reasoned and well pation and common hope for their safe written. i draw it respectfully to the return. for one moment in a world of attention of my colleagues in the condivisiveness. on an earth marked by gress as a very good indication of what boundaries. natural and man made. sep- thoughtful persons in the th country arated into societies which differ by are thinking about the abm decision. .and customs. which is coming rapidly to a fateful language. culture. race. an utmclimax. and rent by rivalries and mistrust. we themar have been able to join together to thrill the article follows: in the realization of a centuriesold reluctant "yes" on abm dream. perhaps by the time this reaches print. the world beyond our world has for the congress will have decided on the burnhundreds of years provoked the curiosity ing question of the a.b.m. "safeguard" or. as senator aiken suggests. some workable and stirred the imagination of men from compromise will have been reached. along all walks of life. from all nations. of all with just about everybody. else. (including beliefs. symbolically. we have all looked undoubtedly. congressmen and senators. upward as we have joined together in themselves). we have been much troubled spirit to share the anxiety. the hope and by this particular question. the joy of the apollo 11 journey. finally. trying to think it through as logialthough we bring our eyes downward cally as possible. we have reached the conas it returns to earth. we should  let clusion that this limited antimissile system. designed solely to protect our "second this spirit. and the hope it can hold for strike" potential. is justified. justified. that the future of all mankind both on this is. if you can justify anything which conearth and beyond. diminish. i am templates the unleashing of forces more pleased. therefore. to join my colleague than sufficient to cause millions of deaths from massachusetts. hastings keith. in if  destroy the earth itself. calling for steps which will allow and in fact. right there lies the heart of the encourage the joint effort of all nations dilemma. bacteriological warfare. strikes with nuclear warheadsits all terrible. but in the future exploration of space so is war itself. and where do you draw the frontiers. line. to us. the parallel keeps occurring that  only will the combined kledge both sides had poison gas during the world and. capabilities for the techogically war ii. but  even the german madmen advanced nations in a comprehensive in their final gotterdammerung dared to space program allow greater progress in use it. along the same lines. given the prefacing the problems of space. but the hiroshima days all over again. one wonders process of sharing the burden as well as whether our own authorities would ever have fired the first atomic bomb. the glory of the conquest of space will treaties and diplomatic niceties dont also create a basis of communication and seem to mean much any more. and neither cooperation which could be aplilied to does disarmament unless and until we reach the more earthly problems of our world. that utopian age when  just one power. the moon was a common goal. it. and but all of them. will scrap their arms and the vastness of space beyond. are a forget about national boundaries. that day common frontier as yet untouched by is far away. and in the meantime we have national rivalries. and we should make reluctantly concluded that the a.b.m. system is a necessary adjunct to preserving the every effort to keep it that way. house nuclear standoff which is the only thing concurrent resolution 305 is a vital keeping the big powers from each others and significant step in this direction. throats right .
. barratt ohara experienced more of the history of this nation than most men. indeed. he played a far greater role in its development than most. we who were privileged to serve with him knew him  only as the oldest member of the house and the only spanish war veteran in the congress. but as a dedicated. thoughtful. and compassionate public servant who contributed  only to the needs within this country. but as well to our understanding of the peoples of other nations. as a member of his subcommittee. i was privileged to k him as a distinguished scholar in african affairs. and as a concerned human being. barratt ohara had the wisdom born of native intelligence. the sagacity born of time. and the perceptivity and understanding that comes from vast and richly varied human experience. and he put his kledge and ability to work for the good of the nation and the world. he will be sorely missed by us all.
. i am glad to be able to join my colleagues today in speaking out on the matter of the treatment of prisoners of war by th vietnam and the national liberation front of south vietnamtreatment which is  only in total and direct disregard of the provisions of the geneva convention on prisoners of war. but unconscienable to every humane instinct of the civilized world. what political purpose is to be gained by denying to the families and friends of the approximately 1.400 american servicemen missing or captured in vietnam the kledge of whether these men are dead or alive. can allowing the regular flow of mail to or from these prisoners. according them humane treatment. and permitting inspection of detention facilities do anything but assure the world that th vietnam is willing to ho the international principles of common decency to which most nations give credence. war is  humane to either side. we can expect it to be. but if this world is ever to be able to make progress away from the brutality of warfare to solve its problems and differences. there must be respect for the basic humane standards which ha has consistently violated.
 eisenhowers administration. i would remind the gentleman. as i am sure he is aware. that there were less than 700 men in vietnam when dwight david eisenhower left the white house. i think the gentleman ks that the trouble started under dulles. but i would suggest that the war started under the later administrations.
. there are many of us who had the ho to k the u.s. permanent representative to the th atlantic council. robert ellsworth. as a colleague in the house of representatives. it is. therefore. with particular pride that i take this opportunity to bring to the attention of the house a report of the recent nato ministerial meeting in rome which appeared in the international herald tribune. as is pointed out in the article. the diplomatic formula which the ministers devised in calling for european security talks and in proposing an eastwest discussion of mutual. balanced force reductions. "represents a switch to the initiative on the part of nato and puts the ball back in the court of the warsaw pact powers. who have been pushing various security conference proposals at the west for more than a decade." the decision to transmit the proposal through the italian government to the warsaw pact powers signifies meaningful diplomatic action on the part of the nato governments to determine what the prospects are for progress. this new initiative is. i feel. in small way attributable to the efforts and the dedication of our former colleague from kansas. robert ellsworth has brought to his new role the wisdom. skill. and effective statesmanship from which the congress benefited so greatly. it is indeed encouraging to k that this country. nato. and the world continue to enjoy his valuable service.
i have  said it had a relationship to what had happened in the islands. i am merely sayingthe conclusion i am about to make in a moment isthat we had naval craft in the area of tonkin bay. where the enemy. in my judgment. had good reason to believe that there was a causetoeffect relationship between the bombardment and our naval boats. and that our authorities knew of the bombardment. it does  make any difference whether the maddox knew of the bombardment. our authorities had the right to put the maddox wherever they wanted to put her. the fact is that our authorities knew of the plans for the bombardment. the conclusion i was about to make is that they made a great mistake. in my judgment. in having our ships as close as they were to the mainland of th vietnam when that bombardment took place. for they assisted the th vietnamese to draw the conclusion that there was a relationship between the american patrol boats and the boats bombarding the islands. i think that was the only interpretation we could expect the th vietnamese to make. and it would be exactly the same interpretation the united states would make under reverse circumstances.
the senator from ohio is entitled to his interpretation of what we both heard. i am satisfied that my interpretation is unquestionably correct as to what happened to those ships. the point the senaor from oregon is making is that if we had kledgeand we did have kledgethat there was to be a south vietnamese bombardment of the islands. we should  have had our ships anywhere in the area. in my judgment. we ought to have had them well beyond the 60 miles where the engagement finally took place. but there is question that they were much closer to the th vietnamese coast before that engagement took place. in fact. they were trailed out to 65 miles by the pt boats. my point is. if we are to talk about provocation. that the united states was a provocateur by having any ships anywhere within striking distance or bombing distance. and the south vietnamese boats did bomb those islands. we should have been completely out of the scene. if senators want my opinion. a "sjob" is being done on us by the pentagon and the state department in regard to that bombardment.  only had we full kledge of it. but it was being done with our tacit approval. if we did  want to escalate the war into th vietnam. that was the time for the united states to stop escalating.
as the senator ks. last night it was impossible for him. because of a previous appointment. to be present when i paid him my high respects to him for his courage. statesmanship. and leadership in this matter for many months past. i said last night that the senator from alaska had put the issue squarely. . in a very few moments. the senator from alaska has summarized succinctly the major points of the address i have been making on the floor of the senate the last hour and 15 minutes. i wish to formalize those points before i come to the next major issue which i shall discuss in my speech. what i have said expresses my views as to the power that would be granted to the president in the resolution. it is what i have called an undated declaration of war. i summarize the points as follows: first. the unlimited language of the resolution would authorize acts of war without specifying countries. places. or times. that language can be reconciled with article i. section 8 of the constitution. it amounts. in fact as well as in law. to a predated declaration of war. next. as i said last night. we have armed forces in south vietnam. some 20.000. or more. apparently. with the number increasing by planeload after planeload. senators can bemoan and warn against a land war in asia. but the resolution would put the united states in the middle of the vietnam civil war. which is basically a land war. under the resolution congress would give to the president of the united states great authority. without coming to the congress and obtaining approval by way of a declaration of war. to carry on a land war in south vietnam. the choice is left up to him. as i said last night. the interesting thing is that south vietnam. with a population of 15 million. and an armed force of 400.000 to 450.000 men. has been unable. through all the years of the holocaust in south vietnam. to put down a vietcong force of a maximum of 35.000 men. the pentagon and the state department. in testifying before the committee. say the number probably does  exceed 25.000. we have to have more than 20.000 american boys over there. to die in whatever numbers they are killed. in an attempt to win that war. and for whom. . you and i will be gone in a few years. but i am satisfied that the end of the road that we are traveling today will be the engulfment and drowning in world history of the influence of the white man in asia. if we follow this course of action. i despair frequently at the fact that so often people in positions of responsibility are inclined to think only of the present. and  a century hence. yet. when we are dealing with matters of foreign policy and the roots of peace or war. we need to remember that the seed we plant today. be it a seed of peace or seed of war. is the seed that will finally come to fruition in a blossoming plant perhaps a 100 years hence. i say most respectfully and sadly that in my judgment. in this resolution. we are planting seeds  of peace. but of war. those who will follow us in the years to come will cry out in anguish and despair in criticism over the mistake that was made in 1964 when the joint resolution was passed. why do we do it. i do  k. we are dealing here basically with a civil war between conflicting forces in south. vietnam. so many in this debate have overlooked the geographic problem. let us  forget that prior to the geneva accord of 1954 th vietnam and south vietnam were one people. one could go into th vietnam today. after he had been in saigon. and think that he was still in south vietnam. he would feel the same way if he first went to th vietnam and then to saigon. they are the same people. unfortunately. as a result of the partition under the geneva accord in 1954. they were divided into two countries. th vietnam and south vietnam. many of the people in south vietnam who are involved in this civil war have close relatives in th vietnam. one reason why the military dictatorpuppet whom we are supporting in south vietnam. khanh. is having so much difficulty with the mass of the peopleand he is having a serious difficultyis his insistence that he must stage a blood bath in th vietnam. he will never get the support of the people. because a blood bath would kill the relatives of hundreds of thousands of people in south vietnam. and vice versa. it is a tragedy that the vietcongs try to subvert south vietnam. but that is a reality. the solution is  the exercise of military might. as a critic of de gaulle on many points. i say that the sad fact is that the de gaulle solution is far superior to the american solution. the solution is a political and ecoic solution.  a military solution. de gaulle is right. we should go to the conference table. we should  take the american position that we will go to the conference table only after we dominate the battlefield. if we ever establish that principle. we shall have assassinated the rule of law as an instrumentality for settling disputes among nations. if we ever take the position that we must first dominate the battlefield. that we must be in control. that our orders must be carried out. then going to a conference table will mean only that the dominating authority tells the others at the conference table what. in effect. adlai stevenson unfortunately said in the sad speech he made some weeks ago before the security councilthat. in effect. we are going to do what we think is necessary. and the others can like it or . when he did that. as i said. he extinguished his lamp of world statesmanship. w. can follow the theory that underlies the present policy of our government. namely. that until we first dominate the battlefield. we will  follow de gaulles suggestion to settle this dispute at the conference table. de gaalle is right. this problem will never be settled except by a political and ecoic settlement. it can never be settled by the imposition of the military might of the united states upon asia.
. i am filing legislation today. with the support of over 100 of my colleagues. which would require that maximum effort be made to assign a serviceman as close to his home as possible for the completion of his duty when he returns from a combat zone. we have all kn. directly or indirectly. the anxiety and the hardships which both the serviceman and his family have experienced during his absence while fulfilling his military obligations in southeast asia. especially . when more and more men are returning from that combat area. we should do all we can to insure that the joy and relief of their homecoming is  overshadowed by a postcombat assignment hundreds of miles away from their homes and their friends. although the department of defense attempts to make nearhome assignments for combat veterans. it has been my experience that many of these men. who are frequently on their final tour of duty. are once again separated from their families by assignment to a military post far away. apart from a short period of leave. they have opportunity to renew and strengthen longmissed bonds with friends and loved ones. i am convinced that the present system can and should be greatly improved. while i realize that it may  be possible in every instance to assign a combat veteran to an appropriate installation near his home. it is our duty and our responsibility to make every effort to prevent any unnecessary and unwarranted separations. the legal requirement. encompassed in this bill. of maximum entitlement for such an assignment for combat veterans will go a long way to alleviating this situation by helping to insure that a servicemans preferences will receive proper consideration. the preferential treatment this bill would allow is fair. it will help improve morale both at home and abroad. and will serve to greatly reduce the very real anxiety that so many american families have already suffered. i am gratified that so many of my colleagues have joined me in this effort. those cosponsoring this legislation today include:
. i desire to ask the senator from ohio a few questions. but before doing so i wish to say to him that i think he has delivered the most able address that has been made to date in the presentation of the point of view that we should place our major reliance upon the naval and air defense of the country. rather than upon the use of ground troops abroad. although i do  share the point of view that is set forth in his major emphasis and major thesis. nevertheless i respect this point of view and his great sincerity in expressing it. i agree with him that it is the duty of every member of this body to make his position clear in this historic debate. but i do desire to say that i believe the senator from ohio has made the most objective and enlightened contribution to the debate on his side of the issue that has been made to date. i disagree with the position he has taken in respect to the implementing of the th atlantic pact. i have some questions in regard to certain assumptions which i think are inherent in the senators speech. about which i should like to carry on a brief colloquy with him. the first question goes to the assumption whether the senator from ohio and the senator from oregon would be right if we assumed that russia to date has given much indication that she intends eventually to take over europe. does the senator from ohio share that point of view.
keeping in mind the danger of infiltration. which i think is a real danger. and the apparent hesitancy on the part of some of the european countries to adopt an allout defense program because they are uncertain as to what we will do and because they fear we will  send in troops to help them if they are attacked. it becomes clear to me that we go through with implementing the th atlantic pact including some manpower aid. i think some manpower aid under eisenhowers command is the best evidence we can give them of our determination to see through with them this contest with communism. i ask the senator if he does  think that to join manpower with them on a reasonable basis under the th atlantic pact is  better rather than to say to them. "we will use only the navy and air force. in the first stages. at least. and leave the dying on the ground for the populations of your countries. and much of that dying caused by our bombs".
in the light of that agreement with the senator from ohio. i should like to ask him aher question. does  the senator from ohio believe. turning to asia for a moment. that so far as china and the united states are concerned. the leaders of communist china consider themselves at war with the united states.
. i am today introducing legislation which would ban all deliveries of military supplies to pakistan including all equipment in the supply pipeline. senator mathias will introduce the same legislation in the other body in view of the urgent need for immediate action by both the house and the senate. the civil war in pakistan is one of the great human dramas of this century. all the more tragic because of the emous loss of life. the unparalleled misery for millions of refugees. and the intractability of communal hatreds in that part of the world. i have long held that the congress must be an active partner in the formulation of this nations foreign policy. for this reason alone the congress should express its views on the pakistan crisis. but in the face of human suffering of such magnitude. further silence by congress would be unconscionable. the origin of my resolution is the april 23 letter of the department of state to the senate foreign relations committee. which stated: we have been informed by the department of defense that military items have been provided to the government of pakistan or its agents since the outbreak of fighting in east pakistan and hing is  scheduled for delivery. i interpret this statement as a decision by the administration to avoid u.s. interference and involvement in the civil war in pakistan. by formalizing the ban on all military aid. sales or deliveries to pakistan. . my resolution would constitute solid congressional support for a policy of interference and involvement. but by specifically addressing itself to pipeline aid or sales. it would also close an appalling. and i believe unintended. loophole which has developed in the administrations position. namely. the continued flow to pakistan of military equipment already .n the supply pipeline as of march 25. according to an unconfirmed report in he new york times of june 22. the lmounts involved may be as high as $20 nillion. in any event. we k from statements made by administration offiials in april 1971 that in past years sales if military equipment to pakistan have )use 23309 averaged around $10 million and are presumably at this level or higher today. i suspect precise kledge of the i amounts involved is  immediately . available even to the bureaucracy. in re. cent testimony before the other body. administration officials ackledged that we are unfortunately having difficulty in verifying even what is being sent. bills of lading often list only a specified number of boxes of undefined military equipment. whatever the amounts involved or the kind of equipment being sent. already the existence of this loophole is causing the united states acute diplomatic embarrassment. it leads to misunderstanding in pakistan regarding our position. it troubles our relations with pakistans neighbors. recently. a group of indian mps in new delhi picketed the amerik can embassy when they learned that the padma. a ship under pakistani flag. was leaving new york harbor for pakistan. loaded with military equipment. according to latest reports. the canadian government has stopped this shipment in montreal where the padma is docked. aher ship is reportedly scheduled toleave the united states on july 2. four to five more ships with military supplies will sail from the united states to pakistan in july and august. one ks if these shipments will exhaust the pipeline. in my judgment. each time one of those ships leaves american shores the united states will face a major diplomatic crisis with the parties involved as well as serious political controversy in this country. this is one important reason why both the house of representatives and the senate should act immediately on my resolution. in a letter on june 17 to secretary of state rogers. i also made clear my reservations in regard to providing a country in the midst of a civil war with ecoic aid. but i recognize that opinion in the congress on the question of ecoic aid may  have crystallized. above all. members of congress are anxious that the people of pakistan  suffer further. i therefore confine the resolution today to military aid and sales. i am convinced that a majority of the members of congress do  want to see the united states give or sell arms to a nation  in the holocaust of a civil war. i am convinced that a majority of the members of congress are as appalled as i am at news of the existence of the pipeline loophole. i am hopeful that a majority in both houses will support this resolution.
. i am hoed that a number of distinguished members are joining with me today in filing legislation which would establish a select joint committee of the congress to inquire into the origins of u.s. involvement in the vietnam war and the adequacy of information provided the congress during the period of that involvement. on the basis of the findings of its inquiry. the committee also would study and determine the current nature of u.s. interests in southeast asia and vietnam. cosponsors of this resolution are: mr. anderson of illis. mr. aspin of wisconsin. mr. esch of michigan. mi. frenzel of minnesota. mr. gude of maryland"
 nixon. there can be better time than right  to examine some of the axioms upon which our policies toward india and pakistan are based. mr. richard morse. of andover. mass.. an industrial consultant specializing in south asia investment. has recently written an extremely timely article for the christian science monitor suggesting certain major u.s. initiatives toward india as a possible way to avoid the currently brewing war between india and pakistan. mr. morse suggests that the united states. in the past. has failed to study with sufficient thoroughness the implications of the elections of 197071 in both these countries. and he concludes that. properly understood. the elections may be used as a resource for regional peace. i commend mr. morses article to my colleagues as a highly enlightened and thoughtful exposition of the nature of domestic politics in the region and the implications of these politics for constructive u.s. policy measures. i ask unanimous consent that the article be included in the record.
 and the state department to weigh carefully their decision with respect to the committee proposal submitted to this government by the secretary general of the united nations. the proposal is fraught with delay. there is need for more realistic thinking in the evaluation of methods which are to be employed in helping to bring about an early and just solution. the palestine problem is only a part of the larger problem involving displaced persons. a bill with regard to the immigration of certain displaced persons into this country. which i shall propose. should tend in some measure to alleviate the present distress in which so many thousands of young. inent victims of the war  find themselves. the entire problem of displaced persons will be measurably assisted by immediate substantial immigration of jews into palestine. as recommended by the angloamerican committee of inquiry last year. this immigration. which britain alone can make possible. can await a solution of the entire palestine problem. human life can languish so long. this problem is a matter of concern for men of all faiths. assistance to victims of persecution and tyranny is a major test of our war and peace aims. we must. in the name of common humanity. help to provide for these displaced people who seek refuge. a chance at life itself. by doing our part in meetlng this problem we shall help to insure a better day to come for all mankind.
on the face of it. as the senator states it. it would appear as the senator pictures it. but actually it is a condition on which the army engineers have been working for a considerable period of time. it is only very recently. in last may or june. that their report was issued. consequently. without the report. it was impossible to get information to the congress in time to afford a basis for proper consideration. it was fully realized that this condition was becoming more serious all the time. but only at this very moment has it actually come to the critical point where something must be done.
 i merely wish to ask a question. does the senator maintain that the question of unemployment. which had  been solved when the united states entered world war h. is  solved. the senator will recall that there were still over 10.000.000 unemployed at that time. the problem had  been solved when we started our war effort in connection with world war ii.
. in reply to the able senator from west virginia. the senator from new york will state that he is well aware that it applies to childi en all over the world who would qualify under it. any orphanand bear in mind. senators. that the child must be an orphanany orphan. at least one of whose parents has died because of the war and who is to be adopted by an american citizen. .would be eligible under the amendment. i do  k whether one wants to call these poor little children immigrants or displaced persons. i am  particularly interested in that. but it occurs to me that in a very broad sense any youngster under 14 years of age anywhere in the world. who has neither mother  father  anybody under the cay of heaven to look after him exselt somebody in the united states. is a displaced person in every sense of tht word. that is why i am for this particular amendment. and i hope it will prevail.
apropos of the question which has been raised by the distinguished senator from vermont. i am wonderingwhether it would be more ap-. propriate toleave a matter of this kind for the determination of the army itself. rather than to try to decide it here. it seems to me we could  possibly be sufficiently acquainted with conditions which might arise. or which even exist at the present time. to be able satisfactorily to answer a question of that nature. am i correct in that observation.
the senior senator from new york thanks the distinguished senator from maryland. i have very.little to say on this subject. i should like to point out that the senators from new york stand together on this question. i fully concur in the statement made by my colleague . we definitely desire to let this question rest on its merits. the recommendation has been made that this transfer be effected. if subsequent events indicate that that recommendation is illfounded. and it is ascertained to be desirable that other action be taken. i k that my colleague and i again will agree. as he indicated in his remarks. that that be done. however. i should like to point out. in connection with the remarks of my able colleague from new jersey that if the situation is as he indicates. damage can result from passing the bill in the senate as it  stands. however. as i recall the record. it does  show the situation to be exactly as stated. i seem to remember that in 1948 the air force was urging that this transfer be made for reasons of ecoy. efficiency. and defense purposes. but if the situation be as my distinguished colleague from new jersey has indicated. damage whatever can result from passing the bill in the senate as it  stands. the action taken by the house committee -this morning has been brought out. obviously. the house is waiting for action on the bill by the senate before it reaches a final conclusion.
. this nations policy toward israel has never been distinguished by its consistency. on the contrary. that policy has been so characterized by repeated reversals of position and shifts of purpose that "vacillating" has been the term most often used to describe it. we  have at hand fresh evidence that our policy with respect to the israeliarab conflict remains marked by its habitual inconsistency. this evidence is provided by our state departments attitude with regard to the rearmament of the arab nations by great britain. when. on august 4. 1949. the united nations security council voted to lift the arms embargo previously imposed on the states involved in the fighting in israel. the hoable warren austin. american delegate to the security council. gave solemn assurance that it was  the policy of this nation to tolerate any development in the matter of supplying arms to the nations of the middle east. which would foster an armaments race in that part of the world. said ambassador austin at that time: so far as the united states is concerned. it does  intend to allow the export of arms which would permit a competitive arms race in the area. this statement presumably represented official american policy as of august of last year. it was a policy apparently concurred in by the british government. whose security council representative stated: we. for our part. would  be in favor of middle eastern states acquiring war mattriel in excess of their legitimate defense requirements. since that time. the states of egypt. the hashemite kingdom of jordan. and iraqthe very states which were the most active and aggressive participants in the arab war on israelhave secured from great britain quantities and types of arms and armaments which patently are far beyond what is demanded by the requirements of the maintenance of internal security and of reasonable selfdefense. - it is reported reliably that whole squadrons of the latest model jet planes. substantial shipments of heavy artillery. and large numbers of powerful tanks are pouring into these states from the united kingdom in everincreasing quantities. moreover. the receipt of this war materiel is being accompanied by open references to a "second round" and inflammatory threats of throwing the jewish people into the sea. the result of such a situation is that the new state of israel. quite understandably alarmed. is seeking to bolster its own military defenses. an armaments race has in fact. and contrary to the pious expressions of the official representatives of this nation and great britain last august. been allowed to develop. the state department is  citing as justification for its supine acquiescence in the british rearmament of the arab states the strategic importance of the middle east in the cold war between the western nations and the u. s. s. r. if that is  our official position. we can clearly see that an even more absurd inconsistency has arisen from the conduct of our affairs in the middle east. is  the state of israel in this strategic region. is  israel as important a global crossroads as jordan. or iraq. or syria. does  israel. therefore. warrant at least a part of that consideration which is being so lavishly bestowed by the west on the arab states. great britain sells new weapons to old customers. but refuses arms and training facilities to israel. and the american state department persists in interfering with the purchase of war materiel here by that state. in the creation of which we played such a conspicuous role. is this consistent. or even sensible. certainly neither the negative part of the arab states in world war ii  their record in their aggressive war on israel can justify such gross discrimination on the basis of military considerations. the last thing that the new state of israel desires is a renewal of the conflict with her arab neighbors. israel has neither the time. the resources.  the inclination for war. ever since the termination of hostilities. the israeli leaders have been stressing israels need for a peace which will permit her to attack the almost overwhelmingly difficult problems which beset her. if. however. israel sees all around her the arab nations girding for a second round. she must. of course. rearm. too. obviously. alternative exists. any other course would be the way to national suicide. if. for reasons of global strategy. we are to condone and encourage the rearmament of the arab states of the middle east. it should be apparent even to the most unmilitary layman. or to the department of state of the united states. that our policy should be to permit israel the same degree of rearma" ment. a preponderance of military strength by either party to the conflict within the middle east may mean allout war within that important regionwar which. it is generally agreed. would benefit nation except the soviet union. for all these reasons. therefore. i insist that it is only equitable and realistic for our state department to adopt a more affirmative position on this question than it has demonstrated thus far. arms must be made available to israel just as they are being placed at the disposal of the arab states. both our boasted spirit of fair play and our intelligent selfinterest demand it. i thank the able senator from illis.
. there appears on the editorial page of the new york times this morning a letter from henry l. stimson. former secretary of war and former secretary of state. addressed to the editor. according to the caption appearing on the editorial page. the letter is entitled "loyalty in washington." because of the substance of the letter. it seems to me that it is well worth the consideration  only of the members of the senate committee on foreign relations. but of every member of the senate. for that reason i ask unanimous consent that the letter. together with the editorial appearing on the same page and dealing with the letter. appear in the record at this point in my remarks.
furthermore. because the resolution applies only to ground forces and iges entirely the navy and the air force. it would seem to raise considerable doubt as to the propriety of the procedure it prescribes. as i have indicated. i believe that. regardless of constitutional or legal interpretations and as a matter of common sense and sound expediency. the president should consult with and obtain the approval of the congress with regard to any commitment of american armed forces to the european areaand before such commitment is made or additional armed forces are sent. by this process he will insure for himself  only the cooperation of the congress. but the substantial support of the american people. in any eventuality which may ensue. even so. i doubt thewisdom of having. the congress take at this time more than very general action of the kind i have described prior to the report and recommendations which are expected to be made in the relatively near future by general eisenhower. in whom the american people have great confidence. the requirements of the resolution proposed by the junior senator from nebraska would appear to go far beyond the action i suggest. therefore. i am opposed to it in its present form or in any form of similar design.
it would be necessary to interpret the word "crisis." it is possible to have a national crisis. it is possible to have what virtually amounts to a war crisis. without being at war. whether we are at that point . i do  k. perhaps we are. we could be delayed by the interpretation of paragraph 6. if we were  technically at war. one might have committed an actual overt attack. or anything of the kind.
i should like to point out to my able and distinguirhed colleague from arizona that i do  construe the pending proposal in the same way that i construe some of the other proposals which have come before the senate in connection with this particular resolution. i wish to point out that i do  construe this amendment to be an effort on our part to operate the army or to conduct military affairs or anything of that nature under the government of the united states. this amendment is merely an expression of opinion in dealing with a fundamental and basic policy concerning our interest. as to the nations with whom we should be cooperating in an overall effort. the amendment. as i see it. and as i believe it to be. is an expression of basic policy.  an expression of military tactics or military strategy or anything of the sort.
all of us are aware of the significant and vital role the great veterans organizations of the united states are taking in the allimportant battle against subversives. there has recently come to my attention a most worthwhile campaign in new york state. sponsored by the queens county council of the jewish war veterans of the united states. these veterans have inaugurated a project calling to the attention of the local citizenry the part they can play in the detection and reporting of subversive activities. as a part of this undertaking. these patriotic americans have reproduced. and are distributing to industrial concerns. civic leaders. community and service organizations. copies of a letter from j. edgar hoover explaining how the citizens of this country can help fight the subversive elements within our midst. these copies are being sent by the thousands to defense plants in queens county. and are being distributed by them to their employees. other organizations are being requested to give the material the widest possibe publicity. i heartily commend the queens county council of the jewish war veterans for this patriotic undertaking. which is deserving of the support of all americans. i ask -unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record. at this point in my remarks. mr. hoovers message and the covering letter of the queens county council of the jewish war veterans.
. as one who is a sponsor of and strongly favors legislation which would revise congressional procedures. particularly with respect to committee investigations. i was very glad to have brought to my attention a resolution adopted on april 29 at a public meeting sponsored by the department of new york. jewish war veterans of the united states. and excerpts from comments by the hoable herman t. stichman. which were made at the same meeting. . to the many of us who strongly advocate congressional reform in this vital field of congressional activity. it seems to me that the recommendations and observations contained both in the resolution and in mr. stichmans comments are worth careful consideration. for this reason i ask that the texts be printed in the body of the record at this point in my remarks.
. the american people were deeply shocked and grieved when they learned the news of the tragic explosion on the u. s. s. bennington on may 26. at the same time. their pride in the men and traditions of the united states navy was confirmed through the heroic actions of the officers and crew members of the bennington. it is most appropriate that the congress. in an expression of the feelings of the american people. tender its condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in this disaster and convey its commendation for the gallantry demonstrated by the officers and crew members of the u. s. s. bennington. to this end. i submit a concurrent resolution and ask that it be appropriately referred.
 of the united states to proclaim the week of ember 28. 1954. through december 4. 1954. as national salvation army week. the salvation army will celebrate its 75th anniversary year of service in the united states this fall. in october of 1879. lt. eliza shirley came to the united states and her efforts resulted in the landing of the first official delegation of salvation army officers at battery park in new york city on march 12. 1880. a commemorative plaque marks the spot where these officers knelt in prayer at battery park. their prayers were fully answered and today the salvation army has grown into a huge operation composed of 3.996 offcers who administer 6.400 centers of charitable and religious work. these dedicated officers are advised and assifted by thousands of prominent citizens of all races and creeds. who have formally associated themselves in the close relationship of lay leadership. the work of the salvation army. under the charter issued by the state of new york in 1899. is well kn to all of us. therefore. it is only fitting that the week of ember 28. 1954. through december 4. 1954. be proclaimed as national salvation army week. i ask unanimous consent that the joint resolution be printed in the body of the record at this point in my remarks.
may i dwell upon that subject for a moment. in one sense the salvation army may be construed to be a religious organization. in a broader sense. it is much more than that. some of us who served in world war i perhaps owe our lives to the salvation army. because at times when one else would take care of us. the salvation army. as it was constituted at that time. was of great assistance. it is  because the salvation army is a religious organization that an effort is being made to have the week set aside. it is because of the overall work of the salvation army. and the broad field of humanitarianism in which it has been engaged. that many of us are interested in this effort. i wish the distinguished senator from tennessee would withhold his objection. so that the resolution might be passed.
ial or congressional appointment. agree to serve at least 3 years in the army. navy. or air force nurse corps. academy graduates who left the service after 3 years would increase the supply of trained nurses available for civilian duty. i introduce the joint resolution. and ask that it be appropriately referred.
. yesterday. january 22. was the 40th anniversary of the independence of the ukraine. the russian communists destroyed that independence in 1920. nikita khrushchev. kn to those enslaved people "as the butcher of the ukraine." was there during the madeinmoscow famine of 193233 which ended the lives of 5 million patriotic ukrainian peasants. the ukraine. the largest captive russian nation in eastern europe. remains today under moscows baleful domination. but it is  without cause that the ukrainians are kn as the irish of eastern europe. moscows enduring fear of its captive nations is one of the most powerful deterrents to war against the west. the rich and populous ukraine is the greatest source of that fear to the rulers in the kremlin. of this significant anniversary. let us join in looking ahead to that bright future date when ukrainian independence shall live again in realityas it lives today in the hearts of the ukrainian people.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record a concurrent resolution. adopted by the new york state legislature. memorializing the congress relative to the stationing of troops at the united states army installation kn as camp drum. in jefferson county. n.y.
. while under the constitution the responsibility to advise and consent rests solely manhours with the senate. i etheless spoke out per case in favor of the test ban treaty. it disposedof seemed to me a modest step away from war toward peace. an action that would further remove radioactive contamina12.00 12.84 tion and reduce the proliferation of 11.49 atomic weapons as underground testing 12.79 is appreciably more expensive. 14.86 13.14 however. it is essential that we recog14. nize the soviets are still out to conquer 13.49 16.43 the world. the united states and her 17.48 allies must  relax or succumb to a 21.21 sense of euphoria. we must vigilantly 14.24 improve our inspection techniques to in14.24 sure the soviets do  indulge in cheating. we must remain ready in the ie table terests of national security to continue the cost testing in the atmosphere should the soeals dur- viets violate the treaty. and continue er of ap- such tests in our laboratories as are redeclined quired to develop an antimissile missile. suit from further. we should be extremely wary on which of any aggression pact in europe epetitious which would weaken nato. or of any onary as executive agreements with the soviet reduce- union which do  require formal treaty preven- approval in the u.s. senate. st reduc- in this connection. i found mr. drumudication monds article "behind the thaw" timely ew. -and under unanimous consent i include find the this article in the body of the record. cason. as he reports that soviet spokesmen are ependent busily engaged inexhorting world opinin febru- ion to demand that .the west join with i --i russia in taking further steps in the pursuit of peaceful coexistence. mr. drummond states: they are  talking about such modest things as guarantees against surprise attack and wider exchange of people and ideas.  they are talking about natos signing of a aggression pact with the soviet union and its eastern european satellites. creating a nuclear free zone in central europe and recognition of the satellite state of east germany. mr. drummonds article follows:
 of the marine museum. new york city. he was a member of sts. john and paul church. larchmont. a veteran of world war i. he served as an ensign on the u.s.s. montana. an armored cruiser.  of the coast guard committee for the enrollment of yachts and personnel during world war ii. mr. sparkman headed the largest business of its kind in the world. a blond. personable man. he would say. "deal is too small." once he sold a sailboat for $750. the following year the same man bought a $7.500 boat from him. two years later. the man was sold a $15.000 yacht. in his early years around new rochelle. mr. sparkman learned to sail on long island sound and in the summers got a job in a yacht brokerage office on city island. the gerald w. ford yachts. he was in the navy during the first world war and later worked for naval architect. roger haddock. in new york. in 1927. mr. haddock retired and mr. sparkman started his own business. the following year. olin stephens. the brilliant yacht designer came in with him. after a conference. closing the partnership at larchmont yacht club. mr. sparkman was a fine sailor but never designed yachts. he won three long island sound victory class champions in his yacht blue jacket. besides the columbia. the company  only has been responsible for the best designs in racing yachts. but in the planning and sales of naval vessels. cruising yachts and commercial boats. such as ferryboats. the 12meter racer vim was a longtime winner in americas cup competition and considered a forerunner of the columbia. the sparkman firm designed the vim. surviving him are his wife. the former margaret mulhall. three sons. drake h.. junior. of setauket. n.y.. john c. of bronxville. and robert j. of syosset. long island. four stepchildren. stephen. timothy. cornelia. and kent huff. all of the home address. a brother. james d. of 75 eastchester road. and nine grandchildren. funeral services will be held monday at 9:45 a.m. at ss. john and paul church. larchmont. he is presently reposing at the george t. davis memorial. 14 lecount place. new rochelle. friends may call from 3 to 5 and 7 to 9 p.m.. today and sunday. interment will be private. mr. sparkman sold the lyndonia. the steam yacht. to cyrus curtis. publisher of the saturday evening post.
 de gaulle has said of his role in the great drama of world war ii-"the greatest." our century may  see his like again. his courage was indomitable. his sense of the course of history was clear and ofttimes prophetic. his eloquence was unmatched. his flashing wit could uplift a nation or devastate a mean thrust. his leadership in the house of commons. in power and out. was formidable and farseeing. few men in high public life have written of historyand of history they madewith such authority and with such sweep. for the future. churchill will in some measure be part of all of us. his voice and his words will always beat the call to courage and to principlewhenever freedom and human dignity stand in danger. wherever tyranny raises up its head and whenever the time comes for freemen to stand together undaunted and unafraid. i am sure all in this house deeply mourn his passing and extend all sympathy to his family. to his queen and to great britain and the commonwealth. . i submit the following editorials for the record: [from the new york times. jan. 25. 1965]
has there been any report that led you to believe there was any substantive reason why we should  or could  have informed the oas particularly in light of the fact that president kennedy  only was able to inform the oas with regard to certain projected actions relative to the cuban missile crisis but was able to obtain actual agreement. is there any reason that you k of why we could  at least have picked up the telephone.
gentlemen. i hate to interrupt at this point even for the 5 seconds necessary. but let us pause  for station identification. . in houlu he said something to the effect that subjugation by an armed miity in asia is  different from the same phee in europe. that we have expended a lot of treasure and blood to reverse such things. but from our position in the world. are these two things equal. is germany or france. for example. equal to this little country in southeast asia. senator church. senator church.  eric. we have got to make better distinctions. i think. than that. in the first place. we went back to europe after the second world war because we recognized that if all of europe fell to the russians and the red army in occupation of eastern europe was moving the iron curtain inexorably westward. that then the balance of power would shift from our favor to theirs. and i think we must  confuse the situation in europe with the problem that faces us in asia. in europe. after all. we went back and were welcomed among people with whom we had a common civilization. common culture. the great majority of these people found communism as repugnant as we found it and willingly joined in a real system of collective defense against it. and that was the nato line. but the nato line just stopped the iron curtain from moving further west. it didnt exterminate communism behind the iron curtain. and today in europe we are  faced with the problem of guerrilla wars of national liberation simply because these countries with strong democratic traditions have cohesion and internal support. but the situation is quite different in asia. and i think our basic mistake has been to assume that policies which worked in europe could be superimposed in asia and would work there. i think the facts betray that those policies designed for europe are  suitable for asia.
. i believe it is vital for all americans and the press to speak out in strong opposition to the projected war crimes trials in ha which according to press reports of czech sources in ha could be scheduled as early as july 20 or august 4. it is essential that the position of this country be clear and that it be made explicitly kn to th vietnam so that they will  labor under any illusions as to the seriousness and the gravity of the reaction in this country should ha decide to treat captured american airmen as war criminals. i think it is also important that we make plain that the united states can be blackmailed and that any war trials of u.s. prisoners would make a peace settlement far more difficult. while the government of ha has  yet issued any official statement on this subject. official publications of ha have indicated clearly that the war trials are in prospect and that the government plans to proceed. ambassador harriman has told me that he believes this situation to be very serious. any such action by ha to hold war crimes trials would be totally reprehensible and a grave contravention of the geneva convention. th vietnam should desist from this planned action and treat americans as prisoners of war and  as war criminals. the wife of lt. e. a. brud u.s. air force officer shot down october 18. 1965. over th vietnam who is kn to be a prisonerresides in harrison. n.y. it is imperative that our government do everything possibledirectly and indirectlyto dissuade ha from these proposed trialsand secure the admission of the international red cross to th vietnam.
 eisenhower on july 14. 1955. the conventions went into force for the united states on february 2. 1956. the communist regime of th vietnam adhered to the conventions on june 28. 1957. it is clear. therefore. that our military personnel in th vietnam are explicitly covered by the geneva conventions of 1949 and that th vietnam has adhered to the conventions. nation including th vietnam has reserved the right to nullify these conventions simply on the basis oi accusing military personnel of war crimes. has reservation to article 85 of the conventions in sense relieves ha of its obligations under the conventions as a whole. article 85 is the provision which extends certain benefits to prisoners after conviction during the period they are serving their sentences. this reservation does  provide any basis for war crimes trials of prisoners of war and in any event does  take effect until after a trial and conviction in accordance with standards imposed by the conventions. . we are at a turning point. and i deeply hope that ha will reconsider its projected action. should they proceed with the war crimes trials. it will  only be a mockery of justice and in clear contravention of the geneva conventions of 1949. it will be a serious step which would unite this country and which could make more difficult the achievement of that just and secure peace in vietnam and southeast asia which is the objective of the people of the united states. it is my earnest hope that the congress may act promptly and indeed unanimously on this matter so that the voice of the american people through the congress will be clearly heard in ha. ha haz a chance to turn back from an inhumanitarian act and adhere to the accepted concepts of international law and the geneva conventions. let us hope that ha will understand our firmness. our convicton. and our concern for our men on this vital question.
 eisenhower was more concerned with than proliferation. he felt very strongly we must make progress in this area if the world was to move meaningfully toward peace. i believe he still does. obviously we always should consider alternatives but to take this action in an appropriation bill would be a mistake. our government is presently involved in very delicate and very important negotiations. it would undermine them. i believe that bill foster. our disarmament director. is one of the ablest americans we have in this field. he is trying to negotiate safeguards. i believe it would be a serious mistake to preclude any reasonable and sound opportunity to formulate meaningful safeguards so we can proceed to negotiate a sound nuclear proliferation treaty. this is important in many parts of the world. including asia. and red china. and certainly the near east. indeed this treaty should be a matter of highest national priority. should negotiations falter and prospects for a treaty darken we could see a world in a few years where perhaps some 10 to 15 nations could be atomic powers. this would be an uncertain world and  the best legacy to leave our children. i would merely ask the gentleman whether he wants to cut off a thoughtful continuation of negotiations looking towards a sound proliferation treaty.
 sufficient flexibility to make the necessary judgments on the merits before we indicate the approval or disapproval of the congress. further. i share the concern expressed by a member of the other body. senator kennedy. of massachusetts. about the house bills and the compromise versions treatment of the definition of "conscientious objector." the conference adopted the house positionwith some modifications in languageof narrowly construing the basis for classifying registrants as qualified conscientious objectors. by writing into the law that"religious training and belief" does  include essentially political. sociological. or philosophical views. or a merely personal moral code. the seeming intent is to eliminate the broader interpretation of conscientious objection as determined by the supreme court. the apparent implication of this language is to base conscientious objection solely on beliefs grounded in established religious training. i have serious misgivings that the congress should establish by statute a narrow and strict standard in a sensitive area in which personal circumstances are undeniably of high importance. in addition. i am disturbed that real progress has been made toward instituting uniform national criteria for classification. it is simply inequitable that when there are two men of identical status in education. in skills. in family and in age. one may be drafted and the other may  be because their local draft boards adhere to different classification policiesor perhaps to policy at all. this is the most serious deficiency in the administration of the draft. and it makes the already uncertain futures of these young men subject even more to caprice and chanceall because one young man comes under the jurisdiction of draft board a and the others service is determined by draft board b. while we must take care to preserve appropriate powers of discretion to consider each individual case on its merits. it is clearly incumbent upon the congress to give the question of uniform national standards serious consideration as soon as possible. while i recognize the urgency at this late date of completing action on this measure. i would hope that necessary modifications could be made as soon as possibleand in any case. well before 1971 when it will be time for the congress to take aher look at the extension of the draft. it is indeed regrettable that the congress has seen fit to extend the draft for 4 years. rather than reviewing the act and its administration again 2 years from . unfortunately. the chances for significant reform in the areas i have outlined above and others are indeed slim before 1971. etheless. we can afford to wait that long and i hope that substantive amendments will be offered and considered at the earliest opportunity in the national interest and for the equity of all young men.
. our distinguished colleague. the gentleman from maryland is recuperating from a back ailment and is unable to be present today. however. mr. mathias is closely following the course of debate here on the floor and shares the deep concern of a number of us about the need to continue a fully funded war on poverty. mr. mathias has received a telegram from a group of maryland civic leaders with regard to their support of vista in this critical hour for that program. at his request. i am including in the record at this point the remarks mr. mathias would have made concerning this action and the text of the telegram:
ial finding that a particular skill or occupation warrants deferment on a uniform national basis. seventh. youth opportunity schools: the secretary of defense would be directed to study the feasibility of schools to offer special training to volunteers who did  meet induction standards. eighth. national service alternative: a study would be made into the feasibility of a national service corps in which individuals could fulfill their national obligation through military service. * ninth. draft as punishment: using the draft to punish protestors would be prohibited. tenth. local board discrimination: the membership of a local draft board would be required to represent all elements of the public it serves. insofar as practicable.
 kennedys assassin could have been located almost immediately with an allpoints bulletin. and it is possible that. in the case of james earl ray. early information on the weapon would have prevented his leaving the country. i think we are concerned  only with reducing lawlessness and violence and assassination. in my judgment. strong registration and licensing requirements would make it more difficult for criminals and unstable people to acquire guns and ammunition. and over a period of time would reduce the number of unregistered weapons in circulation. i believe. . if the congress does  respond favorably to those amendments. i fear that the wishes of the american people. who have indicated their overwhelming support for such legislation. will have been betrayed.
 was more concerned with than the need to prevent the proliferation of atomic and nuclear weapons. as i said on the floor on may 3. 1967. i believe it would be a serious mistake to preclude any reasonable and sound opportunities to formulate meaningful standards so that we can proceed to negotiate a sound nuclear proliferation treaty. the nuclear proliferation treaty was reported out by the foreign relations committee of the other body on september 17. 1968. and is currently on the calendar. the senate. in my opinion. should  adjourn before acting on and ratifying the nuclear proliferation treaty. the united states through william c. foster. the director of the arms control and disarmament agency. has taken particular leadership in this area. and we must remember that some 15 other countries have the scientific and technical capacity to develop atomic weapons. the world has yet time to heed the words of bernard baruch who in the late 1940s warned . we have a little time but  much. and i hope the other body will meet its clear responsibilities before adjournment. further. it is a matter of highest importance to continue serious talks with the u.s.s.r. to avoid entering a tragic new $100 billion abmicbm race. the cause of peace. diplomacy and our priorities at home require continuing disarmament negotiations looking toward further agreed general disarmament under strict international controlconsistent with our national security.
. americans deplore the secret trials followed by barbaric and inhumane hangings in iraq. with 65 others reportedly facing espionage charges. our sense of moral outrage is equalled by our continuing concern that this atrocity must  be repeated. i would hope that the united nations. the vatican. the united states and other interested governments will make continuing strong representations to condemn these atrocities. to discourage any repetition whatsoever. and to emphasize fundamental human rights. due process. and the quality of mercy.
. i join in hoing the memory of our distinguished colleague. congressman william bates. of massachusetts. bill was a warm and good friend. much beloved by his colleagues in the house. he was. too. a patriot. who served his country well. far beyond active duty in the war years. and with a sense of responsibility for and pride in americas future. we shall miss his counsel and his cheerful devotion to duty. mrs. reid joins in extending our deepest sympathy to mrs. bates and their daughter.
. i join in mourning the passing of our distinguished former colleague. barratt ohara. barratt served his country in war and in peace. in a lifetime of devotion that spanned two centuries. he was one of the first members of this house to realize the importance of developments among the emerging nations of africa and to recognize that the congress has a responsibility to be informed about changing conditions on that continent. as chairman of the africa subcommittee. he was the first to hold hearings on southern africa. he was. too. a kind and generous friend. with always a pleasant word and concerned inquiry about his colleagues and their families. those of us who entered the house when he had already been here for many years will remember particularly his helpfulness in our early days and his continuing interest in our endeavors. to the end of his service in this house. he was a source of information and counsel on many issues and he remained always youthful in spirit. mrs. reid joins me in extending our deepest sympathy to his family.
 and the secretary of defense have already begun to question the value of a large standing army for our needs today. i applaud their decision to reduce the troop level at present by approximately 175.000 men. and i applaud the committee for incorporating this. it is a good first step. both for the ecoy of our nation and for the conduct of our foreign policy. when estimates for the cost for one man in the military service per year range from $6.000which counts only salary and allowancesto between $13.000 and $14.000which includes operations and maintenancei think we should attempt to reduce the number in that service. finally. i think it important that the house of representatives consider their role in the making of foreign policy. the power to raise and support armies is specifically attributed to the congress in the constitution. and yet we have as a body abdicated these responsibilities for at least the last 20 years. in 1947 statutory ceilings were set for each branch of the service. which totaled 2.3 million men. the ceilings were suspended shortly thereafter. and in the early 1950s an overall ceiling on the armed forces was set at 5 million. these have  been challenged. we have offered our constitutional powers to the pentagon. and i believe we should reassert them. the cookbayh amendment in the senate. similar in principle though  in exact detail. was passed by that body by a vote of 71 to 10. with the support of both the chairman and the ranking miity member of the senate armed services committee. furthermore. "the department of defense indicated objection to the principles involved. . i think the debate is clear. and i strongly urge my colleagues to accept this amendment.
 thieu said in saigon: i do  have any further peace initiatives in mind. he further dismissed the concept of a standstill ceasefire as unrealistic. he pledged never to cede so much as a hamlet to the vietcong. and he promised he would make further concessions in the paris talks. he reportedly stated. according to the new york times. that in his view it will be 20 to 30 years before the vietnamese communists modify their brand of politics into a form acceptable to the south vietnamese government. but i would ask my colleagues to consider that we used to be told that we had sent our armed forces to protect the right of the south vietnamese people to choose their own government. and. to be sure. after a long series of military coups. there was an election in south vietnam. of course. some vietnamese were allowed neither to vote  to run. and. of course. one who favored a coalition government was allowed to run. and. of course. the newspapers were censored and the opposition was harassed. and the system for electing the national assembly was rigged to favor the rich. absentee landowners. whose exploitation was at the very heart of the revolution. and. despite all of this. the government of general thieu received only a third of the votewhich was egh to get him into power and enable him to throw his remaining serious opponents and dissenters into jail where they remain today. and that is the free government that our armed forces are defending in south vietnam. i think that what must be negotiated is the character of the postwar settlement and  just the token or phased withdrawal of troops. one of the first requirements for the success of such negotiations is that our government insist that saigon change its constitution and agree to participate in the kind of election machinery essential to a totally free election. i believe that we will have peace. therefore. only when the nlf and leaders in saigon and ha and washington recognize the futility of continuing the war. peace will only come when we take firm steps to indicate that we will get out of vietnam on a date certain. and that we are prepared to negotiate a ceasefire in place. the release of all prisoners of war. and amnesty for all peoples. lastly. i would mention to the members of the house that i was in paris during the period of the negotiations of 1954. and i well remember the actions of mendesfrance before he assumed the responsibilities of premier. and he made it abundantly plain that he would take office only if he could end the war within 30 days. and he lived up to that promise. and the same arguments that are  being raised were raised then. i think we can end the war faster than we are doing. finally. i would say that to take certain of these actions is to recognize that a settlement is possible. and that a negotiated end to the war will raise americas stature in the world.  lower it. as the french learned in algeria. 
further. as members k. article i. section 8. of the constitution gives the congress the authority to declare war. raise and support armies. to provide and maintain a navy. and to make rules for the government and regulation of the land and naval forces. these powers were authorized explicitly to the congress as a vital part of the doctrine of the separation of powers. alexander hamilton. a strong advocate of strong executive power. wrote in the federalist paper  69 showing the clear distinction between the british and american systems in the delegation of american powers to the legislature. he said: the president is to be commander in chief of the army and navy of the united states. in this respect his authority would be inally the same with that of the king of great britain. but in substance much inferior to it. it would amount to hing more than the supreme command and direction of the military and naval forces. as first general and admiral of the confederacy. while that of the british king extends to the declaring of war and to the raising and regulating of fleets and armiesall which. by the constitution under consideration. would appertain to the legislature. indeed. in 1848 abraham lincoln. then a congressman. said: allow the president to invade a neighboring nation whenever he shall deem it necessary to repel an invasion and you allow him to do so whenever he may choose to say he deems it necessary for such a purpose and you allow him to make war at pleasure. study to see if you can fix any limit to his power in this respect. after you have given him so much as you propose. the provision of the constitution giving the warmaking power to congress. was dictated. as i understand it. by the following reasons. kings had always been involving and impoverishing their people in wars. pretending generally. if  always. that the good of the people was to object. this. our convention undertook to be the most oppressive of all kingly oppressions. and they resolved to so frame the constitution that one man should hold the power of bringing this oppression upon us. dwight eisenhower said very explicitly in march 1954: there is going to be involvement of america in war unless it is the result of the constitutional process that is placed upon congress to declare it.  let us have that clear. in a word. therefore. i think it is clear that the congress. and this house. must  let its powers be eroded. we must  back into a wider war. our responsibility is clear. further. this amendment in my judgment is consistent-
finally. let me just say i think this amendment is consistent both with existing law and with the presidents determination to narrow the war and  to widen it. i think it will reassure the country that there are limits to the extension of american power.
one final quick question if the president did send ground cornbat troops into cambodia. for whatever reason it might be necessary. does the gentleman see an end of the war or does he see that as leading to a wider war.
. i am pleased to have this opportunity to join my colleagues in hoing the disabled american veterans on its 50th anniversary. . it is especially gratifying to point out the dedication and accomplishments of the dav in helping the wounded and disabled american soldier return to civilian life. since its inception. the dav has handled over 8 million cases and has obtained over $1.6 billion in benefits for the disabled veteran and his dependents. the national. service program of the dav assists wounded and disabled veterans in processing their claims and insuring that they receive the benefits to which they are entitled. in addition. the dav has set up a national scholarship fund to help defray expenses of those sons and daughters of members of the dav who show ability and need. also. the dav trains and places disabled veterans in jobs for which they are qualified. finally. it is the disabled soldier whom the dav serves so well who exemplifies most eloquently the importance of the work being done by the dav. the disabled american soldier deserves the care and benefits which the dav affords them. the. sacrifices which these men have made protecting the freedoms which we all enjoy places a responsibility on all of us to provide them and their families with the opportunity for a full and productive life. the dav is carrying out this responsibility on behalf of a grateful nation. and i am hoed to salute them on this occasion.
 should ige. divided government fails to represent people at home and governs by kind measure lack of respect abroad. the american people want this war ended once and for all. hopefully the house will make this plain.
which should take this responsibility. i think the constitution is clear on this point. that congress should decide and congress should be the branch to declare war. frankly. i think the american people have made a judgment that this war should be ended. so i hope the house will vote down the mahon amendment and assume the responsibility to end the war and the bombing . i thank the chairman for oielding.
. the question of restoration of the cemeteries in eastern europe. desecrated and destroyed by the nazis in world war ii. is  a new one in this body. it has been discussed heretofore by. among others. congressman multer1966. page 13454. i have only recently seen in new york city and again been in communication with dr. rainer barzel. a member of the german bundestag and deputy party chairman of the christian democratic party which is the party  in power in west germany. on the question of what assistance will be forthcoming to remedy this sad situation. and he has assured me of his personal interest and desire to be helpful. last year in response to an inquiry by the senior senator from new york. the department of state ed that before any further action could be taken it was necessary to have the list of cemeteries involved. the letter follows:
. more and more respected voices are being heard throughout the land objecting to our involvement in the war in vietnam. the latest is by publisher john s. knight in the sunday miami herald of march 12. 1967. from his publishers ebook entitled "the dirty little war gets bigger. dirtier." of particular interest to my colleagues will be the point made in the article that the republican party. as a party. had the duty to oppose our growing involvement. although the article does err in iging the questions raised by republicans like myself and the junior senator from oregon. hon. mark 0. hatfield. i commend it to the attention of my colleagues.
. next wednesday.. april 19. marks the 24th anniversary of the beginning of the warsaw ghetto uprising. it is a chapter in world history which serves as an outstanding example of the degree to which man. against insuperable odds. can and will fight for his dignity and freedom. on april 19. 1943. the jewish combat organizationzob---commanded by mordecai anzelewicz. began armed resistance against the nazi troops in the ghetto of warsaw. poland. outnumbered and outarmed. on may 8. 1943. with capture of their last outpost certain. the leaders of the uprising committed suicide. over 800 acres of the ghetto were completely devastated and during the fighting 56.000 jews were captured or killed by the nazis. many others were burned during the holocaust of the ghetto. the 6 million european jews and the many european peoples of other deinations who died as a result of the nazis terror in world war ii have  died in vain if we have learned that such inhumanity must  be allowed ever to exist again. throughout the world. this day will be observed at meetings and rallies and by special commemorative prayers in houses of worship. on sunday. may 7. 1967. at 2 p.m.. in new york citys times square in my district. there will be a public rally. sponsored by the warsaw ghetto uprising anniversary committee. chaired by mr. abram salomon and assisted. among others. by mr. peter krausz. the committees secretary. last year some 15.000 persons attended the rally. again this year. i have been invited to participate. i urge my colleagues to ackledge and to communicate to their constituents. as i will to mine. the important message to be remembered from the holocaust and heroism of that day 24 years ago. so that a message of recent history will  be lost. but will remain a timeless lesson of dignity and courage for all americans as well as for the rest of the world. if any of my colleagues will be in new york on may 7. i hope they will personally appear at the rally and join in paying tribute to this important anniversary and that for which it stands.
. events in the middle east show the vietnam war  in its true perspective as an illconceived and illadvised venture. which has accomplished hing except to waste the substance of the united states with our young men dying and billions of dollars going down the drain. and for what. those who have supported the domitheory should by  k that it is actually a chess game. and we have become the pawns. in january 1966. during my campaign for congress in the special election to fill the lindsay vacancy in the 17th district. manhattan. i stated. with respect to the war in vietnam. that "you do  take a firm stand in quicksand." are we   bogged down in that debilitating conflict. is  the soviet union  free to move in any direction at a fraction of the sacrifice. which our people have been asked to assume. do we any longer have a leading place in helping to determine world destiny. we  have the situation of a true democracy. israel. a bastion in the middle east. that needs  only our support. but will fight for its own preservation. and we are seemingly impotent to take real action. the new york times editorial of wednesday may 31. 1967. has a direct bearing on this question. and i set it forth herein at length:
. i just want to add my commendation to the gentleman from illis for his leadership on this question. i am glad to join with him in this resolution. as i have on his previous resolution on the gulf of tonkin. i believe the country wants analyses of the type suggested. it is time the constitutional power of the congress on the issue of war or peace was invoked.
. my colleagues who k of my concern over the war in vietnam. which wastes our substance and devours our manpower. will also k that i could  let this session of the 90th congress close without once again bringing before you a respected voice in dissent over our vietnam policy. there are many more such respected voices today. these are people who support and revere our flag and all that for which it stands. yet while decrying flagburning. they etheless must protest in the highest interest of u.s. democracy. against policies that brought us to and continue us in a senseless war. as we conclude this session of congress. where so often we have heard words to the effect that we could  take some domestic humane and necessary action. like exterminating rats. because we have a war going on. i once again register my protest. this time it is done through the thoughts of rev. harold a. bosley. of christ church methodist. 520 park avenue. in the heart of my district. in a sermon delivered on october 22. 1967:
 john f. kennedy when he lost his pt boat off kolombangara. what is the pacific like today. 25 years after guadalcanal. bloody ridge. and tarawa. some answers to these questions are given in a report just published in new york by the foundation for the peoples of the south pacific. the report summarizes the finding of a survey conducted by a team of threean anthropologist and two ecoists--in 1967. the survey team visited new guinea. the solomon islands. the new hebrides. new caledonia. fiji. tonga. western samoa. and american samoa. facts unearthed by the survey team show that: world war ii did far more damage to the ecoy of the south pacific and the lives of the islanders than is generally realized. for the 20 years immediately following world war ii. the pacific islands were forgotten. almost hing was done for the inent victims of war in the pacific. although aid to the pacific is increasing. it is only inal. twentyfive years after world war ii. many islands are  yet back to their prewar level of copra production. although copra is the backbone of the pacific ecoy. several pacific territories are on the verge of bankruptcy. a number of governments in the south pacific still rely almost completely on christian missions to carry the burden of education and health services. the double burden is strangling the churches. as a result. south pacific islanders. mally mild and cooperative. are growing resentful of their continued "have " ecoies. the survey team concluded its report to the foundation for the peoples of the south pacific by indicating areas of urgent need. an ounce of prevention  can prevent the danger of communist exploitation of potential troublespots.
 concurred. the inauguration of an allvolunteer armed force was the culmination of a lengthy national debate on the potential risks and benefits of relying solely on volunteer military personnel. opponents of the volunteer force had said that it would  be feasible. that it would cost up to $17 billion. that it would be mercenary. that it would create a separate military elite. and that it would be composed of the poor. the black. and the uneducated. proponents of the volunteer force advocated it on the basis of military efficiency. equity. and individual freedom. the proponents prevailed and the use of the draft was tcrminated in january at first. the most pressing problems came in connection with the active forces. they were unable to attract an adequate number of qualified perosnnel. with time. however. solutions were found. an effective recruiting structure was built. broader options were offered to recruits. training opportunities were guaranteed to those who qualified. specialized enlistment and reenlistment bonuses were established. and many other improvements in manpower management were implemented. the experience of the past 4 years shows that such inative management on the part of the services has enabled them to overcome most active force problems. without going beyond the cost originally estimated by the national security council. today. questions are being raised concerning the allvolunteer forcequestions related to the number of personnel the services are obtaining. the quality of the personnel. the cost of the avf. and the strength of the reserve components. as a result. we also hear discussion of restoring a peacetime draft or even instituting a broader form of compulsory national service. a strong national defense is of paramount importance. but if we can have a strong military without compelling peacetime service in it. then that is the course we should follow. e of us would hesitate to reactivate the draft if emergency circumstances necessitated such action in the interests of national security. but. before we draft one free american. it is our responsibility to be sure that it is impossible to avoid compulsion. what is the real status of the avf. manpower statistics should be examined for longterm trends. rather than for shortterm occurrences. it is misleading to take a snapshot of manpower statistics. first. let us look at the active forces. then at the reserve. a primary concern raised about the avf is that the quality of our recruits is down. the longterm trend. however. suggests the opposite. two yardsticks used by the services to assess quality are level of educationhas the enlistee completed high schooland standardized test scores. one reason for the emphasis on high school graduates is that they cause fewer disciplinary problems than highschool graduates. trends indicate that the percentage of high school graduates for all services totaled has risen steadily from 61 percent in fiscal year 1974 to 71 percent in the summer of 1976a remarkable 16 percent increase. even in the army. which has the greatest recruiting needs. the percentage of high school graduates has risen from 50 to 60 percent over the same period. the armed services vocational aptitude batteryasvabproduces the standardized test scores which are the other measure of quality. on the basis of asvab. applicants are classified into one of five mental categories. with category i having those with the highest military aptitude and those in category v being disqualified from service. according to the department of defense. the results of the asvab show that there has been a steady increase since fiscal year 1974 in enlistees with above average scores. a moderate increase in those with average scores. and of most importance a steady decrease in enlistees with below average scores. in fiscal year 1976 less than 5 percent entered the services from the below average mental group. category iv. this was more than a 50percent decrease in category ivs since fiscal year 1974. and showed up. most importantly. in the army and marine corpsthe difficult services for which to recruit. a second issue in the active forces is the quantity of recruits. the facts are these. in the active forces all services were manned within 99 percent of their end strength obectives for the 15month period ending last september. the services virtually met their total recruiting goals for the same period. in fact. for every fiscal year since the inauguration of the avf. active duty force levels have been virtually met. in other words. as of october 1976. the beginning of this fiscal year. there were significant shortages in the number of active force personnel. during the final 3 months of 1976. recruitment dropped to 95 percent of the goals. some suggest that this represents a new trend leading to the conclusion that 4 years of success have ended. but brief periods of recruitment difficulty have occurred in the past with permanent consequences. in fact. with a 5percent recruitment shortfall in late 1976. the military fell only onethird of 1 percent below desired force levels. aher measure of recruiting strength. hidden from superficial analysis. is the number of recruits who have signed up to join the military at a later date when their training slot becomes available. if recruiting shortfalls are significant. future recruitment presumably would be very slow. yet the army has a "delayed entry pool" twice last years level and seven times the level of january 1974. indeed. recruiting for an allvolunteer force is always a competitive situation. longer can the services simply say as they did under the draft. "we need 40.000 men this month" and the draft produced 40.000. the services  have to go out and recruit every person they need. some months are more difficult for recruitment than others. to criticize the volunteer force on this basis is a misrepresentation of the overall picture. it is again. taking a narrow snapshot of our 4year experience. part of the fear that the avf will  continue to succeed is based on the belief that our 4 years of success is attributable to the recent poor state of the ecoy. it is worth ing that the avf was already showing strong signs of succeeding prior to the ecoic downturn in late 1974. as the ecoy improves. the avf may encounter some recruiting problems. but that does  mean they will be insoluble. we often hear that desertion rates are a problem with the avf. the facts are these. the army has the lowest rate of desertion since 1966. the marine corps desertion is high. but is about onehalf of what it was 2 years ago and is sill dropping. the navy has developed a very serious desertion problemreaching levels two to three times that of the vietnam era. the air force. as always. does  have a desertion problem. this mixed pattern is puzzling and different people can give different explanations of its causes. while all the services. and particularly the navy. should give unstinted attention to these problems. i do  think any fair minded analyst can conclude that this pattern is sufficiently disastrous to scuttle the avf. thus. all significant longterm trends suggest unmanageable problems with the quantity or quality of our recruits in the active forces. one unalterable fact about the military manpower situation is that the number of 18yearolds will gradually decrease until the early 1990s when it will rise again. the decrease is quite gradual. thus there is immediate reason to institute a draft or national service program to help the active forces. as for the future. we do  k what our active force recruitment requirements will be a decade from . next. let us look at the reserve components. of all the avf problems being discussed. those of the reserve components seem the most pressing. our primary reserve system. kn as the ready reserve. is composed of the selected reserve and the individual ready reserve. the irr. the problems should be viewed separately. the reserve forces act of 1955 requires all military personnel to serve a minimum obligation of 6 years. whatever portion of that obligation is  fulfilled in active duty is met by being in either the selected reserve or the irr. the selected reserve is composed of prior service and prior service personnel and maintains a constant preparedness level through weekend and summer training. these men and women are paid and they are designated as the first force to be called to supplement our active forces in an emergency. the selected army reserve components are about 8 percent below authorized levels. more importantly. this shortfall can. at present rates. be expected to increase to 18 percent in the next 18 months. the marine corps reserve also shows a shortage in combat arms units. but the naval reserve. the air national guard. and the air force reserve are about on target. should we use the draft or national service to solve the reserve problems. before we consider such drastic measures. we should be sure that reasonable management solutions exist. our present shortages in the selected reserve did  come upon us without forewarning. in 1970. the gates commission recognized that problems with reserve recruiting might arise in the late 1970s and that special attention might be needed. later. in 1972. the administration at first sought. and then withdrew. proposals for incentives for reserve enlistments. . after 7 years of inattention. the problems of reserve requirements can longer be iged. until last august e of the reserve components except the navy and marines had a fulltime recruiting force. money to build a reserve recruiting structure is in the fiscal year 1978 budget. but realistically we should expect that it will take a couple of years to build a successful and attractive recruiting program. to improve reserve recruiting we should ask managementoriented questions. can we make participation in reserve components more attractive. do recruits spend training sessions involved in constructive. interesting work. or do they just put in their time sitting around armories and getting haircuts. the other component of the ready reserve. the individual ready reserve. is composed of men and women who have completed active duty. have a remainder of their 6year obligation to complete. but do  join an organized unit. the size of the individual ready reserve is dependent upon the number of men and women who have recently completed active duty and the number of years each one has left to complete his 6year obligation. the individual ready reserve has declined since the introduction of the volunteer force for two reasons: first. we have reduced our active force level from roughly 3.5 million at the height of the vietnam war to 2.1 million. oloviously a comparable reduction in the individual ready reserve was inevitable. although  desirable. second. recruits are averaging longer periods of service in the active force. longer active service has improved the quality. stability. and readines of our forces. while reducing the training costs and turer. but. longer active duty has also shrunk the irr pool. in full mobilization. all americans with recent military service are likely to be called back anyway. if we recognize this fact in our statistics. it would lessen our concerns regarding the number of individual ready reserves. we must maintain our reserve strength. but a return to the crutch of the draft to solve this problem of adequate postactive service obligations is wholly unwarranted. perhaps the most recurrent question raised about the viability of the allvolunteer force is cost. the suggestion is that if we returned to the draft. it would reduce various personnel costs significantly. let us look at pay first. while the draft was still in effect. congress made the decision to raise pay for new recruits to a level competitive with the civilian sector. it was deemed equitable to stop penalizing those who were compelled to serve their country in times when only a portion of our youth were needed. competitive pay has certainly aided the transition to an allvolunteer force. indeed the avf policy would have been impossible without competitive pay. compensation increases have been dramatic for recruits. it was necessary that compensation be nearly doubled in 1971 to reach equity with the private sector. an objective long since reached for the military careerist. but the crucial question is: would we return to inequitable pay scales if we were to reinstitute the draft. i doubt that we would consider such a regressive action under peacetime circumstances. in order to implement the avf. additional personnel expenditures in the form of recruiting and bonus funds are required. these amount to $400 to $500 million per year. these figures are substantial. but when military manpower costs total $60 billion. less than a half billion dollars spent to avoid compulsion appears reasonable. present military manpower problems should be addressed with management solutions. rather than with a draft or some form of national service wherein every 18yearold is required to do some form of military or civic duty. the allvolunteer force serves both the interests of the people and the interests of our national defense. the avf is in the tradition of our country. it represents equity. freedom of choice. and fair pay. under it we have seen the end of the national unrest that accompanied the draft. it is only my belief that the volunteer force has helped the military. since the services began to convert to an allvolunteer status. they have become more efficient in their use of manpower. the combat readiness of our forces is high. jobs and the skills of those who perform them are well matched. and drug problems and racial disturbances have declined. several management problems remain. we need to upgrade reserve activities and build a fulltime. stable. dedicated recruiting force. we need to review the definitions of reserve obligations in light of current needs. we need to understand why desertion increases in one service and drops in others. we need to continue our vigilance of all aspects of volunteer force management. if we do this. we will have a wellmanaged allvolunteer force. and we will  need to return to the draft.
i am reminded of when i went over to the navy department. my predecessor was mr. paul ignatius. he had what he called ignatius law. as far as the purchase of aircraft went. ignatius law was: "if you buy more. it costs more. if you buy fewer. it costs more." if i might subsequently inquire of the senator a year from  whether the administrative costs have gone down. i should appreciate that prerogative.
the last point i would like to raise is the senator from arkansas quoted secretary vance in saying that continuation of the clinch river project would undermine our credibility. or something to that degree. in connection with the antiproliferation thrust that our nation has. is that an accurate statement. and. if so. what is the answer to it.
it could be. i think the senators point is valid. although i do think we have got to keep in mind that we have entered all over this world into negotiations and agreements with foreign powers to provide for american forces there. for example. subic bay in the philippines. a magnificent. mammoth naval installation which we have got out in the philippines. look at forrejon. a base in spain. and rota. a base in spain. where american naval forces are today. it is all worked out with independent countries. just as i anticipate we will work out some kind of arrangement with panama.
the canal has been neutral since it was opened in 1914. is the senator from alabama suggesting that in the middle of world war ii. if a warship had set out" from germany and annced its destination to be the panama canal. that it would have been a violation of the neutrality of the canal for a united states warship to intercept it.
that is a difficult question. if you get two vessels up there they can both go through very quickly. i guess the situation is rather helped by the fact that panama does  have any war vessels. therefore. this is something that is solely beneficial to the united states.
i have been listening carefully to this excellent statement that the senator has been reading from the distinguished former congressman from new york. congressman fish. bit i wish to point out a couple of exceptions that i might take to his statement. he refers to the four former chiefs of naval operations. but. of course. first. i point out that the just previous chief of naval operations has. of course.  remained silent. he has come forward in support of these treaties. that is admiral zumwalt. but i think the key point i wish to make is that it is one thing for men who do  have the responsibility. who are retired. who are gone from the daytoday problems that have to be solved and do  have the responsibility. to make statements. but the men who have the responsibility. namely. every single member of the joint chiefs. the heads of the marine corps. army. navy. and air force plus the chairman. have all come out in support of this treaty. i just do  think we can overlook that. aher point i wish to raise with the distinguished senators comments is that he sees this as a pattern. all tied in with withdrawal from south korea. the retreat from south vietnam. supposedly our giving up the neutronbomb. or possibly even getting out of guantanamo bay. or any of those movements. i can speak for the remainder of senators who are for this treaty. but certainly i in way feel committed that by voting for this treaty. therefore. i am going to vote for withdrawal of forces from south korea. for doing something about guantanamo bay. or getting rid of the neutron bomb.  has the president come down yet on a position on the neutron bomb. but i just think it is incorrect to make a statement tying all these together in a package. true. we got out of south vietnam. but i do  think the senator would say we should have stayed there under the circumstances. and there was the administration that both of us supported very strongly that provided for us getting out of south vietnam. so i say to the public. all who are listening. that those who are in favor of this treaty are in way for a retreat from americas responsibilities around the world. we take each case on its own. as for the neutron bomb. let us look at it when the time comes. but by voting for this treaty we are  going to vote to give up the neutron bomb. i thank the senator. and i appreciate him giving me the opportunity to ask these questions and make this statement.
i thank the senator very much for this 10 minutes. and i shall  take much more than that. . i do  have an amendment on this subject. but in the interim. while we are waiting for the next amendment to come up. i should like to express my deep concern over the decline in the size of the navy over the past 10 years. in the past 10 years. we have seen the navy come down from 970 ships to 452 ships. if one examines that drop. we shall see that it has primarily been in escort vessels. that is. the destroyers dropping from 222 to 67. which is a 70 percent decline. also. amphibious vessels have dropped sharply. from 157 to 64. which is a 60percent decline. mally. these vessels and our modem destroyers and amphibious vessels are far superior to and more capable thqn those of years ago. etheless. fewer ships. matter how capable they are. can do the same job as more ships. we should  deplore the smaller size of the fleet solely because it is  as big as it was 10 years ago.
i do  think we should deplore a smaller fleet solely because it is  as big as it was 10 years ago. i think our concern should be directed to what our potential adversaries have. ten years ago. our navy and the soviet navy were roughly comparable in size. . the soviets are roughly twice our size. just in the area of submarines. they have 350 to our 120. i believe that the quality of our vessels is superior to that of the soviets. but i think we would make a great mistake to ascribe to ourselves some scientific mystique that always makes us better than our opposition. that somehow. they are clumsy oafs that can build ships as good as ours. what has happened. . i would indicate to the committee that i am. and i suspect there are many in this body who are. deeply concerned over this matter and who urge the committee to orient their thoughts on these smaller carriers and to make this the last large carrier. i appreciate that if we look at the lifespan of the various existing carriers. the 12 or 13 we have. that their life expectancy starts terminating very soon. the roosevelt ends in the 197980 period. that is. reaches its 30th year. the other vessels are the coral sea. forrestal. saratoga. ranger. independence. kitty hawk. constellation. and enterprise. all of them reach their 30th year in the 198589 period. so there are some big decisions that are going to have to be made. it seems to me that  is the time to plan for these vessels that will give us. hopefully. perhaps  the same capability. but a very significant capability. and there will be far more of them. they are  going to be cheap. vessel is cheap these days. but i do urge the committee to consider this.  only as concerns aircraft carriers. but also as concerns submarines. . the committee has given its attention to this matter in submarines. but the cost of the trident just makes it prohibitive. i believe. for us to continue with this type vessel. particularly the trident. somehow. we have got to get a less expensive vessel. both in the trident class and also in the aircraft carrier class. i thank the chair.
i have had some experience with hovercraft and can testify that they do just what the senator from alaska has pointed out. the ones i have ridden on have been britishmade. although the u.s. navy was experimenting with some craft domestically made. i take it they do  have those in production and. indeed. have gotten a little bit discouraged with them. so. i would support the amendment of the senator from alaska.
madam president. i direct myself to some of the problems that have been discussed here in the chamber and echo again the very able statement made by the senior senator from connecticut. who very clearly outlined the problems that have been involved. let me just say this: there is hing more complicated in the world to construct than a nuclear submarine. as a matter of fact. all warships are extremely difficult to construct. as admiral thomas moorer once said: shipbuilding is  a production matter. it is a construction matter. every single submarine and warship that is built involves incredibly difficult problems. i particularly wish to address the matter of change orders. let us  go into reviewing the dispute that has taken place as to whether the general dynamics electric boat shipyard was kept up to date on what was taking place in newport news. what i am more concerned with are change orders. change orders result during ship construction. when a new technique. a new type of weapon. any new type of fixture is developed. whatever it might be. and the navy chooses to have that inserted in the vessel that is being constructed. these change orders are incredibly difficult to evaluate as to how much they will cost. and that really is the basis of the problem here.  the navy says they will cost so much. and the shipyard says they will cost so much. when we have some 35.000 of these being debated. the question of what to do becomes very serious. one way of settling the question is to go into court and quibble over every single change order. that would take up months and indeed years of everyones time. from top management on down. on the sides of both the navy and the shipyard. but there comes a time in these cost disputes. whether in private industry or in the relationship between the navy and a contractor. when commonsense has to prevail. you have to step in and say: "we have a dispute involving millions and millions of dollars. let us settle it. we are  going to debate every single one of these change orders. we are going to split the difference in some manner." and that is what happened here. it was  a case of the navy giving away the company store. we had hardheaded businessmen negotiating this settlement. secretary claytor came from the outside industrial world. where he was president of a railroad. and he is hardly one to give away federal money. the same with assistant secretary hidalgo. this simply was  a case of just giving in to general dynamics. if everyone listened carefully to the recounting of what took place as outlined by the senior senator from connecticut. they  k the facts. the navy came up with a proposal. general dynamics would  accept it.  they said. and then general dynamics came forward with a countering proposal.  said the navy. they would  accept it. and this thing went right down to the line.  it is easy to say. "send it into court. do  give in to these big corporations." whether it is the 85th biggest corporation. or the 110th biggest corporation. whatever it might be. but what do we want. do we want to tie everyone up for years and years without the ships we need. and then have the cost go up when we do get them. one debates that the cost will go up in any kind of delay. that is the price we pay for inflation. it is with us every day. . more than any other time. commonsense has to prevail. i might say that this is a settlement that has been approved by the navys watchdog on costs. gordon rule. there are some who say gordon rule is  as tough as he used to be. well. i do  intend to debate that. i simply point out that he has approved this settlement. i would also like to quote from . looking at all the facts. looking at where we are. and looking at a future of escalation. this is the best possible settlement that can be obtained for the united states of america. i urge this body to reject the amendment of the distinguished senator from wisconsin. i thank the chair.
  at this point. . the manpower shortage in the u.s. navy is extremely seriouss. navy. what we should do is to pay attention to the problems that exist. if there is $294 million available. put it into those priorities that the chief of naval operations says are his top priorities: first. manpower retention and adequate pay. second. aircraft. and. third. ships. to spend $294 million on this ship is like rearranging the deck chairs on the titanic. the navy. as i said. is in an extremely perilous situation as regards manpower. and all attention should be devoted to that. and. secondly. to the aircraft situation which the distinguished floor manager of this bill on the republican side ks full well is one of the alarming facts facing the navy at this time. i reserve the remainder of my time.
. last month melvin laird. former secretary of defense. with whom i served as secretary of the navy. published an article in the readers digest titled "should our missile force go to sea." in this article. former secretary laird asks the very pertinent and perceptive question: how can we best deploy an mx force against the new realities of the soviets strategic strength. against the accuracy and firepower they can  bring to bear against our landbased missiles. secretary lairds response to this question. is "the answer may lie at sea." i concur with secretary laird that the theoretical case for a seabased icbm force is compelling. and i would suggest we are well advised to maintain and improve any facilties we may  have that will assist in the further development of such capabilities.
. i would like to add that this bill has received broad bipartisan support here in the senate. we currently have 48 cosponsors drawn from both sides of the chamber and the bill was reported unanimously from senate judiciary committee last week. we have also received letters of endorsement from a broad range of veterans and civic groups across the country. i ask that a selection of these letters and an excerpt from the judiciary committee report (961029) be printed into * the record. * the material follows: purpose the purpose of the bill is to grant a federal charter to italianamerican war veterans of the united states.
. according to the veterans administration. volunteer hours donated free of charge by public spirited organizations such as the italianamerican war veterans amount to almost $35 million per year. these organizations provide an additional $45 million per year through donations of goods and materials. on this basis. and because of the possibility of more stringent federal budgets in the future. i believe it is vital to support the voluntary efforts of all our veterans service organizations. your support. and that of this senate in obtaining a federal charter for the iawv will enhance their fine service to americas hospitalized veterans across the nation.* by mr. cranston:
let us take a look at the estimates that come forward here in the latest report. the estimates for the new jersey state that it will take $326 million and 21 months. well. last year. the distinguished senator from arkansas said: lets put $1 million. lets put $2 million into a study of these ships and see if they can be brought back. lets get some hard facts. but we could  get those hard facts. one accepted the $1 million or $2 million offer. the committee on armed services was  satisfied with that. they wanted to proceed. . how hard are these facts. i have here in my hand a conversation with adm..thomas b. hayward on naval preparedness in the 1980s. by the american enterprise institute. hardly a subversive organization. on page 18. admiral hayward is saying: we could generate a lot of offensive capability with these warships. it takes. however. about a halfbillion dollars to overhaul and thoroughly modernize a battleship. a half billion dollars. yet this estimate is for $326 million. which indicates that these figures we are getting are  very firm. one figure is from the committee. the other is from the chief of naval operations of the u.s. navy. . i support the amendment of the distinguished senator from arkansas and hope that the senate will adopt it
the senator could  have had better training. i wish to make a couple of points. so far as the saratoga is concerned. it was  a question of whether the saratoga should be overhauled or . the saratoga was going in for an overhaul. so let us get on with the job. the question was whether it should go to newport news or philadelphia. but there was question about it being overhauled. whereas. this is a fundamental question as to whether to proceed at all with this battleship. second. if the senator will review the record carefully. i did  speak on the floor in connectionwith the saratoga. to the best of my memory. if i did. i will be corrected. but i do  recall it. and my remarks must have been brief. undoubtedly. they were persuasive. i voted for it. there is question about that. this is the point. : we have here an estimate by the committee on armed services that the overhaul of this tessel will be $326 million. here is the chief of naval operationsand i do  k who can be referred to more than the chief of naval operationsspeaking at a group that is "in". these days. who is more "in" than the american enterprise institute. that is the innersanctum. this is what the chief of naval operations says: it takes. however. about a half billion dollars to overhaul and thoroughly modernize a battleship. "about" does  get you down to $326 million.
can i read from the report. further. the funding allows for installation of a modern electronic warfare suite. a closein weapon system (phalanx radarcontrolled gun). and additional missile systems consisting of harpoon and tomahawk missiles. the nine 16inch guns and the two 5inch guns will be retained. the activation overall will require about 12 months with possible initial deployment in 1082. the anticipated service life of the new jersey is 15 years.
. the failure to fully authorize the lth trident. as i mentioned. has us deeply concerned and may pose a number of extremely undesirable consequences. such as the disruption in production at the shipyards two principal facilities. quonset point in my state and groton. conn.. the possibility of layoffs of skilled workers at these sites. and. most importantly. a delay in delivery to the navy of the trident ballistic missile submarines. i ask my distinguished colleague from texas if it is his understanding that these undesirable consequences are  likely to be experienced.
. i ask the if there are twothings we need in the be a platform for cruise missules..nuclear armed services committee chairman navy budget. they are aircraft. rocure or conventioral. as well as a .platform for a. brief answer to this question. ment and new ship procurement. more forthe firepower of nine 16inich guns. is there a second phase to the conflguships. smaller ships. fater ships. such having been assured itcan be reacti- ration of the reactivation of this vessel. as repreiented by the frigate. vated in a relativelyshortperiod of time. this is phase 1 for $326 millioni. does the to go into this reactivatin of the i feel.t worthwhile to utilize this mighty navy have a plan in for a second phase net jersey. a.vesselmore than 30 years visel. therefore.- i fully support the including add ski jumps. the installation old--and you can say that it is  merely funding request for the reactivation of of vertical launchers. add a hangar. and 30years old because she has been tied the battleship new jersey. aditional helo systems. and so forth. is for manyyearsand was refurbished for. twas concerned with the different es- there a second phase plan. the vietnam war4akes sense. it is timates of the total cost of the reactiva- mr. tower. let me say to the senaa 35yearold ship mattr how you tion frankly. fthink that the navy was tor from rhode island there is some preslice it.  repared to respond to this matter liminary planning for a second phase. mr. presidenit.. urgce my colleagues in timesepast. i have read all kinds of but that has yet to be requested and to stick with- the- appropriations com- estimates. would have to come before the armed mittee on this subject and to reject the - the secietiry of the navy  has services committee for authorization. amendmentaproposed. given the necessary assurance that the what is contemplated in the first plan i thank the senator from alask. costvill  exceed $320 illion and includes 32 tomaiawks and 16 har-
. i would like to focus  on the past contributions of greece and her people to our way of life. but rather to emphasize the bright future for relations between our two countries. it gives me great pleasure to observe that greece is  fully reintegrated into the nato military command structure. the strategic importance of greece to the western alliance can hardly be overstated. our close relations and our mutual efforts to enhance greek security extend back over -35 years. and predate the formation of the nato alliance itself. i believe it is most eworthy that all existing agreements and arrangements between the united states and greece. some dating to as far back as 1053. are still in force and are serving both countries well. we have -recently been involved in negotiations concerning. the future status of u.s. bases in greece. these bases serve important u.s. and nato interests. and their existence reemphasizes the importance of greece to the strategic framework of the alliance. these negotiations are currently suspended. and when they resume i am confident that the ramaining outstanding issues will be resolved. i am certain thatan agreement which respects greek sovereignty fully and which fosters further cooperation in defense matters can be reached. we will undoubtedly face a number of additional critical issues in the coming years. issues affecting the immediate region of the mediterranean and europe as a whole. i am certain that all of us who value the contributions anade by greece to western security and who hope for even closer relations in the future will work hard to insure that u.s. policy contributes to that objective. similarly. i am confident that the long tradition of cooperation between greece and the united states will enable us to overcome any mi difficulties and to work together to build a peaceful and stable future.
. i attended the commissioning of the u.s.s. ohio on ember 11. armistice day: a day of peace. a day of reflection on the wars that have ravaged this country. the success of the trident submarines will be measured by their preservation of peace. by their protection of our countrys shores. and by their deterrence of aggression. this nations submarines have been a crucial element in preserving peace for the last 30 years. it is the hope of the men and women who build them. of the naval officers and men who serve on themn. and of all americans. that the trident class submarines will continue in this role for at least aher 30 years.*
 reagan has reemphasized the defensive purpose of our forces in europe. their role as a deterrent to conflict. and the full commitment of the united states to the security of its nato allies. the goal of insuring this deterrenceboth conventional and nuclear and at the lowest force levels possibleis a worthy one and one which i fully support. recently. we have seen considerable unnecessary confusion in europe and. unfortunately. in this country regarding our strategy and our commitments. and i believe todays statement should put an end to this confusion. the programs and policies of the united states and its nato allies are designed to preserve the pace.  to endanger it. just as there should be doubt about our commitment to the security of our allies. there should be doubt about our willingness to work hard to achieve balanced and fair arms control agreements. treaties
today. i am pleased to cosponsor a resolution calling for efforts to bring about a mutual anti bilateral freeze on nuclear weapons between the united states and the soviet union. i have long favored endeavors to igotiate agreements limiting or reducing nuclear weapons because i believe that such agreeients are in the national interest of the united states. while i am  wedded to the bilateral freeze as the only potentially successful approach to arms control. i do think it is an approach which has great promise and deserves to be explored through negotiations. support for an effort to pursue a bilateral freeze is in way intended to undermine or call into question our efforts in geneva to negotiate limits on intermediaterange nuclear forces. neither should it be interpreted as calling into question our resolve to fulfill commitments to our nato allies and to complete whatever modernizations of our own forces are necessary in the light of unconstrained soviet developments. still. this cycle of developing and deploying new systems and spending everincreasing amounts of money on nuclear weapons must come to an end. we should strive for stability and equality in the forces of the two sides. at the lowest levels possible. a freeze may be a useful way to bring this about.. and it is certainly worth pursuing at the negotiating table. therefore. we should move as rapidly as possible to the beginning of the start talks. it would be most appropriate if the possibility of a mutual and bilateral freeze was on the agenda for discussion. i hope our efforts here today will encourage such a development.e
. the state of rhode island was represented at the groundbreaking by mr. thomas suprock. a vietnam veteran who is partially disabled as a result of a shrapnel wound received in vietnam. his thoughts on being selected for this task were published in the providence journal on march 25. 1982. i believe his ideas are a profound statement on this matter and are worthy of the attention of the senate. i ask that his statement be reprinted in the record at this point. the statement follows: [from the providence journal. mar. 25. 1982]
. i have joined with the senator from california in offering this amendment. i believe it represents a responsible approach to the subject of ballistic missile defense research and at the same time represents a responsible approach to the expenditure of our defense resources.e
. when we introduced this amendment. i outlined my principal concerns about the ballistic missile defense program. these centered around the lack of justification provided for the accelerated loads program and the serious implications for arms control which. in my judgment. had  been thoroughly considered. i am pleased that the armed services committee has taken the action that it has. i believe our ballistic missile defense programs. along with our other strategic force programs and our arms control efforts. merit full and careful study in the coming months. proceeding in a more measured manner with our ballistic missile defense research. and in particular keeping growth in loads research spending at a lower level. is an appropriate step at this time.
. we have never seen a los a agelesclass submarine floating on thle surface. either. the qualitative edge will be maintained. and if we build attack submarines in sufficient quantity. this vital aspect of our national defense will be insured. a building rate of four attack submarines per year. which is well within the capacity of our existing shipyards. will provide us with maxmum efficiency of production and will make possible the goal of producing 100 los angelesclass submarines. this goal of 100 is strongly supported by the chief of naval operations. admiral watkins called me earlier today at lunchtime and restated his firm commitment to this program. the chief of naval operations is strongly behind this program. as is the secretary of the navy. i believe that this represents a reasonable and prudent force level in light of the needs and missions of this class of submarines. moreover. as i think we all k. we will begin retiring thle 594class submarines starting just 6 years from . so this further increases the need for additional 688 class submarines. and i support the amendment.
 also annced that u.s. air and naval forces in the area would operate under more flexible rules of engagement. this morning the battleship uss new jersey opened fire with the 16inch guns on lebanese moslem and syrianheld positions. this is only the second time the 16inch guns have been used in leba. and it is the first time they have been used for a purpose other than direct support and protection for the marines. unlike the decision to withdraw the marines. this move to escalate our militiary involvement is a grave mistake. we are  rat war in leba. and the united states can. through the selective use of naval or air bombardment. determine the outcome of events in leba. employment of our forces in this manner will only serve to weaken further our political influence anj our ability to contribute to the diplomatic settlement which ultimately will bring peace to leba. for this reason. i believe that u.s. interests will be better served if we are  involved militarily in the lebanese conflict. a great deal remains to be decided in leba and in the region as well. as the drama unfolds. the opportunities for diplomatic initiatives expand. the united states should be devoting all of its efforts to these diplomatic tasks.  to sailing off the coast lobbing occasional shellseven 16inch shellsat druze militia. such actions are sound and fury. it is my strong belief that they achieve hing concrete in the short run. and in the long run they further weaken our ability to achieve through negotiations that which is clearly unattainable through military force.
madam president. for the past few days the senate has been debating the supplemental appropriation for central america. i have voted to support the $62 million for el salvador. the amount proposed by the senator from hawaii. and i have voted to continue our assistance to the program in nicaragua. today. as we near the completion of our discussion of this subject. i wish to spell out my reasoning on these issues. eleven days ago. the people of el salvador voted in presidential elections. under very difficult conditions. hundreds of thousands of salvadorans went to the polls to express their preferences. there will  be a ruf election in a few weeks. and el saivador will then have a popularly elected president. this is a remarkable achievement in the midst of a civil war. i was particularly impressed with the remarks of the distinguished senator from oklahoma in this chamber last wednesday. as he described the experience of actually observing the people of el salvador participate in the election despite the problem with the mechanics of the process. his and other accounts of the election help us to place in the proper perspective assertions that the election is meaningless. this election was  perfect. but it is  meaningless. confusion. delays. mistakes which prevented some salvadorans from votingthese were unfortunate. but  fatal. flaws in the process. i believe that the willingness of salvadorans to persist in their efforts to vote. to display the kind of determination exhibited last sunday. sends a message. the message is that the people long for democracy. they crave its benefits and the right to participate in determining their own political future. and they long for peace. they are tired equally of oppression and of the current war. there are those who dismiss the election turt as being of significance because voting is compulsory. failure to vote results in a modest fine. what the critics overlook is that thousands of voters came out despite personal endangerment. that any voter objecting to the process or the selection of candidates could deposit his ballot unmarked and that only about 10 percent of the voters chose to do so. there is other way to view the elections than to conclude that the people of el salvador have a longing for peace and for democracy. on these counts alone. they deserve our support. senator should be under the delusion that these elections. by themselves. can solve the problems of el salvador. indeed. i sometimes believe that too much hope is placed on the elections. as if the simple act of voting could make all salvadoran problems disappear. we all k that that is  the case. but at the same time it should be recognized that an elected government. one which governs according to constitutional principles. will be the type of government which can gather the strength to address seriously the other problems of el salvador. efforts to establish democratic government are critical first steps.  the end of the reform process. this brings us to the situation today. we have before us a proposal to provide additional military assistance to the government of el salvadoi. this request comes as surprise. we all knew there would be a supplemental request this year. just as we k that more money will be required in 1985. there is promise that this assistance will produce some sort of military victory. assertion that this is the last penny we will have to spend in el salvador. these problems will  be solved overnight.  will the war be over by the end of the summer. some have argued. in light of this. that we should cut off aid. or that we should attach conditions which we k will  be metwhich would have the same effect- or that we should cut off all aid within a specified time period unless certain specific actions a*e taken. i am in sympathy with the objectives of those who make such proposals. i. too. want to see progress in important areas: i want a verdict in the case of the killers of the american churchwomen. a verdict which is long overdue. i want the prosecution of those who killed the land reform workers. i want the land reform program to continue. most especially. i want to see all end to the death squad activity and to the terror and violence perpetrated upon the people of el salvador by rightwing extremists. the question is. do we want our entire policy toward el salvador to. in essence. be held hostage to these specific achievements. i submit that we do . that we must look at the broad picture in making our decisions about aid to el salvador. and that we must press for progress on these important issues in ways which do  give extremists of either the left or the right a junctional veto over our policy. there is aher aspect to this debate over funding levels and cutting off aid. and it is one which is  being faced by those who would suspend all aid to el salvador unless certain conditions are met. it is essential that we all recognize that. in the absence of continued u.s. aid. the guerrilla forces could win a military victory in el salvador. a victory which otherwise is beyond their reach. in saying this. i am  arguing that a military victory is within the reach of the government forces. with or without this aid. i believe that anyone familiar with the situation in el salvador is aware that the nillitary proficiency of the salvadoran army is less than excellent. and that the defeat of the guerrillas is far from imminent. at the same time. it must be said that the salvadoran armed forces have prevented guerrillas from achieving a military victory and with additional training we can expect their performance to improve. the ultimate solution in elsalvador must be political. and it must be arrived at through the negotiation process. i have yet to hear those who have advocated a complete cutoff of u.s. military aid explain how this will contribute to that outcome. instead. it appears to me. this would only lead to the fairly rapid disintegration of the salvadoran armed forces. it is one thing to complain about the waste in our aid programs or the inefficiencies of the salvadoran army. it is aher to throw up our hands. walk away from this issue. and concede that the fmln guerrillas will win. madam president. i have visited el salvador and i have spoken with salvadorans from all sides of the political spectrum. including the fdrfmvln. what was striking to me in these discussions was that virtually everyone wanted the united states to continue to play a role in helping the salvadorans to solve their problems. even the fdr believe that the united states should persuade the government of el salvador to accept the fdrs approach to negotiations. clearly. the united states should  determine the future of el salvador.  can we solve the problems which. ultimately. the people of that country must themselves solve. the u.s. role is to assist. to provide help.  to dictate the terms of el salvadors political future. we have interests in the course of events in the region. but  in every detail of the internal arrangements of el salvador. or any given country. our task here in the senate is to do our best to make the u.s. role a constructive and positive one.  a role in which our power combines with that of the powerful and privileged within the society to block positive change and thwart the aspirations of the people. we must provide the resources to enable our diplomacy to work. we can make it clear that we support the negotiation process. both within el salvador and in the region as a whole. this role. i believe. can best be accomplished if our presence is constant. if our commitment is for the long term. and if we keep a clear sense of our own purpose. madam president. what do i conclude based on the foregoing. first. i believe that u.s. aid to el salvador must be continued. we can turn the spigot on. turn it off. hold everything in suspense. and revisit the issue every 3 months. second. we need to insure that our aid and our presence and our influence in el salvador are beneficial to the growth of the democratic process. an important element of this approach will entail making it clear that while we are  going to stop and start the program. neither are we writing a blank check. there must be a clear message from the united states to all the forces in el salvador: we do  support terrorism. we can condone murder. we demand that those who seek our support devote their full energies to ending these reprehensible practices. third. our aid should be conditioned on an end to human rights abuses. the kissinger commission recommended such conditionality. and the senate foreign relations committee is currently considering this approach in the authorization bill  before the committee. i support these efforts. fourth. i believe that u.s. policy should encourage the government of el salvador to engage in discussions with the opposition and to gain their participation in the round of elections to be held next year. this also was a recommendation of the kissinger commission. and i believe it is extremely important. if we seek a political. rather than a military. solution in el salvador. as i believe we should. then we must make it feasible and desirable for the rebels. as well as others currently outside the system. to participate. guarantees of safety and fair treatment must be worked out. without this further broadening of the system. the desires which the salvadoran people have demonstrated in the presidential election will be frustrated. and u.s. aid will be wasted. i am  sure this will happen. there are those on both the left and the right who are committed to a military solution rather than to the admittedly painful process of democratic participation. i believe. however. that the salvadoran people deserve the chance to decide for themselves. through democratic processes. what their political future will be. madam president. this is the crux of our dilemma today. those of us who support conditionality and a firm commitment to improving the human rights situation in el salvador but who. at the same time. do  wish to see a government installed as a result of military victory by the fmln. must choose the appropriate amounts of aid and the appropriate types of conditions to achieve those objectives. i believe that the amounts  contained in the bill. as a result of the amendment of the senator from hawaii. are about right. i further believe that the proper time to review our conditions and to consider attaching new conditions will be when we have before us the authorization and appropriations bills for 1985. this supplemental amount is blank check. and that should be clear to those in el salvador who might harbor the delusion that the united states is  serious about progress in the areas i mentioned. finally. let me briefly address the issue of nicaragua and aid to the contras. as was pointed out in our debate on this subject yesterday. and as was reaffirmed in the presidents letter of april 4. the goal of u.s. policy with regard to the contras is  to overthrow the government of nicaragua. the amounts we are providing are designed to reduce the military capability of the guerrillas in el salvador. these amounts are modest. and that program is an effective tool in support of our overall objectives in the region. for these reasons. i am supporting this supplemental appropriation. and i oppose attaching new conditions at this time.
. critics of the arms control process and the agreements it has produced are often heard on the floor of the senate. some criticize existing agreements for failing to produce substantial reductions in armaments. others contend the agreements are  perfectly equitable on one count or aher. i do  intend to argue these points today.  do i believe that they are central to the issues this resolution addresses. this resolution simply states that on the key question of offensive force limits. particularly limits on launchers of mirvd strategic missiles and especially on mrvd icbms. it continues to be in the united states interest to observe existing provisions of the relevant agreements. this resolution also recognizes that the united states has serious concerns about the soviet unions compliance with certain provisions of existing arms control agreements. these matters should receive rigorous examination through diplomatic mechanisms. such as the standing consultative commission. designed to handle these issues. in supporting the resolution. i am  implying that concerns about compliance should be igedquite the contrary. they should be pursued vigorously through confidential diplomatic channels and in ongoing discussions with the soviets. in my view. the best hope for insuring peace in the world and for providing a sound basis for the national security of the united states and its allies lies in successfully negotiating arms control agreements. i believe that the ones negotiated in the past continue to serve our interests in important ways. and therefore. that we should continue the ndercut policy as we have for the past 4 years. second. i believe that by doing that we create an atmosphere somewhat more conducive to the successful conclusion of new agreements. we all hope new agreements will produce reductions. greater stability. and will be based on resolution of some of the outstanding compliance concerns. the way to get there. in my view. is to attempt to keep intact that which is good about the present arms control regime. while we continue the search for a worthy successor.e
 and the people of the united states are earnest in their desire for peace and for progress in arms control. the administration and the soviets can be faulted. in my view. for  pressing hard egh soon egh to achieve results in this area. but on issues of such great importance. it is never too late to begin. if the reagangromyko meeting indicates that the two sides are once again prepared to discuss these vital issues seriously and at the highest levels of government. then perhaps we can look forward to the early resumption of the suspended arms control talks. talk~s which are essential if we are to make progress controlling the arms race.
. the bill introduced by senator pell and myself is motivated by the fact that in the absence of clear definitions and guidelines. section 308 is creating more problems than it is solving. . i the bill we have introduced. s. 401. would repeal section 308. but would direct the secretary of defense to provide within 6 months a standardized auditing procedure to identify and control expenditures in the future. i am  opposed to legislation that is designed to control the costs of outside consultative services. but section 308. at least as it has affected navy contracts in my own state. sweeps with too broad a brush to do the job properly.e
. i to say a few words today in comm ration of the 40th anniversary of end of the nazi holocaust. each generation carries wit memories of events that shaped world. for good or evil. for thos my generation.. it was the rise of cism in europe and japanese m rism in asia. leading inexorabl world war ii. that changed an tered our lives. just as these ev remade the world in a cataclys carnage and destruction. for that reason. those of my ger tion retain a special obligation to witness to the world. for as long as within our power to do so. of the speakable evil of that timethe holocaust in which 6 million jews millions of other individuals slaughtered in a racist nightmare i tified by its perpetrators as the "final. tional river which resulted in the solution." saving of a life. while on a routine -1722 through all of recorded human his- ca patrol on april 30. 1983. to warn tory there is precedent for the evil floaters of swift currents. park tech45.00 of the holocaust. it is very nearly nician brown came upon two individ00.00 beyond human comprehension. uals who had been thrown from their in a few years. those who lived ca. while the male occupant of the 32.60 through- the years of the holocaust. ca sought to help his female comeither as victims or as witnesses from panion. he became pinned between his 00.00 afar. will be gone. the burden of re- ca and aher toward which they 64.80 64.0 membrance and comprehension will were being driven. after pulling the 00.00 fall to succeeding generations. it is a female occupant to safety. mr brown ca* burden  lightly carried. but one singlehandedly prevented the caet that must be borne. we and those who from crushing the male occupant. he are to follow must understand that be- put his own life jacket on the man to cause this evil did take place. vigilance keep his head above water during periwant is forever necessary to prevent it in ods of unconsciousness. emo- the future. with the help of eight volunteers the only the victims who survived the and after a 15minute struggle. mr. holocaust can give adequate voice to brown was able to free the man from i -it the terror. they and so many others ex- the ca. as the. ca was released. the perienced. yet that must  prevent mr. brown and one of the volunteers e of the rest of us from joining in their were swept downstream by a swift curfas- plea to the world of today and tomor- rent. mr. brown grabbed the volunteer ilita- row: y t to "do  forget.corded and hist hol o a wl branc i alents n of erabear it is unnazi and were den-
. there are only four of these iowaclass vessels. but they will find some more to bring out. indeed. the constitution lies there available for recall to active duty. and where will we place it. well. we have to place it someplace where we are  quite sure of the votes. but let us see. there are only 50 states. can we  get ships in every state. kansas presents problems. but i think if the department of the navy works at it as successfully as they have worked at this battleship business. there will be a ship in kansas. there has been discussion about the effectiveness of these ships. i just heard it said how effective they were in leba. well. the record shows that those ships were tried in leba. and they called it off. it was such a disaster. they could  hit what they were trying to hit. that is true of these vessels. they should be scrapped and cut up and we ought to spend our money  on what is needed for 1985 but what is needed for 1990 and the year 2000. there is plenty of demand for the money that is going to be invested in this vessel. the senator from arkansas and i have been up and down this hill four timesthis is the fourth time. i just hope that the congress. the senate. will realize this is  money prudently spent. it is  building a navy for the future. it is resurrecting something from the past. vessels that have proven themselves vulnerable. we all k what happened in world war ii. these vessels never shot at aher vessel. what we are doing. dragging them out of mothballs at this timeimagine. a 1943 vessel. or was it 1942. i will  argue about a year. all we k is it is over 40 years old. and every other vessel that was built in that period has been scrapped. indeed. you talk with the secretary of the navy and he will tell you the maximum life of a vessel is 30 years. and he does  want them to last that long. he wants them 25 years. indeed. the submarines are  for that long. so we are hauling this old behemoth out of the mothballs. it is a diaur. it is a relic that should  survive. you can dress it up with all these thingsthe pitch  is we are getting it for something cheapfairly inexpensive.  cheap. the analogy was given of how much it would cost to build a new one. one in his right mind has ever suggested building a new battleship because they are  useful in todays modem environment. so i support with enthusiasm and commend the senator from nebraska and hope others will join us. even though i suspect we will  get many votes from the gulf coast.
. i am sure if he keeps at it. he will get a vessel there. but i do  think the navy is that fussy about dredging up there. they will get it in there somehow and leave it there available for the defense of the nation. i think if the senator is getting one. clearly utah should get one. too. after all. what is the salt lake for. and who ks where marauders are going to come from. so i commend this to the secretary of the navy. that he respond to the call and place a vessel there as well as one in yuma. i thank the chair very much.
it just seems to me. . that the argument that contends. "dont hamper our negotiations in geneva." could end up with making us just bystanders in this senate. do we have hing to say about what the most significant foreign policy matter that faces the nation and the world is. do we have hing to say about what kind of weapons such as intercontinental ballistic missile weapons. are developed. do we have hing to say about whether we should proceed with building more submarines in defiance of salt ii or should we observe the salt ii limits. this can make us eunuchs around here. as far as arms control goesmere bystanders. i have confidence in our negotiators. but i do  think we should fall for the argument that we can do anything that might possibly affect the negotiations in geneva. this is a reasonable amendment. we lived with it last year for 1 year. i hope my colleagues will adopt it.
. today. i am introducing legislation to increase the authorization for the burial plot allowance amount. section 903(b). in the veterans benefits act. as amended. my legislation would raise the burial plot allowance from $150 to $250. this allotment has never been increased since the law was first enacted in 1973 and longer adequately covers all the expenses. while this supplement would cost the federal taxpayer only r a small amount. it would alleviate the burden placed on both the families of the deceased. as well as on the states that provide cemeteries exclusively for veterans and their dependents. presently. the federal government provides $150 for each veteran burial. the current estimated cost of a burial in a stateoperated cemetery is $260. burial costs in a private cemetery are even higher. the $110 difference between the amount provided under law and the current estimated cost is a hardship to the states with veterans cemeteries. for example. last year rhode island paid $88.000 above the federal allowance to bury 800 veterans. this money could better be used for increased personnel to ensure proper burial and improved maintenance of the cemetery sites. my bill provides a realistic payment to veterans families and to those states which provide veterans cemeteries. i hope that the veterans committee will act quickly to remove this hardship currently being borne by families and states so that we can continue to ensure our veterans hoable burial places. by mr. grassley (for himself.
. on october 13. 1985. three members of the 102d tactical control squadron. rhode island air national guard will be hoed. in rhode island. on the occasion of their retirement. these being hoed include: first sergeant. chief m. sgt. man w. st. john. maintenance superintendent. chief m. sgt. robert n. falardeau. and maintenance control supervisor. senior m. sgt. frank a. roma these men have provided the state of rhode island and the nation with a total of 104 years of distinguished service both at home and abroad. they have been valued members of the 102d tactical air squadron. the 102d. has been in existence since 1948 with a mission for the air traffic conrol of fighters and refuelers in time of emergency. as a former gover of rhode island. i have true respect. for the men of the 102dfor i k what a key role they play in the safety of the people of our state. individually. i wish to congratulate chief st. john for 41 years of service. chief st. john served in world war ii in the pacific. in the korean conflict in tripoli and in the berlin crisis in germany. chief falardeau served for 34 years. chief falardeau served in germany in world war ii from ember 1943 to june 1946 and again during the berlin crisis from october 1962 to september 1962. sergeant romaserved for 29 years with an overseas rotation in germany during the berlin crisis in germany in 1961 and 1962. i would also like to take this opportunity to mention their wives: ruth st. john. gabrielle falaideau. and patricia roma i join today with all rhode islanders in expressing my thanks to these three highly decorated men for their years of dedicated service and in wishing them continued good health and happiness in the years ahead.
i thank the distinguished senator from wisconsin because he has long been active in this field. he has paid attention to it. he is  a johnnycomelately. . he has dealt with this for many. many years and reflects the concerns that all of us feel. john rhinelander. legal counsel to the salt i team. in testimony before the house foreign affairs committee on tuesday. said: and reinterpretation of the abm treaty is patently absurd and would frustrate the stated premise of this treatyto prohibit deployment of nationwide abm systems or a "base" for such a system. the importance .of the abm treaty can be underestimated. and this follows up on the statement that the distinguished senior senator from wisconsin says. it is the only accord between the united states and the soviet union which. until . has limited in any true sense the aresenals of either side. in other words. this is a limitation treaty. this is  a treaty that you can build up to and eventually reach the maximum. this treaty imposes limitations and it has worked. it has worked for 13 years and there would be an abm system around moscow but the united states decided  even to go ahead with an abm system. abandoning the treaty would elevate. by several orders of magnitude. the dangers we face. the abm treaty is important  only to us but to our allies.  there is a tendency around this place lately to poohpooh our allied. to say what do we care about them. well. as we found out in nato when it came to positioning those cruise missiles and those pershing iis our allies are extremely important. british prime minister margaret thatcher has agreed to the principles of sdibut with the understanding that strict compliance with the abm treaty will continue. in the netherlands. where the political situation is extremely sensitive since that country must make a decision on cruise missile deployment by ember 1. a reinterpretation of the abm treaty threatens to undermine dutch confidence in the united states and could adversely influence that decision about the deployment of the cruise missile. throughout nato. the reaction to the administrations sudden abrupt reinterpretation of the abm treaty has been negative to state it mildly. the administration. in response to the nato concerns. among others. has - agreed to continue abiding by the old. more restrictive interpretation of the treaty. but it continues to insist upon the correctness of the new reading of the treaty. as long as the new interpretation stands. we will continue to run the risk that at a given moment. the united states will suddenly switch gears again. the existing situationthat we read the treaty permissively in principle but  in practicewill continue to create friction with united states allies. as well as with the soviet union. it may be. as some have suggested. that the new interpretation is a "bargaining ploy." if that is the case. it is risky business.- if it is  a bargaining ploy. then the danger is greater. for it will complicate needlessly the entire future of arms control. diverting attention from more pressing concerns of arms reductions. let us  throw this into the pot all of a sudden when we are on our way to geneva where hopefully we can achieve deep and stabilizing reductions in the offensive arms. i hope the president. upon reflection. will reaffirm. in unambiguous language. the longstanding. traditional interpretation of the abm treaty which has held sway for 13 years through four administrationsincluding the presidents ownand that he will reject the mcfarlane view.  is  the time to tamper with the most successful arms control agreement of the postwar era. . on wednesday. october 23. ambassador smith expressed his concerns over the new interpretation of the abm treaty in a thoughtful letter to the editor of the new york times. as the principal negotiator of the treaty. his views are entitled to special weight. i ask unanimous consent that the text of his letter be printed in the record. there being bjection. the letter was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: [from the new york times. oct. 23. 1985]
. i have spoken here just as one senator. i k there are others. there are others who if  available to speak have statements. but i certainly am delighted that the distinguished senior senator from maryland is here. a man who has given a lot of thought to this matter over many years and whose concerns abolit effective arms control are well kn
. there have been series of national organizations that have spoken out against the confirmation of mr. dawson to this extremely important position. from the national wildlife federation: dear senator: we urge you to oppose the confirmation of mr. robert k. dawson as assistant secretary of the army (civil works). the assistant secretary of the army (civil works) is responsible for the corps of engineers implementation of section 404 of the clean water actthe only federal statute regulating the destruction of wetlands. mr. dawson is a particularly inappropriate choice as assistant secretary because his policies reflect his repeatedlystated belief that section 404 was  intended "to be a wetland protection mechanism." mr. dawson takes this view even though the federal courts. the justice department. the environmental protection agency. and senators stafford and chafee. have continuously affirmed that section 404 is specifically intended to protect wetlands. we consider a vote on mr. dawsons ination to be of major environmental importance and one of the most significant votes on wetlands protection in over eight years. for these reasons our organizations strongly urge you to vote in opposition to the confirmation of mr. robert k. dawson as assistant secretary of the army (civil works). sincerely.
. i am pleased to join my colleagues in this very important colloquy on the question of u.s. adherance to the unratified salt ii treaty that expires on in the absence of a new agreement on strategic offensive arms. a decision by the united states to abandon the existing policy  to undercut the terms of that salt ii treaty would severely threaten the stability and predictability of the united statessoviet strategic relationship. if we fail to adhere to salt ii restrictions. we would once again be off to the racesan arms race in which the soviet union would outpace the united states. at least in the near term. over the longer term. the two sides would be forced to dramatically increase their advanced strategic weapons. to enter into such a race would jeopardize the chances for effective arms control and would have serious negative consequences on u.s. security objectives. the united states and the soviet union should extend their commitment to adhere to the treaty. as was done when the salt i interim agreement on strategic offensive arms expired in 1977. if this is  done. there will be agreed constraints in effect on the strategic offensive forces of the two superpowers. . i -am  overlooking.the fact that we have formally charged the soviet union with. violations of the salt.ii treaty -dealing with encryption and deploymentof the ss16 mobile missile. likewise. the soviet unibn has leveled countercharges of u.s. violations concerning .deployment of ground launched cruise missiles and pershing ii missiles in europe. e of these charges are clear cut. and all relate to complex treaty provisions that are subject to differing interpretations. these problems should be vigorously addressed through the standing consultative commission set up by the treaty for that purpose. the conversion of these accusations into a propoganda battle reduces the prospects of a satisfactory resolution and will undercut public confidence  only in salt ii. but also in the arms control process in general. i would. however. like to point out that the both nations have generally adhered to the provisions of the salt treaties on offensive weaponry. to comply with the limits established by salt ii and salt i interim agreement. which salt ii replaced. the soviet union from 1972 to 1985 removed 1.007 landbased and 233 submarinebased ballistic missiles from its -active force and dismantled 13 yankeeclass ballistic missilecarrying submarines as new weapons entered the force. past soviet military practices suggest that these missiles would  have been retired nearly as rapidly in the absence of salt i limitations. on the u.s. side. 320 landbased and 544 submarinebased missiles have been removed and 11 ballistic missilecarrying submarines have been dismantled. in the years 198590. salt ii will require the soviet union to remove between 500. and 600 ballistic missiles and to destroy missile silos equivalent to the number of mobile missiles deployed. in the absence of salt ii. the soviet union could deploy the ssx24. the ss25 and other missiles  in advanced development without retiring any of its fixed landbased missiles. such as the ss17. ss18. ss19 and ss11. on the u.s. side. salt ii will require. between 1985 and 1990. the removal of between 200 and 300 missiles or bombers from the force as new systems are deployed. . abandonment of the salt ii limits before a new strategic arms agreement is reached would thus harm u.s. security interests. by 1990 the soviet union could increase its total number of nuclear warheads and bomber weapons by almost 7.000roughly twice the increase that the united states could make over the same period. and 4.000 more than the soviets could deploy under salt ii. without salt. the soviet union could significantly increase the number and improve the capabilities of its heavy landbased missilesthe weapons that the reagan administration considers the most threatening. in the long run. irrespective of which -side ultimately gained a quantitative advantage. the united states would face the serious dangers and expenses of an all out nuclear arms race. i feel it is in the best interest of our nation to reaffirm the present political commitment  to undercut the salt agreements. reaffirmation. whether through bilateral agreement with the soviet union or unilateral declarations. would preserve crucial constraints on the arms race and improve the prospects for resolving disputes and for negotiating a new united statessoviet agreement to limit and reduce nuclear weapons.
i can perhaps say that safely without fear of contradiction. particularly from the. chair. when that ship goes out for its test trials on may 20 of this year. we will have to. dismantle the launchers on two poseidon submarines in order to stay within the limits of the salt treaty. under the ndercut policy which we have as regards salt ii. which as the chair so well ks is unratified. as long as the soviets continue to. do so. we will  undercut that policy. there will be a holding on course toward a new agreement on arms control and reductions. last june. . i wish to make it clear that this resolution just does  say that the united states abide by the salt ii limitation without the soviets complying. the resolution makes clear. in the latter part of it. where it says: hing in this resolution should be construed as. (1) endorsing unilateral united states compliance with existing strategic arms agreements. there must be a twoway street. the soviets must observe it if we are expected to observe it. some critics will perhaps come to the floor here and say. "oh. we are just observing it ourselves while the soviets are making these terrible violations."  so. this is  a unilateral u.s. compliance. second. hing in this resolution should be construed as prohibiting the united states from exercising its rights and obligations as provided under international law with respect to treaty compliance. finally. hing in this resolution should be construed as prohibiting or delaying the development. flighttesting. or deployment of the small intercontinental ballistic missile as authorized by law.
. the reagan administration is approaching a decision on an issue which is vital to our national security: adherence to the salt nuclear arms limits. the sea trials of the eighth trident submarine. the u.s.s. nevada. this may will push the united states over the mirved missile sublimit.of the salt ii treaty. to remain within the salt ii limits. a similar number of older mirved missile systems must be dismantled. senator john heinz recently wrote an oped piece for the philadelphia inquirer on salt ii restraint which i think is worth the careful attention of my colleagues. i ask that the editorial by senator heinz be printed in the record. the editorial follows: [from the philadelphia inquirer. apr. 7. 1986]
 order the dismantling of two poseidon submarines carrying multiplewarhead missile launchers. in order to offset the laurichers on the new tridentthe u.s.s. nevadawhich begins sea trials next month. the- larger question. however. is whether the socalled undercut policy we have followed since 1979 has been worth it. and will continue to be worth it. as we work for new arms control agreements and better united statessoviet relations. i believe that mutual adherence to salt arms limits has worked in favor of u.s. security. it has prevented the arms race from escalating out of control. and forced the soviets to dismantle more than 500 operational missile launchers. in comparison. the united states has had to dismantle only 16 launchers. whichas you kwe did last.june. more importantly. the salt limitations have kept the two superpowers on course in their pursuit of new.. formal arms control agreements. in the past 6 years. united statessoviet relations have crossed some rought terrain. but i am convinced that the road would have been a good deal rougher without the restraints imposed by the salt framework. we are  here today to claim that the ndercut policy has been perfect. significant questions of compliance have arisen over soviet encryption of missile test data and the u.s.s.r.s possible deployment of two new types of icbmsthe ss24 and ss25. but these concerns. which we should attempt to resolve through diplomatic channels and the standing consultative commission. do  justify scrapping the entire arrangement. if we abandon salt because of these violations. we will move away from prudent arms control policy and almost definitely unleash an arms race of unprecedented proportions. all the evidence indicates that without the salt limits the soviets will be able to build up their arsenal at a much greater rate than the united states. one recent study indicates that sbviet strategic weapons could increase by 65 percent by the end of 1989. compared with only 45 percent for the united states. soviet missiles. especially the ss18. are capable of carrying a greater payload than they currently have. thus. without salt they could add more warheads to missiles already deployed. in fact. by 1990 the soviets could deploy twice as many warheads as the united states. we believe that it is in the best interests of this nation to maintain the ndercut approach. in view ofyesterdays good news that a reagangorbachev summit is likely to take place in the united states some time this year. let us continue with the policy that has brought restraint to nuclear arms buildup. and that holds out the promise for future fruitful arms control reductions. i wish to thank senators bumpers. heinz. and leahy for working with me on the letter. and on senate concurrent resolution 112. the resolution we introduced last month expressing our support for the salt limits. as long as the soviets also continue to abide by them. i urge my colleagues to take a close look at this vital issue. and hope they will join us in working for continued effective arms control.
. i see point to placing strict security requirements on the stingers we send to some countries. but  on those we send to angola and afhanistan. either we believe terrorists will try to obtain this weapon or we do . and if we do. we must work to thwart them. i urge my colleagues to consider the tragic possibility of terrorists using the best of our military techogy to shoot inent americans out of the sky. with that terrible scenario in mind. i hope they will support this legislation.e
. we have never seen a los a agelesclass submarine floating on thle surface. either. the qualitative edge will be maintained. and if we build attack submarines in sufficient quantity. this vital aspect of our national defense will be insured. a building rate of four attack submarines per year. which is well within the capacity of our existing shipyards. will provide us with maxmum efficiency of production and will make possible the goal of producing 100 los angelesclass submarines. this goal of 100 is strongly supported by the chief of naval operations. admiral watkins called me earlier today at lunchtime and restated his firm commitment to this program. the chief of naval operations is strongly behind this program. as is the secretary of the navy. i believe that this represents a reasonable and prudent force level in light of the needs and missions of this class of submarines. moreover. as i think we all k. we will begin retiring thle 594class submarines starting just 6 years from . so this further increases the need for additional 688 class submarines. and i support the amendment.
 also annced that u.s. air and naval forces in the area would operate under more flexible rules of engagement. this morning the battleship uss new jersey opened fire with the 16inch guns on lebanese moslem and syrianheld positions. this is only the second time the 16inch guns have been used in leba. and it is the first time they have been used for a purpose other than direct support and protection for the marines. unlike the decision to withdraw the marines. this move to escalate our militiary involvement is a grave mistake. we are  rat war in leba. and the united states can. through the selective use of naval or air bombardment. determine the outcome of events in leba. employment of our forces in this manner will only serve to weaken further our political influence anj our ability to contribute to the diplomatic settlement which ultimately will bring peace to leba. for this reason. i believe that u.s. interests will be better served if we are  involved militarily in the lebanese conflict. a great deal remains to be decided in leba and in the region as well. as the drama unfolds. the opportunities for diplomatic initiatives expand. the united states should be devoting all of its efforts to these diplomatic tasks.  to sailing off the coast lobbing occasional shellseven 16inch shellsat druze militia. such actions are sound and fury. it is my strong belief that they achieve hing concrete in the short run. and in the long run they further weaken our ability to achieve through negotiations that which is clearly unattainable through military force.
madam president. for the past few days the senate has been debating the supplemental appropriation for central america. i have voted to support the $62 million for el salvador. the amount proposed by the senator from hawaii. and i have voted to continue our assistance to the program in nicaragua. today. as we near the completion of our discussion of this subject. i wish to spell out my reasoning on these issues. eleven days ago. the people of el salvador voted in presidential elections. under very difficult conditions. hundreds of thousands of salvadorans went to the polls to express their preferences. there will  be a ruf election in a few weeks. and el saivador will then have a popularly elected president. this is a remarkable achievement in the midst of a civil war. i was particularly impressed with the remarks of the distinguished senator from oklahoma in this chamber last wednesday. as he described the experience of actually observing the people of el salvador participate in the election despite the problem with the mechanics of the process. his and other accounts of the election help us to place in the proper perspective assertions that the election is meaningless. this election was  perfect. but it is  meaningless. confusion. delays. mistakes which prevented some salvadorans from votingthese were unfortunate. but  fatal. flaws in the process. i believe that the willingness of salvadorans to persist in their efforts to vote. to display the kind of determination exhibited last sunday. sends a message. the message is that the people long for democracy. they crave its benefits and the right to participate in determining their own political future. and they long for peace. they are tired equally of oppression and of the current war. there are those who dismiss the election turt as being of significance because voting is compulsory. failure to vote results in a modest fine. what the critics overlook is that thousands of voters came out despite personal endangerment. that any voter objecting to the process or the selection of candidates could deposit his ballot unmarked and that only about 10 percent of the voters chose to do so. there is other way to view the elections than to conclude that the people of el salvador have a longing for peace and for democracy. on these counts alone. they deserve our support. senator should be under the delusion that these elections. by themselves. can solve the problems of el salvador. indeed. i sometimes believe that too much hope is placed on the elections. as if the simple act of voting could make all salvadoran problems disappear. we all k that that is  the case. but at the same time it should be recognized that an elected government. one which governs according to constitutional principles. will be the type of government which can gather the strength to address seriously the other problems of el salvador. efforts to establish democratic government are critical first steps.  the end of the reform process. this brings us to the situation today. we have before us a proposal to provide additional military assistance to the government of el salvadoi. this request comes as surprise. we all knew there would be a supplemental request this year. just as we k that more money will be required in 1985. there is promise that this assistance will produce some sort of military victory. assertion that this is the last penny we will have to spend in el salvador. these problems will  be solved overnight.  will the war be over by the end of the summer. some have argued. in light of this. that we should cut off aid. or that we should attach conditions which we k will  be metwhich would have the same effect- or that we should cut off all aid within a specified time period unless certain specific actions a*e taken. i am in sympathy with the objectives of those who make such proposals. i. too. want to see progress in important areas: i want a verdict in the case of the killers of the american churchwomen. a verdict which is long overdue. i want the prosecution of those who killed the land reform workers. i want the land reform program to continue. most especially. i want to see all end to the death squad activity and to the terror and violence perpetrated upon the people of el salvador by rightwing extremists. the question is. do we want our entire policy toward el salvador to. in essence. be held hostage to these specific achievements. i submit that we do . that we must look at the broad picture in making our decisions about aid to el salvador. and that we must press for progress on these important issues in ways which do  give extremists of either the left or the right a junctional veto over our policy. there is aher aspect to this debate over funding levels and cutting off aid. and it is one which is  being faced by those who would suspend all aid to el salvador unless certain conditions are met. it is essential that we all recognize that. in the absence of continued u.s. aid. the guerrilla forces could win a military victory in el salvador. a victory which otherwise is beyond their reach. in saying this. i am  arguing that a military victory is within the reach of the government forces. with or without this aid. i believe that anyone familiar with the situation in el salvador is aware that the nillitary proficiency of the salvadoran army is less than excellent. and that the defeat of the guerrillas is far from imminent. at the same time. it must be said that the salvadoran armed forces have prevented guerrillas from achieving a military victory and with additional training we can expect their performance to improve. the ultimate solution in elsalvador must be political. and it must be arrived at through the negotiation process. i have yet to hear those who have advocated a complete cutoff of u.s. military aid explain how this will contribute to that outcome. instead. it appears to me. this would only lead to the fairly rapid disintegration of the salvadoran armed forces. it is one thing to complain about the waste in our aid programs or the inefficiencies of the salvadoran army. it is aher to throw up our hands. walk away from this issue. and concede that the fmln guerrillas will win. madam president. i have visited el salvador and i have spoken with salvadorans from all sides of the political spectrum. including the fdrfmvln. what was striking to me in these discussions was that virtually everyone wanted the united states to continue to play a role in helping the salvadorans to solve their problems. even the fdr believe that the united states should persuade the government of el salvador to accept the fdrs approach to negotiations. clearly. the united states should  determine the future of el salvador.  can we solve the problems which. ultimately. the people of that country must themselves solve. the u.s. role is to assist. to provide help.  to dictate the terms of el salvadors political future. we have interests in the course of events in the region. but  in every detail of the internal arrangements of el salvador. or any given country. our task here in the senate is to do our best to make the u.s. role a constructive and positive one.  a role in which our power combines with that of the powerful and privileged within the society to block positive change and thwart the aspirations of the people. we must provide the resources to enable our diplomacy to work. we can make it clear that we support the negotiation process. both within el salvador and in the region as a whole. this role. i believe. can best be accomplished if our presence is constant. if our commitment is for the long term. and if we keep a clear sense of our own purpose. madam president. what do i conclude based on the foregoing. first. i believe that u.s. aid to el salvador must be continued. we can turn the spigot on. turn it off. hold everything in suspense. and revisit the issue every 3 months. second. we need to insure that our aid and our presence and our influence in el salvador are beneficial to the growth of the democratic process. an important element of this approach will entail making it clear that while we are  going to stop and start the program. neither are we writing a blank check. there must be a clear message from the united states to all the forces in el salvador: we do  support terrorism. we can condone murder. we demand that those who seek our support devote their full energies to ending these reprehensible practices. third. our aid should be conditioned on an end to human rights abuses. the kissinger commission recommended such conditionality. and the senate foreign relations committee is currently considering this approach in the authorization bill  before the committee. i support these efforts. fourth. i believe that u.s. policy should encourage the government of el salvador to engage in discussions with the opposition and to gain their participation in the round of elections to be held next year. this also was a recommendation of the kissinger commission. and i believe it is extremely important. if we seek a political. rather than a military. solution in el salvador. as i believe we should. then we must make it feasible and desirable for the rebels. as well as others currently outside the system. to participate. guarantees of safety and fair treatment must be worked out. without this further broadening of the system. the desires which the salvadoran people have demonstrated in the presidential election will be frustrated. and u.s. aid will be wasted. i am  sure this will happen. there are those on both the left and the right who are committed to a military solution rather than to the admittedly painful process of democratic participation. i believe. however. that the salvadoran people deserve the chance to decide for themselves. through democratic processes. what their political future will be. madam president. this is the crux of our dilemma today. those of us who support conditionality and a firm commitment to improving the human rights situation in el salvador but who. at the same time. do  wish to see a government installed as a result of military victory by the fmln. must choose the appropriate amounts of aid and the appropriate types of conditions to achieve those objectives. i believe that the amounts  contained in the bill. as a result of the amendment of the senator from hawaii. are about right. i further believe that the proper time to review our conditions and to consider attaching new conditions will be when we have before us the authorization and appropriations bills for 1985. this supplemental amount is blank check. and that should be clear to those in el salvador who might harbor the delusion that the united states is  serious about progress in the areas i mentioned. finally. let me briefly address the issue of nicaragua and aid to the contras. as was pointed out in our debate on this subject yesterday. and as was reaffirmed in the presidents letter of april 4. the goal of u.s. policy with regard to the contras is  to overthrow the government of nicaragua. the amounts we are providing are designed to reduce the military capability of the guerrillas in el salvador. these amounts are modest. and that program is an effective tool in support of our overall objectives in the region. for these reasons. i am supporting this supplemental appropriation. and i oppose attaching new conditions at this time.
. critics of the arms control process and the agreements it has produced are often heard on the floor of the senate. some criticize existing agreements for failing to produce substantial reductions in armaments. others contend the agreements are  perfectly equitable on one count or aher. i do  intend to argue these points today.  do i believe that they are central to the issues this resolution addresses. this resolution simply states that on the key question of offensive force limits. particularly limits on launchers of mirvd strategic missiles and especially on mrvd icbms. it continues to be in the united states interest to observe existing provisions of the relevant agreements. this resolution also recognizes that the united states has serious concerns about the soviet unions compliance with certain provisions of existing arms control agreements. these matters should receive rigorous examination through diplomatic mechanisms. such as the standing consultative commission. designed to handle these issues. in supporting the resolution. i am  implying that concerns about compliance should be igedquite the contrary. they should be pursued vigorously through confidential diplomatic channels and in ongoing discussions with the soviets. in my view. the best hope for insuring peace in the world and for providing a sound basis for the national security of the united states and its allies lies in successfully negotiating arms control agreements. i believe that the ones negotiated in the past continue to serve our interests in important ways. and therefore. that we should continue the ndercut policy as we have for the past 4 years. second. i believe that by doing that we create an atmosphere somewhat more conducive to the successful conclusion of new agreements. we all hope new agreements will produce reductions. greater stability. and will be based on resolution of some of the outstanding compliance concerns. the way to get there. in my view. is to attempt to keep intact that which is good about the present arms control regime. while we continue the search for a worthy successor.e
 and the people of the united states are earnest in their desire for peace and for progress in arms control. the administration and the soviets can be faulted. in my view. for  pressing hard egh soon egh to achieve results in this area. but on issues of such great importance. it is never too late to begin. if the reagangromyko meeting indicates that the two sides are once again prepared to discuss these vital issues seriously and at the highest levels of government. then perhaps we can look forward to the early resumption of the suspended arms control talks. talk~s which are essential if we are to make progress controlling the arms race.
. the bill introduced by senator pell and myself is motivated by the fact that in the absence of clear definitions and guidelines. section 308 is creating more problems than it is solving. . i the bill we have introduced. s. 401. would repeal section 308. but would direct the secretary of defense to provide within 6 months a standardized auditing procedure to identify and control expenditures in the future. i am  opposed to legislation that is designed to control the costs of outside consultative services. but section 308. at least as it has affected navy contracts in my own state. sweeps with too broad a brush to do the job properly.e
. i to say a few words today in comm ration of the 40th anniversary of end of the nazi holocaust. each generation carries wit memories of events that shaped world. for good or evil. for thos my generation.. it was the rise of cism in europe and japanese m rism in asia. leading inexorabl world war ii. that changed an tered our lives. just as these ev remade the world in a cataclys carnage and destruction. for that reason. those of my ger tion retain a special obligation to witness to the world. for as long as within our power to do so. of the speakable evil of that timethe holocaust in which 6 million jews millions of other individuals slaughtered in a racist nightmare i tified by its perpetrators as the "final. tional river which resulted in the solution." saving of a life. while on a routine -1722 through all of recorded human his- ca patrol on april 30. 1983. to warn tory there is precedent for the evil floaters of swift currents. park tech45.00 of the holocaust. it is very nearly nician brown came upon two individ00.00 beyond human comprehension. uals who had been thrown from their in a few years. those who lived ca. while the male occupant of the 32.60 through- the years of the holocaust. ca sought to help his female comeither as victims or as witnesses from panion. he became pinned between his 00.00 afar. will be gone. the burden of re- ca and aher toward which they 64.80 64.0 membrance and comprehension will were being driven. after pulling the 00.00 fall to succeeding generations. it is a female occupant to safety. mr brown ca* burden  lightly carried. but one singlehandedly prevented the caet that must be borne. we and those who from crushing the male occupant. he are to follow must understand that be- put his own life jacket on the man to cause this evil did take place. vigilance keep his head above water during periwant is forever necessary to prevent it in ods of unconsciousness. emo- the future. with the help of eight volunteers the only the victims who survived the and after a 15minute struggle. mr. holocaust can give adequate voice to brown was able to free the man from i -it the terror. they and so many others ex- the ca. as the. ca was released. the perienced. yet that must  prevent mr. brown and one of the volunteers e of the rest of us from joining in their were swept downstream by a swift curfas- plea to the world of today and tomor- rent. mr. brown grabbed the volunteer ilita- row: y t to "do  forget.corded and hist hol o a wl branc i alents n of erabear it is unnazi and were den-
. there are only four of these iowaclass vessels. but they will find some more to bring out. indeed. the constitution lies there available for recall to active duty. and where will we place it. well. we have to place it someplace where we are  quite sure of the votes. but let us see. there are only 50 states. can we  get ships in every state. kansas presents problems. but i think if the department of the navy works at it as successfully as they have worked at this battleship business. there will be a ship in kansas. there has been discussion about the effectiveness of these ships. i just heard it said how effective they were in leba. well. the record shows that those ships were tried in leba. and they called it off. it was such a disaster. they could  hit what they were trying to hit. that is true of these vessels. they should be scrapped and cut up and we ought to spend our money  on what is needed for 1985 but what is needed for 1990 and the year 2000. there is plenty of demand for the money that is going to be invested in this vessel. the senator from arkansas and i have been up and down this hill four timesthis is the fourth time. i just hope that the congress. the senate. will realize this is  money prudently spent. it is  building a navy for the future. it is resurrecting something from the past. vessels that have proven themselves vulnerable. we all k what happened in world war ii. these vessels never shot at aher vessel. what we are doing. dragging them out of mothballs at this timeimagine. a 1943 vessel. or was it 1942. i will  argue about a year. all we k is it is over 40 years old. and every other vessel that was built in that period has been scrapped. indeed. you talk with the secretary of the navy and he will tell you the maximum life of a vessel is 30 years. and he does  want them to last that long. he wants them 25 years. indeed. the submarines are  for that long. so we are hauling this old behemoth out of the mothballs. it is a diaur. it is a relic that should  survive. you can dress it up with all these thingsthe pitch  is we are getting it for something cheapfairly inexpensive.  cheap. the analogy was given of how much it would cost to build a new one. one in his right mind has ever suggested building a new battleship because they are  useful in todays modem environment. so i support with enthusiasm and commend the senator from nebraska and hope others will join us. even though i suspect we will  get many votes from the gulf coast.
. i am sure if he keeps at it. he will get a vessel there. but i do  think the navy is that fussy about dredging up there. they will get it in there somehow and leave it there available for the defense of the nation. i think if the senator is getting one. clearly utah should get one. too. after all. what is the salt lake for. and who ks where marauders are going to come from. so i commend this to the secretary of the navy. that he respond to the call and place a vessel there as well as one in yuma. i thank the chair very much.
it just seems to me. . that the argument that contends. "dont hamper our negotiations in geneva." could end up with making us just bystanders in this senate. do we have hing to say about what the most significant foreign policy matter that faces the nation and the world is. do we have hing to say about what kind of weapons such as intercontinental ballistic missile weapons. are developed. do we have hing to say about whether we should proceed with building more submarines in defiance of salt ii or should we observe the salt ii limits. this can make us eunuchs around here. as far as arms control goesmere bystanders. i have confidence in our negotiators. but i do  think we should fall for the argument that we can do anything that might possibly affect the negotiations in geneva. this is a reasonable amendment. we lived with it last year for 1 year. i hope my colleagues will adopt it.
. today. i am introducing legislation to increase the authorization for the burial plot allowance amount. section 903(b). in the veterans benefits act. as amended. my legislation would raise the burial plot allowance from $150 to $250. this allotment has never been increased since the law was first enacted in 1973 and longer adequately covers all the expenses. while this supplement would cost the federal taxpayer only r a small amount. it would alleviate the burden placed on both the families of the deceased. as well as on the states that provide cemeteries exclusively for veterans and their dependents. presently. the federal government provides $150 for each veteran burial. the current estimated cost of a burial in a stateoperated cemetery is $260. burial costs in a private cemetery are even higher. the $110 difference between the amount provided under law and the current estimated cost is a hardship to the states with veterans cemeteries. for example. last year rhode island paid $88.000 above the federal allowance to bury 800 veterans. this money could better be used for increased personnel to ensure proper burial and improved maintenance of the cemetery sites. my bill provides a realistic payment to veterans families and to those states which provide veterans cemeteries. i hope that the veterans committee will act quickly to remove this hardship currently being borne by families and states so that we can continue to ensure our veterans hoable burial places. by mr. grassley (for himself.
. on october 13. 1985. three members of the 102d tactical control squadron. rhode island air national guard will be hoed. in rhode island. on the occasion of their retirement. these being hoed include: first sergeant. chief m. sgt. man w. st. john. maintenance superintendent. chief m. sgt. robert n. falardeau. and maintenance control supervisor. senior m. sgt. frank a. roma these men have provided the state of rhode island and the nation with a total of 104 years of distinguished service both at home and abroad. they have been valued members of the 102d tactical air squadron. the 102d. has been in existence since 1948 with a mission for the air traffic conrol of fighters and refuelers in time of emergency. as a former gover of rhode island. i have true respect. for the men of the 102dfor i k what a key role they play in the safety of the people of our state. individually. i wish to congratulate chief st. john for 41 years of service. chief st. john served in world war ii in the pacific. in the korean conflict in tripoli and in the berlin crisis in germany. chief falardeau served for 34 years. chief falardeau served in germany in world war ii from ember 1943 to june 1946 and again during the berlin crisis from october 1962 to september 1962. sergeant romaserved for 29 years with an overseas rotation in germany during the berlin crisis in germany in 1961 and 1962. i would also like to take this opportunity to mention their wives: ruth st. john. gabrielle falaideau. and patricia roma i join today with all rhode islanders in expressing my thanks to these three highly decorated men for their years of dedicated service and in wishing them continued good health and happiness in the years ahead.
i thank the distinguished senator from wisconsin because he has long been active in this field. he has paid attention to it. he is  a johnnycomelately. . he has dealt with this for many. many years and reflects the concerns that all of us feel. john rhinelander. legal counsel to the salt i team. in testimony before the house foreign affairs committee on tuesday. said: and reinterpretation of the abm treaty is patently absurd and would frustrate the stated premise of this treatyto prohibit deployment of nationwide abm systems or a "base" for such a system. the importance .of the abm treaty can be underestimated. and this follows up on the statement that the distinguished senior senator from wisconsin says. it is the only accord between the united states and the soviet union which. until . has limited in any true sense the aresenals of either side. in other words. this is a limitation treaty. this is  a treaty that you can build up to and eventually reach the maximum. this treaty imposes limitations and it has worked. it has worked for 13 years and there would be an abm system around moscow but the united states decided  even to go ahead with an abm system. abandoning the treaty would elevate. by several orders of magnitude. the dangers we face. the abm treaty is important  only to us but to our allies.  there is a tendency around this place lately to poohpooh our allied. to say what do we care about them. well. as we found out in nato when it came to positioning those cruise missiles and those pershing iis our allies are extremely important. british prime minister margaret thatcher has agreed to the principles of sdibut with the understanding that strict compliance with the abm treaty will continue. in the netherlands. where the political situation is extremely sensitive since that country must make a decision on cruise missile deployment by ember 1. a reinterpretation of the abm treaty threatens to undermine dutch confidence in the united states and could adversely influence that decision about the deployment of the cruise missile. throughout nato. the reaction to the administrations sudden abrupt reinterpretation of the abm treaty has been negative to state it mildly. the administration. in response to the nato concerns. among others. has - agreed to continue abiding by the old. more restrictive interpretation of the treaty. but it continues to insist upon the correctness of the new reading of the treaty. as long as the new interpretation stands. we will continue to run the risk that at a given moment. the united states will suddenly switch gears again. the existing situationthat we read the treaty permissively in principle but  in practicewill continue to create friction with united states allies. as well as with the soviet union. it may be. as some have suggested. that the new interpretation is a "bargaining ploy." if that is the case. it is risky business.- if it is  a bargaining ploy. then the danger is greater. for it will complicate needlessly the entire future of arms control. diverting attention from more pressing concerns of arms reductions. let us  throw this into the pot all of a sudden when we are on our way to geneva where hopefully we can achieve deep and stabilizing reductions in the offensive arms. i hope the president. upon reflection. will reaffirm. in unambiguous language. the longstanding. traditional interpretation of the abm treaty which has held sway for 13 years through four administrationsincluding the presidents ownand that he will reject the mcfarlane view.  is  the time to tamper with the most successful arms control agreement of the postwar era. . on wednesday. october 23. ambassador smith expressed his concerns over the new interpretation of the abm treaty in a thoughtful letter to the editor of the new york times. as the principal negotiator of the treaty. his views are entitled to special weight. i ask unanimous consent that the text of his letter be printed in the record. there being bjection. the letter was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: [from the new york times. oct. 23. 1985]
. i have spoken here just as one senator. i k there are others. there are others who if  available to speak have statements. but i certainly am delighted that the distinguished senior senator from maryland is here. a man who has given a lot of thought to this matter over many years and whose concerns abolit effective arms control are well kn
. there have been series of national organizations that have spoken out against the confirmation of mr. dawson to this extremely important position. from the national wildlife federation: dear senator: we urge you to oppose the confirmation of mr. robert k. dawson as assistant secretary of the army (civil works). the assistant secretary of the army (civil works) is responsible for the corps of engineers implementation of section 404 of the clean water actthe only federal statute regulating the destruction of wetlands. mr. dawson is a particularly inappropriate choice as assistant secretary because his policies reflect his repeatedlystated belief that section 404 was  intended "to be a wetland protection mechanism." mr. dawson takes this view even though the federal courts. the justice department. the environmental protection agency. and senators stafford and chafee. have continuously affirmed that section 404 is specifically intended to protect wetlands. we consider a vote on mr. dawsons ination to be of major environmental importance and one of the most significant votes on wetlands protection in over eight years. for these reasons our organizations strongly urge you to vote in opposition to the confirmation of mr. robert k. dawson as assistant secretary of the army (civil works). sincerely.
. i am pleased to join my colleagues in this very important colloquy on the question of u.s. adherance to the unratified salt ii treaty that expires on in the absence of a new agreement on strategic offensive arms. a decision by the united states to abandon the existing policy  to undercut the terms of that salt ii treaty would severely threaten the stability and predictability of the united statessoviet strategic relationship. if we fail to adhere to salt ii restrictions. we would once again be off to the racesan arms race in which the soviet union would outpace the united states. at least in the near term. over the longer term. the two sides would be forced to dramatically increase their advanced strategic weapons. to enter into such a race would jeopardize the chances for effective arms control and would have serious negative consequences on u.s. security objectives. the united states and the soviet union should extend their commitment to adhere to the treaty. as was done when the salt i interim agreement on strategic offensive arms expired in 1977. if this is  done. there will be agreed constraints in effect on the strategic offensive forces of the two superpowers. . i -am  overlooking.the fact that we have formally charged the soviet union with. violations of the salt.ii treaty -dealing with encryption and deploymentof the ss16 mobile missile. likewise. the soviet unibn has leveled countercharges of u.s. violations concerning .deployment of ground launched cruise missiles and pershing ii missiles in europe. e of these charges are clear cut. and all relate to complex treaty provisions that are subject to differing interpretations. these problems should be vigorously addressed through the standing consultative commission set up by the treaty for that purpose. the conversion of these accusations into a propoganda battle reduces the prospects of a satisfactory resolution and will undercut public confidence  only in salt ii. but also in the arms control process in general. i would. however. like to point out that the both nations have generally adhered to the provisions of the salt treaties on offensive weaponry. to comply with the limits established by salt ii and salt i interim agreement. which salt ii replaced. the soviet union from 1972 to 1985 removed 1.007 landbased and 233 submarinebased ballistic missiles from its -active force and dismantled 13 yankeeclass ballistic missilecarrying submarines as new weapons entered the force. past soviet military practices suggest that these missiles would  have been retired nearly as rapidly in the absence of salt i limitations. on the u.s. side. 320 landbased and 544 submarinebased missiles have been removed and 11 ballistic missilecarrying submarines have been dismantled. in the years 198590. salt ii will require the soviet union to remove between 500. and 600 ballistic missiles and to destroy missile silos equivalent to the number of mobile missiles deployed. in the absence of salt ii. the soviet union could deploy the ssx24. the ss25 and other missiles  in advanced development without retiring any of its fixed landbased missiles. such as the ss17. ss18. ss19 and ss11. on the u.s. side. salt ii will require. between 1985 and 1990. the removal of between 200 and 300 missiles or bombers from the force as new systems are deployed. . abandonment of the salt ii limits before a new strategic arms agreement is reached would thus harm u.s. security interests. by 1990 the soviet union could increase its total number of nuclear warheads and bomber weapons by almost 7.000roughly twice the increase that the united states could make over the same period. and 4.000 more than the soviets could deploy under salt ii. without salt. the soviet union could significantly increase the number and improve the capabilities of its heavy landbased missilesthe weapons that the reagan administration considers the most threatening. in the long run. irrespective of which -side ultimately gained a quantitative advantage. the united states would face the serious dangers and expenses of an all out nuclear arms race. i feel it is in the best interest of our nation to reaffirm the present political commitment  to undercut the salt agreements. reaffirmation. whether through bilateral agreement with the soviet union or unilateral declarations. would preserve crucial constraints on the arms race and improve the prospects for resolving disputes and for negotiating a new united statessoviet agreement to limit and reduce nuclear weapons.
i can perhaps say that safely without fear of contradiction. particularly from the. chair. when that ship goes out for its test trials on may 20 of this year. we will have to. dismantle the launchers on two poseidon submarines in order to stay within the limits of the salt treaty. under the ndercut policy which we have as regards salt ii. which as the chair so well ks is unratified. as long as the soviets continue to. do so. we will  undercut that policy. there will be a holding on course toward a new agreement on arms control and reductions. last june. . i wish to make it clear that this resolution just does  say that the united states abide by the salt ii limitation without the soviets complying. the resolution makes clear. in the latter part of it. where it says: hing in this resolution should be construed as. (1) endorsing unilateral united states compliance with existing strategic arms agreements. there must be a twoway street. the soviets must observe it if we are expected to observe it. some critics will perhaps come to the floor here and say. "oh. we are just observing it ourselves while the soviets are making these terrible violations."  so. this is  a unilateral u.s. compliance. second. hing in this resolution should be construed as prohibiting the united states from exercising its rights and obligations as provided under international law with respect to treaty compliance. finally. hing in this resolution should be construed as prohibiting or delaying the development. flighttesting. or deployment of the small intercontinental ballistic missile as authorized by law.
. the reagan administration is approaching a decision on an issue which is vital to our national security: adherence to the salt nuclear arms limits. the sea trials of the eighth trident submarine. the u.s.s. nevada. this may will push the united states over the mirved missile sublimit.of the salt ii treaty. to remain within the salt ii limits. a similar number of older mirved missile systems must be dismantled. senator john heinz recently wrote an oped piece for the philadelphia inquirer on salt ii restraint which i think is worth the careful attention of my colleagues. i ask that the editorial by senator heinz be printed in the record. the editorial follows: [from the philadelphia inquirer. apr. 7. 1986]
 order the dismantling of two poseidon submarines carrying multiplewarhead missile launchers. in order to offset the laurichers on the new tridentthe u.s.s. nevadawhich begins sea trials next month. the- larger question. however. is whether the socalled undercut policy we have followed since 1979 has been worth it. and will continue to be worth it. as we work for new arms control agreements and better united statessoviet relations. i believe that mutual adherence to salt arms limits has worked in favor of u.s. security. it has prevented the arms race from escalating out of control. and forced the soviets to dismantle more than 500 operational missile launchers. in comparison. the united states has had to dismantle only 16 launchers. whichas you kwe did last.june. more importantly. the salt limitations have kept the two superpowers on course in their pursuit of new.. formal arms control agreements. in the past 6 years. united statessoviet relations have crossed some rought terrain. but i am convinced that the road would have been a good deal rougher without the restraints imposed by the salt framework. we are  here today to claim that the ndercut policy has been perfect. significant questions of compliance have arisen over soviet encryption of missile test data and the u.s.s.r.s possible deployment of two new types of icbmsthe ss24 and ss25. but these concerns. which we should attempt to resolve through diplomatic channels and the standing consultative commission. do  justify scrapping the entire arrangement. if we abandon salt because of these violations. we will move away from prudent arms control policy and almost definitely unleash an arms race of unprecedented proportions. all the evidence indicates that without the salt limits the soviets will be able to build up their arsenal at a much greater rate than the united states. one recent study indicates that sbviet strategic weapons could increase by 65 percent by the end of 1989. compared with only 45 percent for the united states. soviet missiles. especially the ss18. are capable of carrying a greater payload than they currently have. thus. without salt they could add more warheads to missiles already deployed. in fact. by 1990 the soviets could deploy twice as many warheads as the united states. we believe that it is in the best interests of this nation to maintain the ndercut approach. in view ofyesterdays good news that a reagangorbachev summit is likely to take place in the united states some time this year. let us continue with the policy that has brought restraint to nuclear arms buildup. and that holds out the promise for future fruitful arms control reductions. i wish to thank senators bumpers. heinz. and leahy for working with me on the letter. and on senate concurrent resolution 112. the resolution we introduced last month expressing our support for the salt limits. as long as the soviets also continue to abide by them. i urge my colleagues to take a close look at this vital issue. and hope they will join us in working for continued effective arms control.
. i see point to placing strict security requirements on the stingers we send to some countries. but  on those we send to angola and afhanistan. either we believe terrorists will try to obtain this weapon or we do . and if we do. we must work to thwart them. i urge my colleagues to consider the tragic possibility of terrorists using the best of our military techogy to shoot inent americans out of the sky. with that terrible scenario in mind. i hope they will support this legislation.e
 certifies to congress that the soviets have exceeded those same sublimits. thus this bill is  a straitjacket on u.s. policy. what will passage of this legislation gain us. it will stave off an escalation in the arms race until a new and better agreement can be reached. it will prevent the soviets from beginning a huge buildup and far outstripping the united states in strategic nuclear weapons. and it will restore our standing among our allies. who are profoundly disturbed that. suddenly. the soviets may have gained the upper hand in the court of world opinion on arms control issues. i am particularly concerned about this latter issue. about indications that the united states is increasingly preceived as the superpower which is less interested in real. effective arms control. this is the high ground that we should seize and keep. passage of this legislation will demonstrate to our friends in the world that we k a good. worthwhile arms control framework when we see one. and will  rashly put the security of the west at risk by throwing away the salt ii sublimits. it is  our intention. as some have quite mistakenly concluded. to gain a bargainbasement ratification vote for salt ii. as far as i am concerned. the salt ii treaty is. as its critics are wont to point out. unratified. expired. and outdated. that is passed. even under the terms of the salt ii treaty. its time limits have passed by. but it is all we have. the key fact remains that mutual restraint under its central sublimits is our best means to hold back the arms race until a new and better agreement is negotiated. as long as the soviets stay within the numerical limits. we should do the same. by sticking with those sublimits. we keep arms control alive. by abandoning them. we needlessly open a pandoras box. and set the stage for a new arms race that will make the world a much more dangerous place within which to live. i hope that my colleagues will recognize the folly of the administrations decision on the salt arms limits and join us in working for the passage of this legislation.
i want to thank the distinguished senator from wisconsin who has been so active in this issue and indeed speaks every day in the senate on the arms control effectiveness and the need for good policies. the dangers about violations of the abm treaty and of the salt ii sublimit. we certainly thank him very. much. 
. the accomplishments of troop 2 are a reflection  only of its community but of the strong volunteer leadership provided by those who have given unselfishly of their time. mr. ernest st. louis. the troops first scoutmaster. who is  in his 80s. mr. rosaire marcotte. mr. laurent lussier. mr. walter laurie. mr. robert corriveau. who developed the high adventure orientation program. mr. george marcotte. mr. russell bourski. mr. donald bet. and the present scoutmaster mr. patrick carrall have devoted many hours to the growth and enrichment of our young men. i salute them. and believe that troop 2 will continue its outstanding service to rhode islands youth for aher 50 years.*
. i want to say i support this measure. having been a beneificiary of the gi bill after world war ii i appreciate what i received and hope future generations will receive the same. i thank the senator.
i thank the distinguished senator from georgia. ) shall have power. by and with the advice and consent of the senate. to make treaties* * *1 in my view. this constitutional duty of the senate was . meant to be an empty approval of the rubberstamp variety. the advice and consent of the senate is a crucial part of the treatymaking process. when we consent to the ratification of a treaty. we do so based on the substance of the agreement placed before us. that. in the case of the abm treaty. is the nub of the issue. based on my understanding of the abm treaty. which i have arrived at through study of the agreement and discussions with those who negotiated it. the senate consented to the ratification of a treaty that prohibited the testing. development. and deployment of .all antiballistic missile systems or components which are seabased. airbased. spacebased. or mobile landbased. the distinguished senior senator from georgia has argued persuasively that the record shows the senate approved a treaty that would  allow the sdi program to move beyond the laboratory. perhaps most troubling are the constitutional implications of the current disagreement. if it is true that the senate believed it was ratifying an abm treaty different in meaning from the treaty actually signed. then we have a serious constitutional problem on our hands. the arguments of those in favor of reinterpreting the abm treaty imply that the senate did  get the whole story on that treaty. that the senate was somehow left in the dark about several key provisions. i do  subscribe to that argument. it is my view that the enthusiasm of some individuals to support the sdi program has led them to give the abm treaty a new and. i believe. incorrect interpretation.
. i am adamantly opposed to abandonment of the abm treaty. the single most effective arms control agreement in history. i am  in favor of a new and costly and potentially destabilizing sdi program. the reinterpretation is akin to some. it seems to me a sleight of hand. legalistic sleight of hand. and if it prevails. i am convinced will initiate a new arms race in space. but it is true that this is  a simple matter. with all the arguments and counterarguments on the real meaning of the treaty. the senate is in need of extended discussion on that. following the debate there ought to be a vote on whether or  the levinnunn provision merits retention. i am in favor of moving on to such a vote
. in the last rollcall vote which we had on an amendment by the distinguished senator from th carolina. in which it said it was the sense of the senate that the u.s. navy is fully justified in sinking any iranian vessel which threatens the safe passage of any american warship. with that portion of the resolution i completely agree. i voted on the resolution because of the following section. i just want to make it clear publicly that i support what our nation and our navy did in the persian gulf the other day. my only reason for voting against this resolution was the second part. which i did  feel was appropriate. i thank the distinguished senator.
. i consider this an unfortunate amendment and hope that it will  succeed. first. i should like to emphasize the points that the distinguished senator from alaska has made. if this amendment were adopted. it would open the floodgates to all kinds of litigation in the armed forces in the interpretation of what the senator from new jersey means. for example. what does his amendment mean in requiring that an allowed item of apparel be "part of the religious observance of the faith practiced by the member." if the commanding officer attempts to question whether an article that the sailor or soldier is wearing is a piece of religious apparel. there are bound to be disputes as to what qualifies as part of the religious observances. thats point  1. point  2: who is to judge what is neat and conservative. in my view. it is impossible to judgethat. that is a standard that is certainly going to be litigated every time it arises. third. the senators amendment says that the item must  significantly interfere with the performance of the members military duties. e the words "significantly interfere."
i am pleased. once again. to join my distinguished colleagues from pennsylvania. arkansas. and vermont in this effort to restore common sense to the u.s. policy on strategic arms. the four of us have been involved in this effort for a number of years . although the administrations position has changed. ours has . we still believe that the core sublimits of the salt ii treaty should  have been abandoned by the .united states last ember. we still believe that continued u.s. adherence to those sublimits serves our national security interests as long as the soviets also adhere to those sublimits. i do wish to respond to a point that was made by my distinguished colleague. the senior senator from th carolina. when he stated that the soviets are in violation of the sublimits currently. if that is so. then this amendment does  apply. this amendment is  a unilateral disarmament amendment. this amendment says that if the soviets adhere to the sublimits of salt ii. then we. likewise. will do so. there is a 29day period placed in here for the soviets to come into compliance. we decided to propose this amendment to the dod bill after much consideration. it is  a step we take lightly. particularly when the administration is on the verge of signing the inf agreement with the soviets. so we had to ask ourselves the same question that the senate had to ask itself: is it a good idea in light of our current relations with the soviets for the u.s. senate to use the power of the purse. namely through this legislation. to revive the salt ii sublimits. in other words. will passage of this amendment be a constructive step. after studying this issue very closely. and familiarizing myself with the current strategic situation on both the united states side and the soviet side. i have concluded the answer is yes. renewed bilateral adherence to the sublimits will place a cap on the superpower arsenals until a new strategic arms agreement is reached. in my opinion. this is the wisest course the united states can follow. let me take a few minutes to explain the benefits of this legislation: first. the amendment improves the chances that a strategic agreement will be reached. if the amendment passes and becomes law. and the soviets agree to join the united states in adhering to the salt ii sublimits. i think this initiative will give a strong push to the strategic talks. why. it will lend some stability and predictability to the nuclear arsenals of the two countries. second. the amendment is  unilateral. it states clearly that its restriction on u.s. forces will  apply if. after 29 days. "the president determines and certifies to congress that the soviet union deploys strategic forces in numbers greater than those specified." and the president is given 29 days to report on u.s. plans for compliance with the sublimits. thus. on the same day. 29 days after enactment. the soviets must be under the sublimits. and the united states must report on how it will return to adherence. if the soviets have  brought themselves under the sublimits. the restriction on united states forces is nullified. this measure is truly bilateral. third. the amendment ackledges soviet violation issues. that will be hammered away at an has been hammered away at. yes. in other sections of the salt ii treaty which was never signed. the soviets are in violation. but we are only dealing here with the sublimits.  with ratification of the treaty. i believe there are genuine violation problems with parts of the treaty other than the sublimits. they are only permitted one new missile under salt ii. they have aher one. there is question that the ss25 is a new second missile. i am troubled by the encryption of telemetry which has increased significantly. this administration was unable to resolve those issues within the standing consultative commission. the socalled scc. a forum which previous administrations had used quite effectively. unfortunately. the scc process broke down with this administration and a direct result of that breakdown was our decision to leave blind the entire salt ii framework which we had been adhering to. the premise of this amendment is the heart of that framework. the sublimits. we believe should  be discarded so hastily. up until the time the united states exceeded those sublimits. last year. ember. with the addition of the b52 cruise missiles on it. the u.s.s.r. had always agreed to abide by those sublimits and was  in violation. any soviet violations of the sublimits that have taken place since last ember could easily be rectified in the 29day period allowed for in this legislation. in fact. this amendment will  take effect unless the president is absolutely certain that the soviets are under the sublimits. if there is a shred of doubt about a possible violation of those sublimits. the restriction on the u.s. forces does  apply. if the president tells us. "the soviets are  in compliance." then there is go with this legislation. fourth. the amendment works in favor of u.s. security. the arguments i have been making for years in favor of the salt ii framework continue to hold true today. without the sublimits the entire strategic arsenal of the soviet union is out of the barn. there is currently limit on the number of strategic weapons that our adversary can point at the united states. that fact. it. seems to me. is adequate to support this amendment. by abandoning the salt ii sublimits we have handed a strategic. nuclear carte blanche to soviets. the sad truth is as their new icbms come into service. the soviets are  under a requirement to make compensating cuts in older systems. the whole question is. are we better off  than we were when the salt ii sublimit restraints applied. i do  think we are. i do  think we want to get into a total race with the soviets. here is some limitation. it is  perfect. yes. there will be all kinds of arguments about warheads. but this is a limitation. if we revive the sublimits. the soviets will be forced to dismantle more of their systems than the united states. under the salt ii limits. from 1973 to 1986 the soviets dismantled five times more operational weapons than we had to. a return to the sublimits under this amendment would require soviet dismantling actions that would numerically favor the united states. the crucial fact remains that the soviets are simply more capable of a quick buildup than we are. they do  have to go to any congress to get approval for mxs. minuteman. whatever it is. the lid is off. the sublimits would fend off such a buildup and would therefore benefit. in my judgment. u.s. security. -conclusion: those who oppose this amendment argue that it will endanger u.s. security and undercut our chances of reaching a strategic arms agreement with the soviets. they charge that our timing is all wrong. coinciding as it does with the final stages of the inf negotiations. finally. the claim is that we are reviving sublimits that are dead. are useless. and we ought to look toward the future and the potential strategic agreement that might be reached next year. i take issue with each of these. rather than endangering national security. this amendment. combined with the strict. verified soviet adherence to the sublimits. will strengthen united states security by placing an upper limit on soviet strategic forces. those who claim we enhance our security by removing all limits on the soviet strategic arsenal are engaging. in my judgment. in sophistry. their reasoning to me does  make sense. for those reasons. . i think we are playing a dangerous game with a dangerous opponent. i strongly believe we should seize this opportunity to turn the soviet union from steadily increasing its deadly stockpile.
. unless we have these sublimits agreed to. the inf treaty does  mean anything. because it is perfectly possible for the soviets to have a shortrange weapon. a weapon that will shoot in the reduced range. even though it hasa longer range.capability to do it. and so when we eliminate the inf weapons and yet permit the soviets to have an unlimited number of ss24s or ss25s they can shorten. either .have a high trajectory of those weapons or reduce the range so indeed those weapons will indeed be an inf weapon. so the importance is to add such kind of limitation such as set forth in the salt ii sublimits .or we are  getting anywhere with an inf agreement. and i bring that to the attention of my colleagues with the hope that they will support this amendment that the united states will .continue to adhere to those sublimits and the soviets will likewise. if the soviets do . then all bets are off. and everybody ks this. this is  a unilateral agreement. this is  solely binding the united .states. this binds the united states if the soviets adhere to those sublimits. so. for the sake of preventing an allout nuclear arms race. but also for the future of the inf agreement. i would hope that my colleagues would support the bumpers amendment.
. i have a particular interest in this subject. narragansett bay in my home state of rhode island. is one of the most magiificent bay areas in the country. this precious national resource supports the entire spectrum of marine life. in october 1985. the u.s. navy tested samples of water taken at the castle hill coast guard station. and found tbt levels of 130 parts per trillion. higher than that necessary to cause toxic effects on some marine organisms. other samples taken by the navy turned up 36 parts per trillion at a nearby marina. and 9 parts per trillion at a yacht club. while far from conclusive. this sampling. and other more extensive data on chesapeake bay. suggest that it is time to find out conclusively what the long- and shortterm effects of using tbt will be on our marine environment. we can afford to wait until species of fish begain to disappear before we get definitive answers. as a former secretary of the navy. i can fully appreciate the cost and effort required to defoul and paint large vessels. the cost of servicing a large naval aircraft carrier or a supertanker can easily run into the millions of dollars. the use of tbt instead of the more conventional copperbased paints greatly reduces the frequency of this servicing. yet. until we understand the environmental consequences of the widespread use of tbt. i can approve of its indiscriminate use. the bill we are introducing today is a reasoned. interim approach that will quickly reduce the amount of tbt in the aquatic environment. i would emphasize that the epa needs to proceed with all speed to evaluate the longterm effects of this chemical. we must k whether we are poisoning our oceans and lakes. or if indeed a safe level of use for tbt or a reasonable alternative exists.
. i want to say how happy i am that we are  ratifying annex v of the marpol treaty. this is a. great step forward in diminishing the amount of plastics and other types of garbage that are discharged from vessels into the seas of the world. because of the development of plastics and the increasing greater use of the same in water bottles and every form of food packaging and water containerization. the proliferation of plastics has increased to a far greater degree than any of us ever anticipated. last summer. i had the pleasure of meeting a group of sailors who had singlehandedly raced around the world. with only three stops. they raced from newport. ri. to capetown. from capetown to sydney. australia. which was the second stop. and from sydney. australia. to rio de janeiro. and then on back to newport. each of these sailors. on the leg from sydney. australia. to rio. and from rio to newport. made the commitment that they would  discharge any of their plastic waste but would save it until they had reached the next port of call. i saw the amount of plastics they had when they arrived on the leg from rio to newport. it was remarkable that these singlehanded sailors. with all they had to attend to. made this effort to save their plastics from being discharged. to set a model. an example. for all sailors around the world. sailors who had much more time. who did  have the burdens placed upon them that a singlehanded sailor had. there were two extraordinary things. one was the amount that a single person could generate in plastic waste. they had saved it in great bags and brought it into the hall for a demonstration. each sailor had approximately three mammoth garbage bags full of plastic waste that that single sailor had generated on one of the legs of the trip. the other point they made which was interesting was that despite the lonely courses they had to choosethere is  much traffic going in the southern latitudes from sydney. australia. to rio de janeiro. around cape horn. very little traffic makes that journeythey all stated that they encountered in those lonely waters plastic bags floating on the surface. we have  created an international garbage pit of the oceans of the world. floating on the seas is all kinds of disposed plastic waste and other waste discharged from vessels. so this marpol treaty. annex v. will go a long way toward reducing that. it will  totally do it. but it is a great step in the right direction. already the u.s. navy has taken major steps to reduce the plastic waste it discharges overboard. so i commend the distinguished chairman of the committee for the action of his committee. and the others who partook in it. and i look forward to this annex of the treaty to vastly reduce the disposal that unfortunately is taking place to such a degree in the waters of the world.
. i want to associate myself with the remarks of the distinguished senator from ohio regarding our friendship with bahrain and the service that that nation has provided to us. it was my privilege. when i was associated with the navy department. to visit our forces in the persian gulf area and bahrain was extremely important to us then as it is . they have been a long and valued ally of this country.
i would like to ask a couple of questions. if i might. in connection with this amendment. i ice it requires the report in 60 days on extremely complicated matters. for example. the cost in the absence of an agreement to reduce conventional forces in europe to redress existing conventional deficiencies in nato forces in europe. in other words. within 60 days. we seek from the administration information on what it would cost to redress whatever imbalances might exist in conventional forces due to the treaty. what new forces you would have to have. i do  k how in the world they can come up with information like that in 60 days. they may well  be sure what they have to have there for conventional forces.
. and if she received $200.000. i am amazed. i suppose there should be some qualification requirements. whether it is sig iatures or individual fundraising. before one is entitled to receive the federal money. and indeed that is true. ms. lea fulani must have raised substantial sums by herself. you have to raise a certain number of dollars from most of the states before one qualifies for the federal funds. but i must say i do worry about the extremist candidate charge. would that take place under the legislation s. 2 that i have been supporting. are we encouraging extremist candidates to get into the races. one of the great virtues. it seem.. to me. of american democracy. as it has evolvedis  provided for in the constitutionis the fact that. though in the twoparty system the candidates tend to move toward the middle. toward the moderate center whereas in the multiparty systems you have candidates on the fringe who achieve excessive power unrelated to the amount of votes that they have been able to obtain. we have a winnertakeall system and that encourages moderation. every candidate has to go out and appeal to as broad a spectrum as possible. whereas in those countries that have proportional representation. which i consider to be a disaster. fringe candidates make demagogic appeals to limited sectors with the belief. and often the realization. that by this appeal to this limited group. which might be only 10. 12. or 14 percent of the people. that the individual will ensure. through the proportional representation system. that he or she can be elected to the parliament or whatever the governing body is. we have  had that in our country and i am deeply concerned that we might. i do  want in any way to encourage it. so this charge by the distinguished junior senator from kentucky that there will be a proliferation of extremist candidates as a iesult of the public financing of senatorial candidates may be a serious one. i would like to hear further discussion. i might add. and i do hope that the junior senator from kentucky. who undoubtedly will be addressing this matter in the future on this floor. will address that particular point. it is one that i would worry about. however. as i say. it has  come to my attention before and has  been egh to discourage me from support of s. 2. but i would like to hear it addressed to a greater extent. i see that the distinguished junior senator from alaska is here who undoubtedly has some views on this subject
i would like to share the confidence of the distinguished chairman of the committee that the consequences on anybody leaking information. would be so dire. but i think we all recognize professional courtesy in this body. soandso. there is a little lapse that he said this. but so be it. who is going to take any public outrage and demonstrate any censure on the individual. i think we recognize that those things happen. i must say i have deep concern out of what we are doing. we all have kn situations that have been of extreme importance to the security of the nations secrets that have  been passed on.  all covert action has. such as the breaking of the japanese code in world war ii. some of the instances have been outlined here on the floor by the senior senator from idaho. but let us just take the situation of where the proposal. in the judgment of the leadership. is outrageous. that it is the most ridiculous. preposterous undertaking they have ever heard of. . what.
. i am skeptical as i vote for this resolution. while i hope that both sides in the nicaraguan conflict will negotiate in good faith and work for democratic reform. i am  sure we will see the results we would like to see. on the contra side. it remains to be seen whether this disorganized politicomilitary organization. with its poor human rights record will be a true defender ot democratic ideals. the contras will have to prove that they believe their own democratic rhetoric and can be a force for positive change in nicaragua. on the sandinista side the sandinistas have promised to release all political prisoners. of which there are at least 3.500 and possibly many more. thus far. they have released only 100. ecoically. the ceasefire will give the sandinistas an opportunity to reverse the disastrous decline that the war and socialist planning have wrought in nicaragua. we will see if the leadership there can turn the ecoy around. the sandinistas have received billions of dollars in military assistance from the soviet union.  one hopes they will turn off that weapons pipeline and cut their ties to the totalitarian regimes of the communist bloc. finally. the sandinistas will have to prove they are serious about being partners in the central american community. and that they will respect the independence and the borders of their neighbors. in summary. mr. pesident. i will support todays contra aid resolution because it stands for all the right things: for the children. for negotiation. for peace. and for democratization. as i vote in favor of this measure. however. i reserve the right to. vote differently on any future contra assistance proposals. let us first see how this resolution contributes to the process. and how successful the contras and the sandinistas are in resolving their differences.
s drug education effort by $50 million in 1989 and tightens controls so that the most effective and inative programs are funded and closely monitored. on the domestic front. the act continues to follow through on the 1986 acts focus on state and local law en. forcement agenciesincluding providing for $250 million next year in narcotics control block grants. finally. on the foreign front. this act establishes an international special operations drug eradication squadron within the state department to target source countries. the act also provides $600 million over 3 years for use as ecoic incentives to source countries to eradicate 40 percent of their drug crop. this money will be distributed by aid (agency for international development) and compliance verified by the dea (drug enforcement agency). all in all this bill is a wellconstructed. ecoically feasible. and desperately needed piece of legislation. i do  intend to let the war on drugs be lost. especially considering the cost of such defeat. we need to make it quite clear to all americans that we are committed to the war on drugs. and we are prepared to do battle.*
. i concur with the comments made by my colleague from virginia. i k that the navy is concerned about potential problems in this area and. if these problems materialize. we should address them in a responsible manner.
 from certifying that the soviets are observing the informal ceiling of january 25. 1988 level of deployments. the inf accordrevolutionary as it iswill only be truly beneficial to the security of nato if there are some limits on soviet strategic nuclear forces. without these restraints on soviet longrange missiles. the soviets will be free to compensate for their dismantled. intermediaterange ss20s by deploying more strategic missiles that could be aimed at european targets. restoring the salt sublimit framework will therefore help prevent soviet undercutting of the inf accord.  only will our legislation ensure that the inf treaty is militarily beneficial to us and our nato allies. it will improve the chances that a strategic agreement will be reached. if it passes and becomes law. and the soviets agree to join the united states in adhering to an interim restraint on strategic deployments. i think this initiative will give a strong push to the strategic talks. it will le.d soma rtahility and predictability to the nuclear arsenals of the two countries. such a bilateral restraint will enhance the atmosphere of cooperation necessary for the achievement of a new treaty to reduce strategic arms. this legislation is aimed squarely at the future security of the united states. it is meant to serve as a concrete interim restraint on strategic nuclear forces until a future united statessoviet strategic agreement is achieved. i urge all senators to support the inf treaty reinforcement act of
 from certifying that the soviets are observing the informal ceiling of january 25. 1988. level of deployments. the inf accordrevolutionary as it iswill only be truly beneficial to the security of nato if there are some limits on soviet strategic nuclear forces. without these restraints on soviet longrange missiles. the soviets will be free to compensate for their dismantled. intermediaterange ss20s by deploying more strategic missiles that could be aimed at european targets. restoring the salt sublimit framework will therefore help prevent soviet undercutting of the inf accord.  only will our amendment ensure that the inf treaty is militarily beneficial to us and our nato allies. it will improve the chances that a strategic agreement will be reached. if it passes and becomes law. and the soviets agree to join the united states in adhering to an interim restraint on strateglc deployments. i think this initia. tive will give a strong push to the strategic talks. it will lend some stability and predictability to the nuclear arsenals of the two countries. such a bilateral restraint will enhance the atmosphere of cooperation necessary for the achievement of a new treaty to reduce strategic arms. this amendment is aimed squarely at the future security of the united states. it is meant to serve as a concrete interim restraint on strategic nuclear forces until a future united statessoviet strategic agreement is achieved. i urge all senators to support the inf treaty reinforcement act of
madam president. i am  opposed to the bigeye system. i am  for binary gas. but that was decided. as the senator from arkansas said. by this body over the past several years. so the question is. how do we deliver il. i believe that the bigeye system. when and if it is ready. is the way to go about this. the question is. is it ready. . in 1986. when this first came up. i voted for the bigeye. the following year i was convinced from the evidence that the weapon did  meet the tests. and that we should  proceed with production. and so the question is . are we ready for this weapon. can it meet the tests. should we go into production. the senator from arkansas. i believe. has stated the question quite correctly. he said this is  to kill the bigeye bomb. this is to decide whether we should go forward with it at this time. then he cited the results of some tests which to me appears to be fairly convincing. i would like to hear from the proponents of the system. what is the answer to the information that was given to ts by the senator from arkansas. if i could be convinced that the weapon is indeed ready. that it can meet the test. therefore we should go into production with it. because having visited and spent time in nato. as have most of the senators. i am convinced that a delivery system such as this is required. clearly. however. we do  want to proceed with it if we are  ready. there is point in going into production unless the weapon can meet the tests as set forth by the ordinance division of the u.s. army. so i wonder whether the managers of the legislation can come forward and give us the answers to these facts and statistics posed by the senator from arkansas. if they can. then i will vote for it. i thank the chair. madam president. i suggest the absence of a quorum.
. i start with the reluctance to involve the military in essentially new and basically civilian duties. i look around and see some in this chamber who perhaps recall in the mid1930s when what was kn as the u.s. army air corps was assigned the duty to carry the u.s. mails. and those who remember that also remember it was a disaster.  only did we lose a lot of pilots and a lot of aircraft. but finally the conclusion was the the u.s. army air corps were  the people to carry the u.s. mails and it should return to the original setup. which was have civilians carry the mail in the air. however. i think we are facing a unique situation here which has previously been outlined on the floor. the urgency of doing something about the inflow of drugs into our country has to be addressed. perhaps this will  succeed. but it appears to me that this amendment is carefully constricted. that it has limitations upon it. that it calls upon the military to make significant restricted contributions in airborne radar coverage. in communications in the loan of pursuit aircraft. and in the use of the national guard. because it has thus been carefully constricted because the problem is so overwhelming. so demanding of attention. so dangerous to the future of our nation. i support this amendment. will it solve all the problems. of course. it will . but i think from our experience with it we can decide whether to go further. whether to extend the use of the armed services in the future or rather to return to the essential basic structure we have  using the drug enforcement administration. the coast guard. and the customs service. so we will learn a lot from this and i think it is worthwhile proceeding. and i thank the chair.
this will be the resolution if i do get unanimous consent to present it. whereas william f. buckley served the nation with ho. courage. and distinction in combat in korea and vietnam. and as an agent overseas of the central intelligence agency. whereas in the wake of the terrorist bombing of the united states embassy in beirut. col. buckley was dispatched to rebuild an intelligence capacity amidst the murderous civil war of leba. whereas. king the fate of his predecessors he had illusion that he would escape the same.  yet that he would meet an easy death. whereas on march 10. 1984. he was kidnapped and for agonizing months confined and tortured and in the end tortured unto death. whereas the united states senate does  consider this matter in any way closed. settled. or behind us.  that of remaining american hostages. whereas on this clay william f. buckley. his earthly remains yet to be recovered. was hoed at a gravesite in arlington ceme. tery: . therefore. be it resolved. that the senate declares its abiding respect for william f. buckleys life of unequaled service and his death of unexampled fortitude. . i send this resolution to the desk and ask unanimous consent for its immediate consideration on behalf of senator moynihan and the other cosponsors.
i had the privilege today of attending briefly the luncheon sponsored by the distinguished majority leader and republicail leader for president evren of turkey. i do want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the distinguished majority leader for his understanding of the role that turkey plays in the nato defense and the efforts that the current administration in turkey is making to restore democracy to that nation and the leadership that president evren is providing. i think it is so fitting that the distinguished majority leader gave that luncheon because he has recognized right from the beginning the role that turkey plays. i also would like to join him in hopes that through the efforts that are being made by president evren in its relationships with greece that there may be a resolution to these problems that have existed between those two nations for some time. although there is cause yet for celebration. certainly there are signs of hopefulness in the situation. it was a pleasure to meet those who were gathered today at the luncheon. i have heard from others many times about the splendid visit the distinguished majority leader had to turkey. i think it was in the early part of this year.
in february. and the fine role the majority leader .has played throughout these nato relationships with turkey and the efforts to see that democracy is restored to turkey. and that there may be a resolution of the difficulties that exist between that nation and greece. i thank the chair.
i would just like to say this to the distinguished senator from arizona. it was my experience when i had the privilege of serving in the navy department that the family separations were the primary reason we were losing two key categories of personnel. the submariners. particularly the polaris submariners who are on those long patrols. and. secondly. the aviators. we soon foundand i believe we might well find it in this very situationthat it feeds on itself. you have these long patrols. and thus you do  have extension by the officers or the reenlistment of the men. then we would have fewer people available to fill in. therefore. the patrols had to be longer and longer or the rotation ashore was shorter and shorter. and then soon we had more and more people leaving the service. i believe that we are liable to get into the same predicament here. we have commitments overseas particularly in germany. and those in the active u.s. army forces. particularly the combat branches have to go to germany on a regular rotation. i suspect we will find the average army officer in the course of a 20year career has spent 6 to 8 hours in germany. and if we cut down the families that can accompany them. they are  going to go. we have  reduced the commitments. therefore. the rotation is quicker and faster and faster to go to germany. and without the families. it feeds on itself so we have fewer and fewer acquired people reenlisting and the officers extending. i just think this is a very bad idea and i commend the senator from arizona for his amendment. i wonder if the senator from alaska would be able to help me on this question. the question was raised about the marines. they go on unaccompanied tours. and so therefore. what is the matter with that. why can the army do the same. am i correct in saying that the only place that the marines are sent for 1 year tours is in okinawa. with a very small number going to the marine air base in japan. is that correct. and the total number of marines involved in those overseas deployments. unaccompanied deployments. are. i would believe. in okinawa perhaps two regiments and less than a wing in iwakuni. japan. am i correct in that.
i should  hold the senator from alaska responsible because i believe the senator from louisiana was pointing out the marines go on these unaccompanied tours. the marines. unless things are changed. are unaccompanied tours in okinawa with the exception of what you might call the base personnel. those who are tuning the bases and camps. they have a small cadre of permanent people there who are there on accompanied tours. but my point is to make a comparison between the marine deployments which involve a relatively small percentage of the total marines to make that comparison with the u.s. army and the combat branches. the tankers. the artillery. the infantry. a very substantial portion of those forces are in germany or in okinawa or in korea. but proportionately a far greater percentage. i believe. of the u.s. army combat branches are deployed overseas than are the marines in these 1year unaccompanied tours. so my point is that it is  really a fair comparison of saying that those marines do it. so what is the matter with the army doing it because the marines go to okinawa or iwakunl. japan on an unaccompanied tour for a year. but that occurs very rarely in the course of a marines total enlistment or officer career of 20 years.
madam president. this is one of those. what we call makeyoufeelgood resolutions. it is a chance to beat our chests. it is a chance to get tough. it is a chance to show who is boss. but the question isand i think the question that should remain before uswhat are we doing to help conduct the war against drugs. . are the bahamas perfect. one will say so. there are 700 islands down there spread over 80.000 square miles. only 29 of those 700 islands are occupied. the bahamas do  produce drugs but are an ideal transit point. the bahamas probably have some corruption. i can certify to that. but i do k that the administration has stated that. in its best judgment. proceeding with this resolution would  be helpful. in 1988. the last year for which we have statisticsobviously. just last yearover 9 metric tons of cocaine was seized in the bahamas. onequarter of that was seized unilaterally by the bahamian police or defense forces. threequarters of it was seized in joint operations between the bahamians and the united states enforcement agencies. mlay 10. 1989 what we have in the bahamas is a right for the united states antidrug forcesand that includes the coast guardto overfly in their air space. to operate within their waters. and indeed just a year ago we received a letter addressed to senator dlconcini from the commandant of the coast guard pointing out that the cooperation with the bahamlans was excellent. this same resolution was brought up last year and was defeated. i believe the vote was 54 to 40. i think that would be the best way to proceed today. we do  have a perfect situation.  i might say do we have a perfect situation to fight drugs in other countries in the world. is there corruption. there probably is some but there is some corruption in drug matters in the united states likewise. to suggest that by cutting off this aid. by saying to the bahamians you have  done egh. you are  simonpure. it is all right for you to ratify an extradition treaty. we have  ratified it yet but forget that. and everybody that has brought it before your courts is  convicted on drugs. the way we feel it should be. maybe the prosecution should have been better. but the question is what is going to be most helpful in fighting drugs. we have privileges in the bahamian waters and overflight that we do  have with any other country. fortunately. and i think we can say this: that because of our efforts  solely in the bahamian waters. but the amount of drugs that is coming up through that particular direction is  what it was before but that is true clue to a whole series of war against the supply of drugs that has been fairly successful in that part of the world with the drug traffic shifting further west in the route up from colombia. i wish i could say that the bahamians were perfect but they are . i do  think that this resolution is going to make progress for us. i think if approved it is going to set us back. the bahamian government. as i say. has cooperated in many. many respects. and if what happens is here in this senate we say you have been good but  good egh. so we are going to cut your aid in half. i think if i were in the position of the bahamian government i would say. well. that is what we get for our cooperation. that cooperation has  been extended to us by any other country. and i would ask the distinguished senator from massachusetts. who is familiar with these: is there any other country that permits us overflight rights to the extent the bahamians do. is there any other country that permits us to go into their waters. into their territorial waters in hot pursuit. or in patrol to the extent the bahamlans do.
i suspect. and i agree with the distinguished senator from massachusetts. there is more the bahamians can do. i suspect there is more the united states can do. to suggest that there is  bribery in these areas where drugs are involved would be naive. there is bribery taking place and acceptance of bribes by law enforcement officials in the united states. and sure i can see this taking place in the bahamian islands likewise. when you have these massive amounts of money coming in. the temptation is there to take it. particularly if it is a nation with a relatively low standard of living. low per capita income. where these amounts are extremely tempting. i think we ought to keep the question before us. the question is: what is going to do most to win the war against drugs. is it to follow the senators resolution. mind you the administration has said that in its judgment the bahamian government has met the criteria.  the senator from massachusetts has said. " they havent." so here we are. we are disputing that. that is what the vote is all about in an hour or so.
madam president. i regret the comparison of . is this: our government is aware of this. and our government is monitoring the situation. but in making its decision and evaluating -all aspects. the administration has come to the conclusion that we would be best served in this war by  denying the certification to the government of bahamas. i believe in that. and i hope we will give this administration a chance. this thing is renewed and comes back every year. it will be back again. i am sure the senator from massachusetts is vigilantly going to follow it. as he has. to his credit. in the past. i ask unanimous consent that the letter from the secretary of state be printed in the record.
i have talked with some officials from the air force who are  in favor of this amendment because of that particular clause. i just find that if we have so little confidence in those people who are running the air force. the we ought to get other people to run it. but to have two pages of intricate material dealing with negotiations and limitations on the prime contractors financial liability i think the senate is going too far. i just do  quite understand why the senator is pursuing this amendment.
the senator from th carolina has identified an unfortunate problem - at the marine corps air station at cherry point. and i can appreciate his concern that an important military function can be carried out there unless the navy and the epa can arrive promptly at an agreement to allow the newly constructed electroplating plant to initiate operations. as has been ed already in this discussion. the resource conservation and recovery act does provide a means for addressing this problem. so long as certain criteria are satisfied. under the provisions of that act. the secretary of the navy can petition epa to have the facilitys waste excluded from the list of wastes considered hazardous for regulatory purposes. if epa were to determine that the waste satisfies the rcra delisting criteria. epa could grant the petition and the problem that is preventing operations at the plant would be eliminated. i hope that the navy and the epa will work to determine if this delisting approach is a viable option. and will work diligently to find any other administrative procedures. including expedited permitting under rcra. which could settle this issue as well. however. as i am sure we all appreciate. the mere availability of an administrative procedure for resolving the cherry point problem does  end this matter. the real concern here. it seems to me. is the speed with which the cure provided by rcra. or any other cure. can be accomplished. accordingly. i want to join with my colleague on the environment and public works committee. senator baucus. in offering assistance to the senators from th carolina in resolving this problem. and doing so promptly. i. too. would urge the secretary of the navy and the epa to try to work out a solution. whether through a delisting petition or otherwise. as soon as feasible. given the serious nature of this problem. i would hope that epa and the navy could arrive at a reasoned solution within a very few months.
i have borne those scars for many years. i clearly remember. the senator did  stop there. it seemed to me he laid into the job with a vengeance. lie  only closed the destroyer base. he closed the quonset naval aircraft overhaul facility with 1.500 jobs. he was  to be dissuaded. and i must say at that time i was unenthusiastic. to put it mildly. about that base closure.
 bushs proposal to demobilize those 30.000 troops. and yet. this amendment says hing about deaztivating those troops--it merely brings them home. as the senior senator from hawaii has pointd out. the amendment would  make available additional funds to help us meet pressing national education goals. but instead would cost money. perhaps as much as a quarter of a billion dollars in the next fiscal year. if money were truly being made available to chapter 1. pell grants. adult literacy. education of the handicapped. and the other worthy programs enumerated in the amendment. then this would be an different and important debate. unfortunately. such funds exist here. instead. one of our most precious values is being used as a smokescreen for an opportunity to bash our nato allies and undermine ongoing negotiations that promise real troop reductions and real savings.
i want to say i am sorry this has turned into a political attack on the president. we heard all kinds of terms tossed around here today about timidity on the part of the administration. i must say. things have changed around here. suddenly this place is filled with hawks. all i can remember is the persian gulf. every time the president wanted to move and do anything in the persian gulf. all we heard about was the war powers act and grenada and angola. i think we better be careful about the terms we use. the president moved with great discretion. he did  throw his power around. and he did the right thing in panama. i think we ought to ackledge it. i think it is a little odd where the objections are  coming from that they did  take all the actions that armchair generals can  direct him to do with that marvelous incisiveness that comes with 2020 hindsight. i want to thank the distinguished chair.
. i thank the distinguished senior senator from tennessee. i do have a question. my question deals with the family housing units at newport naval education and training center in newport. ri. it is my understanding that this is explicitly taken care of in the conference report or in the overall measure. that the 220 units for the naval education and training center in newport are included and will be covered in this legislation. am i correct in that.
china. throughout its history. has accepted the willingness to accept isolation from the rest of the world. they did that in the 15th century when jesuit missionaries were out there. they did it in the 18th century when the european powers wanted to go to china. and of the years from the end of the war in 1947 until the time of the visit of president nixon in 1972 they showed they were willing to accept isolation. so i hope we will sustain the presidents veto. i would like to say a final word. s veto. i thank the chair.
. i want to commend the distinguished senator from new mexico. because he was the one that about a week ago tonight brought this to the attention of everybody. when the first attempt was made to get the unanimousconsent agreement and pointed out that unless we got these allowances under control and presented them as a package at the end of the negotiations here. or at end of the voting. we would have broken the ceiling long before that time. the senator from new mexico has done an excellent job. i just have one mi point. after having listened to that list of senators and king the size of the room. s224. i suggest you get a bigger hall. we have all spent a lot of time in s224. i counted 57 people in there. maybe there is some incentive. winston churchill said. when the house of commons was burned down through the bombing in world war ii and it came to design and rebuild the house of commonsand there were only seats for 240 in the house of commons. and there are 600 membersthe people said. "build it for 640. a seat for everyone." churchill said. " keep it small. so that when there is a great debate and all the members come. the hall is packed and it gives a sense of excitement." that may be what you are looking for tomorrow. i do  k. but you will achieve it. i think. with that number of senators. it will be standing room only.
. i am introducing. by request. the administrations 1990 water resources development legislationfor the u.s. army corps of engineers. i ask unanimous consent that copies of the bills and sectionbysection analyses of the bills be reprinted in the record at this point.
. my amendment. cosponsored by senator fell. is straightforward. it merely appropriates $970.000 to the secretary of the army to relocate the southeast light. it is a project of particular interest to those of us who are concerned about the preservation of an architectural treasure and a new england way of life. the southeast lighthouse sits atop mohegan bluffs on block island. ri. and is in imminent danger of falling ivto the sea. constructed in 1373. the light was illuminated as part of the federal governments effort to ensure safe navigation in block island sound. the southeast light is a truly remarkable structure and unique among all lighthouses. this massive red brick structure. of victorian gothic revival style. consists of a double cottage attached to an octagonal light tower. the lights fresnel lens. imported from france. is large egh for six people to stand inside. to this day. the light is considered one of the primary beacons along the east coast. the southeast light has served its mission well and has long been a symbol of new englands maritime history. this july. the u.s. coast guard retired the light and replaced it with a steel tower aid to navigation. according to geology experts. the bluff upon which the light sits has been eroding for over 100 years. the weakness of the clay sediment cliff in conjunction with rainfall and wave and tidal action constantly wear back the bluff. often at rates approaching 7 feet per year. at present. the lighthouse is approximately 60 feet from the near vertical cliff. the situation is particularly alarming in view of the fact that over 40 feet of land would be required to facilitate a relocation of the structure. since 1983. a group of rhode islanders has been working to save this magnificent landmark. in 1987. the group formed the southeast lighthouse foundation. the primary goal of the private organization is to raise the necessary funds to relocate the light. upon completion of the move. the foundation envisions the establishment of permanent maritime and natural history exhibits on display and open to the general public at the light. the state of rhode island and private contributors already have expressed their interest in participating in a costsharing agreement to save the light. we seek the senates support for this cooperative effort to preserve an historic rhode island landmark. according to recent engineering studies. the total cost of moving the light is approximately $1.940.000. this amendment would appropriate $970.000 to the u.s. army corps of engineers in fiscal year 1991 to contract and oversee the lighthouse move. why should the army corps of engineers be involved in this project. quite simply. as the nations engineer. the corps possesses the necessary technical and engineering expertise to undertake the relocation. the southeast lighthouse is the only light in the nation facing immediate destruction. in fact. just 2 weeks ago it was placed on the national trust for historic preservations list of "americas eleven most endangered historic places." it is because of the urgent nature of the situation that we offer this amendment. the southeast lighthouse if  just a local landmark but a federal monument and a symbol of our nations coastal history. i urge my colleagues to adopt this amendment.
i would like to direct some questions to the floor managers of the bill. this really deals with the cohen amendment. that is the second amendment that we will be voting on. it seems to me the air force record. as far as producing the bombers without flaws. is  a very good one. we are all familiar with what took place with the fb111. and  the bwill my colleague please give the arguments why we should  support the cohen amendment. which will be the oncoming amendment here. sure. it might add a cost to it. but the cost will be added anyway if this plan has major flaws like we saw in those other two bombers that. i mentioned previously.
. i wish today to voice my support for a $13.7 million appropriation for the naval underwater systems center (nusci in newport. ri. in the fiscal year 1991 military construction appropriations bill. i would especially like to thank the distinguished subcommittee chairman from tennessee. jim sasser for his assistance in putting together a managers amendment to include this and other authorized programs in the bill. nusc is the navys main center for research. development. testing. and evaluation of submarine weapon and warfare systems and surface sonar systems. it plays a critical role in maintaining the techogical superiority that americas submarine fleet has over any and all potential adversaries. the program in question would fund the construction of a 100.000squarefoot building needed to provide for the testing and development of advanced underwater vehicle propulsion/acoustic systems and related components. it will be used to develop unique submarine launched torpedoes. targets. and special purpose vehicles in support of the navys tactical undersea vehicles program. the building will maintain a flexible design to allow for incorporation of future systems development requirements. it would also have a highsecurity area for the development and testing of specific special projects in support of submarine launched weapons and special purposes systems. this new building will have the capability to handle vehicles ranging in size from a few. inches to 36 inches in diameter. this capability is needed to enhance our ability to develop new quiet submarine techogies necessary for retrofitting the 688class submarine and to build the next generation seawolf submarines. these submarines will have substantially reduced acoustic signatures and the ability to effectively operate undetected at higher speeds. the importance of this effort can be overstated at the soviet militarys ability to detect. track. and potentially destroy our present generation of submarines grows. funding for this nusc program was provided for in the housepassed version of this bill and was authorized in the recently passed senate defense authorization bill. i once again thank the senator from tennessee and to urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
i would hope the ob- alaska. as long as he assures me that jective here is  to select a second. in way the secretary of the navy is source. the objective is to get the sub- attenuated by the suggested languge. i marine at the lowest possible price. am perfectly satisfied. i thank the the design is  in contention. chair.
. the 1970s and early 1980s saw a departure from the previous practice of approving omnibus bills and predictable appropriations to fund the construction of water projects. in 1986. however. we broke the logjam. after years of legislativeexecutive policy confrontations over the role of the federal government in water policy. the 99th congress approved the water resources development act of 1986. the 1986 act was truly landmark legislation in the area of water policy and formed the basis of the water resources development act of 1988 and the report we are debating today. most importantly. the 1986 act contains a number of provisions for increased local costsharing for beneficiaries of army corps projects. i support those provisions wholeheartedly. the intent of costsharing. i might add. is  to prevent the construction of a particular project but rather to recognize our limited federal resources and the financial responsibility of local project sponsors. i would like to thank our chairman. senator burdick and the chairman and ranking member of the subcommimttee on water resources. transportation. and infrastructure. senators moynihan and symms. for their work on this legislation. the subcommittee held 2 days of hearings on the bill and heard testimony from the army corps of engineers. port and waterway users. flood control agencies. and local water project sponsors. the testimony was informative and underscored the need to keep the 2year authorization schedule on track. the report before us is balanced product. authorizing needed water resources projects from across the country. i urge my colleagues to support the conference report.
madam president. this aftern briefly i would like to discuss an important issue i believe we should be mindful of as we focus much of our attention on the news from the war front in the persian gulf. this issue is what preparation and planning should we undertake to ensure that we win the peace with iraq.  just the war. it is important to e that even while our armies were fighting the axis powers in world war ii. nearly 50 years ago. political leaders in the united states during that war. our political leaders in the united states. great britain. and the soviet union went to considerable lengths to discuss their objectives for a  postwar world order. historians can certainly quarrel over the conferences that took place. during the war. at tehran. at yalta. and at potsdam. but there is disagreement that at those meetings the postwar structure of europe was designed. at bretton woods. in new hampshire. during the war our political leadership discussed the nature of the postwar international ecoic institutions for the free world. in the gulf war. although the primary objectives of the allied powers are clearly the withdrawal of iraqi forces from kuwait. a secondary object. it seems to me. should be that there be regional stability after the conflict ends. at least at the outset it appears that the allied powers would have been satisfied with saddam hussein remaining in power so long as he withdraw from kuwait. with the new development of potential war crimes being perpetrated against allied prisoners of war. the survival of the saddam regime may longer be tolerable. for example. under article 19 of the third geneva convention. to which both the united states and iraq are signatories. it starts therein. "prisoners of war shall be evacuated. as soon as possible after. their capture. to camps situated in an area far egh from the combat zone for them to be out of danger." saddams anncement last week that captured allied pilots had been sent to potential target sites and in fact may have been killed by allied bombing raids could be a clear violation of the geneva convention referred to. moreover. it is also possible that the launching of scud missiles against civilian targets and the release of millions of barrels of oil into the persian gulf may constitute a war crime. as we examine the prospects of a postwar iraq. it appears that the united states should be focusing on one primary goal. the establishment of stability and tranquility in the region. indeed. this is what the president referred to last night in his state of the union message. the first part of this equation relates to the structure and the power of the iraqi government. regardless of who controls the eventual postwar government of iraq. the key will be whether iraq has been totally debilitated. in order for there to be regional stability. iraq must remain a counterweight to iran. which has also shown a penchant for war and in fact an appetite for interfering in the internal affairs of its neighbors. this critical objective presents the allied powers with a tremendously difficult balancing act. on the one hand. the allied forces must inflict sufficient damage on the iraqi military structure to force a withdrawal from kuwait. that is our first goal: get him out of kuwait. on the other hand. there is a need to preserve iraq as a viable nation after the conflict ends so it can defend itself against its neighboring nations a power vacuum in the area which would draw. quite possibly. iran. syria. and the kurdish people and even potentially turkey into competition for domination of iraq. it does  seem to me. would help anyone. the second part of the postwar equation is finding a way to break the impasse between israel. the palestinians. and israels arab neighbors over the territories israel occupied after the 1967 war. first. it should be stated that this dispute is in way related to the war with iraq. and the president is absolutely correct in resisting iraqi attempts at linkage. the peace which follows the current war will provide an opportunity for israel to reach out to the palestinians. while it is true that most palestinians have embraced saddam and his unprovoked attacks on israel. peace could strengthen the hand of palestinian moderates who seek a political accord with israel. this is  guaranteed. of course. but the possibility is there. the military and political cooperation between the united states and syria against iraq could set the stage for compromise on the arabisraeli issues. it is unique and perhaps unforeseen that the united states and syria are cooperating in this effort against iraq. as the principal frontline state still at war with israel. syrias entry into the mainstream of world politics if. indeed. we can call this participation. in the allied forces in saudi arabia against iraq. hopefullyagain. i have to stress the word "hopefully"-could in the future further the peace process. the decision to station american soldiers with the patriot missile system has engendered a tremendous outpouring of favorable sentiment by the israeli people. i think we all recognize that and appreciate it. there also has been renewed good will between the united states and israel in the aftermath of the israeli decision  to retaliate against iraq for the scud attacks. these factors present the united states with the opportunity to play a critical role for cooperation on arabisraeli issues. most ably. being confident in the united states as a friend of israel allows that country. israel. to be bolder and to consider making serious concessions to the arabs in the efforts for peace. while our servicemen and servicewomen ensure that we achieve victory on the battlefield. it is my sincere wish that our political leaders continue to work to prevail in the aftermath. to prevail after this war is over. from the ashes of destruction. we must hope that a more peaceful and stable world will emerge. and particularly a more peaceful and stable section of the world in the persian gulf area. i thank the chair.
 to confer with our persian gulf coalition partners for the purpose of convening an international tribunal to try iraqi officials for war crimes. i voted for this resolution. but do  believe the united states should take a leadership role in actively pursuing war crimes trials. it is difficult adequately to express my sense of outrage and indignation at the actions of saddam hussein and other officials of iraq. the extreme abuse of the civilian population of kuwait. the widespread destruction of oil and other military facilities. the mistreatment of prisoners of war. the holding of inent civilians as human shields. the launching of scud missiles against civilian targets in israel and saudi arabia. and the catastrophic dumping of millions of barrels of crude oil into the persian gulf are all flagrant violations of the international ms of warfare. the real question. though. is whether the united states should be the lead nation pressing for a war crimes tribunal. in my judgment. whether to take such action should be up to the most aggrieved nationskuwait and saudi arabia. further. if saddam hussein and others are to be tried. then they should be tried by people from the same region and culture. if the united states were to participate actively in such a trial. i fear that the entire affair could be portrayed. in the eyes of some. as unnecessary. western interference in the affairs of middle eastern states. in the end. the leaders of kuwait and saudi arabia should decide whether to go forward with war crimes trials. i hope that if they chose to establish a tribunal to pursue such trials. it would be limited in scope and carefully executed. recent history has taught us that the victors in a conflict must weigh the need for revenge with the desire for future stability in the region and the world.
s proposal and sought to significantly weaken its provisions with amendments here on the floor of the senate. the mitchell amendment which was adopted by the senate contained a careful compromise on many issues in both the permit and enforcement titles. in addition to the senate debate. these issues were carefully considered again in the conference with the house. the principal issue of contention there was operational flexibility. how to authorize changes at a facility without undue complications as a result of the permit requirements. the final legislative language adopted by the congress reflects a very explicit. delicate and detailed compromise on this issue. it is stated in section 502(b)(10) of the clean air act. that section authorizes changes in operations at a facdlity without need for a formal. permit amendment provided that the changes do  constitute modifications under other parts of the law and provided that emissions will  increase. a modification at a facility may trigger new control requirements under other parts of the law. so a permit would need to be amended. the fundamental purpose of a permit is to state emissions limits. if emissions increase. new limits need to be set and the public must be involved in that determination. the law requires formal permit amendments for modifications and emissions increases. but flexibility is also allowed. a permit can anticipate changes at a plant. a permit can be written so that it covers many different operational configurations and includes emissions. limits for each. and a facility can move the point of emissions within the plant. perhaps increasing emissions in one part of the operation and decreasing them at aher. all of that is allowed by the law without a formal permit modification. despite the very clear statement of policy and legal requirements that the congress made on the subject of operational flexibility. the rules proposed yesterday are ambiguous in this area. industry wasnt happy with the compromise they got here in the congress. so they have been pushing in the regulatory process to overturn the policy and requirements that were enacted. several drafts of this proposed rule have been circulated. one draft would have allowed emissions increased of up to 40 tons without any requirement to formally amend a permit. that was in clear violation of the law. i joined with several other members of this body. including the majority leader. senator mitchell. the distinguished chairman of the environment and public works committee. senator buanicx. and the chairman of the environmental protection subcommittee. senator baucus. in a letter dated march 7. 1991. to protest that proposal. the draft rule released yesterday longer contains an explicit federal policy on emissions increases. rather it delegates the issue to the states inviting them to consider operational flexibility in their permit programs and offering the possibility that state programs allowing emissions increases without formal amendment of the permit will be approved. reviewing the preamble and the language of the actual rule. i find that the scope for state discretion unclear. according to the draft preamble. epa finds authority for states to allow emissions increases in section 502(b)(6) of the statute. that provision requires states to adopt expedited precedures for issuing permits. but says hing at all about operational flexibility within the permit. but it does  authorize emissions increases. as we said in our march 7 letter. it is impossible to maintain that congress authorized implicitly through 502(b)(6) that which it explicitly prohibited in section 502(b)(10). the section of the law addressing operational flexibility. the draft rule released yesterday still disappoints this senator on the subject of operational flexibility. the law is clear. it required a great deal of work to resolve this issue in the legislative process. it is a disservice to that effortto the many long hours that were spent here in this body debating and deciding this issueto have that policy overturned by the regulations. but this is only a proposed rule. we will continue to press this point in the hope that the final rule will be in concert with the law on the question of operational flexibility. i k that other senators have an interest in this issue and i invite them to work with us to assure that the regulations implementing the new clean air act faithfully carry out the policies and requirements we enacted.e school
i would like to thank the chairman and ranking member for accepting the amendment sponsored by senator pell and myself regarding an environmental remediation project in cranston. ri. the amendment appropriates $500.000 to initiate a project report as authorized by section 117 of the water resources development act of 1990. this report will encompass the second phase of an ongoing review by the new england division of the army corps of engineers.
could i finish. and then i will be glad to. without that support. the liberation of kuwait might  have taken place. in the future. such support might  be forthcoming. if we were to cut everything off. i think that we have to remember that some have recommended here we ought to send china into a corner as a pariah. draw up the bridges and say. "retreat into your isolationism as you have in the past. and as you are perfectly prepared to do." i do  k what that is going to gain us. i would like to point out one condition in the mitchell bill that is particularly troubling. this is the subject of ballistic missile sales to the middle east. the bill calls for an immediate termination of mfn within 15 days of enactment of this bill. unless the president certifies to congress that china has  transferred certain missile techogy to syria. iran. and pakistan. in other words. the president has to certify a negative. a task that is completely different from the certifications we mally ask of our president. that particular requirement saddles the intelligence community with the untenable job of having to prove a negative. a difficult proposition. indeed. while proving that a transfer had taken place might be accomplished. how in the world is our intelligence community going to say that a transfer has  taken place. in other words. with sufficient data we can certify that a transfer had taken place. even with all of our abilities to gather intelligence on the activities of other countries. i do  believe we are going to be able to certify that a transfer has  taken place.  and unconditionally extend mfn to china for aher year. i thank the chair. several senators addressed the chair.
 gorbachev himself has stated: "if s.11699 wethe soviet unionstart to split up. theni tell you bluntlywe will end up with such a civil war. such a bloody carnage. that we will  extricate ourselves from it all together. everyone must understand this and be on the alert." therefore. maintaining the strategic triad is a worthwhile endeavor. advances in soviet air defenses have rendered the b52 forcewhich has been in service for close to 30 yearsand the blb forcewhich has never lived up to its potentialobsolete as penetrating bombers. i believe the stealth techogy of the b2 is needed to preserve the strategic triad. it is my firm belief that the b2. as a penetrating bomber. is a stabilizing weapon. because it flies relatively slowly. it can be recalled after it has been sent. the intervening hours between launch and arrival at its target provide decisionmakers with the opportunity to resolve a dispute peacefully. as such. bombers are  considered to be firststrike weaponsweapons which are the most destabilizing and can be used for a preemptive attack. this characteristic is one reason why our strategic arms reductions talks [start] negotiators placed such a strong emphasis on bombers over the more destabilizing landbased and submarinelaunched intercontinental ballistic missiles. in fact. it was the expectation that the b2 would be built that led the joint chiefs of staff to conclude that a start treaty was in americas best interest. my desire to maintain strategic deterrence by building the b2 also leads me to oppose efforts to deploy any antiballisticmissileor abmdefense system that could jeopardize the abm treaty with the soviet union. i opposed the senate armed services committee provisions on the strategic defense initiativeor sdi. the committees recommendations on sdi would lead. i believe inalterably. to the deployment of multiple landbased interceptor sites. it also clearly envisions the deployment of spacebased systems. both of these developments would require the abrogation of the abm treaty. this treaty has been one of the most stabilizing influences in united statessoviet relations in the past 20 years. it has prevented a costly and wasteful arms race in space. more importantly. it has kept in place the incentive to work together and to increase the level of trust between our two countries. building defenses implies that we need  be concerned about negotiations or discussions with the soviets on reducing tensions. it also pushes the soviet union to build defenses of its own. thus totally undermining the deterrence of both sides. even if sdi could eventually be developed as an effective defense against ballistic missileswhich i believe is in doubtit would still be destabilizing. sdi could potentially convince the soviets to abandon u.s.-u.s.s.r. our strategic weapons limitation treaties and build additional weapons in order to overwhelm a defensive system. strategic deterrence against the soviet union is just one reason for building the b2. the emerging. and perhaps even more important reason for such a decision. is the need to have the capacity to undertake convention. al attacks on targets in future regional conflicts. just about 1 year ago to the day. saddam hlusein launched his brutal invasion of kuwait. this action caught the entire world by surprise. that the united states and its coalition partners had to go to war with iraq to expel its army from kuwait was even more unexpected. why would the b2 be preferable as a conventional weapon delivery system to the various forces we have available today. to embark on the same mission as two b2s. a force of 715 bombdroppers. fighter escorts. electronic comitermeasure planes. and tankers would be needed. using conventional dumb bombs. for an attack with precision bombs. a fleet of 55 aircraft would be needed. the aircrew at risk under these various scenarios would be 4. 132. and 116. respectively. perhaps even more important are the differences in the numbers of forwardbased personnel that would be needed to support the mission. assuming that permission to use facilities in forward areas could be obtained. the dumbbomb mission would need 1.331 forwardbased crew. the precision bombing mission would need 1.124. while the b2 would  need any forwardbased crew because of its long range. the b2 could be permanently based in the united states or existing american bases around the world. besides the significant difference in fuel costs. the stealth options would also have a much higher lifetime maintenance cost: $4.2 billion for dumb bombs air package. $3.4 billion for precision bombs air package. and $308 million for the b2s. the performance of the fl 1a stealth fighter in the war with iraq proved the utility of a stealth conventional attack plane. the f117a made up only 21/ percent of the coalitions aircraft in the conflict but was assigned to 31 percent of the targets. some have also argued that with this success. the f117a could fill the role of the b2. the f117a however can be used only in clear weather. can only carry two 2.000 pound bombs. and has limited combat radius of about 600 miles. the b2 will have an all weather capability. be able to carry up to 16 smart bombs. and has an unrefueled range of 6.000 miles. as in the case of the other bombing missions. the fl17a would need forward bases near the battlefield. aher reason for my decision to support continued production of the b2 is the desire to protect the tremendous investment that we have already made in this new techogy. nearly $20 billion has been spent to date on research and development. the factories have been built and the tooling purchased. it would be unfortunate if we were to turn back at this point and lose our sizable investment. opponents of the b2 have argued that each 32 would cost close to $1 billion. this is deceptive because it divides the research and development costs into the number of planes that are built. the actual cost to build the remaining 60 b2s that are needed is $351 million each. although this is still an emous amount of money. i believe that the importance of nuclear deterrence and improved conventional capabilities justifies the cost.
. i am strongly opposed to the amendment proposed by my colleague from arizona. mr. mccain. which would discontinue the seawolf attack submarine program. the amendment would further shift the funds from the seawolf to the construction of an additional los angeles class 688 submarine. payment of termination costs for the seawolf. research. development. test. and evaluation for an advanced followon submarine called the centurionand improvement of sealift capability. the seawof is a stateoftheart submarine that is intended conduct multiple missions. while remaining undetected itself. its most important mission is to counter the growing soviet fleet of ballistic missile and attack submarines. according to the department of defense. the soviet union. as of 1990. had 63 ballistic missile submarines. 61 attack submarines. and 31 other submarines. in addition. each year. the soviets produce an additional nine attack submarines of the akula. oscar. and sierra classes. these submarines are increasingly quiet and equipped with modern conventional and nuclear weapons. the mission of the seawolu. more specifically. will be to destroy the soviet attack subs before they can. in turn. attack american targets. this is such a vital mission because the soviet submarines are one of the most survivable elements of their intercontinental ballistic missile arsenal. in addition. the seawolf could penetrate deep into enemy territory and launch tomahawk cruise missiles against land targets. the last mission of the seawolf is to attack the rather sizable soviet surface fleet. as soviet techogy improves. increasingly. the seawolf is an extremely important weapon to hold soviet targets at risk. what about building aher los angeles class 688 submarine. first. this makes little sense because this submarine is based on 30yearold techogies. it will also be more expensive than it appears to restart the 688 program because many suppliers on the program have already been shut down. most importantly. though. there are a number of missions that the 688 simply can perform that the seawolf can. placing a greater emphasis on sealift capacity also has some appeal. certainly one lesson of desert storm was that we need to improve our ability to move large amounts of material in a short period of time. the sealift command. however. already has nearly $1.3 billion of funds appropriated in previous years which it has  spent yet. when added together the $1.4 billion the senate armed services committee recommends for fiscal year 1992. the sealift program will have at its disposal nearly $2.7 billion to spend. this is much more than could reasonably be spent when the navy has  even forwarded a plan for enhancing our sealift capabilities as of this date. as far as funding for the new centurion submarine is concerned. the bill already provides $75 million for study of new submarine techogies. the bill calls for a report which will be due 1 month after the submission of the fiscal year 1993 budget. the report will focus on the major issues which affect the design of the ship. and identify a tentative schedule for research and development and procurement. there are logical limits to how fast the navy can move on a program which is in its earliest stages of development. proponents of abandoning the seawolf could argue that it is simply  needed because of the diminishing soviet threat. on this matter. i call my colleagues attention to todays washington post. in an article by david remnick. a soviet ecoist is quoted as saying "the ruble is disappearing as a viable currency ... in stores and markets. ordinary goods regularly double and triple in price. this is the sort of financial situation that causes military overthrows in south america." the article goes on to conclude "there is reason to think that the hardline coalition of orthodox communists. generals and kbg officers has disappeared from the scene after its ascendancy late last year." under such circumstances. we can abandon the most capable and advanced new techogy in submarine warfare available to the united states. enhancing american antisubmarine warfare capabilities should continue to be a top priority for the foreseeable future. the missions that only the seawouf will be able to perform make it an indispensable part of the united states navys plans to remain an effective hedge against soviet or third world aggression. in addition. i feel strongly that the shifts in funding proposed by this amendment can be wisely spent in the time period suggested. for those reasons. i urge my colleagues to vote against the mccain amendment.
. during the course of the day. an amendment was adopted by the managers. presented by senator metzenbaum. which dealt with the troop levels of nato by the year 1995. i just say. that is the senseofthesenate resolution. but that does  represent the sense of this senators thoughts on micromanaging what the troop levels in europe will be 4 or 5 years from . i think it is unfortunate that the amendment was presented. i can understand the managers having adopted it. i presume they wanted to get on with business. while it may represent many of the senators thoughts in this chamber. it certainly does  represent this senators thoughts. i think it is micromanaging of the worst type. we have had all kinds of effortsfortunately rejected on the floor of this chamberto limit troop levels in europe. and they have all been misguided. in my judgment. i think this one likely is misguided.
i thank the distinguished floor manager. i thank the distinguished senator from maine for the comments he made. and particularly for the point he stressed. how many of us could stand scrutiny of our records for the past 20 years. i have been in the senate  for 16 years. and most of the other senators i see have been here 10 years or more. how many of us could stand up to scrutiny on what happened in the s&l crisis and what did we do about it. or the national deficits or a whole series of other programs. suppose we were held liable for every one of those. so i think the points the senator from maine made were excellent. as always. he is very perceptive and contributes continually in this body to a whole series of efforts we are making.  bush inated robert gates in june. but. as we all k. shortly after the ination was received by the senate. former cia official alan fiers unexpectedly pled guilty to withholding information about the irancontra affair from congress. immediately. many leapt to the conclusion that if mr. piers had lied to congress. then his superior mr. gates probably had as well. matters were further complicated a few weeks later when some network tv shows began to carry segments featuring convicted felons. in some cases interviewed from their jail cells. who had wild tales to tell regarding their alleged involvement with mr. gates in undertaking illegal covert activities. some of these tales were more elaborate and intriguing than a robert ludlum spy el. then. just when i thought i had seen everything. the bcci scandal hit the airwaves and print media with the force of a hurricane arriving at high tide with a full moon. finally. and also unexpectedly. a former cia official approached the committee and alleged that mr. gates had been guilty of slanting intelligence estimates to ingratiate himself with bill casey and senior officials of the reagan administration. what had been expected to be a fairly routine ination had become a sensationalized and highly contentious one. there has never been any serious doubt about mr. gates aptitude or expertise. he has served this country with distinction for over 20 years in a variety of sensitive assignments. he was an air force officer. a cia analyst and manager. and served in the national security council under both republican and democratic administrations. he was promoted and rose quickly through the ranks because of his performance and effectiveness in the eyes of men such as zbigniew brzezinski. stansfield turner. and adm. bobby inman. by all accounts. mr. gates functioned very effectively as deputy national security adviser during the gulf war with iraq and during operation just cause in panama. so the key questions regarding mr. gates are  about his competence but his integrity. has he been truthful about his role in the irancontra affair. did he politicize estimates in order to ingratiate himself with his superiors. did he smother evidence about illegal bcci activities in order to protect cia operations. i am satisfied that mr. gates has been forthcoming regarding the irancontra affair. the irancontra committees of the house and senate interviewed over 500 witnesses and reviewed 300.000 documents pertaining to this matter. as senators boami. nunn. and rudman. who served on that committee k. this extensive and unprecedented investigation did  produce any evidence of jmpropriety on the part of mr. gates. since that time. the independent prosecutor. judge walsh. has spent over 4 years and $25 million probing the irancontra affair. and he has publicly ackledged that mr. gates is  a target of his investigation. the record has long shown that mr. gates was  involved in the diversion of funds to the contras and that he raised the issue with his superiors when he was informed by charles allen that such activities might be occurring. our own independent investigation. which has included the testimony of individuals such as alan fiers and charles allen. confirms these facts. the other allegations against bob gates have also been thoroughly investigated and found to be lacking. the documents obtained by staff demonstrate that the cia appropriately disseminated the information it had regarding bcci to the treasury department and other federal agencies. the allegations of politicization. however. have been more difficult to contend with. as one senior intelligence official said to the committee: its right out of franz kafka. because once you are accused. the inspector general will never come back and say you are absolved. they will say: "we found evidence to substantiate it." it is in fact impossible for mr. gates. or anyone else. to prove the negative. i would therefore suggest that instead of asking the impossible we examine the facts. of the roughly 2.500 intelligence estiniates produced during bob gates tenure. only a handful are in dispute. in those instances. after extensive hearings. interviews. and a review of well over 1.000 documents. the allegations remain unsubstantiated. analyst has come forward and said. "bob gates asked me to take a dive." at the same time. it has been indisputably demonstrated that bob gates disseminated numerous reports contradicting the policies of the reagan administration on such contentious issues as chemical weapons. leba. the soviet pipeline. and soviet defense spending. it is  surprising that bob gates stands accused of politicizing intelligence estimates. such allegations have also been made against william colby. bill casey. judge webster. and many other senior intelligence officials. in every large federal bureaucracy. there are factions and disputes. winners and losers. in this instance. the strongest allegations against mr. gates come from an individual who is himself accused of politicization and who has testified that he believes he was demoted by mr. gates. but those allegations. for example that bob gates pressured analysts to produce a report implicating the soviet union in the attempted assassination of the pope. are simply  supported by either the documentary evidence or the testimony of the analysts who have submitted affidavits to the committee. in fact. as john mcmahon has pointed out. it is difficult to understafnd how bob gates could have manipulated cia analysts even if he had wanted to. the directorate of intelligence is simply  a bureaucracy composed of 2.000 spineless wimps. after listening to the witnesses on both sides of this issue. i have concluded that there is nevertheless a genuine perception of politicization on the part of some analysts. these perceptions appear to have preceded mr. gates and have continued since he left. i think the perception of politicization is attributable to a number of factors: first. a sometimes suffocating bureaucracy that has  permitted adequate communication between senior management and analysts. second. the desire by some midlevel managers and some analysts to achieve promotion by responding to the perceived views of their superiors. this is a problem that was clearly identified in the internal cia review of the  celebrated assessment. on the attempted assassination of the pope. i think it is perhaps worth briefly quoting from this document. kn as the cowey report: so. despite the ddis best effortsand mr. gates was the ddi at the timethere was a perception of upperlevel direction.* * * in the event. however. our interviews suggested that it was  so much dci or ddi direction as it was an effort on the part of some managers at the next one or two layers down to be responsive to perceived dci and ddi desires. in short. people wanted to please their boss. this is a natural instinct and a problem inherent to the analytic process. third. and finally. bob gates was prone to toughening estimates on the soviet union. because of the reagan administrations hardline views on the u.s.s.r.. this on some occasions led to the perception of politicization. but the fact is. mr. gates himself was a hardliner on the soviet union with a ph.d. in soviet studies to back it up. consequently. when he changed an estimate to be more critical of soviet behavior. it only reflected his own sincere views. but because the reagan administration shared similar views. he was subject to the allegation of politicization. in sum. i do  believe that the allegations that mr. gates politicized intelligence are valid. at the same time. i have concluded that there are some organizational problems in the directorate of intelligence that warrant further attention and i welcome mr. gates eight suggestions for improving intelligence analysis. as we all k. it is difficult if  impossible to accomplish anything in washington without antagonizing someone. there is an old russian adage that expresses the problem well "when you chop wood. chips fly." i do  think there is any doubt that mr. gates has sent some chips flying over the years. he has  been afraid to make tough decisions or undertake new initiatives. he has done a tremendous amount of good work in behalf of this country. and he has done so under very difficult circumstances. if we want individuals with extensive experience in the cia. who are willing to take risks. who have taken controversial positions and stood their ground. we are inevitably going to find disaffected bureaucrats among their former colleagues. i believe that this is a time when it is essential to have a dci who does  need onthejob training. we need a dci who can manage the intelligence community during a period of profound change. minimizing the impact of budget reductions. while ensuring appropriate oversight by this committee. if our only concern were to avoid controversy in the ination process. then i would say do  vote for this ination. but i believe that this is an extremely able. experienced. honest. and patriotic individual who will be an effective director of central intelligence. i hope that he will soon be confirmed so that we can concentrate on the reorganization of the intelligence community. to whatever degree is required. in response to the dramatic changes underway in the world around us.
. i rise today to pay tribute to  of the flag day committee and the memorial sunday committee. and a member of the veterans committee. raymond benways life has been marked by service to country and community. wherever he has been. whether in defense of his homeland on the worlds seas. or helping those in need in his own city. raymond benway has provided a fine example for others. i applaud the newport lodge of elks for selecting mr. benway as veteran of the year. and i ask my colleagues in the u.s. senate to join me in extending to him our heartiest congratulations and best wishes for the future.e
. is this anything to be worried about. well. we have seen it happen. let me just review a little history. if i might. the united states ended world war ii in the summer of 1945. with the most powerful military machine the world has ever seen. that force was dismantled with consideration for the future. one could stem the rush back to civilian life of 11 million men in uniform. that force was just reduced to a shadow of its former self over a period of some 9 months. the army was so weakened. that 5 years after being the most powerful army the world has ever seen. that army was driven by a third world country. the entire length of the korean peninsula to a tiny perimeter where they hung on by their fingernails in an area called pusan. as in those postworld war ii years. voices  raise the song that there are present or future threats to the world. that the former soviet union is fractured into a series of chaotic enemies. chiefly marked by poverty.
. first of all. before the distinguished senator from hawaii leaves. i would like to commend him on his statement. i heard his entire statement and that is the reason i stayed. because i wanted to hear what he had to say. it seems to me he laid out the arguments as well as anybody possibly could. what particularly appealed to me was the accent that he made on what we call the industrial base. which is a term that is kicked around a lot around this place. but it seems to me what the senator from hawaii was saying is that these are very unique skills that are  readily transferable to something else. as i understand it. and certainly i firmly believe it. if we do  continue to build these seawolfs at a very modest ratei think the original goal was..something like 14 and  it is down to 3so there is question but that there is a peace dividend there. i thought the point the senator made was that he pays tribute  just to the u.s. navy and the safety record that has been achieved. but he also pointed out the suppliers. the record that they have achieved in supplying the u.s. navy with these goods that meet very high tolerances. and thus we have had this remarkable record. i could  repeat how many million miles of steaming hours the senator said they have had and how many. i believe the senator said ship years.
. i rise today to pay tribute to john vincent. of east providence. ri. on june 13. mr. vincent will be hoed by his fellow members of the veterans of foreign wars [vfw] primmercordeiro post 5385 in east providence. john vincent has a long and distinguished record of service to his state and county. during world war ii. he served with the u.s. army in europe. in 1946. he became a charter member of the primmercordeiro post. and has been extremely active in it ever since. presently. he is the posts only active charter member. john vincents special motivation and strength of character have elevated him to numerous leadership positions within the vfw. as well as other organizations. he is a past vfw rhode island state commander and a past grand commander of the cooties. the vfw organization dedicated to hospital volunteer work. in addition. mr. vincent has held numerous other offices at the state and district levels and also with the primmercordeiro post. the vfw is an outstanding organization. made even more so by the fine work of individuals such as john vincent. his dedication to service has enriched the lives of his fellow members and made his community. state. and nation better places in which to live. i applaud the primmercordeiro post for recognizing john vincents achievements. and i ask my colleagues in the senate to join me in saluting john and his wife veronica and extending to them our very best wishes for the future.e
. during the cold war in the absence of a comprehensive test ban treaty. some tests were necessary to maintain nuclear deterrence and keep the peace. today. however. this expensive and environmentally risky activity is  only unnecessary but counterproductive. as the director of central intelligence has indicated. the nuclear peril we face today stems from weapons proliferation.  weapons modernization. successful negotiation of a comprehensive test ban treaty would be an important step that would strengthen united statesrussian cooperation on nuclear proliferation and other security issues. a test ban treaty. or a moratorium and serious negotiations. would also strengthen existing barriers to proliferation and increase the prospects for measures to guard against the spread of nuclear weapons. because congress does  have the authority to mandate negotiations. i am supporting this legislation as useful alternative. my cosponsorship of s. 2064 underscores my views regarding the need to pursue vigorously a comprehensive test ban.e
. i will say a couple of words. if i might. of a personal nature. my perspective on this was shaped during the time that i was secretary of the navy. which was during the vietnam war. at that time. i learned firsthand of the anguish of the families of american servicemen taken prisoner or missing in action. as we all k. during that period. we had americans who were prisoners of war. and one of the opportunities that i had during that post as secretary was to work with those parents. wives. and loved ones of our american- servicemen who were prisoners of war in vietnam. a long time has passed since the end of that war. and  the hopes of those families have been raised again. we owe it to those families to take every possible step to uncover the fate of their fathers. brothers. loved ones. husbands. to the extent that we possibly can. i certainly agree. as does. i think. the majority of this senate. that it is very. very important to help the republicans of the former soviet union. i am going to support that measure. it is in our best interest as a nation to do so. we appear to be starting a new and productive relationship with those republics of the former soviet union. this amendment will be an added incentive for that relationship to prosper. so i hope that the amendment will be accepted.
. the senate is about to vote on an amendment dealing with the controversial sale of the ltv corp.s missile division to the french military company thomsoncsf. this sale has been the subject of intense debate since the agreement between ltv and thomson was signed in april of this year. regardless of whether or  this particular sale is a good idea. i believe that the process of review  underway by the committee on foreign investment in the united states should be allowed to proceed. just as congress envisioned when it established this committee process in 1988. the members of the cfius panel. each of whom i suspect has at his or her disposal far more information than ihidividual senators have. are expected to arrive at a conclusion in july. i prefoer to wait until that review process is complete before jumping into this matter and thus i will  support this amendment.
. i want to thank the managers of.the bill and on the part of the authorizing committee. and i can speak for the chairman on this. i k. one. we will move promptly with consideration of the request. two. we will give opportunities and ice to the best of our ability to senators to appear when we are considering this prospectus that deals with the particular building that will be of concern to those senators. in other words. i think it is perfectly fair and correct that senators should have an opportunity to argue for the buildings that they would like. i can only assume those buildings would be within the borders of their states. those are two things. the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee asked that we then proceed with an authorizing bill that would come to the floor. i can make that commitment on behalf of the committee. i am  authorized. the chairman and i have  discussed that. i k the problems would come  so much with the senate but with our relationships with the house because it is my understanding that in some past yearsindeed. this is the way it was donea lot of problems arose with the house of representatives in connection with that. so i think there is virtue in sticking with the system we have. but certainly more ice has to go out to the affected senators. i can guarantee that will take place. so. in summary. we make that commitment. second. the ranking member and the chairman of the subcommittee will proceed only with authorized buildings or. if they do  want to. then at least they will let us k and we will have a chance to speak with them. why we did.  authorize it. what our rationale was. and a chance to argue back and forth. finally. in these three particular buildings. the commitment is that we talk with the gsa. that is our committee and the chairman and i presume the ranking member with the gsa and urge them to hold up actions on these particular buildings. army headquarters. fbi field office. and u.s. secret service. with further action unless contractual actions have been entered into. and we understand that. until the authorizing committee does authorize. we have to get to it within the first 3 months. we will move expeditiously. i certainly can guarantee that.
ial unit 01tation. korean service medal. vietnam .campaign medal. vietnam service medal. and the navy expeditionary medal. since his retirement from the navy. mr. cudworth has continued to serve others through his activity in numerous civic organizations. he is an active lifetime member of the veterans of foreign wars. post 4487. middletown. and the fleet reserve association. branch 19. newport. he served as exalted ruler of the newport elks from 198081 and past district deputy of r.i. east from 199091. he is presently the chairperson of the elks indoctrination committee and is a member of the elks national foundation. through his distinguished service to country and community. george cudworth has provided an outstanding example for others. and i applaud the newport lodge of elks for selecting him as veteran of the year. i ask my colleagues in the u.s. senate to join me in extending to him our heartiest vo ratultonsand ab t vighes ar the future.
. it is obvious that admiral demars reevaluated his recommendation last year in light of the congressional mandate to continue construction of the seawolclass submarine and  is in total agreement with the congressional direction. the supplement report is brief and states very concisely the current position of admiral demars. senator damato also challenges industry and the navy to develop capable and more affordable platforms for the future. the current alternatives being considered as part of the centurion cost and operational effect analysis [coea] will address these issues. the centurion. which will be flexible from a design perspective. can serve as a baseline for upgrades. this is consistent with secretary of defense lee aspins prototyping and rolloverplus philosophy during periods of limited production. the present limited production environment encourages the costeffective development and validation of new techogies without. the associated pressures of largescale production. development of totally new concepts such as centurion. coupled with low rates of production. ensures that design and construction capabilities are maintained. and also- limits the impact on production of any problems encountered. i am confident that the u.s. navy and industry can meet thq challenge this opportunity provides. and i join my colleague. senator damato. in welcoming input from the navy on these ideas. i look forward to working with him this year as we address the issues facing the vital nuclear submarine industrial base..
. i think it would improve the process if we eliminated the amount of time that was spent on fundraising. certainly. the public would prefer to k that we are working hard to solve the nations problems rather than to keep our campaign war chest full. so i offer this amendment on behalf of myself. as i mentioned. and senators jeffordm. cohen. mccain. and
. i am certain my colleagues would agree that the torture and mistreatment american soldiers suffered injapanese. german. or th korean pow camps was different than the conditions endured by those in vietnam. and later conflicts. how can we deny our men and women who fell prisoner as they defended their country in world war i. world war ii. and the korean war the ho of burial at arlington cemetery. they. too. were sublect to transport. like cargo. on crowded ships and boxcars. lack of medical care. grossly inadequate food. poor living conditions. forced marches in the middle of winter or in the jungle. and solitary confinement for refusal to divulge military plans and secrets. arlington national cemetery is reserved for those who served their country to an exceptional degree. i believe that these world war i. world war ii and korean war pows also served to an exceptional degree. and have earned the right as those who are already eligible under the law. i think my colleagues would agree that survivors of the "death march" to prison camps on bataan and corregidor should be granted the ho of burial at arlington cemetery. and yet under current regulations. some of these pows are denied this ho. all prisoners of war who have served hoably have earned the privilege to be buried at arlington national cemetery. and i would urge my colleagues to ho our proud. brave pows and vote for the passage of my amendment.
. this is a necessity and it makes financial sense as the navy itself has testified after going through an arduous bottomup review. so i urge my colleagues to support the senator from hawaii should he move to table or to vote against the amendment. should there be an upordown vote. i want to thank the chair.
i want to thank the senator for that statement. but i would point out that clearly the instances where he has pointed out. korea. and desert storm. the united states had the overwhelming majority of the troops and rightfully so. the americans were in charge. also. the threat or the suggestion that there is going to be some u.n. standing army set up that we had better be careful of that. it seems to me that is something that is  going to happen overnight. in responding to the question of the senator fromalaska. clearly the u.s. congress could step in with the power of the purse and deal with that situation. but what i worry about and i suppose the senators argument cuts both ways. he is saying that in the x number. i have forgotten how many. the illustration. whenever it backs u.n. peacekeeping missions. the u.s. forces always should be under american command. well. if that is true. why do we bother having the amendment. that argument it seems to me cuts both ways. what worries me is that there are situations that are going to occur. just as ody had ever heard. or rarely heard about the problems in desert storm that emerged. and few people knew who saddam hussein was. and just as problems have come up in bosnia. and other sections in the world where we have never heard the names before. so they do occur in other parts. i believe we have to leave some flexibility with the president of the united states. he is  going to go off on some wild tangent of his own. he recognizes that he has to have the support of the people. but if we bind him by law. and this is very. very strict. this law. that u.s. forces can serve anywhere in the world in a u.n. forceexcept with the clear designation that they shall be completely under the control of the u.s. command. i think. we are taking an unfortunate step. i want to thank the chair.
. i e that the managers of the bill are present. and i would like to direct to them a question. i see the senator from alaska is here. if i can catch his eye. i am referring. to page 44 of the committee ieport. i will read from it because it is very important and affects a matter of deep concern to my state. i wish to see if i can understand the committees intent. it says: the fiscal year 1993 committee report directed the department of defense to conduct a study regarding consolidation of the military services command and staff. and war colleges. this study was to be presented to the committees on appropriations of the house and senate later than july 31. 1993. in other words. a couple of months ago. the study was to consider the cost savings that might be achieved through such consolidation. analyze administrative and teaching reductions that might be achieved. identify locations where consolidated colleges might be accommodated * * * . then it says: in its response to the committee. the department indicated its intention to link the question of consolidating these schools to actions concerning reform of the defense officer personnel management act [dopmai. however. the departments response fails to indicate any compelling reason why dopma reform is a prior condition to consolidation of the command and staff and war colleges. my question is this: as i understand what the committee says in this report. the study regarding the wisdom of making this consolidation has  yet been received by the appropriations committee. am i correct in that.
. first i want to thank the distinguished manager of the bill who has been a loyal supporter of the navy and of many facets of the navy which we are deeply concerned with. namely. the seawoif submarine. so when i talk with the senior senator from hawaii. the manager of the bill. i am talking with somebody whom i k supports naval activities. and particularly those that have taken place in our state. but my concern is this: that already consolidated in newport at the naval war college are both the command and staff activities. which is generally considered a junior level. and the senior level. plus the foreign officers studies likewise. so there has been a vertical integration. if you would call it that. rather than a horizontal integration which the.report seems to be directed at. in other words. as i read this report. the thrust seems to be to take all the intermediate level command and staff studies of the various services. army. navy. marine corps. air force and consolidate them into a joint command and staff college. and then on the senior level do likewise. whereas the navy has consolidated. as i say vertically. and put in one college the command and staff. the junior level. plus the senior level. so consolidation is already taking place. indeed. my research reveals that the air force likewise. at maxwell field they have both the junior level. command and staff. and the war college consolidated. the army does . the army has their command and staff at leavenworth. ks. and their war college in carlisle. pa. but here is my concern. how can the department  follow what the committee directs. because this is pretty specific language. the committee directs the department to begin consolidatibn of the services war colleges under the national defense university. so the senator has pointed out. has suggested. if they do  like it. they can come back and tell the committee why they do  want to do it.
. i think the answer is an easy one. the answer is to look at what happened after the end of world war ii. what those leaders did for us. what they provided for usand our children. i think it is time for us to step up to the plate likewise. i do hope that my colleagues will overwhelmingly approve this agreement. i thank the chair.
i would like to engage the sponsor of section 2826 of s. 2181 in a colloquy concerning certain language in that section. as the senator from nebraska is aware. section 2826 authorizes the conveyance to the hall county. ne. board of supervisors of property located in hall county. ne. the site of the cornhusker army ammunition plant. specifically. i would like to obtain his interpretation of the language in subsection (b). which states: the secretary may  carry out the conveyance authorized under subsection (a) until the secretary completes any environmental restoration required with respect to the property to be conveyed. my understanding is. that the cornhusker army ammunition plant. in hall county. ne. has been listed on the national priorities list. and thus cleanup of contamination at this site is governed by the federal superfund program. as established by the comprehensive environmental restoration. compensation and liability. act or: cercla. under section. ..20(h) of 7 s 8283 cercla. the secretary must. among other things. include in any deed transferring the cornhusker site a covenant warranting that first. all remedial action necessary to protect human health and the environment has been taken before the date of transfer. and second. any additional remedial action found to be necessary after the date of transfer shall be conducted by the united states. does the senator from nebraska agree that the phrase "completes any environmental restoration required" means compliance with cercla. including section 120(h).
. sadly. we will never recover every american who remains unaccounted for from the vietnam war. the destructive nature of war and the particular challenges of recovery work in the jungle make resolution of these cases very slow and painstaking. and in some instances.. impossible. that does  mean. however. that we should abandon our efforts to achieve the best accounting we can. the families and friends of our missing servicemen have been waiting more than 20 years for answers about what happened to their loved ones. we must continue to do everything possible to provide those answers. i want to thank the rhode island chapter of the vietnam veterans of america and in particular mr. ernie dirocco and mr. ken osborne for their hard work on this issue and their invaluable assistance in crafting this joint resolution.e by mr. murkowski (for himself.
. as many in the senate are aware. dr. rees played a major role for the army in the passage of the landmark water resources development act of 1986. i have worked with him on the passage of each water resources development act since then. dr. rees career record reflects the professionalism and dedication found at the u.s. army corps of engineers. i want to commend him for his many valued contributions to the army. the congress of the united states. and the nation. on behalf of the committee on environment and public works. i want to wish him the very best in his future endeavors.*
. i am pleased to join with senator john warner and others in cosponsoring legislation to reauthorize the civil works program at the u.s. army corps of engineers. with the exception of 1994. the congress has authorized this necessary infrastructure program on a biennial basis since 1986.
madam president. i join in the tributes to senator heflin. it has been my great privilege to have participated on a couple of. trips with him and his wife. mike. heis a wonderful traveling companion and a wonderful friend. the eloquent remarks that were made by the senator from illis in connection with judge heflin are certainly true. she mentioned his courage. he has  only courage in debate. but he has physical courage that was demonstrated by his receiving the silver star in world war h in the marine corps. so. judge. you have  packed your bags yet. you are going to be around for a year and a half. so we do  want to say farewell yet. but we just want to say what a great treat it has been to have been associated with you and with your wife on various occasions. we look forward to more of those instances arising in the future. we will certainly miss you when you leave.
. on behalf of myself and senator . moseleybraun. as well as senators simon. campbell. pell. and thompson. i am introducing the black revolutionary war patriots commemorative coin legislation. in 1986. congress approved construction of a memorial celebrating the lives of more than 5.000 africanamericans who served. fought. and died during our nations revolutionary war. ironically. many of these brave americans had never experienced the freedom and independence for which they fought. as a rhode islander. it gives me particular pleasure t6 sponsor this legislation. as few americans k. of the estimated 5.000 africanamericans who served in the continental army. the vast majority were from new england. and a great number were from my state of rhode island. in fact. in 1778. rhode island approved the first slave enlistment act and the black regiment of rhode island was formed. this was one of only two all black regiments. the other was the bucks of america of boston.  only did these men serve our nation. they served with distinction. regrettably throughout our history. their valor has been overlooked. men like jack sisson of rhode island. who expertly steered one of five boats involved in the daring capture of british maj. gen. richard prescott at newport in 1777. are barely mentioned in historical reports of the incident. jack sisson went on to join a regiment of some 200 black soldiers from my state. who. at the battle of rhode island. held their ground against several fierce attacks by britishhessian forces. thereby allowing six american brigades to retreat. with scant training. but abundant courage. the first rhode island regiment inflicted casualties of six to one on the professional troops of the redcoats. like africanamerican soldiers throughout the colonies. however. the soldiers of rhode islands first regiment faced tragedy as well as triumph. in may 1781. the unit suffered a surprise attack by the british cavalry at pines bridge. and 40 soldiers lost their lives. two years later. the regiment was disbanded unceremoniously in oswego. ny. according to the historian john harmon. the soldiers were told to find their own way home. and many died while making the trip. further. despite the promise of freedom which had been made in order to entice them to enlist. some of the soldiers were actually reenslaved after their return. valor and fortitude in battle always are worthy of celebration. but they are especially inspiring when one takes into account the hostility and oppression that africanamerican soldiers faced from the nation for which they fought. as harriet beecher stowe observed. they served a nation which did  ackledge them as citizens and equals... it was  for their own land they fought. but for a land that enslaved them. bravery under such circumstances. has particular beauty and merit. a portion of the -proceeds from sales of the coin my legislation will authorize will help to pay for construction of the memorial. the patriots foundation already has raised $4 million for this purpose. and these additional funds are crucial if the memorial is to be completed. the design for the black revqlutionary war patriots memorial has been approved. it will be a 90footlong. 7foot high. curved bronze wall located some 300 feet from the vietnam memorial in constitution gardens between the washington monument and the lincoln memorial. figures of black soldiers will be sculpted in high and low relief and a black granite arch will be inscribed with historical information. nancy johnson has introduced companion legislation in the house of representatives. and it is my hope that this proposal will receive speedy approval by both bodies.* by mr. hatfield (for himself and mr. moynihan):
i want to thank the chairman and ranking member of the military construction subcommittee. senators burns and reid. for their hard work in producing this appropriations bill for fiscal year 1996. included in the bill is $18 million for phase 2 of the strategic maritime research center at the naval war college in newport. ri. the naval war college boasts a long and proud tradition of excellence in military education and stateoktheart wargaming. unfortunately. though. the war colleges library is badly undersized. and its wargaming facility is unsuited to todays techogical demands. the strategic maritime research center will jointly house the colleges wargaming department and library in one modern facility. this facility will help continue to provide our military with the besteducated. bestprepared officers who will be able to meet the increasingly complex national security challenges our nation faces. it will also help us continue an important diplomatic mission. as the naval war college very often hosts military officers from abroad who participate in a number of wargaming and educational endeavors. again. i would like to thank senators burns and reid in bringing this bill to the floor.
. 95 percent of our export/import tonnage is carried by ship. that is an astonishing figure to me. yes. 5 percent is carried over land to canada and mexico. or by air. but 95 percent is carried by ship. during the time i spent in the navy department. i learned that submarines are a relatively inexpensive way for a potential adversary to disrupt international commerce. far too often. the press reports that the navy does  really . need the seawolf. we are told that it is a ship solely designed to confront the soviet navy on the open ocean. this allegation is simply  true. i would like to refute it. the fact of the matter is that the third seawolf has a valid military mission and will be instrumental in enabling the navy to fulfill its national security obligations around the world. . yes. the soviet union is gone. and its military forces inherited by russia are undergoing substantial downsizing. there is question about that. it is also very clear that the russian navyin particular. its submarine force--has  been scaled back in the manner other components of the russian military service have been. for example. it is estimated that by the year 2000. which is only 5 years from . russia will have about 122 submarines in its fleet. more than half of which will be advanced thirdgeneration vessels. already today. russia has several operational submarines that are quieter than the quietest united states submarine at. sea. russias latest submarine will be operational by the year 2000the one under design and is expected to rival the capabilities of our best attack submarines. to illustrate these advances. i would like to insert in the record a february 12 article from defense news documenting recent russian undersea efforts. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
i hope i have helped to dispel the myth that the submarine is a relic of the cold war and we longer need submarines. to the contrary. the seawolf is a very relevant military platform to face the threat of the postsoviet world. for these reasons. i urge my colleagues to join me in opposing the mccain amendment. i thank the chair and thank the senator from maine.
. the navy is to be congratulated for this effort. it will improve water quality in our estuaries and ocean waters. i am pleased that the senate has moved this legislation quickly to assist the navy in its efforts.
the senators from wisconsin have indeed been diligent with regard to including a provision in this bill to address the fox river matter. however. i am convinced that under these circumstances. assigning the army corps with these responsibilities is inappropriate. while it is true that existing water resources law authorizes the secretary of the army to remove contaminated sediments in conjunction with operation and maintenance of ongoing navigation projects. the law establishes conditions which must first be met. first. section 311 (c) of the 1990 wrda requires a joint plan to be developed by the secretary of the army and interested federal. state. and local officials. regrettably. we do  have such a plan for the lower fox river. second. it is required that the remediation be done. as stated a moment ago. in connection with ongoing operation and maintenance of a navigation project. it is my understanding that the corps longer performs operation and maintenance activities along the lower fox. third. the law requires that the method to be used for dredged material disposal and the specific responsibilities of the secretary and other involved parties be provided prior to authorization. the 1990 water resources development act also requires that sources of funding for the work be identified. again. regrettably. e of these conditions are met with respect to the_ lower fox. without having a clear understanding of the exact responsibilities of the secretary. i would also be concerned about potential liability problems the corps might face once they get involved.
i appreciate the interest of the the senator from michigan. i am pleased to tell him that the provision appears to be reasonable and consistent with the navigation mission of the army corps. as such. i can assure the senator from michigan that i will look favorably upon the provision he refers to and will make sure all of the senate conferees are aware of his interest in. this matter.
. it is with great pleasure that i present to you rhode islands outstanding recipients of the highest hos for girl scouts and boy scouts. they have distinguished themselves as community leaders. service volunteers. and mentors for their peers. for more than 50 years. artist man rockwell captured in his paintings the spirit and sense of america and its people. a large number of these paintings portrayed scouts and scouting. few other childhood activities better represent the commitment to god. country. and community that is inherent in scouting. providing girls and boys with tools and leadership skills that will be useful throughout their lives. scouting is indelibly linked with transforming youths into able. educated. wellrounded adults. activities like camping. service projects. and weekly meetings aim to build character. encourage responsible citizenship. and develop physical. mental. and emotional fitness. the highest hos that a girl scout can earn are the gold and silver awards. which are presented to those girls who have shown exemplary commitments to personal excellence and unwavering public service. likewise. the eagle award is the highest ho that can be earned by a boy scout. recipients have displayed the highest achievable skills in outdoor activities and incomparable service records. behind every girl scout and boy scout troop is a group of similarly dedicated parents and leaders who guide the youths through their achievements. it is for all these reasons that i am proud to ho the recipients of girl scouts gold and silver awards and the boy scouts eagle scout award. the outstanding achievements of these young recipients warrant our praise. admiration. and thanks. so that we all may k who they are. i ask that the complete list of awardees be printed in the record. the list follows:
. i ask unanimous consent that during the 105th congress. the authority of the majority leader to make six appointments and that of the democratic leader to make seven appointments to the senate arms control observer group. pursuant to senate resolution 105 of the 101st congress. as amended. shall be increased to eight appointments for the majority leader and nine appointments for the democratic leader.
. i also question the definition of "militarily significant quantity." as being 1 metric ton or more of chemical weapons agent. a1 though 1 metric ton can certainly do a lot of damage. particularly in a terrorist attack. i will defer to military experts to consider what is military significant. in testimony to the senate. gen. john shalikashvili stated that tonnage is  the only factor to consider in assessing the military capacity of these weapons. to transform an illicit chemical stockpile into something militarily useful. an adversary must have vast supplies of these weapons. and he must have an infrastructure for handling them and must have troops trained in the use of these weapons. it is these more complex activitiesthe training of the troops. for examplethat the chemical weapons convention. together with our intelligence resources. will be able to verify. as gen. brent scowcroft has testified to the foreign relations committee. under the cwc. it will longer be possible for a country to buy a few pounds of these chemicals from various sources around the world to amass an abmal supply of chemicals. our intelligence community has. in fact. indicated on a number of occasions that this convention will provide aher tool to the u.s. inventory of ways to stem worldwide expansion of chemical weapons capabilities. in brief. the chemical weapons convention will supplement--it will  replace. but it will add toongoing efforts to monitor chemical weapons production worldwide. . critics of this treaty claim it is unverifiable. that we will  be able to catch adversaries abroad who cheat. but they also allege that the cwcs verification regime. while too weak to catch those cheaters abroad. is too intrusive for american industry. in other words. it wont let us find anything abroad. but it is too intrusive for other nations as far as inspection in the united states. they cant have it both ways. the fact is that the chemical weapons conventions verification tools--in other words. how to determine whether there are weapons in other countriesgo beyond those of other arms control treaties that we have approved in the senate in the past. treaty will ever be able to verify totally a ban on chemical weapons. condition  33 is impossible to meet. the condition that is in this. which we are seeking to strike. is an impossible condition to meet. it serves purpose other than to prevent u.s. participation in the chemical weapons convention treaty. so i urge my colleagues to support the motion to strike this amendment. i thank the chair.
. i would like to commend senator campbell for his work on this appropriations bill. i was particularly pleased with the funding level for the national historical publications and records commission. which was increased by $1 million over the budget request. it is my hope that. although  specifically earmarked. a portion of these funds will go toward completing the rhode island historical societys ongoing project "the papers of general nathaniel greene." as i am sure my colleagues are aware. nathaniel greene. in addition to .being a famous rhode islander. was second in command to general george washington during the american revolutionary war. nathaniel greenes papers. which are exte nsive. provide a complete. firstperson account of the revolution. the greene papers include numerous correspondence with george washington. as well as letters from all of the members of the continental congress. the board of war. many of the state govers. a number of generals in the continental army. and other troops and their loved ones. when the war was over. general greene. clearly recognizing the historical significance of his correspondence. gathered as many as 6.000 letters and documents in trunks and made his way home to rhode island. later. he stopped in princeton. new jersey. the site of the continental congress. and expressed his desire to have his papers copied. assembled. and bound in books. that very day. congress agreed to general greenes request and voted to provide him with a clerk to undertake this task. regrettably. general greene died two years later. and. over the years. his papers have been scattered between more than 100 repositories in a number of states. since 1971. the rhode island historical society has worked to assemble and publish the extraordinary papers of this remarkable patriot. at the onset of this project. which was cosponsored by the william l. clement library at the university of michigan. funds were provided by the national historical publications commission ( the nhprc). additional funds were received through the national endowment for the humanities. which contributed to the completion of the first nine volumes of "the papers of general nathaniel greene." the remaining volumes of the greene papers will focus on the revolutionary war in the south. details about the southern campaign are far less well kn than those about the war in the th. at the age of thirtytwo. nathaniel greene became the youngest general in the continental army and later became commander of the southern army. in 1781 and 1782. he and his troops defeated the british in the carolinas and in georgia. the several volvrnes that remain to be completed focus on this aspect of our nations early history. it is a period that. in some important aspects. is  well chronicled. and i believe that completion of the greene papers will add significantly to our kledge of an entire regionthe south. once again. i applaud senators campbell and kohl for their work on this bill and hope that funds from the national historical publications and records commission will be available for completion of the greene papers.
. i com.mend the senator from idaho- for his thoughtful comments. he started his comments by saying that this is a matter to which many of the senators have  given very thorough consideration. and i think that is accurate. i certainly fall into that category. i am  on either of the major committees that deal with the expansion of nato. like all senators. i am busy with this or that. it seems to me very wise that we all give this matter some thorough consideration. it is my understanding that the majority leader is anxious to bring up the nato expansion legislation quite soon. i just want to say. speaking for just this. senator. i certainly havent concentrated on it. i look forward to reading the oped piecei believe it was an oped piecethat senator baker and others worked on. all i can say is. i am grateful for the comments that the senator from idaho made. because it is wise for all of usi personally havent made up my mind on this. i am astonished that i havent -been lobbied.  that my vote is a key vote on it. but on -this matter. the former senator from new hampshire came by to see me. he is very con- cerned. i am speaking of senator humphrey._ a -former senator from new. hampshire. he is very concerned about the expansion of nato. i think he presented some good arguments on it. perhaps he has also spoken with the senator from idaho. .again. i thank the senator for his thoughts.
 gore will take part in this ceremony. having worked with john sirmalis for many years. i can say with certainty that he is. a most worthy recipient of this prestigious award. dr. sirmalis has served ournation and our navy admirably during a distinguished career. widely recognized as the navys foremost authority on undersea weapons systems. dr. sirmalis has helped bring about improvements in methodologies for developing and testing undersea warfare (usw) systems and components. in particular. john has implemented a program to identify submarine techogy opportunities for the year 2010. leading the navy to shift its focus from traditional antisubmarine warfare to find responses to new and more complex military threats. dr. sirmalis outstanding work at nuwc/newport has contributed to the evolution of a facility that is widely recognized as a center of excellence within the navy and the department of defense (dod). nuwc has consistently sustained a high level of technical productivity. as it has become a leader in the use of commercialofftheshelf components and open system architecture. these attributes are today more important than ever at a defense department that is greatly constrained by tight budgets. it was certainly surprise to me that during the defense base realignment and closure (brac) process. nuwc/newport was designated one of the navys four principal research "megacenters." i look forward to nuwc/newport continuing to maintain its important contribution to our national security under the leadership of dr. sirmalis. so my heartiest congratulations to john sirmalis on receiving the distinguished executive award. all americans are wellserved by the outstanding performance of this genuine public servant.*
. i would like to share with my colleagues the tremendous news of the success of a group of nine fifth grade students from rhode island. these students won the u.s. navys national competition to be the first group of civilians ever granted the privilege of naming a united states navy ship. these diligent young people from oak lawn elementary school in cranston overcame extraordinary competition being selected as finalists from more than 2.000 entries from across the united states. last friday. secretary of the navy john dalton annced the oak lawn students proposal to name the navys next.. ocearaphic ship the u.s.s. bruce heezen was the winner of this competition. heezen wasa pioneer in mapping the ocean floor who died aboard a navy submarine taking him to look for the first time at the ocean terrain. i would like to extend my warmest congratulations to these bright students and their teacher for their great achievement. i share with their families and community in recognizing the fabulous work they did in terms of conducting extensive group research and a wide range of individual projects. i also commend them for enthusiastically sharing their discoveries and kledge with other schools in the area to educate their fellow students.*
i appreciate my colleagues clarification. i chaired a hearing on devils lake before the committee on environment and public works late last year and am committed to addressing the terrible flooding problems experienced there. however. i am convinced that the people of th dakota. minnesota. canada. and the u.s. taxpayers will all be served more effectively if we go about this project in the right way. to do that. we need the appropriate reviews. studies and justifications bythe army corps of engineers. state department and others. in that context. . i ask unanimous consent to include in the congressional record a january 28. 1998. army corps memorandum. signed by the thenacting assistant secretary john h. zirschky. that details the agencys policy on nepa compliance and the proposed outlet at devils lake. i ask unanimous consent that the memorandum be printed in the record.
. it is clearly recognized that if you own a pit bull and it is recognized as dangerous. you better control that pit bull. and if that pit bull slips away and injures. severely mauls a child. you are liable. so it is with guns. if you leave a gun lying s8770 coi around that a juvenile gets to and that juvenile causes severe damage with that gun either to himself or to aher individual. then you are to be liable. likewise. if you are liable for a pit bull. you certainly ought to be liable for a dangerous weapon like a rifle or a handgun that is left lying around. if you keep it under lock and key. that is a different matter. you are  liable. i urge everyone to support this amendment.
. it is with great pleasure that i present to you rhode islands outstanding recipients of the highest hos for girl scouts and boy scouts. they have distinguished themselves as community leaders. service volunteers. and mentors for their peers. for more than 50 years. artist man rockwell captured in his paintings the spirit and sense of america and its people. a large number of these paintings portrayed scouts and scouting. few other childhood activities better represent the commitment to god. country. and community that is inherent in scouting. providing girls and boys with tools and leadership skills that will be useful throughout their lives. scouting is indelibly linked with transforming youths into able. educated. wellrounded adults. activities like camping. service projects. and weekly meetings aim to build character. encourage responsible citizenship. and develop physical. mental. and emotional fitness. the highest hos that a girl scout can earn are the gold and silver awards. which are presented to those girls who have shown exemplary commitments to personal excellence and unwavering public service. likewise. the eagle award is the highest ho that can be earned by a boy scout. recipients have displayed the highest achievable skills in outdoor activities and incomparable service records. behind every girl scout and boy scout troop is a group of similarly dedicated parents and leaders who guide the youths through their achievements. it is for all these reasons that i am proud to ho the recipients of girl scouts gold and silver awards and the boy scouts eagle scout award. the outstanding achievements of these young recipients warrant our praise. admiration. and thanks. so that we all may k who they are. i ask that the complete list of awardees be printed in the record. the list follows:
. i ask unanimous consent that during the 105th congress. the authority of the majority leader to make six appointments and that of the democratic leader to make seven appointments to the senate arms control observer group. pursuant to senate resolution 105 of the 101st congress. as amended. shall be increased to eight appointments for the majority leader and nine appointments for the democratic leader.
. i also question the definition of "militarily significant quantity." as being 1 metric ton or more of chemical weapons agent. a1 though 1 metric ton can certainly do a lot of damage. particularly in a terrorist attack. i will defer to military experts to consider what is military significant. in testimony to the senate. gen. john shalikashvili stated that tonnage is  the only factor to consider in assessing the military capacity of these weapons. to transform an illicit chemical stockpile into something militarily useful. an adversary must have vast supplies of these weapons. and he must have an infrastructure for handling them and must have troops trained in the use of these weapons. it is these more complex activitiesthe training of the troops. for examplethat the chemical weapons convention. together with our intelligence resources. will be able to verify. as gen. brent scowcroft has testified to the foreign relations committee. under the cwc. it will longer be possible for a country to buy a few pounds of these chemicals from various sources around the world to amass an abmal supply of chemicals. our intelligence community has. in fact. indicated on a number of occasions that this convention will provide aher tool to the u.s. inventory of ways to stem worldwide expansion of chemical weapons capabilities. in brief. the chemical weapons convention will supplement--it will  replace. but it will add toongoing efforts to monitor chemical weapons production worldwide. . critics of this treaty claim it is unverifiable. that we will  be able to catch adversaries abroad who cheat. but they also allege that the cwcs verification regime. while too weak to catch those cheaters abroad. is too intrusive for american industry. in other words. it wont let us find anything abroad. but it is too intrusive for other nations as far as inspection in the united states. they cant have it both ways. the fact is that the chemical weapons conventions verification tools--in other words. how to determine whether there are weapons in other countriesgo beyond those of other arms control treaties that we have approved in the senate in the past. treaty will ever be able to verify totally a ban on chemical weapons. condition  33 is impossible to meet. the condition that is in this. which we are seeking to strike. is an impossible condition to meet. it serves purpose other than to prevent u.s. participation in the chemical weapons convention treaty. so i urge my colleagues to support the motion to strike this amendment. i thank the chair.
. i would like to commend senator campbell for his work on this appropriations bill. i was particularly pleased with the funding level for the national historical publications and records commission. which was increased by $1 million over the budget request. it is my hope that. although  specifically earmarked. a portion of these funds will go toward completing the rhode island historical societys ongoing project "the papers of general nathaniel greene." as i am sure my colleagues are aware. nathaniel greene. in addition to .being a famous rhode islander. was second in command to general george washington during the american revolutionary war. nathaniel greenes papers. which are exte nsive. provide a complete. firstperson account of the revolution. the greene papers include numerous correspondence with george washington. as well as letters from all of the members of the continental congress. the board of war. many of the state govers. a number of generals in the continental army. and other troops and their loved ones. when the war was over. general greene. clearly recognizing the historical significance of his correspondence. gathered as many as 6.000 letters and documents in trunks and made his way home to rhode island. later. he stopped in princeton. new jersey. the site of the continental congress. and expressed his desire to have his papers copied. assembled. and bound in books. that very day. congress agreed to general greenes request and voted to provide him with a clerk to undertake this task. regrettably. general greene died two years later. and. over the years. his papers have been scattered between more than 100 repositories in a number of states. since 1971. the rhode island historical society has worked to assemble and publish the extraordinary papers of this remarkable patriot. at the onset of this project. which was cosponsored by the william l. clement library at the university of michigan. funds were provided by the national historical publications commission ( the nhprc). additional funds were received through the national endowment for the humanities. which contributed to the completion of the first nine volumes of "the papers of general nathaniel greene." the remaining volumes of the greene papers will focus on the revolutionary war in the south. details about the southern campaign are far less well kn than those about the war in the th. at the age of thirtytwo. nathaniel greene became the youngest general in the continental army and later became commander of the southern army. in 1781 and 1782. he and his troops defeated the british in the carolinas and in georgia. the several volvrnes that remain to be completed focus on this aspect of our nations early history. it is a period that. in some important aspects. is  well chronicled. and i believe that completion of the greene papers will add significantly to our kledge of an entire regionthe south. once again. i applaud senators campbell and kohl for their work on this bill and hope that funds from the national historical publications and records commission will be available for completion of the greene papers.
. i com.mend the senator from idaho- for his thoughtful comments. he started his comments by saying that this is a matter to which many of the senators have  given very thorough consideration. and i think that is accurate. i certainly fall into that category. i am  on either of the major committees that deal with the expansion of nato. like all senators. i am busy with this or that. it seems to me very wise that we all give this matter some thorough consideration. it is my understanding that the majority leader is anxious to bring up the nato expansion legislation quite soon. i just want to say. speaking for just this. senator. i certainly havent concentrated on it. i look forward to reading the oped piecei believe it was an oped piecethat senator baker and others worked on. all i can say is. i am grateful for the comments that the senator from idaho made. because it is wise for all of usi personally havent made up my mind on this. i am astonished that i havent -been lobbied.  that my vote is a key vote on it. but on -this matter. the former senator from new hampshire came by to see me. he is very con- cerned. i am speaking of senator humphrey._ a -former senator from new. hampshire. he is very concerned about the expansion of nato. i think he presented some good arguments on it. perhaps he has also spoken with the senator from idaho. .again. i thank the senator for his thoughts.
 gore will take part in this ceremony. having worked with john sirmalis for many years. i can say with certainty that he is. a most worthy recipient of this prestigious award. dr. sirmalis has served ournation and our navy admirably during a distinguished career. widely recognized as the navys foremost authority on undersea weapons systems. dr. sirmalis has helped bring about improvements in methodologies for developing and testing undersea warfare (usw) systems and components. in particular. john has implemented a program to identify submarine techogy opportunities for the year 2010. leading the navy to shift its focus from traditional antisubmarine warfare to find responses to new and more complex military threats. dr. sirmalis outstanding work at nuwc/newport has contributed to the evolution of a facility that is widely recognized as a center of excellence within the navy and the department of defense (dod). nuwc has consistently sustained a high level of technical productivity. as it has become a leader in the use of commercialofftheshelf components and open system architecture. these attributes are today more important than ever at a defense department that is greatly constrained by tight budgets. it was certainly surprise to me that during the defense base realignment and closure (brac) process. nuwc/newport was designated one of the navys four principal research "megacenters." i look forward to nuwc/newport continuing to maintain its important contribution to our national security under the leadership of dr. sirmalis. so my heartiest congratulations to john sirmalis on receiving the distinguished executive award. all americans are wellserved by the outstanding performance of this genuine public servant.*
. i would like to share with my colleagues the tremendous news of the success of a group of nine fifth grade students from rhode island. these students won the u.s. navys national competition to be the first group of civilians ever granted the privilege of naming a united states navy ship. these diligent young people from oak lawn elementary school in cranston overcame extraordinary competition being selected as finalists from more than 2.000 entries from across the united states. last friday. secretary of the navy john dalton annced the oak lawn students proposal to name the navys next.. ocearaphic ship the u.s.s. bruce heezen was the winner of this competition. heezen wasa pioneer in mapping the ocean floor who died aboard a navy submarine taking him to look for the first time at the ocean terrain. i would like to extend my warmest congratulations to these bright students and their teacher for their great achievement. i share with their families and community in recognizing the fabulous work they did in terms of conducting extensive group research and a wide range of individual projects. i also commend them for enthusiastically sharing their discoveries and kledge with other schools in the area to educate their fellow students.*
i appreciate my colleagues clarification. i chaired a hearing on devils lake before the committee on environment and public works late last year and am committed to addressing the terrible flooding problems experienced there. however. i am convinced that the people of th dakota. minnesota. canada. and the u.s. taxpayers will all be served more effectively if we go about this project in the right way. to do that. we need the appropriate reviews. studies and justifications bythe army corps of engineers. state department and others. in that context. . i ask unanimous consent to include in the congressional record a january 28. 1998. army corps memorandum. signed by the thenacting assistant secretary john h. zirschky. that details the agencys policy on nepa compliance and the proposed outlet at devils lake. i ask unanimous consent that the memorandum be printed in the record.
. it is clearly recognized that if you own a pit bull and it is recognized as dangerous. you better control that pit bull. and if that pit bull slips away and injures. severely mauls a child. you are liable. so it is with guns. if you leave a gun lying s8770 coi around that a juvenile gets to and that juvenile causes severe damage with that gun either to himself or to aher individual. then you are to be liable. likewise. if you are liable for a pit bull. you certainly ought to be liable for a dangerous weapon like a rifle or a handgun that is left lying around. if you keep it under lock and key. that is a different matter. you are  liable. i urge everyone to support this amendment.
. i am requesting from the secretary of the navy an explanation as to why a u.s. aircraft carrier. navy personnel. and navy equipment. paid for by taxpayers of the united states. were allowed to be used to make a motion picture glamorizing the sneak attack on pearl harbor on december 7. 1941. i also ask how such a film promoted the best interests of the u.s. navy. i think that we should have answers to these questions. especially since the defense department has had a policy of restricting the use of government equipment or military personnel in any picture produced for private profit. i would call to the attention of my colleagues. the column in the new york daily news of may 14. written by  of the house committee on government operations. the article referred to follows:
. on june 9. 1969. in a speech here on the floor of the house of representatives. i asked that the committee on government operations assign the military operations subcommittee to investigate the events leading up to the use of the aircraft carrier yorktown. five other navy ships. personnel. and equipment by 20th century fox in the production of the film "tora. tora. tora." at that time i pointed out that permission for the navy to cooperate was given in the closing days of the previous administration and reports on the events leading to granting of permission hinted of political pressures. yesterday i received a letter from secretary of the navy john chaffee reporting on the chroogical history of negotiations between the navy and 20th century fox on the film. i submit this letter and report for the record:
since i am within the age bracket encompassed by the pending amendment. i am inclined to support it. however. this also implies that the draft will be extended. would the senator from alaska join this senator in extension of the draft to see to it that his amendment comes into being. and if so. i am willing to support it
. adm. thomas hart once remarked of the spanish american war thatthe days of chivalry had  ended. his entire life gives testimony to the fact that the era of the great citizensoldier has  ended either. in a career that spanned six decades. admiral hart demonstrated time and again an unabating desire to serve his nation and its people. from the very start. first in the naval academys entrance exam. and then graduating 13th in his class. thomas hart seemed marked for success. in war. on the battleship massachusetts in the war against spain and as a submarine commander in world war i. admiral hart proved himself a capable. dedicated officer. in peace. as instructor at the naval academy. and later its commandant. admiral hart molded young minds to the capable service of their country. above all else. it was strength of character that set thomas hart apart. perceiving japanese buildup in late 1941. l he ordered the heavy warships under his command to australia. his fears proven justified. he arranged the successful naval evacuation of the philippines. later in the war. he commanded american naval forces in the battle of macassar strait. in which nearly 40 japanese ships were destroyed. admiral harts distinguished career of national service closed with his appointment to the u.s. senate in 1945. he served his nation and his state of connecticut in that capacity until his retiremerit on ember 5. 1946. on thursday. july 8. the body of adm. thomas hart was laid to rest at arlington national cemetery. thomas hart is  a part of our nations past. and one could wish better for america. than that men of his kind be a part of our nations future.
. the question often asked concerning the desirability of a socalled "cheap. simple fighter" for the u.s. navy. instead of the planned f14. obviously implies that such a fighter would be "better" than the f14. more to the point. it also implies that we enjoy the enviable position of being able to make such a choice in weapon system selection. hing could be further from the facts of the issues involved. since the end of world war ii. this country has attempted to maintain a tactical air force which could quickly react to the capabilities exhibited or publicized by the enemy. the results have been analogous to playing "catchup football." our recent experience in southeast asia against a third rate air force. has shown the difficulties encountered in attempting to successfully engage enemy fighters when they operated under the control of their air defense networks. and were supported by antiaircraft artillery and surfacetoair missiles. these obstacles to maintaining air superiority by our fighter aircraft arose.  because of the "cheap. simple fighters" we encounteredand that is all they really werebut because a degree of sophistication was added to their tactics by the effective support from other enemy weapons and defense networks. it is most interesting to e that early in the southeast asia conflict. when these "cheap. simple" enemy fighters were engaged without their gci and sam support. they were match for the better weaponequipped and more versatile u.s. fighters the threat we face in the future is  typified by the threat we faced in southeast asia. our gravest mistake in safeguarding the security of this nation would be to be mesmerized by the southeast asia syndrome when defining requirements for our next generation of fighter aircraft. there appears to be little disagreement regarding the alarming degree of techogical advances in airtoair and surfacetoair missiles. airborne command and control systems. electronic jamming techniques. et cetera. achieved by the soviets. most significant of all. however. is the steady buildup of soviet naval forces which  pose a threat to our fleet and the logistic supply lines the fleet must protect. this alarming increase in capability is to be expected when we examine the magnitude of their continuing defense budget. and recognize their dedication to the development of an offensive and defensive military capability second to e. in any possible future conflict between the soviet and the united states. or in any other conflict where firstrate soviet military techogy might be faced. there will be time for "catchup football". hence. in the light of the accepted nature of the spectrum of threats posed to our naval forcesand to our countryan aircraft weapon system must be developed as soon as possible which will be capable of destroying existing sophisticated. missileequipped soviet fighter aircraft. subsurface and surfacelaunched antiship missies. and heavily defended bomber aircraft equipped with long range airtosurface missiles. e of these were faced in southeast asia.
. it is this threat capability for which the f14 weapon system has been designed. by employing the highly efficient variable wing sweep technique and a high thrusttoweight propulsion system. the f14 can maneuver withand outfightthe enemys cheap. simple fighter when such combat conditions might occur. but. with the added combat capabilities provided by longrange airtoair homing missiles. and electronic defensive techniques for enhanced survivability. the f14 can successfully engage the new missileequipped soviet fighters. antiship missiles and longrange bombers likely to be encountered in any future confrontation. the associated cost factors of the f14 result from designing for the missions it must perform against these threats. to suggest the substitution of the "simple mig type. cheap" airplane for these missions is incongruous. and signifies an unawareness of the capabilities already in existence in the soviet military arsenal.
. despite the fact that he went to washington and lee university and i to the university of virginia. and he went to harvard and i to yale. it is with a great deal of pride and affection that i speak on behalf of lewis powell to my colleagues this aftern. i came to k this distinguished american 25 years ago when he and my father returned as comrades in arms and friends from world war ii. i was 15 years of age and he almost 40. so when i commend lewis powell to the favorable attention of the senate it is done  just by the evaluation of a u.s. senatoir. but also done through the eyes of a youngster. college student. army lieutenant. law student. lawyer. mayor. congressman. and constant friend. from whatever view. lewis powell has always lived for the america that was dreamt to be. to him. patriotism and compassion have  been just words. they have meant courageous activism. sometimes the battlefields were europe. other times they were richmond and virginia. as i have watched lewis powell through the gaze of different ages and different occupations. i always knew that to him love of country involved heart. brains. and guts in equal measure. i knew that he believed in our political system as the greatest  because it could protect the status quo but because it could bring about change without tragedy. and he has been in the forefront of such change. loose talkers will never have much in common with this man from richmond. americans who have been. are. or could be wronged. will
. i can think of hing more disastrous for our image abroad and at home. governments and people worldwide would rapidly become convinced that american pursuit of peace. american offers to aid developing nations were little more than empty rhetoric. here at home. millions of americans who have come to see the peace corps as an idealistic yet uniquely effective weapon for peace would be badly disillusioned.
. i rise in support of the war powers bill offered by the distinguished senator from new york and other senators. i should like to commend the senator from new york for focusing on one of the great issues confronting this nation today. it would be much easier and maybe politically smarter. for men like the senator from new york to allow a crisis to occur and then come rushing in with a remedy. that is the usual political modus operandi in the united states. it is much more difficult to anticipate a crisis and make provision for it. it is also duller and  so sensational. but. for the future of this country. it is important that such be the character of our work product here in the senate. accordingly. i commend the senator from new york for his anticipation of what could happen and in trying to avert a crisis. the essence of what the senator from new york is doing. he is trying to make sure that we do  slide into aher waraher vietnam. it is important to recognize the concurrent framework of this bill. as i recall. this matter was first raised at a time when we had before us bills and resolutions calling for the withdrawal from vietnam by a date certain. we were trying to remedy the immediate situation in which we found ourselves. i had occasion at that time to talk to many people as to what their stand was on the issues raised by vietnam. many were against a withdrawal resolutionand i was among those. they then pointed to the war powers bill as evidence of their desire to see that we did  get into aher situation like vietnam. they said that they would go ahead and support such legislation when it came to the floor of the senate. many that were for the withdrawal resolutions were too preoccupied with putting their names to such resolutions to be concerned with what the future might hold. a year or so ago. i talked to the protesters who came to washington to visit with their representatives and senators on the subject of the vietnam war. i turned to them and said. "the crucial issue before this nation today is  withdrawal by a date certain from vietnam. because we are getting out of vietnam. the real issue is to set up the laws of this nation in such fashion so that we do  repeat such a commitment the second time around." i further said to them.. "unless we go ahead in congress to enact this legislation . in this session of congress. it will never be enacted." i think the senator from new york and the senator from virginia and others will agree with me on this point. that unless this legislation is passed and . it will never be passed until we come face to face with the next emergency. a next "vietnam." and then we will start to talk about war powers legislation all over again.
. prior to concluding i again repeat the urgency of the resolution before us. it is  something to be referred back to the committee. it is  something we can postpone until the next session of congress. this legislation has to be enacted . it is simple. it states that in the business of declaring war. congress. the house and the senate. shall participate in such decisions and that there will be more oneman decisions to commit this nation to the travails we have experienced over the years just past. i hope we understand that in taking this kind of step we do  change the constitution. we bring it back to its original purposes and intentions. we strengthen our nation because the people of the country.  just one man. will be making the decisions of life and death. that may be unspectacular. i do  k where the next vietnam will occur. one has a son or daughter committed to the next vietnam. but the situations that gave rise to vietnam are still with us. and they will remain so unless this bill. the war powers bill. is passed.
. i rise to comment on some of the remarks made by both my colleagues from wyoming and arizona. first of all. with his usual firm belief in this nation and his moderate and sensible approach. i can disagree with any of the comments made by my colleague from wyoming. but i can answer one question: what would the founding fathers do if they were confronted today with todays circumstances. the fact is that todays circumstances are almost identical with the circumstances with which they were confronted. because they had come over from europe and they had seen wars waged by themselves and their people. which wars were decided by one man. specifically kings. that is why. when they wrote the constitution. they made it specific as to who has the power to go ahead and declare war. they had.a fresh memory of what it meant  to have citizen participation in the declarations of war. when they wrote the constitution. the circumstances into which we have drifted today are almost identical. i do  see. in response to my colleague from arizona. what is so complicated about the powers of congress as written in the constitution. congress shall have the power to declare war. let me read further from article i. section 8 of the constitution: to define and punish piracies and felonies committed on the high seas. and offenses against the law of nations. to declare war. grant letters of merque and reprisal and make rules concerning captures on land and water. to raise and support armies. but appropriation of money to that use shall be for a longer term than two years. to provide and maintain a navy. to make rules for the government and regulation of the land and naval forces. to provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the union. suppress insurrections and repel invasions. to provide for organizing. arming. and disciplining the militia. and for governing such part of them as may be employed in the service of the united states. reserving to the states respectively. the appointment of the officers. and the authority of training the militia according to the discipline prescribed by congress. that is very clear. it needs contorting to make it understandable to my mind as to what the war powers of congress are. when the statement is made that we are about to tamper with the constitution. let me say that it has been tampered with silently for some decades . that is why we are on this floor . trying to rectify it.
once that decision has been made. it is then the commander in chief who directs its implementation. but the initial power to declare war and to commit those troops lies in the hands of the congress. what does it say as to the power of the executive branch
 i do  agree with the senator. i think that is the function of this body. that is. the determination of whether or  the united states of america is going to be committed to a course of action. which course of action is war. referring to the comments of the senator. he is correct when he refers to the moithic type society which was built up in europe at the time of the founding of this nation. he ks as well as i k that every single country there was under a form of monarchy with one man making the decisions. it was a key part of the thinking in this country at that time that such decisions as involved the destruction of human life would longer be placed in the hands of one man but rather in the representatives of the people. i point out to my colleague from arizona the commission which was given to george washington by the continental congress: and you are to regulate your conduct in every respect by the rules and discipline of war (as herewith given you) and punctually to observe and follow such orders and directions from time to time as you shall receive from this or a future congress of the said united colonies or a committee of congress for that purpose appointed. so actually there was the intimation that congress was going to direct the conduct of the war. i do  go that far. that is the job of the commander in chief. but the determination of whether we are going to go to war is the job of this congress. i grant it is  a duty we have taken on with eagerness. we have let it slip into the hands of the executive branch and the state department. and. in fact. participated very little in that essential determination. but certainly the times have taught us that this much the people of the country expect. they have confidence in their military forces once the decision is made the country should go to war. but the restlessness and division we have seen from the vietnam war are due to the fact that the essential decision had broad based support and was essentially made by one man.
i have a great deal of quarrel with it. there is question in my mind that once war is declared the president must make the necessary commitments. but do i understand correctly the senator when he said the determination of the war is first that of the president of the united states.
well. the senator from connecticut and the senator from arizona i think are in basic disagreement here. because i think the commitment of this country to war is one that should be made by the congress of the united states. obviously working in conjunction with the president. but certainly  to the point that  exists. where. in fact. the commitment is made. we are asked for a rubberstamp decision. and then he gets on to his next duty. that of commander in chief. that is why we have this separation. for example. i have voted against every single one of the withdrawalbyacertain date proposals. because that is  our function. it is that of the president as commander in chief. to me it would be breaching security when we start laying our cards on the table to show where we are going to move. we are talking here about a situation that would avoid aher one like vietnam. and to avoid the situation referred to by the senator from arizona. created by president roosevelt. the determination. the commitment. belongs to the people of the united states. it belongs to the people of the united states through their congressmen and senators. acting jointly with the president. this is  something that can be held to be the decision of the president of the united states alone. that is the reason why we are in trouble. i do  believe vietnam is singular. it was just the last straw. we have slowly been going in the direction of getting further and further away from the will of the people. believe me. one more decision such as vietnam without the support of the people and without the support of congress and perhaps we will have people leaving our nation to set up a new nation with a new constitution. such was the case at the time of the founding of our constitution. where the job of commitment was determined to be the job of congress. and the job of prosecuting war was the job of the president.
 of the united states in his conduct of the withdrawal from vietnam. because this is time to interject ourselves into the conduct of the war. there is question about that. the time for the minds of senators to be utilized to maximum effectivness on behalf of their constituencies is  when we are in the middle of a war. but at the time the decision is being made as to whether we are going to go to war at all. for that reason. it is clear that we can interject ourselves at any time. that has been proved here on the floor of the senate time and time again. ever since the outset of the vietnam war. i ask the senator from arizona one question: does the senator from arizona have any difficulty with this legislation because he feels that the timing of the legislation might be embarrassing in international circles at this moment in our history.
 i want to point out that the bill is so written that the united states can recapture these ships and use them as troop carriers. on page 2 of the bill. line 19. subsection (b) it is stated: the vessel will be made available to the united states in time of emergency and just compensation for title or use. as the case may be. shall be paid in accordance with section 902 of the merchant marine act. 1936. as amended. so with the five we have agreed could be sold to foreign purchasers. we have obtained the right to acquire those ships in time of national emergency. the same would be true of the united states. i do  see why we have to get our hands on this particular one.
i ice that the statement is made in the memorandum on behalf of the bentsen amendment that the soviets have new submarine development program. it calls the trident program wasteful. because the soviets have new submarine development program but are simply improving their older boats. the soviets had hing even close to the u.s. submarine fleet some years ago.  theyre caught up. and we are supposed to be satisfied with that fact of military life. well. i am . the argument is made in this same sheet that we should sit back and see whether or  the soviet tactic of putting fewer missiles on more submarines is the correct tactic. i do  want to sit around and emulate the soviet union. in the parochial sense. the people of my state would be better off if the position of the senator from texas were to prevail. because we do  manufacture missiles. we manufacture submarines. but as one who was in the field artillery. if i am  mistaken. the soviets in world war ii believed in massing their weapons on the ground to get the same effect at the point of impact. and it was the united states that developed the concept of an indirect firing system. in tactical areas. the united states has always been ahead of the soviet union. and i hope such will be the case for a long time to come. but the plea i make to my colleagues is  to gloss over the concept of leadtime. i think it is up to us to examine that project. but when. admittedly. the project is good-
s supported general amnesty and e granted it. lincoln. in fact. insisted on a hardline amnesty policy. deserters returning to duty would have to finish out the unfilled portion of their term and. in addition. a period equivalent to their original term of enlistment. candidate mcgovern opposes any conditions on his amnesty promise. this is the same candidate who told the veterans of foreign wars convention: a good democrat doesnt run away from his party. any more than a good soldier runs away from his country. how can we reconcile that statement with his apologia for the draft evaders. those who choose of their own volition to break the law. for whatever reason. must be ready to accept the consequences of their act. there is an hoable tactic kn as civil disobedience. through the years. a few able men of high purpose have employed it to advance their beliefs. i do  recall martin luther king or mahatma gandhi ever whining for special consideration of their actions. they stood tall in defiance and in punishment. the essence of genuine civil disobedience is the deliberate invitation of societys penalty. if the provoker feels this is an unjust system. one of his purposes is to dramatize that injustice by undergoing its consequences. thus did such men as gandhi and dr. king help bring about monumental human and societal changes within their time. i k of one who went off to vietnam with a light heart and a quick step. yet thousands of americans obeyed the laws of their country. even though they might be voting to see their nations policies changed. to grant amnesty to those who substituted rationalization for duty would be to mock the sacrifices of those who served and ridicule the memory of those who died. the issue of amnesty then is  a difference of philosophies between republicans and democrats but whether the nation will look to anarchy rather than legislation for change. i find it ironic that a u.s. senator demogogs for the former. fortunately it will be an election and  a riot that puts him down.
. there is quick solution. certainly i do  think we are so bereft of ideas in this chamber that we have to say. "look. it is just a matter of putting the problem into federal hands." i think we can do better than that. you k. i have heard about the proliferation of candidacies. that is an important point to consider. but i want you to think about aher drawback. you are. in effect. putting the electoral process itself in the hands of an incumbent administration. both as to the giving of money and its policing and enforcement. i do  want this to be south vietnam. where. after the election is over. the winner goes around and starts enforcing the law. nailing the losing candidates. but that is exactly what we would be opening ourselves up to with this kind of legislation. i do  want government in the business of financing election campaigns. because i k what is going to happen. they are going to get bigger and more expensive.  less so.
. today i am introducing a bill directing the administrator of the veteran administration to establish a national cemetery in connecticut or in the new england area. in a recent comprehensive study of the national cemetery system by veterans administration. pursuant to public law 9343. the inadequacies in present systern is clearly evident. at present. there exist available grave sites in standard federal region 1. which includes connecticut. vermont. new hampshire. maine. massachusetts. and rhode island. in fact. there is only one national cemetery in the entire regiontogus. maineand it has long since been closed out. according to the study. nationally there are about 29 million veterans eligible for future burial benefits. to effectively meet this demand. an expansion in the present system is essential. to exemplify this point. i would like to refer to some provoking statistics formulated by the veterans administration. in region 1. it is projected that over 800.000 veterans will dhe by the year 2000. projected veterans deaths in my own state of connecticut have been estimated at over 220.000 during that same time period. in 1975 alone. 5.800 veterans will die in connecticut and there will be available national cemetery plots to provide interment for our veterans. furthermore. the national center for health statistics and cremation estimate that only 4.3 percent of funeral rites in the theast involve cremation. a close analysis of the detailed statebystate projections of veteran deaths. compiled by the veterans adminisrration will provide a clearer understanding of the scope of the demand in both connecticut and new england.
i thank the distinguished senator from maine.  in order that it might be kked down. or others who have tried to instill a fear in the minds of the american people. there are many other systems totally separate and distinct from world war ii coupon rationing. without the huge bureaucracies and without the millions of dollars of front money associated with that system.
yes. indeed. i ask the distinguished chairman of the committee whether he and the committee would agree to initiate followon inquiry of the secretary of defense to provide the senate with independent estimates of the cost of pursuing these different competitive options. i ask the distinguished chairman and the members of the committee in the course of these inquiries. to inquire of the navy as to why it is or what their reasons are for the flouting of congressional policy directive in this area. all i am saying is i think we are all of a similar mind. i do  want to hold back the development. and i do  think the senator from florida does. of any of these airplanes. i think that it is important that the various agencies in the executive branch do follow these directives when they are set down. second. specifically as far as these planes are concerned. i hope that the questions that will be asked will produce far more. far more solid answers than have already been given.
. my friend. hank price. died the other day. we met in 1965 at the capitol in hartford. i was a legislator. he is a political reporter and columnist. then. in 1968 just as security made its way into hanks life in the form of a managing editors position. i asked him to be press secretary for my quest of connecticuts 4th congressional district seat. he threw security to the winds and we started down the campaign trail of there follow some memories that flashed across my mind when i heard that hank had passed away suddenly in chicago at age 45. with price on the scene. brooklyn came to greenwich. darien. and new canaan. thanks to hank this republican met humanity in unrepublican places such as gin mills. back yards. public beaches. and bowling alleys. his press releases were  wall street journal. they were daily news. price the expolitical reporter "didnt want bull" from his candidate. "just da trut." he loved bridgeport and showed it to his republican friend.  as a democratic stronghold but as a gathering of very solid. warm people. when as a hing i could  ride in the darien festival parade it was hank who took the campaign to the sidewalks where the people. and the votes. were. there was hank price. the pitchman. wrestling the toughest imaginary jar lid in the world with a weicker jar openerand getting a vote. ibm selectrics or secretaries just hank. portable typewriter in his lap. banging out the release. then victory and two turbulent. overcrowded years in the house of representatives. hank the editor back at work. only this time working on a newsletter rather than a newspaper. hank price and carey cronan. what friends. hank price and dick mcgowan. what friends. people talk about a free press. hank price and friends were a human press. that is also important. the capitol hill version of "upstairs. downstairs." hank price and his army of cockroaches (i hear em marchin. hank) in the basement with the congressman above. chewed out for oversleeping. hank roars out of the house upon hearing the footsteps of his boss.  realizing until actually in the longworth building at 5 a.m. that the congressman had been coming in to bed going out to work. hank price throwing security to the winds again and urging lowell weicker  to hold the safe house seat but to run for the senate. aher campaign but different. a whole state. there hardly seemed time to get from one town to aher. never mind one tavern to aher. and so victory came but it was longer two "let the dice roll" companions. it was senator and press secretary and both envied the past over power present. hank was a great press secretary to a senator but after 4 years he was  going to let the ofice life bury the reporter or free spirit. and so off to the bureau of narcotics and dangerous drugs. that event.  his death. closed a very special and wonderful chapter in my life. there was a humanity and rough hewn gentleness in hank prices professionalism and politics. to say he was a rarity in this country would  be true. what was so great for me was that hank price is america. and that beats anything--even being a senator.
i would like to finish. the figure that has been used regarding additional funding for the cia has been anywhere between $28 million and $35 million. the escalation has been far 41.199 greater than that. as i recall. the initial requests in this area were around $6 million. it was also my understanding that at one point. until obvious hostility appeared. the initial request was for $100 million. and that this was pared back to the $35 million which has been referred to on the floor of the senate today. then. again. when it comes to exactly how much money is being spent. it is also my understanding that the cia has ackledged some $17 million as the cost of ordnance supplied into that country. yet. the cost figures are rather amazing. for example. a .45caliber pistol is listed at $5. that is a rather interesting price. so that. actually. the $17 million that already has been spent on ordnance probably is far lower than the actual figure. . in conclusion. i would only say that i concur completely with the amendment as proposed by the distinguished senator from california. in that this body is finally waking up to its obligations. and to the fact that wisdom. patriotism. and loyalty do  reside just in the older heads in washington. d.c.. whatever the branch of government. rather. those things are in .abundance on the floor of the senate. in the house. and in the executive branch. and better decisions are made when all participate rather than a few. if there is one thing we should have learned from vietnam it is that our concepts of politics on any of these continents have to be tuned to facts and historical reality. rather than to a frame of reference born of the cold war after world war il. i think this fact has become clear. for example. in relations between china and vietnam. china is longer enthusiastic about vietnam and they are reverting to their traditional and historical roles of antagonism toward each other. believe me. white superpower is going to establish itself on the continent of africa. it is  going to happen. the soviet union is a society far more racist than ours. i do  think they stand a prayer of establishing themselves on the african continent. white nation will do that. therefore. i discount that argument. as i discount the rationale in vietnam. where our reason for entering the war was that china was going to benefit emously. regardless of what history had taught us up to that point.  we are asked to act regardless of what history has taught us about africa. i support the tunney amendment. i think it is clear that the involvement of this country in angola is even greater than that which has come to public attention or to the attention of the u.s. senate. as a matter of policy. i think it is time that we drew the policy and drew it here. tonight.
the distinguished senator from minnesota has quoted from page 6 of this arms control impact analysis. as he read it. it seemed that the words were strangely familiar: in conclusion. this weapon system has arms control advantages. to the extent it has any impact on ongoing arms control negotiations. the impact would be marginally negative.  let me just pick up the next two sentences: a decision to cross the nuclear threshold would be the most agonizing decision to be made by any president. these weapons would  make that decision any easier. but by enhancing deterrence. they could make it less likely that the president would have to face such a decision.  i have in front of me the letter from president carter to chairman stennis. and interestingly egh. the following stands out at the end of the letter: a decision to cross the nuclear threshold would be the most agonizing decision to be made by any president. i can assure you that these weapons would  make that decision any easier. but by enhancing deterrence. they could make it less likely that i would have to face such a decision.
we are here today like robert bruce upon his bed watching a spider try again and again to fix the line from which he might then weave his fatal web. when the arabs are defeated in war they can come back again and again. each time more seasoned. better prepared. and better equipped. they can do it because israel does  seek to destroy them but to defend herself and to be left in peace. is that the wish of the arab states. you k it is . let us turn back from this dangerous course. let us see our proper place in the circumstances that confront us. one of the great men in the history of this nation. of this body. hubert humphrey said it all. he said: all of history is a constant struggle for emancipation from fears. from tyranny. from igance. we are the emancipators. that is what this is all about. even if we dont recognize it. that is the kind of role we can play in the middle east. moral commitments and moral actions are what this country is all about. it is the state of our spirit that determines the state of the union. and the state of our spirit today seems to be defined in terms of quid pro quo deals in planes. missiles. oils. and so forth. i like to think. . that the unsophisticated but heartfelt commitment of 1948 better represented what america is all about than the wheeling and dealing of 1978 which suggests that the national posture is kneeling. that the backbone is spaghetti. and that the heart is for sale
 has decided to build the blockbuster mx missile at a cost ranging from at least $20 billion to as much as $70 billion. i am  saying this is a mistake. i may support the mx as i have supported other major military programs such as the b1 bomber and the xmi tank. but what i am saying is that this country has other concerns and commitments that should  be abandoned or reduced at the expense of our military hardware. our energy situation is longer "the moral equivalent of war." it is real war. a war for survival of our way of life and our whole future. we need to apply our tremendous resources in both the public and private sector to win. the health. housing. education of our citizens should  be sacrificed because in the end it is people who provide the best defense for this country. and the strength of our people is our best hope in times of crisis. this amendment gives us a unique opportunity to meet the needs of the military by allowing the navy to have its aegis destroyer cheaper and quicker than planned. and at the same time. to save our $400 million in fiscal 1980 spending for use in meeting the pressing problems this nation faces in energy. transportation. health. and other sectors. i urge my colleagues to join with us in support of this amendment.
. within the past 2 weeks. we have marked two important anniversaries. on april 14. we celebrated interamerican day. a day dedicated to peace and progress throughout the americas. then. we more solemnly observed the 20th anniversary of the bay of pigs invasion of cuba. a distasteful detour in u.s. relations with our neighbors to the south. both occasions hold special meaning for us today because they illustrate the two sides of the coin of u.s. foreign policy in this region. on the one hand. we obviously need to cooperate with the countries of the caribbean. central and south america if we are to find answers to common ecoic and environmental problems. on the other hand. we must also reconsider the practical and preferred limits of american intervention in the internal affairs of these nations. alejandro orfila. secretarygeneral of the organization of american states. writes in a recent book titled "the americas in the 80s: an agenda for the decade ahead" that: latin america and the united states have learned from hard experience that the amnerloan hemisphere grows strong as our nations move away from abstract views of each other. avoid ideological prescriptions or overly idealistic proposals. and find concrete ways to work together for peace and justice. despite such "hard experience." i fear we- are again in danger of viewing conr filicts to the south of us tihrough lenses distorted by idedlogy. as a result. a meaningful thsouth dialog is forced to play second fiddle to a war of words between east and west. our latin american policy is oversimplified to the point of absurdity. with the bulk of the debate narrowly focused on whether or  we should send u.s. military men and materiel to el salvador. personally. i believe we should . but the corollary questions concern me. too. if  military aid. then what should we be doing to ease the strife endemic  only to el salvador but to guatemala and many other latin american countries. much has been made of the grenades and guns el salvadoran guerrillas receive from soviet alies such as cuba and nicaragua. but i would argue that the most potent weapon the cubans are employing in the third world is the emphasis they place on education. cuba is importing thousands of young people from nicaragua. namibia and a dozen other nations. teaching them to read. write. and work in a lab and then exporting them back home where they become their countrys educated elite. if you visit the cuban isle of youth. as i did last year. you will see the many high schools castro has built for foreign students. you will frid that they are modern and wellequipped. and if you look at the card catalog in any of the libraries. you will  see a single american author. the names are almost entirely russian. third world minds bearing the stamp made in moscow are a much greater threat to this hemisphere than any number of ak 47s. i remind my colleagues that tt.s. educational and cultural exchange programs with latin america are so small as to be almost insignificant. in 1982. when 143 west germans will visit the united states through the auspices of our international communication agency. we will host only 10 el salvadorans. 15 guatemalans. and equally small numbers from other latin american coun.. tries. we boost our commitment to nato. even as we propose to cut back our contributions to the organization of american states. the significance of these priorities is  lost on our hemispheric neighbors. are we  contradicting oursleves by beating the drum about el slavador even as we turn our backs to the ecoic. educational and environmental needs of our latin american neighbors. we must rededicate ourseli es to rediscovering theamericas as they exist in reality and  in our minds and to lending a hand where we are needed and wanted.0
. 80 day payment. the labor department. 62 day payment. the army research institute. 78 day payment. and. the interior department. 01 day payment. one firm repurted that as of april 1. 1981. of all the money owed it by. the federal government. $222.702 was due over 90 days. this go day figure has averaged $252.000 during the past year. roughly 25 percent of its government accounts receivable. for this company. the military was the worst offender. the air force owed $47.027 (or 4.4 percednt of its total) for 90 days. the army $15.972(28 percent) for 90 days. and the navy $54.871 (46 percent) for 90 days. the veterans administration hospital. danville. illis was 30 days late on a bill of 6292 owed to a missouri firm. from a firm in washington state: "our experiences in many instances was that the government did  meet our terms of i percent discount in 20 days. net 30 days. but would often string the payment out significantly longer. and after much followup was done. the government might still take the 1 percent discount. when that happened. id sometimes let the matter go. for it wasnt worth spending more money to try to then recover the discount." aher washington state firm had much the same problem: "when we finally tracked down the invoice. the contracting officer said. well. i need to ask you if it is okay if i take the prompt payment discount. i told him  of course . and said that he ought to be paying a sizable interest penalty instead. he said that he was instructed to do this. and his supervisor had indicated that matter how late the bill was. they should take- the prompt payment discount because most suppliers (when it came right down to it) would be mad but would  go to the trouble to try to collect the discount because of the hassle involved. in instances where this has happened to us. we have taken the trouble to collect the discount and have generally been successful. but we certainly spent more in doing so than we recovered." as of may 13. 1981. an audio visual firm was owed a balance of $1.700 from a job dione for the marine corps in 1978. the marine corps claimed that the people who were involved in the original purchase are longer available to confirm that the firm is still owed the money. a large theastern manufacturer studied its accounts receivable for the first five months of 1981 for government contracts. one division had a~ccounts receivable of over $5 million. of which 50 percent were past due. the breakdown was as follows: 17 percent. 1 to 80 days late. 15 percent. 31 to g0 days late. 10 percent. 91 to 180 days late. 6 percent. 181 to 360 days late. 2 percent. over 360 days late. a small information techogy consulting firm did a project for the national commission on library and information sciences. total invoice for $2.280 aubmited on february 12. 1970. followup. invoices. sent periodically throughout 1970. by january 30. 1980 had received payment of only $1.422. after five letters and 10 phone calls. wrote to is chairman for help. finally reecived check for balance of payment on may 20. the social security administrations offce of hearing appeals in kansas city. missouri purchased $500 worth of dictating equipment in april 1978. it was finally paid for three years later in march 1981. aher office of the social security administration ordered $4.238 worth of supplies from a company in the eastern u.s. the invoice. dated august 20.. 1080 was paid a california firm writes: "as a representative selling products for several manufacturers. my income has been directly affected as a result of slowpaying government agencies." from a louisiana businessman: "frankly. the government isnt a big part of our businessbut we can always count on the. government and its grantees to pay late. its terrible that the government sets such a rotten example." a rhode island manufa~cturer wrote to its congressman: "we offer time discounts in order to obtain payment in a timely manner. in practice. however. the discount is taken even though payment is made after the account is delinquent. the govarnment expects the best price on all comnmodities but will longer ho requests for payinent of partial shipments even though delivery of every line item may be complete. our government runs the risk of driving qualified supr hers from the market and eventually ~eylng higher prices for all requirements. a richmond firm that renders over 400 invoices per month to the federal government has some agencies on a c.o.d. basis. one such agency is the office of personnel management. which had been paying its bills anywhere from four months to one year late. in all. the firm says that 35 percent of its government invoices are delinquent. a connecticut company complained that the federal government owed it over $12.000 in receivables that were well over 90 days old. some unpaid invoices went as far back. as one year. he said that calls to expedite payment usually ran into a frustrating wall of bureaucratic red tape. and that being a very small company. they were "in position to alienate customers whose patronage they have worked hard to develop over the years." a businessman in florida said that the problem of government slow pay was so pervasive. their primary business lender would  extend credit on any government account. thus. a sale is guaranteed to strai indeed wipe outtheir working capital.
ial war powers drew fire from some conservative critics. so did his prolabor positions.  was it a simple matter for him to urge party leaders to live up to their heritage as the party of lincoln and embrace the civil rights movement. he did though. and did it willingly. despite pressures to conform. clifford case refused to fit any mold other than the one he carved out for himself. when accused of acting more like a democrat than a republican. cliff case had a ready answer. "i am a republican. and i believe in the republican party." he said. "but i have my own convictions as to what the republican party should stand for. and i intend to fight for them as hard as i can. and i will  be driven away front my republicanism simply because some democrats happen to agree with me on certain issuesand some republicans do ." fortunately for the republican party as well as the country. cliff case was  driven away. his courageous example will long serve as an inspiration to us all.
i respect the comments of the good senator from idaho. there is question that when you want to achieve materialistic success. you make a tradeoff. in this case the tradeoff was freedom. freedom is what the cuban people gave up. because of the quality of freedom they had under batista. they were willing to accept freedom under castro. the only difference being that with freedom under castro. they did get a few things that gave them a better lifestyle. if i were a cuban. i would certainly swim to the united states. too. because there is far better here than there is there. but that is  the point. the point is we should be comparing apples with apples. oranges with oranges. cuba with central america. with south america. the fact remains that the united states is  there. it is  competing. it is permitting the vacuum to continue. as long as the vacuum continues. the partnership will be cuba and the soviet union. is the senator from idaho afraid that we in the united states are going to be affected by cuban communismif we open up our doors. that we are in some sort of military peril. that we are in some sort of ideological peril. intellectual peril. religious peril. i see the fastest way to get rid of the soviet union and their communism is to open the doors. to permit amercans to go ahead and do what they do best. whether it is in the area of education. medicine. agriculture. business. whatever. thid is what is going to remove the soviet union from this part of the world. but all we have right  in terms of a foreign policy. which has gone on through democratic and republican administrations. is name calling across the florida straits. our platform statementsi can speak for my own partyoffer simply more of the same. rather than a new constructive policy. i give credit to this administration. to the reagan administration for being the first one to recognize the overall needs of the region and what needs.to be done in terms of the elimination of communism from our hemisphere. as much as i disagree with the president on the matter of el salvador. there is question about the fact that he has recognized the macroproblem in the area. i do  agree with all aspects of it. but he is going to have my support on the caribbean basin initiative. because it means the united states. for the first time. will set foot on the ballfield. i am afraid most americans labor under the illusion that cuba sits there in isolation and other nations are doing what we are doing. the only difficulty with that is that all the products in the land are from canada. from spain. from japan. from england. from west germany. from france. everybody is there but the united states of america. insofar as the united states of america is concerned. i think we had 328.000 americans visit cuba in the last 5 years. then there are those who say. "well. wait until they run out of spare parts. then they will have to come to the united states." there is hing american on the island left any more that needs any spare parts. i am suggesting that i have egh faith in the democratic ideals of this nation. i have egh faith in the products of this nation and the people of this nation that i want to open it up between cuba and ourselves. because the minute that happens it is the united states and the matters that we believe in that will prevail. but to call for an extension of the policies of 1962 and the 1800s and all of the rest of it. that is the same philosophy that was here on the floor saying. lets maintain our hold on the panama canal." agreeing to the panama canal treaties is one of the best things the united states ever did. it was a great achievement of our generation. first as the canal was the techpological achievement of its generation. the fact that the united states in 1980 stepped to bat as the biggest kid on the block and said to one of the smallest nations. "we are going to deal with you as an equal." set the stage for a kind of relationship which will kick communism out of our hemisphere. i want a change of policy. i do  want generation after generation threatened by missile crises and soviet troop crises and boatlifts and whatever have you. somebody is going to pay in blood for this policy. when we can very well resolve these difficulties through peaceful means. through the ecoic development of the area. through the fact that the united states is willing to compete. willing to participate with the rest of the world in its relationship with cuba and  leave cuba in isolation. in a vacuum. with the soviet union. there has been a deterioration during the period of the very policy that the senator espouses. what has happened since 1962. in 1962. we did  have the soviet union with such a powerful presence in the area. we have it . 20 years later. as a result of the very policy which the senator from idaho advocates here on the floor. as i say. i am  in a position to determine what it is this administration will or will  do. some of its rhetoric has been as bombastic in relation to cuba as that of other administrations. but for the first time. there is the possibility that we are going to get to do what needs doing. which is to establish. in a formal way. relationships with the cuban people to have a u.s. presence there. when there is a u.s. presence and the vacuump is broken. it is only- a matter of time before the soviet union is removed from this hemisphere. but as long as we sit here and look upon this scene in the most simplistic of terms and feel that name calling is going to be accepted by someone who desires an education for his children or a roof over his head or medicine or food. believe me. communism will continue to spread. the type of policy which is advocated in this amendment is the reason we have el salvadors. the reason we have nicaraguas the reason we have guatemalasthis very type of policy. these are textbook cases. as was cuba at the end of the fifties of how communism comes to flower.
let the loudspeakers proclaim so that the senators or their staffs who may be listening to this debate can hear that what senator percy would do would be to wipe away the symms amendment. period. end of paragraph. i have the most respect in the world for my distinguished chairman. but let us engage in  obfuscation. what we will be doing if we do  table the percy amendmentand a motion in that connection will be madeis. we will be backing away from the monroe doctrine. we will be backing away from the position of the president of the united states. the secretary of state. the chairman of the senate armed services committee. and the ranking miity member of the senate armed services. committee. there have been some- confusing statements made about the war powers act.  of the . united states. mr. carter. to appease mr. castro. as summarized by the very distinguished and able under secretary of defense. dr. fred c. ikle. and just so it will be clear. i ask unanimous consent that the series of questions and answers between the senator from th carolina and dr. ikle be printed in the record again at this point.
joins me in this effort. in the house of representatives. an identical measure has been introduced by congresswoman barbara kennelly and cosponsored by all the other members of the connecticut delegation. there is a very good reason why those of us who represent the state of connecticut have a special interest in this subject. in americas early military history. the purple heart was awarded for conspicuous bravery. george washington established it on august 7. 1782. and it was soon thereafter awarded to three connecticut men. all of them sergeants. fighting in the war for american independence. sgt. elijah churchill of enfield. sgt. william brown of stamford. -and sgt. daniel bissell of east windsor thus became the first of more than 1 million americans to earn this ho. today. of course. the purple heart is awarded to members of the armed forces or civilians serving with them who are wounded while defending the hrterests of our nation. it thus symbo.3zes the personal sacrifice which americans have always made when their country has needed them. this is a truly significant part of our heritage and it is only fitting that we should reflect upon its meaning by observing purple heart month and hoing the tradition which began some two centuries ago in the heroic actions of three soldiers from connecticut.e
. today i join my colleague from connecticut in introducing a joint resolution that would set aside this month. may 1983. as purple heart month. last week. congresswoman kennelly introduced an identical resolution on behalf of the entire connecticut delegation. connecticut is proud to have been home to the three original recipients of the purple heart. which was at that time called the "badge of military merit." sgts. elijah churchill of enfield. william brown of stamford. and daniel bissell of east windsor all served during the american revolutionary war. they were awarded this ho for their conspicuous bravery. the first purple heart was presented to sergeant churchill on may 3. 1783. two hundred years later. the medal still stands as a symbol of both stouthearted bravery and selfless commitment by individuals to their country. today the purple heart is awarded to civilians as well as military who are wounded by the action of an opposing force. more than 1 million americans have received it since world war iand many of these died without seeing the medal their actions earned them. i think important for the whole nation to pause and remember these purple heart recipients. the living and the dead. and their valor on behalf of the nation.e
. i just want to add that we need to be as committed to pursuing arms control and arms reduction agreements as we are to modernizing our deterrent. all the bargaining chips in the world will do us good if we are  ardent in our efforts to sit down with our adversary and bargain in good faith.e
. for over 40 years jack mccloy has been an indispensable weapon in that "arsenal of democracy" he spoke about in the 1940s. with men and women of his caliber and integrity in positions of leadership. we are strong beyond the greatest aspirations of any opponent of the united states. as a senator from connecticut. i take this opportunity to say how proud our state and nation are of the career and contribution of jack mccloy. at a time when men and women of wealth and ability run from government. leaving the nation poorer. jack mccloy can take tremendous pride in the thousands of hours he has contributed to enriching the united states of america.
 has indicated he intends to inate. while i will reserve judgment on the individuals inated. at least the administration has taken a step away from the debilitating strategy of running the corporation with recess app~ointmnents. and i believe that a quoruim of the 11 individuals to be inated can probably be confirmed. to use an appropriate military analogy. in the wvar against the legal services corporation. thu preemptive strike has inet worked. guerrilla war has  worked and a war of attrition will  eitlivr. let us g~et on with the job with rf..sponsibly putting into place legislative mechanisms for doing this important job.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on public lands and reserved water. of the committee on energy and natural resources. be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on wednesday. august 8. at 2 p.m.. to hold a hearing to consider s. 2657. to withdraw and reserve for the department of the air force certain public lands within the nellis air force range. within clark. nye. and lincoln counties. nv. for use as a training and weapons testing area. and for other purposes. s. 2658. to withdraw and reserve for the department of the army certain public lands within the mcgregor range. otero county. nm. for use as training and weapons testing area. and for other purposes. s. 2659. to withdraw and reserve for the department of the air force certain public land within the luke air force range. maricopa. pima and yuma counties. az. for use as a training and weapons testing area. and for other purposes. 8. 2660. to withdraw and reserve for the department of the army certain public lands within the fort greely maneuver area. in the big delta area. ak. and certain public lands within the fort greeley air drop zone. in the granite creek area. ak. for use as a training and equipment development area. and for other purposes. s. 2661. to withdraw and reserve for the department of the army certain public lands within the forn wainwright maneuver area. fourth judicial district. ak. and for other purposes. and 8. 2662. to withdraw and reserve for the department of the navy certain public lands for the bravo 20 bombing range. churchill county. nv. for use as a training and weapons area. and for other purposes.
joins me in this effort. in the house of representatives. an identical measure has been introduced by congresswoman barbara kennelly and cosponsored by all the other members of the connecticut delegation. there is a very good reason why those of us who represent the state of connecticut have a special interest in this subject. in americas early military history. the purple heart was awarded for conspicuous bravery. george washington established it on august 7. 1782. and it was soon thereafter awarded to three connecticut men. all of them sergeants. fighting in the war for american independence. sgt. elijah churchill of enfield. sgt. william brown of stamford. -and sgt. daniel bissell of east windsor thus became the first of more than 1 million americans to earn this ho. today. of course. the purple heart is awarded to members of the armed forces or civilians serving with them who are wounded while defending the hrterests of our nation. it thus symbo.3zes the personal sacrifice which americans have always made when their country has needed them. this is a truly significant part of our heritage and it is only fitting that we should reflect upon its meaning by observing purple heart month and hoing the tradition which began some two centuries ago in the heroic actions of three soldiers from connecticut.e
. today i join my colleague from connecticut in introducing a joint resolution that would set aside this month. may 1983. as purple heart month. last week. congresswoman kennelly introduced an identical resolution on behalf of the entire connecticut delegation. connecticut is proud to have been home to the three original recipients of the purple heart. which was at that time called the "badge of military merit." sgts. elijah churchill of enfield. william brown of stamford. and daniel bissell of east windsor all served during the american revolutionary war. they were awarded this ho for their conspicuous bravery. the first purple heart was presented to sergeant churchill on may 3. 1783. two hundred years later. the medal still stands as a symbol of both stouthearted bravery and selfless commitment by individuals to their country. today the purple heart is awarded to civilians as well as military who are wounded by the action of an opposing force. more than 1 million americans have received it since world war iand many of these died without seeing the medal their actions earned them. i think important for the whole nation to pause and remember these purple heart recipients. the living and the dead. and their valor on behalf of the nation.e
. i just want to add that we need to be as committed to pursuing arms control and arms reduction agreements as we are to modernizing our deterrent. all the bargaining chips in the world will do us good if we are  ardent in our efforts to sit down with our adversary and bargain in good faith.e
. for over 40 years jack mccloy has been an indispensable weapon in that "arsenal of democracy" he spoke about in the 1940s. with men and women of his caliber and integrity in positions of leadership. we are strong beyond the greatest aspirations of any opponent of the united states. as a senator from connecticut. i take this opportunity to say how proud our state and nation are of the career and contribution of jack mccloy. at a time when men and women of wealth and ability run from government. leaving the nation poorer. jack mccloy can take tremendous pride in the thousands of hours he has contributed to enriching the united states of america.
 has indicated he intends to inate. while i will reserve judgment on the individuals inated. at least the administration has taken a step away from the debilitating strategy of running the corporation with recess app~ointmnents. and i believe that a quoruim of the 11 individuals to be inated can probably be confirmed. to use an appropriate military analogy. in the wvar against the legal services corporation. thu preemptive strike has inet worked. guerrilla war has  worked and a war of attrition will  eitlivr. let us g~et on with the job with rf..sponsibly putting into place legislative mechanisms for doing this important job.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on public lands and reserved water. of the committee on energy and natural resources. be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on wednesday. august 8. at 2 p.m.. to hold a hearing to consider s. 2657. to withdraw and reserve for the department of the air force certain public lands within the nellis air force range. within clark. nye. and lincoln counties. nv. for use as a training and weapons testing area. and for other purposes. s. 2658. to withdraw and reserve for the department of the army certain public lands within the mcgregor range. otero county. nm. for use as training and weapons testing area. and for other purposes. s. 2659. to withdraw and reserve for the department of the air force certain public land within the luke air force range. maricopa. pima and yuma counties. az. for use as a training and weapons testing area. and for other purposes. 8. 2660. to withdraw and reserve for the department of the army certain public lands within the fort greely maneuver area. in the big delta area. ak. and certain public lands within the fort greeley air drop zone. in the granite creek area. ak. for use as a training and equipment development area. and for other purposes. s. 2661. to withdraw and reserve for the department of the army certain public lands within the forn wainwright maneuver area. fourth judicial district. ak. and for other purposes. and 8. 2662. to withdraw and reserve for the department of the navy certain public lands for the bravo 20 bombing range. churchill county. nv. for use as a training and weapons area. and for other purposes.
let me refresh the memory of those of my generation about what we are talking about here. we all remember with great fondness one of spencer tracys last movies. "judgment at nuremberg." if you ask anybody what that movie was about. they will say it was a trial of the nazi war criminals. if you ask what war criminals. everyone scratches their heads. it was  the trial of goering. or goebbles. or any of the rest of these. it was the trial of the german judiciary which legalized the politics of national socialism in germany. the judges and the lawyers who made the law in the sense of a category of humanity being subhuman. in that case the jews. so my american friends start to get educated in this process. the laws of south africa state that blacks are subhuman. the laws of the government of south africa in every manner. shape. or formas to where one lives. the conduct of ones personal life. the education that one can receive. the matter of ones speechthe laws state that these 23 million people are  human beings. that is the issue beforethe nation.
. the choices we are about to make are  easy ones. they do  come cheap. with a greater degree of involvement comes a higher degree of responsibility for the.united states. we will doubt hear the timeworn appeal to profit. to anticommunism. to support for world war ii allies. i do  believe such arguments are valid  do they offer any prospect of a genuinely constructive role for the united states in preventing an imminent african holocaust. i believe we must act. i think this measure is. indeed. that action. to be true to our ideals is a realism that the world has been waiting for
. when the legislation comes before the senate i will support it vigorously. but only as long as i understand the true sacrifice that is going to be made in terms of our resources. our financial resources. that will be directed toward the war on drugs. so that we win the warthat we win the war as we will win the others for those that look to this nation for help and indeed for life
is it true. i ask the distinguished chairman of the appropriations committee. that upon passage of the bill we longer have an authorizing problem. we have an appropriations problem. that is very easy then to say. well. look. it is your baby. you find the money within those allocations. we are  telling you what to do. you find the money. we are already at the ceiling. i would only say this to my colleagues: that even before the bill came to the floor and the president made his proposal. that proposal was predicated on taking money away from alcohol programs. away from drug programs. away from the mentally ill. et cetera. that and those comments made on this floor is what resulted in the revision of the leadership package. so if the leadership package did  take money from those programs. it just did  say anything. so in effect what you are going to do is if you pass this bill without this matter being tended to. then in effect the original proposition is back in place. we have to take it from the mentally ill. we have to take it from alcohol. education. and so on down the list. it is  to keep you here late this evening. it is  to stall the war on drugs. if the chairman is adamant as he is. and i am as adamant i might add in joining him in opposing the passage of this bill. it is only to make everyone realize. especially the president since he is the one declaring and staring this fight. if we are going to have a war on drugs. we are going to pay for the war on drugs. period. it is as simple as that. i can assure my colleagues if the money were there. hey. i am  up here to oppose this. i think politically. realistically. any way you want to have it. this bill is going to make a great deal of sense. but if indeed you are going to sacrifice everyone in terms of winning this war. then at least let us make the sacrifice with a little courage here to do what has  been done up to the point which is to pay for it before. if i may conclude. it becomes a situation where the only way to pay for it is to penalize other elements of our society who indeed are just as weak as those addicted to drugs.
i thank the distinguished senator from oregon.  when he set up his initiative here and the way we are going to pay for it was out of exiting programs. if i were a cartoonist i would sort of sketch the picture of a gun being turned in against myself insofar as the war on drugs being paid for by funds being taken away from alcohol. mental health. and so forth. well. everyone found soon egh they did  want to go ahead and fund the war on drugs that way out of existing programs. which is referred to in the senseofthesenate resolution. the next thing we have is let us  fund it with anything. and if i were a cartoonist i suppose i would picture a gun i see many times with a little flag coming out saying. "bang." . the fact remains that we should have a war on drugs and we should pay for it. we have come to the realization in this senseofthesenate resolution we. are  going to do it out of existing programs. we are  going to penalize the alcoholic. the mentally ill. the retarded. the disabled. to pay for that one. we do  spend egh on those wars. never mind take away from them for the war on drugs. rather. as i understand what will  happen is that we will look for new allocations. and i think that is what is important.  reallocations. but a new allocation in some form to which we will turn to fund what will shortly be the senatepassed war on drugs. and we will do that as a part of the continuing resolution. that will be a meaningful statement.  just the authorizing legislation. and i ask that the nation look carefully on the senate as to what it does in the next 48 or 72 hours.  to what it does here in a vote in a few minutes when we pass a drug bill. that is meaningless. if either we turn the gun on ourselves or have the flag come out. but rather. as we follow it up. we are going to have an appropriations bill that will take resources of this nation. new resources. new allocations. and devote them to the war on drugs. that is what is at issue. . admittedly. my problem. and i think the problem of the distinguished chairman of the appropriations committee. is that we are doing a lot on faith here. it in effect takes a ball which is   in the appropriations court and it will put it in the appropriations court when the continuing resolution comes along. but i can assure everyone here. and i suspect i might have other colleagues. having heard some of -the comments around here. yes. i would. yes. i would debate at length the.con.s14274 tinuing resolution if it does  contain. new funds for the war on drugs. i think we have elevated the issue to such a height. to such visibility among the american public. to such visibility that it would indeed be a betrayal of the trust if in the continuing resolution which is the responsibility of the appropriations committee we permitted that to get out of here without new funding for this program. i say to the senator from colorado i have problem with taxes at all. but  at all. if this is such a big deal. then believe me it ought to be a big deal as to how we pay for it. and there is loose change lying around to do the job that needs to be done. have you ever thought about the billions of dollars the drug traffickers and organized crime puts into this product. you do  think we have to match that. of course. we do. did i hear the gavel.
. by celebrating greek independence day. we are celebrating democracy. history shows us that it was the greeks who formulated the foundations for our present day democracy. greece finally won its independence in 1827. after 400 years of being ruled by the ottoman empire. under the reign of the ottoman empire. the people of greece were deprived of the civil rights embodied in the u.s. constitution. today marks the 166th anniversary of the beginning of the revolution that freed the greek people. as in most battles for freedom. the uprising began years before the outbreak of war. in 1814. merchants and the like began forming an underground organization of all greeks in the european section of the sultans empire. in 1821. the revolution began in central greece as well as in the philoponnese and the aegean islands. after an arduous revolution lasting 6 years. freedom was finally won in greece. 120 years later. to uphold their belief in democracy. 600.000 greek citizens lost their lives fighting with the united states in world war ii. it is only appropriate that the united states takes part in the spirit of greek independence day. greek americans have contributed a considerable amount to our culture. with their architecture. art. science and literature. by recognizing this important anniversary. the united states is hoing the growth of democracy.e
to my distinguished friend from virginia. i certainly see hing in that unanimousconsent request which n any way sequences amendments. i really find it somewhat surprising that since the distinguished majority leader is on the floor he has been pressing for business under this bill. amendments under this bill.  that i am here trying to offer an amendment i am in effect being told that we have to wait on a quorum call and. believe me. i do  mind doing the business of the senate 7 days a week but i sort of object doing it on saturday when i am  allowed to do it on tuesday. unless there is something in the cards here that i do  k anything abouti would be delighted to have it explained to me by the distinguished senator from virginia or the majority leaderi would merely like to send by amendment to the desk. i might add i am perfectly willing. so the majority leader understands that hing is going to take place to delay this bill. i am willing to send it to the desk under a onehalfhour time agreement so there is question of delay. question of delay. but clearly. clearly facts in the persian gulf within the last 48 hours. i think. are new matter upon which the u.s. senate should pass. regardless of the vote that it took previously. the last time we did this we were within i months time after trying to avoid our responsibilities. 240 marines were killed on the tarmac in leba. maybe ody thinks this is hostilities and we can continue to say that the king is beautifully clothed. but i would suggest that these most recent events make it quite clear we are in hostilities. if we want to create an artificiality here. let us do it by a rollcall vote. but i would at least hope to have the courtesy of prusuing the business of this particular legislation. more particularly the amendment of senator s f2483 hatfield and myself. which. in effect. would invoke the war powers act.
i thank my distinguished colleague from washington for articulating precisely what is at issue here. because there are going to be those that stand up and say to vote for implementation or for triggering the war powers act. to vote that way means that you are against the u.s. presence in the gulf. it does  mean that at all. that is a separate vote. all it means is that you are voting for reality. for the truth. and for the law. period. and you can take it from there. maybe it is that there are those that will extend the time permitted the president to keep troops in the gulf. maybe it is. that is  the issue. or maybe those that want immediate withdrawal. because that also comes under the war powers act. or maybe those that say 60 to 90 days is sufficientthat is a separate issue. all that we are trying to do here is to make sure that precedent. and that is what we are establishing. defines the word "hostilities." that is all we are trying to do. if you say that what has happened in recent days is  hostilities. then that defines the word and that is precedent forever. at what point do you have hostilities. so do  let anybody be embarrassed by someone saying: well. there are those who want to cut and run. there are those who want to withdraw. some of us do feel that is an illadvised policy but that is  what i am going to debate here today and neither am i going to -accept it as a valid argument against the enactment of this amendment. the war power resolution is treated as if this were some sort of a debatable item. it is the law. if the president does  want to obey the law. if he feels it is unconstitutional. challenge it. but until it is challenged and overturned or repealed. it is the law. and the word is "hostilities." to me that does  require much imagining insofar as its definition is concerned. the u.s. senate flew in the face of all reality. given that opportunity. when senator hatfield offered his amendment last week. the senator has a pretty good e for these things in the course of history. i think. we all realize it is  a newfound interest of his. he has a pretty good e for where things lead. the senate rejected that opportunity. i am sure that many rejected it with the hope that this is all going to turn out all right. it is just like the last time. you k. one marine. that does  get anybody too excited. it does me. that is quite egh. two marines does  get anybody too excited. two hundred and forty. boy. we can ige that. i do  think we can ige any longer the reality of the persian gulf. i think the american people have the right to express themselves on this matter and especially express themselves on the matter of whether the determination of the price to be paid in resources and life is to be made by 535 or by 1. the president does  derive his presidency from being commander in chief. jake javits articulates that in this article. he derives being commander in chief from his presidency. it is high time this nation either accepts this constitutional government. which we are  celebrating. or it seeks something more expeditious. but as long as we have that constitution and the laws enacted under it. i suggest among all the citizens. this body should lead in obeying the law.  senator hatfield.
there are only about 5 minutes or so left here before the 5 oclock hour and the introduction of the other weicker amendment. but i want to use that time to once again refresh everyones memory as to what is exactly at issue here. what is at issue is  our policy in the persian gulf. indeed. i have  arrived at a final conclusion as to whether i support or i do  support our policy in the persian gulf. what is at issue here is a simple living up to the letter of the law as that law is  on the books. specifically the war powersact. it is  a question of whether we are going to cut or run. or whether we are right or wrong in any individual action in the persian gulf. indeed. i would say that the actions taken yesterday which precipitated my amendment were just that. hostile actions against the government of the united states. and it is just because they were hostile actions against my government. our government. that i put in the amendment relative to the war powers act which triggers that act when either we are engaged in hostilities or hostilities are imminent. so let us make it clear that the persian gulf policy is  the issue. the war powers act is. i understand the length of time required to get a substitute to the weicker amendment. it is occasioned by several factors.  1. there are those that are concerned with flexibility. well. the war powers act is about as flexible as you can get. you go from 60 days of ou" presence in an area to 90 days to an indefinite period of time if. that is whit the congress wants to vote. so time is  the issue. what is at issue is that eventually sooner or later this body has to take upon itself the responsibilityof determining whether our troops should be in that situation of hostilities. and there is avoiding that. i would suggest that any sort of a substitute amendment is just thatan attempt to avoid -the simple clarity of the war powers act and the responsibility being placed on the shoulders of the u.s. senators. that is the result to be achieved by any substitute pure and simple. i just make these concluding remarks. and i will save the rest of the debate for tomorrow. i again do  in any way want to foreclose my distinguished colleague from virginia
. because it is inconvenient to a political party. because it is inconvenient to a philosophy. or because it offends some particular personal feelings. the fact is that the war powers law is  an idea. it is  just a legacy of jack javits. it is the law of the land. and it ought to be obeyed. it is being flouted. and it is being flouted by those in the highest places. and that does  just mean ronald reagan. it means every man and woman in this body who chooses to ige it or in some way delay or obviate its application. it is time to stand up and be counted. but before we stand up and be counted on what the policy ought to be in the persian gulf. i think we ought to stand up and be counted on what the policy ought to be in the united states of americawhether indeed we have  become a government of men rather than a government of laws. that is a meaty subject. but that is exactly the issue before us. if we can get by that first issue. that first confrontation. there really is  much point to anything we do here. matter what we do and matter how secure we think it is in the constitutional process. when we choose to ige it. i am  willing to sacrifice that on the altar of the persian gulf. that is the most basic tenet to the greatness of this nation. that is the issue that confronts us. and we are all part of it. it is  a matteragain i repeatof fingerpointing. that it is somebody elses problem. this one is ours. i hope that the motion of the distinguished majority leader is denied. for one reasonthat we might all agree in this body to have three votes:  1. on the defense authorization bill.  2. on the war powers act. and  3. on the policy in the persian gulf. that is what we were elected to do. the results of those votes then make us accountable to the people who sent us here. and we are  wandering around in a fog of constitutional and parliamentary maneuvers. i k how i feel on the defense authorization bill. i k how i feel about upholding the law of the land. and i am beginning to k how i feeland how i will voterelative to the policy in the persian gulf. so let us have three votes. i am sure the majority. leader and the miity leader would be glad to agree. without filibuster. to have three votes. if anybody wants to play games and say. "i agree to one and  the other"-i beg your pardon. i guess there is a fourth: salt ii. but let us have those votes. that is the reason for my support of this motion. and i hope we would move from that point to having all of us. in our various ways. reaffirm our belief in what it is we are supposed to be doing here
 and the congress have to continually decide on whether armed forces introduced into a particular situation of. hostility will remain in that situation of hostility. that. then. becomes a joint decision. that is all that is involved in the war powers act. . to address some of the specifics that.i heard this morning: one of my colleagues said. well. obviously this matter of the united states helicopters and the gunboats was defensive in nature. as far as we are concerned. it was a response to a hostile iranian action. i do  disagree. i do  disagree. but that has hing to do with the war powers act. i searched mightily throughout the entire law and the words "offensive" and "defensive" never appear. the only operative word. the only operative word is "hostilities." those hostilities can be defensive. they can be offensive. but the only operative word is "hostilities." so the fact that our forces were defending themselves has hing to do with triggering the war powers act or  triggering it. hostilities: in the absence of a declaration of war. in any case in which the united states armed forces are introduced into hostilities or into situations where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances. those are the only operative words. then i heard aher colleague indicate: well. this actually is  warfare. this is terrorism. i probably would find fault with his description at all. but. again. there is word "terrorism" in this act. the word is "hostilities." or "imminent hostilities." and hostilities can take any form. it can take the form of terrorist activitywhat we have come to define as warfare. i do  care what term you use. if it is "hostile." there is the operative word. then i heard a rather remarkable statement by somebody in thei do  k if it was the defense department or the state departmenta mr. armitage. i wonder if i might ask my good friend. mr. warner. who is secretary armitage.
well. i saw secretary armitage get on the screen with a straight face and say: well. we do  see where anything has happened to invoke the war powers act. whether you agree or whether you disagree. i do  think any of us would say that hing has occurred. in terms of hostilities. then i heard various newscasters refer to the president saying. well. this is unconstitutional. the war powers act. why is it unconstitutional. something only becomes unconstitutional if it is so determined by our constitutional system. i can make something unconstitutional. as a senator. and the president can make it unconstitutional as a president. the constitutional process. including the judicial branch of government. makes something unconstitutional. so let us do away with all this saying it is unconstitutional or might be unconstitutional. we have a way of determining those things in this government of ours. then my friends in the news media have come up with some very inative words. i iced one reporter from one of the networks indicating that this incident. iranians attacking u.s. forces. this was hostilities. whereas last week in the mine laying incident. that was a passive attack. you konly in washington. dc. only in washington. dc. listen to those words: "a passive attack." what all this adds up to is everybody is bobbing and weaving. ducking. doing whatever they can to avoid the very straightforward. direct language of the law. clearly. hostile acts have taken place. those hostile acts have been directed toward the united states and other nations of the world by the combatants in the persian gulf area. i do  care whether it is the laying of mines. whether it is shooting missiles at our helicopters. whether it is missiles that damage our ships and kill and maim our personnel. clearly. all these things have transpired and all these things. by any definition. are hostilities. and hostilities triggers the law of the land. it is  what i think or senator warner thinks or the president thinks as far as the status of the law. if there be a challenge. let there be a challenge and let it be called unconstitutional. i think it is necessary to put this in the proper focus. i k that it is a very strong suit that my opponents play when they try to give the impression that a vote on war powers in fact is a vote on policy. we certainly do  want to cut and run. somebody asked me the question earlier today how would i vote on the matter of our policy right  in the persian gulf. i would guess i would probably support the president. i would like to hear the debate. i would like to have all the facts before me as to exactly what has transpired in further detail from that which we already k. i would guess that at this moment and for a time to come i would support the policy of the president. but that is separate and distinct from whether or  we are going to live up to the law that is on -the books. amount of speculation as to what the law is or is  substitutes for obeying the law. and amount of fancy footwork on words can substitute for obeying the law. and use of words such as "terrorism" or "defensive" substitutes for the lagnuage that is in the law. i think we can handle this matter in the sense of both fulfilling our duties and obeying the law and in supporting our president and his policy. but the minute that we get into the type of fever over u.s. policy to the point where we disregard the law. then we are headed for trouble. the matters of war and peace. whether by the constitution or by the laws of this nation. are matters to be decided jointly by the president of the united states and the congress. indeed. if there were weight to .be given as to who has the primary responsibility. it clearly is the congress of the united states. there is power given to the president. either to declare war or to provide for war. one last word: let us at least have the courage to vote on the matter. i am: perfectly satisfied to take a tabling motion. obviously. i prefer it to be up or down. but i am  going to sit here and prolong debate today on this matter. we have gone through the exercise. mine is a straight. clean war powers resolution. it does  mix policy and war powers. it cites the incident of yesterday and then brings into being the war powers act and all that entails. so either let us vote or let us have those who do  want to vote stand up and say. "we do  want to vote. we want to delay this matter. we want either events to take us off the hook or a situation to occur which gives us a more favorable position." let them stand up and give their excuses why we should  vote. if we are  going to vote and there is going to be a lot of talk. so be it. let it  be on the heads of those who are simply advocating that the senate do its duty
first of all. i concede we certainly have loopholes. one of the loopholes being that the rules of the senate makes it impossible to get a vote. so there is a loophole. any new law that we write should say withstanding the rules of the u.s. senate you can go ahead and vote. but let me say this: in the sense of trying to achieve what i think we are all looking for. why do we  have two votes. why do we  have a vote on the war powers resolution. and why do we  have a vote on supporting the president in the persian gulf..  i have problem with that. e whatsoever. as far as i am concerned. the senator. and correctly so. wants the world to be aware of the fact that we support the actions of our troops. whether yesterday. or a week ago in the persian gulf. i support it. i suspect a heavy majority of the senate .supports it. let us say so. on the other hand. let us also say that we support the laws of our government. if that is two votes. let us have two votes. let us agree to that so ody can duck out of either responsibility.
. he made a commitment and he is  the same as we. it is the intention of the resolution. of the senator from connecticut to have it that we are making a commitment. the united states is making a commitment. that is the object of this exercise: that it is we instead of he. there are those that think we can slip indirectly into a war and there is price to be paid. that we can sit back and if he succeeds. we bask in the success. if he fails. we can condemn. this is a shared responsibility. it is a shared commitment that i seek here this aftern. success and failure do  fall on the head of one man. in this great nation. as ben franklin put it. the people rule. success or failure sits on all of our heads. if we are going to have a policy that makes sense then we ought to decide that. but most important. we ought to decide  as always that we remain a government .of laws and  let that be our casualty of the conflict in the middle east. so i would hope that the motion to table is tejected and that. . we establish a partnership in u.s. policy. a partnership in risk. a partnership in success. if that partnership exists there will be failure.
. this is friday. and as events would have it. this could well be war powers day again. i was wondering whether or  the majority leader has any intention of allowing that matter to come before the senate.
if i might alert for the planning purposes of the distinguished majority leader. i would hope the resolution would be brought back before the body. but if it is . i should advise the distinguished majority leader that any legislation coming to the floor today will be so amended. so one way or the other. we will be debating war powers today.
i would like to indicate. as i did before. that i would hope we could use senate joint resolution 194 to debate war powers: to alert my colleagues. i expect we will have a vote. even if it means. again. there will be a tabling motion on the amendment of senator hatfield and myself as a seconddegree amendment to the byrdwarner. so there will be a vote. i would hope we would have a few minutes for discussion. we have  all learned what reflagging a tanker means. reflagging a tanker means when a missile hits that tanker it is the same as if a missile were to. hit the capitol. there is difference. once again. it is ironic that every single friday i have stood on this floor redrafting my amendment with a new incident which clearly calls for the war powers act to be invoked. and each friday. of course. it is  invoked. i want to assure my colleagues that we will once again have the opportunity to vote on that issue today. we are making progress. however. when senator hatfield first offered the war powers act amendment. it was tabled. the second time. last week. it was  tabled by a vote of 37 to 52. maybe the senate will finally get to that point where we are obeying the law. i would hope that would be the case. certainly. there will be an opportunity today. on the assurance of the majority leader. that the matter will be taken up.
which he would discuss during the time that we are alloting and that that be a 10minute rollcall vote with the call for the regular order to be made automatically at the close of 10 minutes. . senators may discuss this war powers resolution as long as they wish after the vote. i doubt that the resolution will be tabled in any event. they can speak afterward and put their statements in the record. that would be the last rollcall vote today.
 or our armed forces: sense. we are our weakest when we do  debate in the united states. and i will end my few comments by saying i remember standing on this floor when a resolution was voted adjunct to the war powers act extending the time of our u.s. marines in leba by 18 months. everybody ks what tragedy ensued when 241 brave young men lost their lives. after they lost their lives. people started to ask the questions: was that a tactically sound position. why were we there. why were they  protected. those questions should have been asked before the resolution passed this floor. those questions need to be asked  as to the policy of this nation in the persian gulf. indeed throughout the world where brave young men and women risk their lives on behalf of this flag. that is what the war powers act calls for. that is what should be done. that is the law of the land. it is  what senator weicker thinks. it is the law of the land and there is better place to enforce the law of the land than the floor of the u.s. senate
 reagan thinks or what senator warner or what senator byrd thinks. lastly. the war powers act does exactly what the amendment does. except it is currently the law of the land. the law gives us the information necessary to make our decisions and those decisions of war and peace are decisions of life and death. indeed. if you think we have a commitment to those who are in the gulf . i also would suggest that we have a commitment to those who will go to the gulf and we better have the facts upon which to make our decisions
 of the united states but rather by the representatives of the people of the united states. let them understand that we are  going to devise any policies which on. the face invite further risk and add hing to the perception of our intelligence. that is. such as reflagging tankers and just saying we are going to protect them in certain situations setting them up for other situations. these are really the issues that stand before us. i do  k what further amendments my distinguished friend from th carolina has. but i certainly have quarrel with some very essential statements of u.s. intentions. and u.s. history. and u.s. policy as is contained in the amendments before us. and it gives an opportunity to everyone on this floor  to say ok. this is the way we feel on these matters. indeed. the more of these kinds of amendments that are presented. i hope maybe we would  only have going on record as being against iran but once the record is clear if we can go to the pure war powers amendment of weickerhatfield rather than the watered down one of my good friends. senator byrd and senator warnerwhen i say "watered down" i do  mean that in a derogatory way. i think what they are doing is something that at least can get passed around here. there is much merit in that. but by the time we are through with these statements that i think in the absence of which a lot of people are nervous around here. once we get through with these statements. maybe we can actually do the job that the law requires us to do which is to invoke the war powers act.
reserving the right to object. i think we are on record as a matter of policy. i am having a great deal of difficulty with the watereddown evasion of our duty under the law as it is written. i am still grappling with that. as you have said all along. these are two different debates. the war powers and our policy in the gulf. i was glad to support the distinguished senator from th carolina in a statement of policy. but  incorporating it into a war powers enactment. which is a dilution of the war powers act. i am  given the choice of voting for something which is both a watereddown powers and a statement of policy merged with diluted war powers. i am afraid i have some problems with that. it is  that i am  proud of my vote on both of these amendments. i am. i will stick by them. but conceptually. we have  come to the very point that i warned against at the outset of the debate. both as far as byrdwarner is concerned and as to a merging of war powers with policy. and therein lies my objection.
. reserving the right to object. it was my understanding we were talking about continuing on the war powers debate on byrdwarner until n tomorrow. and then moving to bork. the reason why i think that is important is i have an amendment to byrdwarner.  as the amendment of the distinguished senator from th carolina to the underlying resolution. i wanted to make sure there was time to go ahead and do that. i do  think anybody wants to delay.
 in the managing of a war but in the stating of a policy. the miity leader has expressed reservations. and did early on. about the reflagging policy.  he says we did . so we are stuck with it.  we are . we all agree. from beginning to end. that there will be a presence in the gulf to make sure of the free flow of commerce in international waters. that was a policy stated early on. and i think everybody in this body agrees with that. but whatever the decisions to be made. which involve  only the men and women of our armed forces in the gulf  but also those that will go to the gulf. i suggest that we are going to have a far stronger nation and the commitment will be far stronger if it is our commitment. rather than his commitment
i say with respect to my distinguished colleague. the senator from oregon . that prior to his initial effort in trying to invoke the war powers acthis initial effort.  weicker- hatfield. but hatfieldto invoke the war powers act. when he was tabled. to the point where we have had two tabling motions on weickerhatfield which have  succeeded. that is the measure of the perspicacity of this man. of seeing what the issue was before any of us say the issue. indeed. we have come to the point where we are today largely by virtue of his efforts. and i want the record to state that he had his neck out there when it was totally unpopular. way ahead of any of us and he still does. we are discussing the war powers act and the american people are appreciating what it is all about and. yes. i think the president has given a recognition of what the law of the land isit may  be compliance. but recognitionas indicated by the senator from oregon. i want to say that and i ask unanimous consent upon the termination of the remarks of the distinguished senator from maryland that i regain the right to the floor.
 who has tried to confuse the two issues by making it look as if those of us that are for the war powers act are somehow undermining our men and women in uniform in the gulf. i have been offended by that and others have been offended by it. there are two different subjects: compliance with the war powers act and our policy in the persian gulf. it is true. as my friend from oregon indicated this morning. there is disagreement with many actions taken in the persian gulf. that is his prerogative. as the distinguished senator from virginia indicated and the distinguished senator from connecticut has indicated. i have serious reservations about the reflagging policy. i think it is a terrible policy. it leads to exactly the type of situation we saw the other day where we reflag a kuwaiti tanker and everyone has the right to presuppose that we are going with the full backing of the united states of america. flying the stars and stripes. all of a sudden the secretary of state is on television saying. "we agreed to protect it only in international waters rather than in the harbor." what kind of sense is that. they are making it a sitting duck. obviously. the iranians will  attack it in international waters. but only in the harbor. so there are ways of expressing dissatisfaction with that type of policy. i think the interests of this nation and the armed forces are served by a spirit of cooperation. we have yet to see that. i might add. in terms of a free flow of information between the executive and the legislative branches. as i said earlier this morning. it has  been our commitment. it has been his commitment. it is time it was either our commitment or our disagreement or whatever. so it is in the spirit of cooperation that i will back the amendment of the distinguished senator from virginia and the distinguished senator from west virginia. but i will  say that this is either compliance  do i want the record to show that de facto we are modifying the war powers act. some individual can stand up on this floor a year from  and he can use this as a precedent. this type of amendment. as satisfying the requirements of the war powers act. i am going to make darn sure that is  going to happen because what this says is we are  complying with. we are  modifying. and we are  negating one period.  one word. in the war powers act. i would suggest that such language as i have just read i think far more accurately describes what it is my distinguished colleagues from west virginia and virginia are trying to do than the title language that was left by virtue of the construction of their amendment. somehow. and i will leave it to the distinguished senator from west virginia who i think we all agree is the parliamentary genits around here. i will leave to him to devise how he so modifies that language. i am putting everybody on ice as to exactly what will happen immediately upon passage of byrdwarner. and i hope it will pass. that this language will be coming hard on its heels and i hope it will pass. as far as this senator is concerned. i have further interest in this debate. as a matter of fact. i hope we can wrap it up. i think we all have the right to introduce war powers resolutions any time we want to. but i think it is important that the world perceive we have done something precise and concise around here. although it might be less than i hoped for. i say to my distinguished friend from virginia. but at least we have done something that is directed toward the stalemate.
exactly what i stated already to my distinguished friend from oregon. i think it is an attempt to begin the process of cooperation. the flow of information. between the executive and legislative branch. let us say the facts as to what they are. with due deference to my good friend from virginia and all these meetings that have taken placeand i k he has listed them and they are as stated but that is a rather small groupwe do have the letter from the president in the congressional record. but really there has been communication. on the other hand. the u.s. senate. credit to it. has been unwilling to exercise its responsibilities under the war powers act. it tries to get things off dead center as far as both institutions are concerned.
again i repeat to my good friend. you do  have to argue with me. i am saying in the amendment i hope will pass this body. we are  complying with the war powers act. neither are we modifying or negating for the future.
in other words. let us assume the fact that we modified the beginning title such as described by the distinguished senator from west virginia. the title is modified. then we have byrdwarner. and let us assume that passes. i then i will offer an amendment at the end of the resolution as amended. add the following: withstanding any language or title of this resolution. hing contained herein shall be construed as complying with. modifying. or negating any provisions of the war powers resolution of 1973. public law 93-
then might i ask the majority leader if he could propound a unanimous consent request that upon the disposition of byrdwarner i be recognized to offer the amendment that is described relative to the war powers act.
. i would be delighted to have a vote up or down on the weickerhatfield resolution. indeed. that has been my position consistently over the past weeks. unfortunately. after we dispose of byrdwarner. assuming it is defeated. we are  going to any consideration of the weicker resolution. i introduced an amendment here a few minutes ago reducing the reporting time from 60 to 30 days. thirtyeight senators voted against that. and. mind you. 30 days is 28 days longer than required by the war powers act. so it is very clear that there is a substantial body that does  want anything to do with the u.s. senate involvement. insofar as either the war powers act or policy in the persian gulf. what is the alternative. the alternative is we do  vote on weickerhatfield. we defeat byrd. and. in effect. this body ends up saying: we really do  want to have anything to do with the situation. what kind of an image does that present to the nation insofar as the senate is concerned. we want to have a say in policy. yet we are unwilling to go ahead and enforce the law as it stands and we are  even willing -to make the most modest of efforts to devise a policy jointly between the legislative and the executive branch of government. i was  for byrdwarner. there is question in my heart: i am against it. but i look at what has transpired up to this pointwhich is hing. i look to what is going to occur after the defeat of byrdwarnerand i see hing. and it is "hing" that is unacceptable. insofar as stating what the policies of this government are going to be. i have already stated for the record that immediately upon the disposition of byrdwarner. assuming that it were passed. that i would offer an amendment saying that we have neither complied with the war powers act. we have  modified it. we have  negated it. we have  done anything with the war powers. all we have done is take one small step. hopefully bringing together the legislative and executive branches of our government in devising joint policy for u.s. involvement in that part of the world. i love the idea. and i think the colleagues who k my style. they believe me when i say it: i love the idea of hanging out there alone with weickerhatfield.
 i am talking about that amendment which had a unanimous consent request that had byrdwarner passed it would have been the next order of business and would have said at the end of the resolution add the following: withstanding any language or title of this resolution. hing contained herein shall be construed as complying with. modifying or negating any provision of the war powers resolution of 1973 (public law 93148).
i thank the distinguished majority leader. let the record be straight. we did  invoke the war powers act visavis grenada. we did  invoke the war powers act. we passed a resolution visavis leba at our own determination. and  because of anything that the president triggered. i think the record should be square on that account.
. i ask that two documents pertaining to alternate uses of the t800 engine be included in the record: first. a letter to me from the under secretary of the army. james r. ambrose dated august 8. 1985. and second. a followup army information paper dated september 3. 1985. i ask unanimous consent that these documents be printed in the congression-
do you want to k the dimensions of what we are talking about here. i suspect that the education tab alone is $2 to $3 billion in education costs. yet there are such funds presenting themselves before us for judgment. only. let the military to it. with the thought that we do  have to ask for additional money. ody asked to pay for the vietnam war. it raised ecoic hell. and ody won the war. this war is going to raise hell ecoically. and well  win it. this is a horrible amendment mainly because it is deceptive.
 reagans support of arms control and his efforts to reduce the threat of nuclear war. i am hopeful that future adminsitrations will remain comnitted to arms control negotiations. and the inf treaty will act as the foundation for future agreements on strategic and longrange missiles.
i thank my distinguished colleague. i commend him on his proposition which is  before the senate. for those who do  understand the complexities of the issue. it is really  very complex. the *fact is that congress isunwilling to exercise its constitutional prerogatives. the constitution is very clear on who should declare war. it is the congress of the united states. yet. we will  do so. presidents. on the other hand. have abrogated to tphemselves the power to declare war. to involve troops. all those matters that really properly belong to the congress. still the congress is afraid to say  the constitution is. i believe. quite clear and simple on the.point. which is that congress declares the war. the president is then given the details. if you will. to execute. you can have 535 people directing conflict. on the other hand. the people of the united states. since they have to pay the price in both lives and in money. should make the decision. a policy decision. if you will. a policy decision on whether or  their lives are going to be risked and their money is going to be spent. . before i get to the formal pormton of my statement. i would like to read a letter. only because i think it is very clear in framing the matter before us. i would like to read into the record a letter from the american civil liberties union. they wrote: drt.a senatoa weickre: on monday. jute 6. 1988. the senate will consider s.j. res. 305. a resolution which would authorze the continued deployment of u.s. forces in ihe persian gulf pursuant to the war powers resolution. on behalf of the american civil liberties union. we urge you to oppose any point of order challenging the privileged status of sj. lies. 305 under the war powers resolution. te aclu takes position on the merits of president reagans persian gulf policies or the wisdom of seeking to effectuate them through the deployment of u.s. naval forces which began last july. however. the aclu believes that both the president and the congres:i have thus far failed to fulfill their respective obligations under the war powers resolution with respect to this deployment. the violent military engagements which occurred between u.s. and iranian forces in september and october of 1987 and again in april of this year have unquestlopably proven that u.s. forces in the persian gulf were introduced "into hostilities or into situations where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances." although the president has continuously refused to ackledge this fact. and has  reported these circumstances to congress as required by the war powers resolution. congress has a legal obligation under that statute to assess the situation for itself so that it may determine whether the deployment shall be continued or broken off pursuant to its constitutional warmaking powers. when s.j. res. 305 comes to the senate floor on june 6. the senate will have the opportunity to fulfill its statutory duties by first making a determination regarding the existence of "hostilities" and then deciding whether to specifically authorize the contintied use of u.s. forces in the persian gulf under those circunmtances. in light of the events that have occurred over the past nine months. the aclu urges you to ackledge the realities of the persian gulf "hostilitics" by rejecting any point of order challenging the privileged status of s.j. res. 305 under the war powers resolution. such a measure is "privileged" when "hostilities" exist. and only a refusal to ackledge the true conditions of the persian gulf deployment could deny the propriety of according s.j. res. 305 "privileged" status. the aclu recognizes that mnny problems exist with the war powers resolution in its present form. for this reason. we welcome the introduction of the proposed war powers resolution amendments of 1988 by senators byrd. nunn. warner. ar.d mitchell. we also welcome the opportunity for public debate and discussion of the war powers issue through the hearing process that must accompany consideration of this legislation. and we urge the senate foreign relations committee to begin such hearings as soon as possible. nevertheless. until the present war powers resolution is amended. repealed or judicially struck down. its provisions are law and the obligations they establish are owed full weight and respect by the nstltutionfthat created them. . that is a pretty succinct and i think accurate representation of the matter that is before us today. june 6. 1.988  to have his way. that is why congress must disregard the differences amg its members and fight for its constitutional prerogatives. . that is the reality of the situation that hasexisted over the past several years. ody is suggesting that a war should be fought under the direction of tile congress of the united states. but what i am suggesting to you is that the policy of war shouldbe decided by the congress of the united states. . granted. we have ridiculed the constitution of the united states by our inaction. but i do  see any reason to compound it by ridiculing the war powers resolution. if you want it off the books. repeal it. but for 100 senators who are pledged to uphold a government of laws to stand here and say that hostilities do  exist in the persian gulf is to teach our children fantasy rather than to teach them the rule of law. i mean. if we can do something so simple as recognize the law of the land. who are we to criticize those in this nation who fight in the jungles. if you will. and ige the law. albeit in more violent form. we do violence here to the law.
 reagans achievements in the field of arms control and his efforts to reduce the threat of nuclear war. i hope future administrations will remain committed to arms control and that the inf treaty will act as a foundation for future agreements.*
. today i introduced a joint resolution commemorating the signing of the rushbagot agreement on april 2829. 1817. in washington. d.c. the still operative agreement provided for naval disarmament along the great lakes and lake champlain. in commemorating the signing of the agreement 150 years ago. it should be pointed out that this is an unusual example of an undefended and unfortified 3.500 mile frontier treaty between canada and the united states that endures to this day it is truly magnificent testimony of americancanadian relations. it is thus especially fitting that we give the rushbagot agreement the national recognition and admiration it deserves.
. the continued crisis in the middle east. where two parallel but conflicting national movements have existed since 1917and surely since 1947seems as far removed from solution today as it has at any time of the modern history of the area. in past weeks. we have seen tragedy strike children in schoolyards and on buses while our state department still weighs the possibility of selling phantom jets to the israel government. it is difficult to conceive the rationale which surrounds our hesitancy in this particular instance. even though a final resolution of the unrest still eludes us. the history of the conflict in this area has only one lesson. i believe. and that lesson is that the only deterrent to a further escalation of the hot war is a recognition on the part of the united states of the validity of superior israel military strength. israel asks only for her right to survive. she has earned her right to defend herself with her own blood. she asks gifts of men or arms from our government. after all. she only asks for the right to buy planes. the way to evaluate friendship between governments is through actions. while we are assured by secretary rogers that it is in the best interest of our government that "israel survives as a nation." it is naive to think that peace can be achieved in the middle east without the parties to the conflict being part of the negotiations. the military fact is that peace in the middle east will only be secure if israel is strong egh to keep that peace. as long as the arab nations feel that israel stands alone. they will take advantage and pursue the war of attrition. as long as it suits the soviet union. they will continue to pursue a course of harassment in the situation. our position must be to encourage israel to come up with some new proposal for the area while she is absolutely assured of our complete support and backup strength. under these circumstances. perhaps. forces within the israel government could be in a stronger position. for instance. to at least consider the possibility of suggesting that the palestinian organizations also be invited to negotiate directly with israel with the possibility of an independent palestinian state formed in the west bank area of jordan which has been occupied by israel since the 7day war. as suggested by schlomo avineri. of hebrew university. the palestinians would have everything to gain from this kind of arrangement. it would begin to solve the refugee problem. it would give the palestinians a legal base with which to negotiate with other arab countries. it would indicate a willingness on the part of israel to accept the fact of arab nationalist interests. it would also begin to cool the concern of the soviet union as to the intent of our government in that area. since it would emphasize the right of selfdetermination of the arab and the israelis. i also believe that a solution to the boundary problems in the middle east will best be served if somehow the arab nations were contiguous to each other. which perhaps could be accomplishedas prof. nadov safron of harvard suggestsby trading of territory between the israelis and the egyptians. i strongly urge our government. as peacemaker in the area. to encourage israel to make creative proposals. assured that her security will be protected by the united states. the arab states and the soviet union are  natural allies in this part of the world. the united states and soviet union have been on the same side of the problems besetting this area more times than they have been in opposition. if we can somehow show evidence of accepting the nationalist aspirations of the egyptians as well as of the palestinians. we will have done much to cool the feelings of the arabs toward us. while we continue through actions and words to support the justified military needs to israel and encourage her to take the initiative in showing recognition of those nationalist aspirations. most of the raid activity in the area is being conducted by palestinian guerrillas. protected by the fact that arab government feels responsible for their actions. the guerrillas have hing to losegovernment. landso they also have everything to gain by some recognition of their national aspirations. even though they seem to show the most hostile attitude toward israel at the present time. i offer this as a step toward thinking constructively in this direction. it can only be done. however. if israel is assured of our absolute commitment to her. we must back up that commitment by immediate sale and delivery of the jets she so desperately needs to be able to negotiate from strength. she must be able to measure her own strength by at least being assured of the support of her friends. it is important to state. in summary. that as a nation we have a rare opportunity in this area to truly support a government conceived in liberty and dedicated to democratic principles while we need to encourage an acceptance of two nationalist movements. it is irrelevant to discuss the issue in terms of zionism. we must begin to encourage negotiation on existential terms. both among the arab nations and the israelis. peace in the middle east is to the advantage of the soviets as well as ourselves. if we could adopt a position of benevolent neutrality. this would also suit the soviet union. because its fundamental interest is to deny us major influence in the area through neutralization and demilitarization.
. the point i was trying to make. and i trust i have made it clearly. is that the united states must give more consideration to what mao tsetung does than what he says. that we should consider the mentality of the people with whom we are dealing. and look for the motivations or reasons that these public proncements are made. i assure the junior senator from iowa that i believe. as does he. that we should never drop our guard. that we should always be on the lookout for any warnmg whatever that mao tsetung or anyone in controi of the peking government is ready to move in any act of geographic expansion. on the second point. with respect to the 10 years acceptance of this war. or 2 years. i assure the junior senator from iowa that i would be happy. as would all of the american people. if this war could end today. and certainly i am hopeful. as is he. that it would  go beyond 2 years. but. again. i would refer to what i found when i was in vietnam. the problem is so immense that even if the war were stopped today. it would require great ecoic material support for south vietnam. it would require american troops to stay there for a pe of time to enable the development of the viable political. social. and ecoic institutions that are essential for the stability of the south vietnamese government. in way would i suggest that this war should continue for 10 years or even for 10 days. i am hopeful that the distinguished junior senator is right when he predicts that it will  go beyond 2 years. however. i have doubts as to what we can do if the war should go beyond the 2year period. for even if it does. unless circumstances radically change. i would still be opposed to the escalation of that war. i would be opposed to any action which carried the war beyond the limitations within which it is presently being fought. and i would be opposed to anything that would prompt or provoke peking into greater participation in this war. resulting in a third world war.
. i introduce a bill to prescribe the geographical limits of the naval districts and to provide that the commandants thereof shall be officers  below the grade of rear admiral. and i ask unanimous consent that a very brief explanation of the purpose of the bill be printed in the record immediately following the listing of the bill.
. there are two extreme directions which the present situation in greece can take: civil war or military dictatorship. obviously. it is  in the interests of the greek people. or of world peace. that either of these courses be followed. the best course demands a relaxation of military control. and a restoration of civil liberties and political freedom. in this process. the united states can play a most constructive role. our government should make kn our condemnation of the actions of the coup. and our conviction that a military takeover represents a serious setback in the political development of greece. at the same time. though painfully. we must realize. as has king constantine. that the existing government is. for the time being. in firm control. and is unlikely to revert simply and instantly to the previous system. we should therefore encourage the king in his apparent efforts to persuade the military to restore civilian government. as a practical matter. we must take steps to work with the new regime as we have with previous interim governments of greece. but we must make it clear that our support is conditional support. we should be prepared to withdraw or curtail ecoic and military assistance should the government fail to meet its commitments to reestablish representative political institutions. it must be clear that we will  support a regime which puts its own interests ahead of those of its people. if the present government of greece hopes to earn the sympathy and support of the greek people and their allies. they must demonstrate without delay their sincerity by allowing the people of greece to have a free. stable. and democratic republic.
i wish to commend the junior senator from oregon for proposing a gradual change in our draft procedures so far as taking young men into the military service of the united states is concerned. the distinguished senior senator from oregon raised the question as to whether we would be able to get sufficient volunteers for a volunteer army. i. for one. have rejected the use of lottery as a means of determining what young men should serve in the armed forces of the united states. i believe it is far too serious a matter to be left to chance. though i would agree that at the present time our commitment in vietnam requires that we draft young men into the military service. i believe that the junior senator from oregon certainly has pointed us in the right direction. so that at some time in the near future we might have a volunteer army. i can believe that we will  be able to get sufficient men in this country to join a volunteer army. i believe that many would consider it a very respectable and a very important career. we would have to pay them. of course. a livable wage. commensurate with wages that are being paid in private industry. and we would have to give prestige to those who serve in the volunteer army. i have heard the arguments against a volunteer army. some of them have validity and carry weight. one argument is that it might be considered a mercenary army. i reject that argument. because to a degree everything is mercenary. people are being paid for their services. men go to west point and to the naval academy. and we who are in the senate k that we certainly have lack of applicants for those institutions. i believe the same situation would apply with respect to men who would want to make even a commissioned officers rank a career in the military services of the united states. i have heard that that army might be a poor mans army or it even might be a negro army. i reject both arguments. i believe that persons of middle income and of high income groups might consider that a career in the military service would be one of their choosing and would be one which they would agree to take. so far as it being a negro army is concerned. that argument is based only upon the assumption that there are more negroes in the lower ecoic rung of our society. and that thus these men. being unable to obtain employment elsewhere. are likely to take advantage of the opportunity to go into a volunteer army. i looked into this situation when i was in vietnam. i had heard the allegation that there were a disproportionate number of negro soldiers in vietnam. in checking. i found. first. that there was  a disproportionate number of negroes drafted into the army. second. that there was  a disproportionate number of negroes who enlisted in the army. the disproportion that i did find came about because of reenlistment in the army. i interrogated many of the men i saw in vietnam. and found that the reenlistment was caused by the fact that many have found that they can do far better in the military service than they can do in private life. because there they did  have jobs. lived in unfavorable conditions. and lacked the education that was so sorely needed. but i do  believe this is a reason for us  to look forward to and move toward a volunteer army. some have argued that this would change the entire character of our military forces. that we might lose civilian control. that something could happen in this country as happened in greecenamely. a coup or takeover by the military. we all k that we have checks and balances in this country. that the civilians are still in control of the military forces. that we do have secretaries of defense and the military services who are always in command. and of course we have the president of the united states. never has there been any indication that the military might revolt and take over the country. and i do  believe that there ever will be. i do  consider this a weighty argument at all. with respect to the number of volunteers. i believe we would have more volunteers for a volunteer army than would be needed. the other argumentone which has great weightis with regard to the tremendous cost of such an army. we are  taking men into the service for 2 years. and the amount of money we are spending in order to train those men for 2 years is emous. if we could take men into service and give them a contract. say..for 5 years tie them up so that they would  be able to return to civilian life if they found that they did  like a career in the armywhereby they would be trained and we would then have the benefit of their services for 5 years. i believe that the cost would  be emous. they would certainly  be comparatively greater than the cost we are presently paying for training men for a short period of 2 years. we should spend time on this matter.  merely pass it over. and i am happy to see that we will have had hearings and will have more hearings on the draft. so far we have restricted the matter to the reports of presidential commissions. which have  had open hearings. we have  heard a full debate on the draft. which is so important. i believe it is a disgrace in this country that our young men who reach the age of 18 are living in such uncertainty because they do  k how to plan their lives. they do  k what to do. men are marrying sooner than they should marry. as. a means of escaping the draft. they are having children sooner than they should have children. because they think this might be a means of escaping the draft. they are  able to plan their college careers and can plan beyond that point. because. frankly. they do  k what is going to happen to them. and the uncertainty is more damaging and more harmful to them than the actual draft when it eventually does come. i served 5 years in the army. and i k that there are many things a man can learn in the army which he can use later on in life. it is a great experience. i believe that presenting such an opportunity to the young men and young women of this country would be a step in the right direction. the young women could be used. as the distinguished senator said. for administrative duties and responsibilities. men who perhaps could  fire an artillery piece could be used for other services in the armed forces. thereby freeing the men who would actually be firing the artillery pieces and doing the other combat chores that would be necessary. i am very hopeful. as we all are. that our country will  forever be engaged in war. war is  inevitable. a peacetime army may have to be kept--of course. will have to be keptfor the security of the united states. as the senator has suggested. and a peacetime army has many great advantages which would be very attractive to young men and young women in this country. i was recently in israel. it is a new country. i believe that next week it will be 19 years old. in that country they k that at the age of 18 they are going to servethe men for 26 months and the women for 20 months. they k that. and they can plan accordingly. but in this country we do  even have that advantage. because our young people do  k. they are going into the many ways of getting out of the army and of getting exemptions of various sorts because the uncertainty is so devastating to them. . in conclusion i wish to commend the distinguished junior senator from oregon for the foresight and vision he has shown. because i think it is inevitable that we will be coming to a volunteer army. i am very hopeful that senators will give careful consideration to it and put the proposal  on the back burner to simmer. but in the front file where they will be giving consideration to it in the near future.
i do  believe there is much difference in what distinguished senators are saying on this question. i do  believe the senator from georgia [mr. russell) differs much from what we are saying because we do have at the present time enlistments in the armed forces. i think that at all times we are going to have to have a conscription law which can be brought into effect whenever the circumstances demand it. for instance. in a major war. but let us hope we never have to use it. however. at some time we might find that we are unable to get sufficient volunteers to go into the military service. in which case we will have to be able to return to a conscription system. if we look at present enlistments in the army it will be found that we are  getting the best techogical brains or the best scientific brains into military service. they are  going to enlist in the army and make a career of the army. that is understandable. most of them would want to go into the techogical and professional categories. however. that does  mean if we have a volunteer army it will only be the poor man who would go into the army or the man who would  have had the benefit of an education. many men will volunteer to go into the army. as i tried to point out. those who wish to go to west point. the naval academy. or the merchant marine academy. or any of those schools. do so voluntarily. many of them are eligible to go to harvard. mit. princeton. or many of the other great institutions of this country. they attend the military academies instead because they like the military and feel it is important. i think that this would be true on the level of commissioned officers and enlisted men as well. i do  see anything wrong with people going into the army who are unfortunate and lacking in education and ecoic benefits. there is much that can be learned in the 5 years in which they would serve. in some circumstances they would probably learn more and could earn much more than in civilian life. they would be better equipped if they wanted to return to civilian life because they would have developed skills and trained their minds so that they could become productive members of society. this would be an important byproduct. i think it would serve a cause and cure many problems that presently exist in our nation. i am hopeful that we could have this volunteer army. all we are talking about is enlisting more men. paying them better. and giving them prestige. so that the ultimate number of men who would be drafted would be decreased. i think we would attract a sufficient number of men under those circumstances so that we would  have to revert to drafting young men into the military services unless we were faced with a major catastrophe. i do  see much difference in the volunteer army proposed by the distinguished junior senator from oregon and what we actually have at the present time. we did  have to revert to the draft to the degree that we did until we got into the vietnam crisis. the number of men we draft depends on our commitment in vietnam at the present time. we are all hopeful that this commitment will  last. when it ends. the number of men to be drafted will be decreased considerably and hopefully eliminated. we must. then. as senator hatfield has suggested. begin to work toward a volunteer army. paying them well. and improving the military service to the point where men will want to join and participate on a volunteer basis. this would do away with the necessity for drafting young men and keeping them in the state of uncertainty which exists at the present time.
i have had an opportunity to serve with volunteer soldiers and drafted soldiers in the same warthat is. in world war ii. and. frankly. i did  see any difference in the degree of patriotism or commitment to victory on the part of the drafted soldier over the volunteer soldier. i do  think we will ever have that kind of a problem. i think that both draftees and enlistees are equally devoted to their country. i think that both of them would do the job if the circumstances demanded it. i certainly commend the senior senator from kentucky for his concern over the matter of having poor people. or poorly educated people. carry the burden of our military needs. we must certainly take the possibility into consideration. but i do  believe the creation of a voluntary army would have this result. unfortunately. the people who are totally lacking in motivation would more volunteer for service in the army than they would volunteer to go out and look for a job today. we will have to stimulate motivation in people if we are to educate them and train them. i think that the army might very well prove to be the training ground for many young men because. as the senator very well ks. the army provides schooling. discipline. health habits. among other advantages. if they receive this training in the military service. it would be of great value to them and to society. many men have changed the entire course of their lives as a result of service in the military. i just do  believe the results which the distinguished- senior senator from kentucky might fear would come to pass. if we did have a volunteer army.
. it is important. even though our attention is called to the very serious war in vietnam. that we also give as much attention as possible to the middle east. because in that area there is potentially aher vietnam. i am hopeful that careful attention will be given to the statement which the distinguished senator from pennsylvania has made on this occasion. the situation in the middle east is very serious. and ridden with tension. a fact of which i was thoroughly aware when i was in israel. i hope that we can devote more of our time to the middle east and avoid a war there. this can certainly be done if both sides will do what they can to see that the arms race is stopped.
i am very much pleased that the senator has seen fit to discuss elections in south vietnam at this time. and particularly to point out that the south vietnamese government has made great progress in bringing about democratic institutions in south vietnam. i was very much disturbed by the allegations which have been made recently by some of the candidates that they had been purposely hindered in their right to campaign. i was particularly disturbed because i have great hopes for the elections. the u.s. government has declared that it is in south vietnam for the purpose of giving the south vietnamese people an opportunity to choose their own form of government in freedom and security. the continuing buildup in american men and material in vietnam. and the gradual inclusion of more targets on our bombing raids has made it obvious that something will have to change. we can possibly continue to keep this a limited war for an unreasonable period of time. and a wider war will only bring more death and destruction both to our own forces and to the south vietnamese people. thus. i have had great hopes that the elections would be held. and that from these elections would emerge a viable government. i have hoped that eventually we would be able to withdraw from our commitments in vietnam altogether and allow this elected government to run the country of south vietnam. if the civilian candidates had withdrawn from the election. wewould have been left with only the thieuky ticket. which many say is being supported by the u.s. government. this would have opened up even more charges around the world that this was  a free election.
so i am -very much pleased that the senator from connecticut has brought this very timely subject up . i. for one. had considered submitting a concurrent resolution calling for the postponement of the elections if the charges of the civilian candidates were. in fact. valid charges made against the south vietnamese government and against the conduct of the elections. but. i am  heartened to find that -the candidates. in the main. have agreed to continue to conduct their campaigns and to go forward with the elections on september 3d. there is a provision in the electoral laws that if a candidate has grievances. he can make his claim to the duly elected constituent assembly which has jurisdiction over the elections. to my kledge. claims and allegations have been formally filed with the provisional national assembly. king politicians as we do. if a candidate had a legitimate claim. it seems to me that he would have filed it with the provisional national assembly and have required it to be acted upon. it was on the basis of this evidence that i refrained from filing a resolution in the senate. i would hate to see anything occur at this time which would cause further disruption to the elections in south vietnam. if. these elections were to be postponed for 2 weeks or a month. it would just postpone the war for a longer period of time. it would only mean more people dying in south vietnam. both americans and south vietnamese. so i am very hopeful still that these elections will be held on september 3. and that the american people and people across the world will give credence to this election. the cry of fraud has  been proved. as the distinguished senator from connecticut has said. we should give every encouragement that we possibly can to the south vietnamese to conduct that election. conduct it on time. and conduct it fairly. i hope that ultimately. through a duly elected government this disastrous war in south vietnam will be brought to an end
. i do  believe that our government should send one more soldier or one more marine to fight and to die in vietnam until the south vietnamese government begins to stand up to its responsibility and utilize its manpower to successfully conclude that war. i k that they will have problems. i k that they have been plagued with corruption in the military. i k that their officers have  had the best training and that their salaries are very low. and i do  want anything i say here tonight to be construed as  living up to our commitment in vietnam. i do  believe that our job is finished. and i do  believe that we should get out of vietnam until we finish our job. i am merely saying that the responsibility of the south vietnamese should be increasing constantly so that our responsibility can decrease constantly. i am very hopeful that our government will do more to urge the vietnamese government to move in this direction. i think it can be done. i think that it should be done.
the senator asked what our government can do to motivate the people. i think it is clear that if our government had  sent billions of dollars in materials and hundreds of thousands of troops to vietnam. the south vietnamese government could  exist. our government does have a leverage in south vietnam. i do  think we ever wanted to run that country and i do  think we should. i do  think we should tell them what they should do. however. i do believe if we are sending. american boys to die in vietnam and sending billions of dollars in material. and if we are going to have to take on a surtax to continue this commitment in vietnam. then certainly we must be assured that the south vietnamese government and the south vietnamese people are going to put everything they can into this war effort themselves. this has  yet been done. and that is exactly. the point.
. that brings me to my next question. as the distinguished senator remembers. upon my return from south vietnamand i talked then at great length with the distinguished senator from californiai reluctantly concluded that our course of action in vietnam was the only course which we could take at that time. i based this conclusion primarily on my failure to find sufficient evidence to support the contention that ho chi minh would come to the conference table if we ceased bombing in the th. i did say at that time. and i still say. that if it ever appeared certain that th vietnam would negotiate upon a cessation of bombing. our government should cease bombing in the th and attempt to bring a negotiated end to this disastrous war. since my return from vietnam. the two main alternatives which had been considered have been rejected by our government and. i think in the main. by the american people. one alternative was. of course. a further escalation of the war. whether by means of an invasion of th vietnam or by the addition perhaps 1 million american troops. there are still some people who say. "get it over with. kk them out. and win the military war." however. our government has consistently said that it is  our purpose to win the military war or to take over and occupy vietnam. we are in vietnam for two purposes. the first is to prevent the spread of the communist regime by force and by terror. the second is to allow the south vietnamese people an opportunity to choose their own form of government in freedom and security. it would appear that we have achieved to some degree. both of these purposes. we have prevented the further spread of a communist regime by force and by terror. and we have given the south vietnamese people an opportunity to try to choose their own form of government in freedom and security. they have chosen the executive branch of the government and they have chosen a senate. and on october 22. they will choose a house of representatives. as the distinguished senator has said. even though there were criticismsand some of them very valid criticismsof the election. this is the first time that the south vietnamese people have chosen their own leaders. to the extent that they have been able to do so. we have achieved the second of our stated purposes in south vietnam. the other alternative to further escalation and an allout war is withdrawal from vietnam. this has been a devastating war. we have had over 100.000 casualties and have suffered the loss of more than 13.000 lives. it is a war which is costing almost $3 billion a month and which may necessitate an increase in taxes. some people say this is too high a price to pay. and that we ought to just pick up and walk out of vietnam. the arguments against this proposal have been very clearly stated. it has been pointed out that we can do this. for one thing. the word of the u.s. government is at stake. for aher. we can leave the south vietnamese people to the mercy of the vietcong and the th vietnamese. but there is a third alternative: a negotiated peace. this is where it appears that we get into very difficult ground. some people. even on the floor of the senate as recently as yesterday. have expressed the belief that we should cease bombing in the th in order to bring about this negotiated peace. our government. speaking through ambassador goldbergi think while the distinguished senator from california was in vietnamasked the question whether ha would assuredly come to the conference table if we ceased bombing in the th. we have  yet received a favorable reply to that question. the next step. and the only step remaining if the ha government does  answer that question affirmatively. would be to cease bombing in the th to find out whether ha would come to the conference table and negotiate a peace in vietnam. the question which remains uppermost in almost everyones mind about the cessation of bombing in the th is. what will be the effect on american troops in vietnam if we cease bombing in the th. as i understand the speech of the distinguished senator from california. the statistics which he has given indicate that past bombing halts resulted in a buildup of th vietnams fire power and troop power. and that our forces suffered as a result of the cessation of bombing in the th in these periods. i am  asking the distinguished senator to look into a crystal ball. but did the senator find that today. if our government ceased bombing th vietnam. we would have sufficient military strength. both in groundpower and airpower and seapower. to protect the american forces in vietnam so that during this period of the cessation of bombing our ground forces and troops in vietnam would  suffer thereby.
. does the senator mean that militarily we are dependent upon bombing of this area in the dmz from which fire is being directed against our troops. are we  able. with superior artillery fire. effectively to protect ourselves from this artillery bombardment that comes from the dmz.
admittedly. air superiority is excellent to have. and we have air superiority in vietnam. also. it must be recognized that air superiority is a great benefit to the morale of our troops in vietnam. these are all arguments on the side of  ceasing the bombing in the th without a commitment from the th vietnamese. but if we are to make a decision as to whether we should cease bombing in the th in order to stimulate or to bring about a negotiated peace. it would seem to me that we must also look on the minus side of the ledger to determine  only what are the assets. but what are our liabilities. on the liability side. obviously. we would lose the benefit of air bombardment of the dmz. but are  our artillery pieces able effectively to protect our troops from the artillery fire that comes from the dmz.
then. the best information that the senator from california possesses is that if we were to cease bombing in the th unilaterally. the casualties inflicted upon our troops in vietnam would be exceedingly high. and it is a risk which we should  take at this time. is that the conclusion that the distinguished senator has made.
and if the distingushed senator rejects withdrawal and rejects further escalation of the war and rejects cessation of bombing unilaterally in the th. is it his conclusion. as a result of his trip. that we are compelled at this time to continue the war in the same manner in which we have been conducting it. until such time as the enemy hurts to the degree that he will come to the conference table and negotiate.
 ky were going to move in the direction of uniting the people of south vietnam. so that it would become their war and their effort. as we understand is being done in th vietnam. are they doing anything to strengthen their own army. and to conscript more men into the military. as the distinguished senator ks. they only draft men in the army in vietnam at 20 years of age. while we in the united states are drafting young men at 19 years of age. in addition they have never had more than 700.000 men in the south vietnamese army. what. if anything. is this government doing to unite the people to a strong. welltrained army. and to bring about a total commitment of the south vietnamese people.
i trust the senior senator from california understands the purpose of what he said has been a piercing inquiry of several areas pertaining to victnam. . the decision our government will have to make. and make sometime soon. as to what the next step will be in vietnam is. of course. a very crucial one. if we do reject the alternatives of withdrawal and further escalation of the war. and if the ha government. in its lack of wisdom. does  say to the american government that if we cease bombing they will come to the conference table and negotiate. it seems that. short of a miracle. our government will soon be called upon to make the decision whether it can afford to take the risk and cease bombing in the th unilaterally. to see if the th vietnamese government will come to the conference table. it is a risk more and more americans every day are calling for us to take. it is a risk which more and more mothers and fathers and sisters and wives are asking us to take as so many more people are becoming involved in the war. each year as more young men come of draft age. we will hear more people calling upon us to take this risk. i do  believe anybody in the country would ask us to take this risk if they thought it would be to the great detriment of our american fighting men in vietnam. whenever it can be ascertained that we will  suffer immeasurably from taking the next step of cessation of bombing in the th to see if negotiations would take place then. it seems to me. at that time we must take that risk. most of our allies have asked us to take that step. most people across the world have asked us to take that step. of course. they are  as informed about the military situation as are our military men in vietnam. but their opinions and interests count. and it is a question that should be explored to its fullest. it was for this reason that i asked the distinguished senior senator from california. who is our most recent colleague to have been in vietnam. those questions. and it is for that reason that i am very grateful to him for having answered those questions based on his own factfinding on the scene in vietnam. i thank the senator.
on this particular point. . the amendment is bad. it would create more problems in this country than it would solve. there is basis in law or in morality which would distinguish discrimination against a veteran from discrimination against a veteran. i should like. in all fairness to the senator. to ask him if what i have said this morning is  true. insofar as his amendment is concerned.
i thank the distinguished senator. . as i read the proposed amendment. it would apply to a situation in which the prospective buyer or the renter is a member or hoably discharged member of the armed forces of the united states. or surviving widow or surviving parent of such member. . i ask this question: what is the soldier in vietnam. who is risking his life. going to think when he feels that. under this amendment or under the proposed law. unless he is killed or dies. his parent is  protected against discrimination. or his wife is  protected against discrimination because she is  a surviving widow. or his parents are  surviving parents. then. if he has parents. they have to go to court to get judicial determination. because it reads: "or a judicially determined dependent of a member of the armed forces." they must go to court to get a judicial determination as to whether they are dependent upon that soldier in vietnam. there are many soldiers whose parents. fortunately. are  dependent upon them. those parents would  be covered by this amendment. it certainly seems unconscionable to me to say to that soldier in vietnam that the only way he can cover his wife or his mother or his father is for him to give up his life. it is even worse than the first situation i suggested. but i believe that the first one is bad egh. the senator has  yet said that what i asked or pointed out to him under his amendment is  true. the fact is that it would be saying to an american negro. "the only way you can be discriminated against is to join the armed forces and go off to vietnam to risk your life." i do  believe there is any basis in lawcertainly. basis in moralitywhich would justify congress saying that. i repeat that negro veteran worth his salt would ever want this special privilege given to him and denied to the other members of his race. the senator has  answered that question.
then. . it would seem that what we are saying  to the negro soldier is even a worse situation than i had suggested before. we are  saying to him: "we are  so much concerned with having you protected against discrimination because you are serving in the armed forces. but we want to keep your morale up so that you can be a better soldier. and our interest really is in national security and the morale of the soldiers. so we are going to protect you against discrimination." is that what we are saying here.
i did hear allegations made to that effect. president tour6 denied that he ever entertained the idea of moving against ghana. general ankrah evidenced fear that any such movement would be underway. practically speaking. guinea is encountering such ecoic difficulties itself that it has army of any standing or size to use against a neighbor. it would be impractical. if  impossible. for guinea to move against ghana.
i am  satisfied that it is  used. there were allegations that nato military equipment and weaponry were being used by portugal in angola and in mozambique. i did  go to mozambique.  did i go to angola. i was unable to verify those allegations. however. rebel leaders from both mozambique and angola with whom i spokeand certainly the senator should k the source of my informationwere unanimous in saying that the weapons being used in their territories were of western origin. they said these arms came primarily from portugal. and were weapons that the united states had sent for nato purposes.
the two questions i was asked most.  only by members of the various governments in africa. but also by the people themselves to whom i spokeably members of student bodies in universities thereconcerned the issue of civil rights in this country and the vietnam war. those were the two most important issues. naturally. our treatment of the negro miity in this country has  endeared us to africans living on the continent of africa. they k that we have stated in our constitution all men are created equal. yet they hear much about the separation of the races. the denial of equal opportunity and the quality of education. they read about riots in our urban centers. demonstrations. and the like. they are kledgeable about these problems of america. they are very much concerned about them. they wonder how we can be so inconsistent. how our promises and their fulfillment are so different. those are things which. of course. have hurt us in africa. but they should  hurt us because. as i said. one of our chief political assets should be the large population of african descent in this country. of course. vietnam is an issue which has been well discussed and is well kn all over the world. i frankly found differences of opinion in africa about the problem at that time which was just prior to the cessation of the bombing in parts of the th and the move toward a negotiated peace. most of the young students to whom i spoke were similar in their outlook to many students in this country regarding cessation of the bombing. and general opposition to the war in vietnam. i can stress egh that africa is undergoing great changes. africa is moving on from its first goal of independence to its second goal of ecoic and political stability. as such. africa is going through growing pains but is. i believe. more attuned to the west and to the united states. many people in africa have great respect for abraham lincoln and past leaders of the u.s. government. in the countries where i did find chinese communists or soviet assistance being givenfor example. in one country where there was a multimilliondollar auditorium. with fountains playing all around it. which the chinese had designed and constructedi did  find that because they had constructed that auditorium. the people of that country were any more prochinese. or any more antiamerican. than any other country i visited. we must be mature egh to understand that the soviet bloc and the communist chinese are going to spend money. they are spending money all over the world trying to use their influence. we are doing likewise. even though i will admit that many african leaders are collectivists. i believe that after ecoic development is achieved. there will be more individualist thinking on the part of leaders of african countries. and i think we have an excellent opportunity to aid the trend toward respect for individual values.
. in response to the distinguished senator from california. it is  my purpose at this time to advocate a resumption of the bombing in th vietnam. i shudder to think that that should ever have to be done again. the purpose of my remarks on the senate floor today is to attempt to avoid a resumption of the bombing in vietnam. a resumption of our escalation in the war. hopefully. we would be able to get on with serious negotiations. but i think that the senator very clearly points out the danger of the present course of action of the ha government. that. as the distinguished senator has suggested. there may very well be a call for a resumption of the bombing of th vietnam. there may be a call for the mining of the haiphong harbor. there may be a call for an interdiction of the ho chi minh trail. and so on. the conflict could grow and grow. as i tried to point out. it could grow into a much wider and broader war. the character of the war would be changed from that which we have steadfastly adhered to. this is the danger that ha faces by its present course of action.
i thank the senator from california. this statement today is an appeal to ha. and i hope and believe they will hear the message. we can expect that all the th vietnamese will be informed. certainly. they are  as well informed as the american people. with our system of government and with our media of communication. but the leaders of the ha government and the negotiators who will reconvene tomorrow in paris certainly will k of this appeal and will get the message and. hopefully. will give it due consideration. my remarks are  intended. as i have said in response to a question of the senator from california. to advocate any steppedup or escalated maneuvers of the war. i believe we went to the negotiating table in all earnestness. in all sincerity. and in all good faith. i believe we have lived up to the agreement under which we kent to the negotiating table. certainly. there have been claims that we have . on the contrary. i believe it is ha that has  lived up to the agreement. if this is their intent and their strategy. based upon a misconception of the american will. then they should reread the american will and understand it. if they do. then. hopefully. negotiations can begin in earnest. and this war can be brought to a successful conclusion.
 of the united states has just returned from a most useful and important european tour. i rise today to commend him for his efforts and his initiative. and to comment briefly on some of the more helpful aspects of his journey. upon assuming the office of the presidency. mr. nixon rightly perceived that our relations with our closest allies were sorely in need of repair. mr. nixons trip was designed. in large part. to indicate to our allies that this nation understands their concerns and will actively seek their counsel and advice on matters of mutual interest. i believe that this message was made preeminently clear. and was received with confidence by the leaders and peoples of europe. but mr. nixons trip must also be seen as an important prelude to substantive discussions with the soviet union. one would deny that many grave issues are outstanding between our two countries. and are in urgent need of resolution. the desirability of limiting the deployment of nuclear weapons without endangering the security of either side is. of course. a primary consideration. but critical tensions in europe and the middle east may also be resolved. or at least lessened. through consultations with our allies and the u.s.s.r. the war in vietnam. too. is a legitimate subject for great power talks. mr. nixons trip to europe has laid a solid foundation upon which substantive discussions can  be built. our nation. and indeed the entire world. can be grateful for this demonstration of deep commitment on the part of our chief executive to the overriding cause of world peace.
with which the senator from new jersey associates himself. i would agree with the senator from arizona that we should  stop testing until the soviets stop their testing. i do  believe that we should immediately stop and wait for them to stop. it should be done simultaneously. a cessation of the operational testing of iirv should be done simultaneously. if i may. i certainly would agree with what the senator from new jersey has said about the negotiations and the arms control talks. i think that the soviets have indicated that they do want the talks. but there were several matters which have postponed them. one. as the senator very well points out. is the move in czechoslovakia by the soviet union. certainly they were responsible for that. the others. of course. would be that there has been a change in the administration. and this prompted some delay. then. i think that president nixons insistenceand rightfully sothat there be a thorough inquiry and study of our position prior to any talks. has further delayed the talks. but i think that the rationale for mirv was the soviet abm system. we k that the soviets have an abm system around moscow which they found was  a very good system and which some have said they are dismantling. we do  really k whether they are dismantling it or . but. at least. we k that we do have some leadtime. for the soviets to deploy a sophisticated. strong. and hard system would take about 3 to 4 years of leadtime. we do  need more than 1 year of leadtime for the completion of our testing of mirv and the perfection of its offensive capability. if. on the other hand. the soviets decide to deploy a sophisticated abm system. then. of course. we can go ahead with the mirv testing at any time. this is our deterrent factor. i think that this is the rationale upon which the whole mirv techogy is based. but that rationale fails if the soviets are  developing a sophisticated abm system and deploying it. for that reason. i think that the sense of the senate resolution calling for a moratorium on the operational testing of mirv at this time is so important. because once the "genie" is out of the box. then it will be difficult if  impossible to proceed with further arms control talks. as the senator from new jersey has so adequately pointed out. the soviets have shown inclination that they are willing to let us come into the soviet union for onsite inspection. as the senator from arizona. who sits on the armed services committee with me ks. they have . even in the proliferation treaty. discussed with us onsite inspection. once we have mirv. inspection will be made even more difficult. in order to determine if missiles have been mirved. we might have to go in and dismantle the icbms which. of course. we do  expect the soviet union would agree to.  would the united states agree to it. if we continue this testing and they continue the testing. then. obviously. at some time. and it would seem to be for the near future. this techogy will be perfected. then it might be too late. too late to get on with the negotiations. too late to commence serious arms control talks. therefore. i propose that one thing we can do at this time to bring about arms control talks and negotiations and to limit the escalation is to call a halt to the operational testing of mirv. and mirv techogy. because this is unquestionably the most potent. the most dangerous. offensive capability that we k of on earth today. i think that if we can resolve this problem. then. perhaps. we can put the abm issue where it should be. i do  mean to take anything away from the importance of the abm issue. i k that the distinguished senator from kentucky has been talking about it and working in opposition to deployment of it for some years . and he feels very strongly about it. i think it is a very important issue. but if we can resolve the mirv issue. then we may be able to resolve the abm defensive issue more easily. because we can control the offensive capability against which it may be deployed.
. i am both pleased and hoed to have the support of the distinguished senator from new jersey . the senator from new jersey has been in the forefront of the leadership of those of us in the legislative branch of the government who have been seriously concerned about the everincreasing arms race and the delay in the commencement of arms control talks and negotiations. yesterday. in a brilliant discussion of this issue on the floor of the senate. the senator made a rich contribution to the concept of this resolution. i thank him for the support which he has rendered the senate. which has enabled us to have so many of our colleagues join in the effort. i repeat that it is an ho to have the senator from new jersey associated with me on the resolution. i also want to thank the senator for calling to the attention of the senate the article in newsweek and for succinctly and meticulously pointing out what obviously  would appear to be the factthat there are those in our government who accept the inevitability of the mirving of the u.s. forces and soviet forces. the senator ks well. as we all k. that if ever that key is really out of the box and if we do have a mirving of the soviet ss9. it will be difficult. if  impossible. to get on with arms control and negotiations that could bring an end to the nuclear race and free muchneeded money to solve the problems existing in our country. the senator from new jersey has long been a very distinguished member of the committee on foreign relations. he has stood for national security. in endorsing and supporting the resolution. the senator stands for national security. and our national security is best served if we are able to bring about a cessation and suspension of mirv techogy.  1 month from today and  1 year from today. but . i thank the distinguished senior senator from new jersey.
. a hazard in any debate of great moment is that issues of wisdom become transformed into matters of fundamental principle. we face today  a question of principle. but a complex matter of judgment. we are united on the central issues of principle. we are agreed that the security of the united states must be preserved. we are agreed that arms control negotiations with the soviet union should be pursued. we recognize that the abm issue. as a major element in the thermonuclear balance. touches the peace and wellbeing  only of americans but of all men on earth. the senate. then. must resolve this issue  in terms of some ideological commitment or aversion to the abm. but in light of how best to serve the overriding concerns we all share in this realm. the lesson of the last years great debate on the abm is. i believe. a decisive one. it is that congress is beginning once more to recognize its responsibility and to assert its authority on the crucial questions of peace and security. the intense debate over the cityoriented sentinel defense has already accomplished much of its purpose. the profound concerns which that proposal raised in this body and in the nation undoubtedly contributed to its revision. it is already apparent that military systems can be changed or dropped. that congress and the people can exert effective influence in these matters. that seems a modest egh accomplishment for a system of selfgovernment. but where questions are so inherently complex. where issues are so technical and information so shrouded in secrecy and uncertainty. it is trivial feat for the senate to perform as it has in developing the policy implications of abm. the decision is still in doubt. but i believe the nation has been well served by the manner in which the senate has approached it. i hope that the nation and the world will continue to be well served by the way in which we resolve it.
 would presumably  proceed major national blunder. and i intend to further with it. continue fighting it at every opportunity. surely it should be clear to both sides but if we can eliminate the authority that this redefinition of the decision we to begin deployment of phase i. the next are taking is a commonsense resolution best step is to narrow that authority. of the great dispute we have seen de- the mcintyre amendment is in line velop on this issue. it would help remove with this purpose. it is carefully drawn for the coming months a point of the to allow only preparation of sites and most severe contention in the senate and deployment of long leadtime items. inthe nation. it would lubricate the rela- cluding missile site radars and perimeter tions between congress and the admin- acquisition radars. it specifically proistration. it would come closest to the hibits construction of any operational maximum feasible consensus presently abm missiles and it freezes existing auachievable in this body and would pro- thority to build missile sites and to acvide the basis for an active diplomacy quire land other than at the two locain the impending arms negotiations. tions in th dakota and montana. let us  blindly reject the resolution i regard that as significant. in the co our differences which senator mc- text of the arms talks. it assures the sointyres recommendation offers us. let viet union that this country will  have us recognize the wisdom of his healing an operational antiballisticmissile syssuggestion. let us allyesterdays losers tem of any kind until the congress auand winnersmove on to a greater vic- thorizes it. we retain. during the critical tory for the senate and the country by period when discussions will be getting forging a consensus on this promising underway. the right to exercise our judgmiddle ground. ment again. it should convince both the
 has publicly implied. the footprints of the soviet tests seem to match the distribution and layout of portions of the u.s. minuteman force and they may be designed for that purpose. but in addition to a capacity for assured retaliation. we ourselves have long stressed the importance of a secondstrike damagelimiting capabilityit is one of the rationales the dod applies in seeking unnecessarily accurate guidance for poseidon and minuteman iii. thus. especially if the soviet ss9 force remains too small for an effective firststrike against the minuteman fields. what we have seen may well turn out to be an effort to acquire a damagelimiting capability. that is. a weapon systern which. in the event of war. would give the soviet union a capability to reduce damage to itself by striking u.s. missiles. this is intricate and ambiguous analysis. and one can be sure of the soviet unions exact attitude on mirv. but it should be abundantly clear to both sides. first. that neither side needs a mirv system unless the other deploys a thick city defense that is years away and. secnd. that perfection and deployment of mirv by either side will stimulate the other to take countermeasures. if this process is  arrested soon. and i doubt that it can be arrested unless mirv is forestalled. the arms race is virtually certain to soar upward to a higher and more dangerous plateau. the journals editorial stresses that the united states could safely undertake a mirv test moratorium because: american mirv development is intended to assure penetration of a largescale soviet abm. of which there is firm evidence so far. dr. foster has testified that if the soviets do build such a system. its initial operational capability is five years off. mirv evidently could be deployed in a far shorter time. donald brennan. a hudson institute strategic specialist who agrees with the administration on most issues. put it well in seeing need for immediate mirv deployment "on the basis of any philosophy whatever." and the journal concludes: even if there were other considerations. we can see little justification for deploying a weapon the nation does  yet need. in this case. with arms limitations talks impending. such deployment seems doubly ques. tionable. a delay would give both the soviets and armscontrol advocates at home assurance that the administration is deeply serious about the talks. we would be opposed to such gestures if they endanger u.s. security. but all public indications suggest a mirv delay would . the administration is far freer to respond to all of these considerations  that it has won the abm fight .... in mirv it  has the opportunity to demonstrate even more conclusively it has a firm hand on the strategic tiller. by proving it can also hold back on arms development that seems the advisable course. the central challenge to strategic stability comes from the current efforts to perfect mirv systems.  that action on the abm question has been taken. the focus of the debate on national security should shift to the mirv problem. i ask unanimous consent that the complete text of the journals editorial be printed in the record. * there being objection. the editorial was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:
it could just as well decrease it as increase it. whether we involve ourselves militarily is a matter of policy.  research. and that policy can be most wisely shaped if careful preliminary research is done. the reports submitted by the senator from arkansas yesterday. in my opinion. are hardly the whole story. out of such policy studies have come many of the fundamental concepts and programs on which national security rests. concepts and rationale of stable deterrents. the first strike. second strike distinction. the rationale for security through arms control rather than arms competition. the most informed critics of mirv and abm. have all been influenced importantly by work done on these research efforts. ecoies are also realized. overseas bomber bases were reduced at savings of billions of dollars a year after studies in the midfifties revealed their vulnerability to missile attack. these and other savings grew out of such analysis as the senator from arkansas attacks so categorically. analysis costing only a pittance of the savings from the basic studies alone. if there is waste. payoffs from such research are sometimes so great as to compensate many times over. especially in view of the relatively small fraction of the budget in these categories. it is also utterly misleading for the senator from arkansas to assert that one ks the cost of studies he cites. as the letter of july 24. 1969. from the department of defense. printed in the record at the request of the senator from arkansas at page 23291. indicates. the cost of individual reports are  easily determined. but the costs of projects. from which many reports may emerge. are kn. the costs of the projects from which the senator from arkansas has selected certain reports to question are specified by the department as $11.530.408 over a period of 15 years. many of the concerns voiced by the senator from arkansas are shared by a number of us.
. let me conclude by summarizing the essential points to be drawn from the present strategic stalemate. both the united states and the soviet union today have credible mutual deterrence for the foreseeable future. new weapons can alter these fundamental facts. they can only drain billions of dollars in precious resources from both countries and gravely complicate the relations between them. under these circumstances. and considering the very real danger that the pace of techogical ination may exceed that of political accommodation. i believe there is an overwhelming case for the united states to propose an interim freeze of strategic weapons as the first order of business when the salt negotiations resume. further testing or deployment of mirv. additions to the offensive missile forces. expansion of abm systems beyond the deployments already plannedan agreement to hold the lines on these points would buy time to devise effective verification and controls for a durable strategic equilibrium. as i have said many times. the leading edge of this techogical behemoth is mirv development and deployment. and i am convinced that an initial effort should be made to deal with this factor. but a more general strategic freeze encompassing mirv and other items should be proposed. perhaps for a period of 2 years. since both sides  have effective deterence they could accept such an interim freeze with great assurance that the balance would  be disturbed significantly in the short run. such a freeze is essential if the momentum of techogy is  to smother.the prospects for success in the salt negotiations. seldom in history has there been so immense an opportunity and so profound a responsibility for creative political leadership. the enlightened initiative of statesmen on both sides is indispensable. for the sake of all mankind. let us  be found wanting.
. as the able senator has pointed out. these means are the best we have. satellites are practically the only thing we have in addition to. as i have already stated. the other scientific and techogical devices that are used for verification purposes. but bear in mind that this is a resolution which calls for a moratorium during which time negotiations will be taking place on the subject of verification. if we get to the point of verifying whether one side is deploying mrvs. mirvs. that is going to call for hing short of onsite inspection or onsite verification. the soviet union would perhaps have teams come to the united states and perhaps dismantle a missile and look into it to see how many missiles are inside the missile. whether it is actually an mrv or an mirv missile. the united states would do the same thing with the soviet union. but this has been very difficult to achieve in the past.
. the senator has raised a very important point. and i just want to point out that if we do  stop  and if we go forward with the deployment of mirv. the multiple independently targetable reentry vehicles. then. of course. the senators point. although accurate at the present time. that we have adequate verification means and they have adequate verification means. may  be valid then primarily because once mirv is out of the bottle. or when the genie is out of the bottle. it may require and. in fact. would require. in my opinion. and i think in the opinion of most of the respected weight of authority in the scientific community. that we have onsite inspection and actually dismantle the missile and look into it to make a determination if there are actual mirvs in that missile. the senators point is so important because if we do  stop  even the verification means may be lost to us. which is so essential in any arms limitation agreement.
i most certainly would. and i give the senator from tennessee every assurance that that is the fact. and that what we are doing here is merely sharing the political burden with the president of the united states. this is our responsibility. we did it in connection with the partial nuclear test ban treaty by a senate resolution. we also did it in connection with the proliferation treaty into which we entered with the soviet union. and we are merely giving this advice to the president in similar fashion here. as i said earlier in the debate. we respect the president. but in addition to our respect. we owe him our counsel. and we are merely here giving him our counsel. he may or may  take it. though i am very pleased that his advisory council has practically made the identical recommendations that this resolution makes. and that the senate would be making by its adoption. and i am very hopeful that the president is going to accept it. i k that the distinguished senator from tennessee was somewhat concerned about a statement which was made. i think. by the distinguished senator from alaska and the distinguished senator from california. when they referred to words that the president had used as "superfluous" or "irrelevant." if i may correct the record. the president did  use the word "superfluous" at any time. the president did use the word "irrelevant." but i think he meant that only in the sense that. as the distinguished senator from tennessee has said. that he hoped to do this anyway at vienna.
. certainly these measures of restraint do  mean that we should proceed with the planned deployment of less accurate mirv systems in the coming years. in my opinion. such weapons are  yet required and will  be until there is a substantial expansion of soviet abm capabilities. much to be preferred would be a joint arrangement in salt by which both countries refrain from proliferating abm systems and introducing multipletarget capabilities into their offensive missile forces. we must continue to seek a ban on mirv testing and deployment. but i believe it is of critical importance that the united states is exercising restraint on advanced development of even more dangerous mirv weapons. it is aher indication of mr. nixons earnest desire to find a mutually acceptable basis for stabilizing the strategic balance and for enhancing the security of both our nations. my purpose in making these comments today is to highlight a hopeful and forwardlooking action by the american government. in the initial days of the salt discussions in vienna. this signal contribution to mutual security should be reassuring to the soviet union. the soviet leaders can be confident that their forces are  in immninent danger from the relatively crude american mirv systems which are being developed. they should also find assurance in the kledge that any specific development program to produce a true hardtarget capability in the u.s. mirv systems would take years and would be highly visible through the elaborate test programs required.  to mention the congressional and public reviews which such a proposal would arouse. i do  believe that. on present evidence. the congress would authorize such a dangerous and unwarranted development. . by the same token. this act of restraint is an invitation to the soviet union. the united states is profoundly concerned about potential hardtarget applications of the soviet ss9 missiles. which already are deployed in substantial numbers. it would be most conducive to progress in the salt negotiations if the soviets were equally prepared to provide credible assurances that the ss9 and other soviet weapons were  being refined for possible use against u.s. missile sites. i remain convinced that the most promising approach to such mutual guarantees would be an end to mirv testing and a prompt suspension of further deployments of offensive and defensive missiles on both sides. as the senate recommended in its overwhelming approval of senate resolution 211 2 weeks ago. surely the soviet union must share our perception that security can only suffer from a continued arms race. and surely a comparable soviet willingness to undertake concrete acts of restraint would be the most hopeful augury for rapid progress in vienna.
. for well over a month the africa correspondent of the christian science monitor. mr. frederic hunter. has been living and traveling in southern africa. he has talked with men and women representing all points of view in this most troubled section of the continent. the result has been an exceptionally fine and balanced presentation of the issues and the views of the participants. though i do  necessarily agree with all of mr. hunters observations. i believe his series of six articles represent an important contribution to our under21 for a full development of this point. plus tracing of various conceptions of the treaty power in the united states constitutional hlhtory. see henkin. the constitution. treaties. and international human rights. 116 u. pa. l. rev. 1012. esp. 10161026 (1968). 25see pp. 45 and ante. 25 compare the treaty on the proliferation of nuclear weapons. signed at washington. july 1. 1968. s. exec. h. 90th cong. 2d sess. (1968). standing of conditions in south africa. rhodesia. angola. and mozambique. i ask unanimous consent that the articles be printed in the record.
. i thank the senator from west virginia. i certainly commend him for bringing this very important matter to the attention of the senate and of the country. the senator has very correctly said that the more than 1.400 american prisoners of war presently being held in southeast asia are truly beginning to be the forgotten men of this war. i think also that the senator has pointed out that to date th vietnam has released only nine of the american prisoners of war. i believe that we have released nearly 250 prisoners. are those figures correct.
at any rate. the th vietnamese have  released any sizable number of american prisoners of war. some of these men have been held as prisoners of war for more than 4 years. that is perhaps longer than any prisoners have been held in any other war in the history of the nation. all of the suffering that is endured by the mothers and wives and children of these menmany of whom have never been heard fromis one of the great tragedies of the war. and i regret that this matter has  fully and truthfully come to the attention of the american people. it has  been presented as dramatically as it should. i think that all ought to k more about it. there ought to be far more concern about this matter. the senator from west virginia has certainly done all he could and has kept the matter constantly before the senate and the american people. i commend him for this effort. . i have been disturbed at the lack of coverage in the press. i think there was an article in life magazine back sometime in 1966 on american prisoners in the southeast asian war. i also think that last christmas there was some coverage regarding attempts to fly some gifts to the prisoners. but other than that. there has been real discussion or documentary that i k of on any of the major networks about this tragic and deplorable conditions in which american prisoners are living in southeast asia. i think that th vietnam ought to be made constantly aware that we want those men returned. that they should  be held under the conditions in which they are held . we see people marching up and down the streets in the united states demonstrating over what is happening in south vietnam. however. we do  see anyone marching in protest over what is happening to our men in th vietnam. i ask the distinguished senator from west virginia. who has certainly been here longer that i. if to his kledge there has ever been any congressional investigation or hearing on the deplorable conditions of the prisoners in th vietnam. we might have representatives from the various services come before a congressional committee which would conduct hearings on this whole subject of american prisoners of war.
let us hope the media will respond to the call. that we might have such a documentary. in addition. i encourage the proper committee of the senate to conduct hearings on this whole question of prisoners of war
. it is said "defense in depth" at the first two sites will provide less defense for more cost. i think that is . accurate. studies -i have seen indicate that how much additional defense one can acquireat the first sites will depend both on how resources are used at those first sites and on the level of threat one is considering. generally. it appears that. for about the same amount of money. one should be able to cope better with the higher threat levels through defense in depth than by expanding the deployment to additional sites. for my part. i would prefer to insure that 100 minutemen survive against an attack of perhaps 1.200 warheads than to concentrate on a deployment like whiteman which might have minutemen surviving at those threat levels although more would survive at lower attack levels. i understand that defense in depth can provide more surviving minutemen at those higher threat levels and it makes good sense to hedge against a greater.  a lesser threat. it is obvious that if the departments analyses focus only on relatively low threat levels and if they consider only the option of adding two additional missile site radars at the first two sites. defense in depth can be made to look relatively poor. compared to a threesite deployment. however. adding two radars is by means the only option for beefing up the first two sites. the department could choose from a broad range of deployment. including as i have said. adding one or two radars and increasing the number of sprint interceptors. the arguments made here today have all revolved around deployment of two additional site radars at malmstrom and grand forks. the department of defense has the option of choosing several different programs that might be deployed. they might go to one additional msr. and if the secretary does that. it is suggested it be at malmstrom. or he could - buy the very expensive and costly spartan missiles. and purchase. more sprint missiles. he has several other options. he does have this broad range of deployment. i think the opponents of this amendment have almost entirely overlooked those options. it is a fact. i am told. that the longrange spartan missiles for area defense contribute very little to defense of minuteman. while they cost substantially more than the sprints. thus. if one for-: goes the number of spartans contemplated for the whiteman site. -it would be possible to purchase a sizable increase in the sprint interceptors available for use at the first sites. let me review for you a brief technical analysis of the options which i introduced into the record yesterday.
 whereby we could limit the expansion of abm to the existing sites but provide the full amount requested for development and deployment. this amendment would still give our negotiators at vienna a bargaining chip. still keep open the production lines and give the secretary of defense an option to add additional radars at both of the existing sitesin other words. to give us indepth defense of the present siteswithout moving on to whiteman air force base and to warren. in wyoming. or in any way incorporating anything which would indicate an area defense. i want to commend again the chairman of the armed services committee and my colleagues on that committee for recognizing the provocation implicit in an area defense. and authorizing only a deterrent defense. an area defense gives us less security. i am pleased that our committee has recognized that. but i am very much concerned about going into conference. as we will. with the house. which passed a bill giving the defense department everything it has asked forexpansion at whiteman air force base. a new site at warren air force base. and the advanced preps there and in several additional sites in the theast and elsewhere. if we try in conference to reach a "middle ground" between the house bill and the committee position. we could conceivably end up with area defense as well. i think the history of past conferences would indicate that both sides generally give up something. if we go in with the committee bill. the something that conceivably could be given up would be an insistence on deterrent defense only. and i think it would be a great tragedy. i was somewhat buttressed and heartened by the chairmans very forceful statement today that he certainly would hold out for deterrent defense over area defense. that itself is reassuring. i am sure. to many of us. but the fact remains that if we do  adopt this amendmentand i certainly am hopeful that we willwe have then expanded the system. symbolically. it could be very harmful to us when our negotiators again meet in helsinki. i have arguedvery persuasively. i hopethat we would get comparable protection of our minuteman force with additional radars at the two existing sites at malmstrom and grand forks. as we would get if we went beyond into whiteman.
. the th vietnamese still have  shown any inclination whatever to release any of our prisoners. to the best of our information. since the senior senator from west virginia and i entered into a rather lengthy colloquy on the floor of the senate. there has been improvement in the communication between the prisoners of war and their families in the united states. unfortunately. many of the wives and mothers have had to go around the world in an attempt to get a message to ha. in an attempt to have ha recognize their responsibility in the treatment of prisoners of war. this is a. very shameful circumstance. and. one which we certainly hope will be alleviated. the th vietnamese must see that we have released prisoners of war. that the treatment of their prisoners has certainly been humane and they have been allowed to communicate with their families. we expect less and we will stand for less.
i certainly thank the senator from west virginia. jointly we want it to be kn that we do  intend to let this matter drop. that we do  intend just to bring it up every 3 or 4 months. but that we intend to press it and press it and press it. until results are obtained and our american prisoners of war are released. in the interim period. we intend to do all in our power to see that they are treated humanely. and hopefully. that communication between them and their families will be permitted.
the fact that these talks have been lacking in propaganda has been most encouraging. i have taken heart from the meeting of willy brandt in moscow and the apparent agreement which resulted between the soviet union and the west german government. i have taken heart from the ratification of the nuclear test ban treaty. and the treaty for the proliferation of nuclear weapons. there are many things that give us hope. the other side of the coin is that we should  have any hope. there are some who say that we are going to be eternally suspicious of the soviet union and that the soviet union is going to be eternally suspicious of the united states. in the meantime. what is happening. since world war ii the government of the united states has spent more than $1 trillion in defense. and the soviet union is  lagging far behind in this expenditure. it seems to me we should be willing and eager to do all we can to control the arms race that is going on and that could lead to a nuclear war.
i wish to thank the distinguished senator from texas for his very kind reference to my patriotism. and to thank him for for entering into this colloquy. he is a very able and a very skillful debater and has great kledge of our military weapons systems. i think the colloquy has been very helpful. i would like at this time to direct a question to the able senator from washington : is it just possible that the large ss9s to which the senator referred in our colloquy are designed for a socalled damagelimiting functionthat is. weapons to be used against u.s. weapons in the event that war actually begins.
. any war brings with it individual. personal tragedy. when disputes develop. when national interests are challenged. nations must fight. it is  impersonal nations. however. but men who must bear the burdens of conflict and make the sacrifices for their country. such man was staff sgt. deverton c. cochrane. of boston. mass. his father. bob cochrane. told me of his story. and i asked him to put it down in writing so that others might k and share in this tale of bravery and sacrifice. this. then. is a fathers story about his son. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record in the hope that others. too. might benefit from the example which he set.
. even in the darkest hours of winter there is always the kledge that springs arrival is inevitable. thus it must be for the families of american prisoners of war held in th vietnam. the hours and months and years of their waiting have been bleak and dark. yet each of these families has clung to the expectation that someday the clouds of worry and concern will be cleared away by a final breakthrough that will bring them welcome news of their loved ones. efforts are being made at paris and elsewhere in the world to bring a ray of rationality into the problem of american prisoners  held. the occasional apparent softening of the communist position. the indication of promise which is as quickly dashed. shows that we must do more than hope and wait. we must work constantly to build world opinion. and to bring that opinion to bear upon the inhumane leadership of th vietnam. through such a course. slow though it may be. we can see chances of success and chances for a final reunion between the men and their families. and in the meantime. every day they further delay a humane resolution of the problem. the leaders of th vietnam show themselves to the world for the conscienceless creatures they are.
. sounds of joy. sounds of laughter. sounds of a very present christmas fill the air across our great land and much of the world. but to a special few americans there must be little cacaphony where the rest of us hear melody. to the wives and families of those americanssome 1.500 of themwho are missing in action or prisioners of war of the th vietnamese. christmas is less a time of pure joy than a time of renewed hope. they must replenish their spirits at this time of year to brace themselves for the grim weeks and months ahead. and at this time of year. a time of family sharing. they must take on the added degree of courage to make certain that their inner concerns and inner griefs are  allowed to destroy completely the happiness of their children and others with whom they have daily and close contact. there is hing we can do for these people that would have more effect than to continue our every effort to bring their men home quickly. failing that. to give these families the kledge that their men are being given humane and decent treatment would bolster their spirits and add to their christmas.
. 15 times in the less than 5 years that i have been in the u.s. senate. this body has considered and voted upon a motion to close off debate. and 15 times i have supported and voted in favor of cloture. my reason is simple: unlimited debate is incorporated in the rules of procedure of the u.s. senate as an assurance against hasty action and illconsidered judgments. it is through such debate that members of the senate -are able to inform their colleagues. raise questions and receive answers. resolve differences and render considered judgments. it is a right unkn in most other parliamentary bodies. and it is uniquely suited to our democratic principles. in essence. i believe in unlimited debate. but i also believe that when that debate becomes filibuster and is used as a strategic device. cloture should be invoked and the senate allowed to work its will. in the month that the senate has been debating the draft extension bill. many hours have been devoted to careful consideration of the important questions raised. many of the amendments we are  considering are repetitive and i think that we have moved into a filibuster. even though i have been a longtime opponent of the draft. i nevertheless believe that to prolong consideration of the draft bill for the purpose of postponing a final decision is wrong. i will therefore cast my vote to end this debate.
. on monday next. the senate will take up the selective service conference report. i do  intend to join in any effort to filibuster this measure. for reasons which i have fully explained in the past. namely. that i believe the sole purpose of debate is to educate.  to delay. when reasonable time has been taken to debate an issue. i think the senate should be allowed to work its will. however. since coming to the u.s. senate i have consistently opposed the extension of the draft. and i will vote against it this time. as well. my opposition to the draft is based on two primary considerations: first. my abhorrence of involuntary servitude. second. my convictionthat compulsory military service is more costly. both in social. and ecoic terms. than a volunteer armed service would be. in addition. i find two other sections of the conference report unacceptable: i refer to the emasculation of the mansfield amendment and to changes adopted by the conferees in the pay raise provisions. a senseofthesenate resolution is  what the majority of senators had in mind when they voted. 61 to 38. in favor of the original mansfield amendment requiring the withdrawal of all american forces from vietnam within 9 months. subsequent electoral practices in vietnam have obviated any argument for remaining there longer. or for insisting on full flexibility in determining when our commitment shall end. the south vietnamese government has demonstrated that it longer deserves our support. a reduction in military pay raises below those approved by either the senate or the house is further reason for opposing the conference report. the men of our armed forces have subsisted on pittance pay for far too long. if we are indeed serious about moving. even 2 or more years from . to an allvolunteer army. we must take steps  to insure that military service will be attractive to the larger number of men and women who will be required to fill the ranks. i sincerely hope that the conference report will be rejected.
. as we debate the draft bill today. it is important to realize that something more is at stake than the policy questions of a deadline for withdrawal and an end to an unpopular selective service system. the lives of many hundreds and thousands of american young men depend on what we do here. group in our society is better qualified to express this concern than the mothers of these young men. several of these mothers from massachusetts. calling themselves the concerned american mothers for the preservation of the united states of america. have recently addressed their thoughts to me in a very moving statement. i ask unanimous consent that "a mothers declaration" be printed in full at this point in the record.
. mr. dale sieling. director of the natick laboratories. has discussed this problem in extensive conversations with my office. he believes that it is vitally important for the full appropriation to be approved. particularly in the first year of the laboratorys service to all branches of our armed forces. if the amount is  approved. dr. sieling has projected that the laboratories would first have to forgo the purchase of cobalt60a development which would require them to work double slifts. paying overtime and probably reducing their staff in other areas in order to provide adequate exposure to radiation for foods being processed with the plants present weakened cobalt60 bars. as a second step. the laboratory would be unable to take on any new projects for the navy and air force. and would probably have to cut back both in operations and personnel on existing projects as well. as a result. dr. sieling points out. the air force and the navy would be forced to turn elsewheremost probably to private contractorsfor the experimentation in food processing which they require. this would result in long delays. because other laboratory comes close to the state of techogy and experimentation which presently prevails at natick. and it would also lead to higher longterm costs.
. i have the great pleasure of serving on the subcommittee chaired by the senator from new hampshire. is it the senators position. that simply because the group failed to have theproper personnel before the subcommittee. therefore the need did  exist and the committee should  authorize the necessary funds. i think the chairman has already admitted that the amount of money spent in the fiscal year 1971 was only for the army. it has  been expanded to the navy and air force. it seems to me that in order to do the job effectively certainly additional funds would have to be authorized for the expansion to meet the needs of the air force and the navy.
. an additional $600.000 does  seem too much to ask for so important and constructive a program. with a total of $5.1 millionthe full amount authorized by the armed services committeethe natick laboratories could begin to meet the requirements of the navy. the marine corps. and the air force by initiating new projects suited to the particular opr rting conditions of these services. i strongly urge that the senate restore thlc. $600.000 for food research. i have disc assed this amendment with the distinguished chairman of the appropriations committee. senator ellender. and with the distinguished ranking member. senator young. and would welcome their comments on this amendment.
but between the anncement of my intention yesterday. and the submission of the amendment today. certain momentous events have occurred which call for responsible commentary. last night. the president undertook a grave risk to end the war in vietnam. his decision involves the imminent prospect of direct confrontation with the soviet union. it signals to the soviet union. and to the nations of the world. that the united states will take extreme risks in defense of the u.s. position in south vietnam. i disagree with the president. i have never believed that south vietnam was vital to our national security. i have never believed that its fall would ignite a rebellion and communist takeovers elsewhere in the world. and i certainly do  believe that south vietnam. on the periphery of asia. is so important to our national security that it is worth the sacrifice the united states has made. and the still greater sacrifice the president is apparently willing to make. among the risks we are taking is the chance of forfeiting many years of dedicated effort to achieve an arms limitation agreement. the possible risk of wider war. and the possible sacrifice of our improving relationships with the peoples republic of china. but. s peace offer would be a brave and enduring act in the interests of peace. i hope and pray that the th vietnamese will have the judgment to accept this offer. for themselves and for all humanity.
i submitted an amendment to provide for the withdrawal of all american troops from indochina. conditioned upon the release of american prisoners of war. this is a perfecting amendment to the amendment offered by the senior senator from kentucky. i offer it because i agree with the distinguished senior senator from rhode island that we should  be placed in position of having to ask for our prisoners of war after the fact. under the amendment of the senator from kentucky. we would have guarantee that we would get our prisoners of war back.
my amendment to the cooper amendment would strike out section (b) of the cooper amendment and insert in lieu thereof. provided there has been a release of all american prisoners of war held by the government of th vietnam or any government allied with them.
but the incentive for them to release american prisoners of war is removed once we pull all our troops from southeast asia. as long as we have the troops there. they will have an incentive to release american prisoners of war as a quid pro quo. it is something to be worked out between the two governments. but once we march out. sail out. or fly out. leaving our prisoners in those camps. what assurance do we have that they will release them.
pull out all of our troops in southeast asia with the hope that the th vietnamese would release our prisoners of war. he says it is an illusion if we do anything else other than adopt the cooper amendment at this time. . the fact is that the u.s. government is being asked to take. on good faith. what the th vietnamese will do after we have removed our american troops from all of southeast asia. it very well may be that the th vietnamese may release our prisoners of war. but if they do  release our prisoners of war. what is our option. what is our alternative. what have we got left. we have absolutely hing left with which to deal with the th vietnamese other than. as the distinguished senator from new york has said. world opinion. we do  k that world opinion means that much to the th vietnamese. i have voted for every antiwar amendment that has come on the floor of the senate. i have sponsored some. i have cosponsored others. it grieves me to have to vote against an antiwar amendment. but i can. in good conscience. vote for an antiwar amendment which leaves it to good faith on the part of the th vietnamese to release american prisoners of war. i just can do it. and i do  think it is the question as put by my distinguished colleague from new york at all. it is  an illusion. we are  asking too much to say to them. "return our prisoners of war and we will pull all of our troops out of southeast asia." i think it is a good bargain. and i think it is a bargain which they woud expect the u.s. government. in all good conscience. to make.
i think that the distinguished senator from kentucky has made a great contribution by offering his amendment. very honestly. . i want to vote for the senators amendment. as i have said. i have voted for every antiwar amendment that has come to the floor of the u.s. senate. but i propose my amendment to the senators amendment because i do  believe that we should leave the return of our prisoners of war to the good faith of the th vietnamese. the senators amendment has made a contribution. it is the first time we have had any amendment on this floor which has called for the withdrawal of american forces  only in vietnam but also in thailand. laos. and cambodia.
the only fault i find with the senators amendment is that it does  provide for the return of american prisoners of war. i think the senators amendment would have a greater chance of adoption by this body if it did provide for the return of american prisoners of war. i do  k how many of my clleagues will vote for the cooper amendment. i do  k how many would vote for the cooper amendment as amended. but i. certainly believe that. more $enators would vote for the cooper amendment with the provision that there be a return of american prisoners of war than . so the voice of the senate. would be loudest if it did have in the amendment a provision for the return of american prisoners of war. i think that is what the distinguished senator from kentucky wants. and i quite agree with him that the legislative. branch of the government does have a joint responsibility with the executive branch of the government in the conduct. of this war. we have been saying that time and time againwith the mcgovernrhatfield amendment. with the mansfield amendment. with the cooperchurch amendment. with all the amendments we have been asked to vote upon. but all of. them. to my kledge. have contained some provision for the: return of american prisoners of war.
i agree with my colleague from rhode island. the senator from kentucky has misunderstood the purpose of my amendment when he says. that it completely wipesout the force of his amendment. it does  do that at all. his amendment will be strengthened by it. i hope that he will seriously consider accepting my amendment to provide for the return of the american prisoners of war. if th vietnam has good faith and if we have good faith. certainly the executives of those two governments can get together and work out the logistics ofthe return of- our prisoners of war and the withdrawal of our forces from cambodia. laos. and vietnam. this is a matter of logistics. we do  need to worry about those negotiations. but we do have to make ita condition precedent to withdrawal of our forces that we make provision. for the return of our american prisoners of war.
. that is the sole reason for perfecting amendment to the cooper amendment. i ask the distinguished senator from kentucky to consider it. because i think he has a good amendment if he would only provide for the release of american prisoners of war. my amendment does  call for an agreement  any negotiations. it sets as a condition precedent that we will get back our prisoners of. war before we withdraw all of our forces from southeast asia. i want to make this clear. my amendment provides for withdrawal from south vietnam. laos. and cambodia. as set forth in the amendment of the distinguished senator from kentucky. if there are any questions on the amendment i will be pleased to answer them.. i think we have had egh debate on it. all i am asking is that the senate vote favorably on the withdrawal of our forces. conditioned on returning american prisoners.
. i hope he changes his mind. because i would like to see him support this amendment. i would like to see him accept this amendment. but be that as it may. i trust tlhe senate will accept this amendnent _ because i think the senate wants to go home tonight having said to all the americarx. people that we will  at any time ptl out all of our forces until we are assur oe that every american prisoner of war has been returned.
i hope that i understand the senators question. the president. under this amendment. would be bound to use the funds authorized under this amendment or appropriated under this amendment only for the purposes of withdrawing all u.s. ground. naval. and air forces from vietnam. laos. and cambodia. and protecting such forces as they are withdrawn. how the president uses that power in the protection of the troops as he withdraws them is a matter left entirely up to the president. we are  trying to write into the legislation specifically what the president has to do in that regard. he has the power. and he is. by this amendment. compelled to start withdrawal after the date of the enactment of the legislation. it has already been determined that he does  have any combat ground forces to speak of anywhere in indochina at this time. but he still has his air force. which he can use .n the protection of his troops as he withdraws them. if the th vietnamese fail to return our prisoners of war then this amendment is a nullity. this act of legislation is a nullity. and the president has all the powers to do that which he is doing at the present time. may i just say i think the word "protection" is a very important word in this amendment. because the president will be the determi as to what he needs to use in order to protect his troops as he withdraws them from indochina.
before we complete that withdrawal. the answer is "yes." the question as to the statement that the senator refers to relates to a statement i made which said that this amendment does  call for any agreement as far as the return of the prisoners of war as concerned. it provides that the prisoners of war must be returned.  that the th vietnamese sit down with us and work on an agreement with us for the return of our prisoners of war. we are providing that all prisoners of war must be returned. this was the very lengthy. and i think very exhaustive. debate which took place on my amendment to the cooper amendment. and i was very strong at that time. as i am . that i want all american prisoners of war returned before all our forces are pulled out of indochina. that is what this amendment says.
 has in assuring the return of american prisoners of war. is in our air force. most of which is  even in indochina. but is in thailand. so we are really  giving up anything. under this amendment. when i talked about agreement. i was discussing the agreement that the senator from minnesota has alluded to. which. was contained in the can amendment. and when i  talk about discussions between the two governments. i am .merely talking about the discussions as to how many will be returned at what time. and where. these are sort of housekeepingtype discussions. rather than setting any formal agreement as to whether the th vietnamese will return our prisoners of war in return for our getting out of china. the amendment provides that they must return our prisoners of war before we get out of indochina. (several senators addressed the chair.)
i respect that serious question. and that is why i am trying. to the best of my ability. to explain the amendment to the satisfaction of my colleague from alaska. i think he well pointed out that under this amendment. the president has the power to protect the troops in indochina. that power to protect the troops is a power that the president can exercise by the use of his air force. hing changes that at all in this amendment. he still has that. he is  going to use the 1.000 combat troops in south vietnam for the protection of the troops. the senator ks that is a fact. he is only going to use the air force. and the air force he can continue to use under this amendment for the protection of the troops. there is cutoff of funds for that at all.
that is exactly what we do in this amendment. before the president withdraws our forces. we must have our prisoners of war. we say that he does  have to do a thing until the prisoners of war are returned. he has the flexibility. he has that determination. solely. we are  telling him any more than that under this amendment.
there has been  only some talks. but there has also been some money voted by the house for the development of a counterforce weapon which has the potential of a firststrike capability. and that money has been deleted from the conference. according to my understanding. so there is money for the development of this counterforce weapon. and when it was in there. i observed that we might be spending money to develop a counterforce weapon which the russians could construe and understand as having a firststrike capability and jeopardize the salt talks.
i certainly want to get at it. i think it is most important. i think that the senator from colorado would agree that the success of the salt talks is paramount. we are moving in the right direction. i can see how we can possibly be fearful of saying that both sides only the united states. but both sidesthat neither side should be seeking a firststrike capability. to me. that is most important when we are trying to build a climate for negotiation. that is what i had in mind by seeking to prevent the development of a counterforce weapon which might be construed as having a first strike capability.
. the amendment in the bill is a very simple amendment. it is an amendment which the senate has supported on several different occasions. the senate has worked its will. and has assumed its constitutional responsibility to act in the important issue of war and peace. this amendment provides solely that there shall be a withdrawal of all our american forcesland. air. and naval forces--from indochina. south vietnam. cambodia. and laos. within 4 months from the date of enactment. conditioned only upon the return of american prisoners of war and an accounting for our missing in action. the amendment was first added to the foreign military assistance bill. this was the first time that the senate had voted to cut off funds for the war in indochina. conditioned solely on return of all american prisoners of war. but the foreign military assistance bill was defeated. and with it the socalled antiwar amendment. after the defeat of the foreign military assistance bill i attached the same amendment to the military procurement bill. again. after a very lengthy debate and withstanding 12 procedural votes of the senate. the senate then voted to cut off funds for the war in indochina. conditioned again upon the return of american prisoners of war and an accounting of our missing in action. the military procurement bill was passed by the senate and went to conference with the house. i find fault whatsoever. as i have said on this floor before. with what i believe to be the outstanding job of the chairman of the committee on armed services and the senate conferees in conference with the house. by an unprecedented move the senate and house conferees invited my distinguished colleague from california
 to withdraw those remaining 36.000 troops at any particular point. he has entire flexibility so far as the withdrawal of the troops and he can negotiate. as i said earlier. for the withdrawal of american forces and for the return of our prisoners of war. something that will go on between the two nations. so i think the senate again has an opportunity to exercise its constitutional responsibility to vote on an antiwar amendment. irrespective of what its fate may be in conference. it is incumbent upon the senate to stand up and courageously vote. as it has in the past. to end the war in vietnam
i submitted an amendment to provide for the withdrawal of all american troops from indochina. conditioned upon the release of american prisoners of war. this is a perfecting amendment to the amendment offered by the senior senator from kentucky. i offer it because i agree with the distinguished senior senator from rhode island that we should  be placed in position of having to ask for our prisoners of war after the fact. under the amendment of the senator from kentucky. we would have guarantee that we would get our prisoners of war back.
my amendment to the cooper amendment would strike out section (b) of the cooper amendment and insert in lieu thereof. "provided. there has been a release of all american prisoners of war held by the government of th vietnam or any government allied with them."
but the incentive for them to release american prisoners of war is removed once we pull all our troops from southeast asia. as long as we have the troops there. they will have an incentive to release american prisoners of war as a quid pro quo. it is something to be. worked out between the two governments. but once we march out. sail out. or fly out. leaving our prisoners in those camps. what assurance do we have that they will release them.
i think that the distinguished senator from kentucky has made a great contribution by offering his amendment. very honestly. . i want to vote for the senators amendment. as i have said. i have voted for every antiwar amendment that has come to the floor of the u.s. senate. but i propose my amendment to the senators amendment because i do  believe that we should leave the return of our prisoners of war to the good faith of the th vietnamese. the senators amendment has made a contribution. it is the first time we have had any amendment on this floor which has called for the withdrawal of american forces  only in vietnam but also in thailand. laos. and cambcdia.
cambodia and laos. for the first time. so it is an extension of all the amendments that heretofore we have been asked to vote upon. that. in itself. is something for which we in the senate should be grateful and for which i am sure the american people would be grateful. because it would speed up  only an end to the war in vietnam but also a disengagement of american forces in laos and cambodia as well.
the only fault i find with the senators amendment is that it does  provide for the return of american prisoners of war. i think the senators amendment would have a greater chance of adoption by this body if it did provide for the return of american prisoners of war. i do  k how many of my colleagues will vote for the cooper amendment. i do  k how many would vote for the cooper amendment as amended. but i certainly believe that more senators would vote for the cooper amendment with the provision that there be a return of american prisoners of war than . so the voice of the senate would be loudest if it did have in the amendment a provision for the return of american prisoners of war. i think that is what the distinguished senator from kentucky wants. and i quite agree with him that the legislative branch of the government does have a joint responsibility with the executive branch of the government in the conduct of this war. we have been saying that time and time againwith the mcgovernhatfleld amendment. with the mansfield amendment. with the cooperchurch amendment with all the amendments we have been asked to vote upon. but all of them. to my kledge. have contained some provision for the return of american prisoners of war.
i agree with my colleague from rhode island. the senator from kentucky has misunderstood the purpose of my amendment when he says that it completely wipes out the force of his amendment. it does  do that at all. his amendment will be strengthened by it. i hope that he will seriously consider accepting my amendment to provide for the return of the american prisoners of war. if th vietnam has good faith and if we have good faith. certainly the executives of those two governments can get together and work out the logistics of the return of our prisoners of war and the withdrawal of our forces from cambodia. laos. and vietnam. this is a matter of logistics. we do  need to worry about those negotiations. but we do have to make it a condition precedent to withdrawal of our forces that we make provision for the return of our american prisoners of war.
. that is the sole reason for perfecting amendment to the cooper amendment. i ask the distinguished senator from kentucky to consider it. because i think he has a good amendment if he would only provide for the release of american prisoners of war. my amendment does  call for an agreement  any negotiations. it sets as a condition precedent that we will get back our prisoners of war before we withdraw all of our forces from southeast asia. i want to make this celar. my amendment provides for withdrawal from south vietnam. laos. and cambodia. as set forth in the amendment of the distinguished senator from kentucky. if there are any questions on the amendment i will be pleased to answer them. i think we have had egh debate on it. all i am asking is that the senate vote favorably on the withdrawal of our forces. conditioned on returning american prisoners.
. i hope he changes his mind. because i would like to see him support this amendment. i would like to see him accept this amendment. but be that as it may. i trust the senate will accept this amendment. because i think the senate wants to go home tonight having said to all the american people that we will  at any time pull out all of our forces until we are assured that every american prisoner of war has been returned.
. i want to serve ice that i reserve the right to offer this amendment to any bill before this body. when it will  be subject to a point of order for the remainder of this congress. and if the war is  over and i am back here next year. i will offer it then and continue to do so until such time as congress has acted on this important issue. or until such time as the war is over
. in less than 2 weeks americans will pause to pay tribute to the sacrifices of millions of men and women who have served our nation in times of war. this memorial day. as we commemorate the courage and devotion of those who made the ultimate sacrifice for us. we can forget the enduring anguish of thousands of americans who do  k the fate of loved ones listed as missing in action in indochina. the pain of uncertainty is exceptionally hard to bear. a wife does  k if she is a widowa father and mother do  k if they have a sonchildren ask "wheres daddy.". and the only answer is hope and prayer. the american people share these hopes and prayers. we were relieved when our forces returned from indochina. we rejoiced when our prisoners of war came home. but our joy remains incomplete. the tragedy of indochina lingers in many ways: in the skies over cambodia and in the frequent ceasefire violations in vietnam and laos. and in the homes of the families and friends of 1.288 members of our armed forces missing in action throughout indochina. as we seek to halt the continuing hostilities in indochina. we must pursue as relentlessly our efforts to resolve the status of our mias. we have in thailand the joint casualty resolution center. which is poised to undertake the challenging assignment of determining the fate of our mias. last month in saigon. i met with the commanding officer of the jcrc. brig. gen. robert kingston. of brookline. mass. general kingston outlined the immediate and comprehensive capabilities of the jcrc. but he underscored the crucial problem of our casualty resolution effort. our teams can  operate in thn areas of south vietnam and laos presently under control of the provisional revolutionary governmentprgand the pathet lao. respectively. while in vientiane. i spoke with a representative of the pathet lao and urged as strongly as possible that the pathet lao move promptly to cooperate with u.s. casualty resolution teams in areas under their control. in saigon. i made similar urgings to representatives of the prg. in both cases. though i spoke for myself. i said that i was sure my feelings represented the mood of congress and the american people who share the anguish of the families of our mias. the resolution i offer sets forth the plight of our mias and their families. the responsibility and capability of the united states in resolving their status. and the need for cooperation by all parties in thz indochina conflict for such resolution. specifically. this measure calls for special remembrance of the mias and their families throughout memorial day 1973. it suggests that american motorists turn on their headlights on may 28 as a symbol of their remembrance. i believe this special remembrance is important to remind the families of the mias that all americans share their burden. but more important than remembrance is the need to end the anguish of the mias and their families. section 3 of this resolution would express the sense of the senate thatevery effort be made to secure the cooperation of an parties in the indochina conflict to insure the fullest and most expeditious resolution of the status of members of the u.s. forces missing in indo. china. in the senate today and across the nation. memorial day. let us make clear that we all share the anxiety. hopes. and prayers of our mias and their families. as well as the determination to promptly and relentlessly determine the fate of these brave men. i submit the resolution. and ask unanimous consent for its immediate consideration.
. this measure must properly be considered contingency legislation in the event that the concerted effort of the massachusetts congressional delegation to reverse the decision to phaseout the boston naval shipyard does  succeed. while it is necessary to advance this vehicle for the future use of the boston naval shipyard in the event our appeal is denied. i shall continue to do all within my power to prevail upon the department of defense to consider the meritorious strategic and ecoic arguments in favor of the continued operation of this facility. the city of boston and the commonwealth of massachusetts have promptly and responsibly explored alternative uses of the shipyard complex should the facility be phasedout. the city and commonwealth are in agreement as to a contingency plan. this plan is contained in a report to the secretary of defense submitted by the city of boston. the boston ecoic development and industrial commission and the boston redevelopment authority. we are prepared to convert if necessary. i believe we have the capacity to plan and execute a conversion program that provides the maximum ecoic and human benefits possible. while we continue our efforts to reverse the decision to phaseout the boston naval shipyard. we must look ahead to the various alternatives we face. this legislation provides a response to the alternative we  seek to avoid.
. if anyone ks cambodiaand some of my colleagues dothere is semblance of an industry in cambodia. industrial complex whatever. similar to what is in th vietnam. the proper targets for the b52 would be industrial targets. certainlymanufacturing plants. railroads. and the like. b52 bombing in this area. by the admision of the air force itself. has never been more than 10 to 13 percent effective. it is. in fact. counterproductive. we are losing by bombing in cambodia and laos. the reason why we are bombing in cambodia is  that we really want to hit military targets in cambcdia. as the prime objective. we are bombing in cambodia in order to send a signal to ha. i. for one. think that the bombing we are carrying on is  only illegal. but it is also immoral to bomb one country. which is  the object of the bombing. in order to send a signal to aher country. the death and the deprivation in cambodia primarily results from our bombing over there. therefore. when i returned i attempted to persuade my colleagues that this bombing in cambodia and in laos should stop. the senator from texas asks why we adopt this method in an appropriation bill.
i ask him. in response. what other power does congress have. we have had amendment after amendment on this floor. as he has suggested. we have been powerless to act. the country looks to congress to act. and the only power. apparently. that congress has to act is through the appropriations route. it was  easy to get a unanimous vote of the appropriations committee. if my memory is correct. the maker of the motion on the question of a point of order voted in the unanimous vote by which the amendment was adopted in the appropriations committee. so i say. . that these are times of great crisis. the question is. will the u.s. senate stand up to its constitutional responsibility. i think that constitutional responsibility is to use the tool it has. and that tool is to provide that funds be used. under this act or any other act. for bombing over cambodia and laos. i hope the point of order will  be agreed to.
. we are  bombing in cambodia for the protection of american troops. we are  bombing in cambodia to destroy the th vietnamese. we are actually bombing in cambodia to send that signal to ha. and that is illegal. and it is immoral. how many of us have had the question put to us. "why do you permit it to go on." we say that we can do anything about it. and they say. "yes. you can. because you are appropriating the money for that bombing." what we are trying to do in the appropriations committee is to cut off the appropriations so that the bombing will cease. we are  trying to hurt dr. kissinger in his negotiations at all.
. in the past several motnths i have frequently uttered my opposition to continued u.s. military activities in cambodia. on august 15 of this year that involvement is to come to an end. i am distressed that the termination of the bombing will likely  occur sooner. nevertheless. some comfort can be taken from the fact that there is a date certain for the final cessation of our military activities in indochina. as this tragic military involvement comes to an end. it would be myopic  to balance our revulsion at our contribution to the tragedy of cambodia with a recognition that others. specifically the th vietnamese. have contributed greatly to the evil of this war by failing to exhibit a willingness to withdraw their troops from cambodia. such a withdrawal would certainly have been in the spirit if  the letter of the paris peace agreements of january of this year. there are approximately 30.000 to 40.000 th vietnamese troops in cambodia according to u.s. sources. for the past 5 to 6 months the secondary role of these troops has been to provide support functions for the cambodian insurgents. the th vietnamese army has  been extensively engaged in the active fighting. their primary role has been that of insuring th vietnamese access to and control of the various salients into south vietnam from cambodia. while the th vietnamese troops have  taken an active part in the fighting in cambodia. they nevertheless have contributed greatly to the continuation of the conflict. providing the material supplies and moral support needed for the insurgents to carry on the struggle. in a very real sense. they have played a role for the insurgents siriilar to that played by the united states for the present regime. any peaceful settlement of the war in cambodia should be predicated. in part. upon a tacit th vietnamese agreement to withdraw their forces from cambodia on a date certain basis. if they are unwilling to do this then the world should clearly recognize has share of responsibility for any further deterioration in the situation. regardless of whatever action the th vietnamese may take. it is clear that any further involvement of the u.s. military in cambodia would be both unwise and dysfunctioned to the cause of peace. this is a reality that must be faced. it is a reality that should preclude any agreement by congress to a request for an extension of the bombing dateline. as in most wars. there are winners in cambodia. only victims. should cambodia fall to the insurgents in the near future. the victory for them will likely be a "pyrrhic" one. their country has been so ravaged by the "winds of war" that it will be many years before tranquility will return to the combodian people. a people for whom i have a deep and abiding affection. my intent is to do everything possible to hasten the time when the khmers can once again live in peace. i trust a similar intent exists throughout the congress.
 has stated his intent to veto any war powers legislation. therefore. while we. as proponents of this bill. can take justified satisfaction in its passage through congress. we must recognize that the most difficult struggle will be to override a veto should it occur. our attention must be turned to this consideration even while we vote on the pending measure. the ultimate test of congressional intent to assert its rightful place in the decisionmaking process regarding war is  today. but in several weeks time.
 to propose a draft treaty banning all nuclear tests. the resolution is broadly supported in this body. it complements earlier pledges made by our government to achieve such a comprehensive test banpledges made in the treaty on nuclear proliferation. early last month. secretary kissinger and soviet foreign minister gromyko issued a joint communique at geneva which raised the possibility of a socalled threshold underground nuclear test ban treaty. if achieved. such a treaty would prohibit nuclear tests above a certain size of explosive device. the concept of a threshold ban on underground nuclear testing represents an important first step toward reducing the development and potentially. the spread of nuclear weapons. if it is to accomplish these desirable purposes. however. the treaty must be tightly and carefully drawn. to begin with. it should contain provisions looking toward a full ban on underground tests. this can be done in several ways. either by a decreasing quota on the number of tests a signatory may conduct or by a decreasing threshold on the size of the device exploded or by a combination of these two limits. there is considerable urgency in the matter of ending all nuclear tests. it has been over a decade since the limited test ban treaty was concluded and nearly 5 years since the conclusion of the proliferation treaty. with india  nearly a member of the nuclear club and with the new tests underway by the peoples republic of china and france. it would be unwise to defer very much longer the conclusion of an international agreement to prohibit all nuclear tests. more accessions to the "nuclear club" will greatly complicate the problem of negotiating a satisfactory comprehensive test ban. a treaty concluded  will  only put pressure on current members of the nuclear club to halt all tests. it will provide strong disincentives to nations which may be contemplating the development of nuclear weapons. it is imperative. therefore. that any nuclear testing agreement concluded at moscow contain phasedown provisions designed to reduce either the number or size of tests permitted under the treaty to zero over a relatively short period of time. zerolevel testing can realistically be achieved in 3 years or less. permitting us to complete projects  in the research and development pipeline and to reorient our aec laboratories to energy r. & d. concern has been expressed over whether the united states might incur unacceptable risks in entering into a full ban on nuclear testing. my own view is that these potential risks have been greatly exaggerated and that. compared to the risks involved in further testing by a greater number of powers. the risks in a comprehensive ban are minimal indeed. for instance. american nuclear techogy has equal and we have conducted over 255 underground tests since 1963. while the soviet union has completed about 100 tests. so a comprehensive ban will likely leave us in a superior techogical position. moreover. such a treaty would commit us to hing which the soviet union is  reciprocally pledged to door  to do. naturally. abrogation of the treaty by one party would leave other signatories free to protect their security interests as they see fit. therefore. entering into such a treaty would in way jeopardize our vital national defense. yet i think prudence dictates that we write into any treaty on underground testing an ironclad review provision. requiring a general reassessment of the treatys provisions and operation at intervals of 2 years or so. a similar provision is contained in the proliferation treaty and the first review conference is scheduled for next february. at that time. the issue of sovietamerican progress toward a comprehensive testing ban will surely arise. if. by then. we have  accomplished a comprehensive underground test ban or at least a partial ban containing decreasing quotas or thresholds. the delays and our apparent dilatory attitude may encourage nations which have so far foregone nuclear weapons tests to embark on development programs of their own. practically speaking. there is aher very strong reason for moving toward a comprehensive ban on underground tests as quickly as possible. national means of surveillance have progressed to a point where we can detect cheating on a total test ban with a very high degree of confidence. under a threshold ban. however. this confidence is considerably reduced. since seismic and satellite devices can discriminate between different sizes of nuclear explosives as accurately as we would like. this condition introduces certain incentives for cheating which would  exist under a ban on testing altogether. if we can achieve a full prohibition on underground tests this summer. then we should minimize the risk of undetected cheating on a threshold test ban by incorporating language which will reduce to zero the number or size of tests as rapidly as possible. if the moscow summit results in an underground test ban having the characteristics i have suggested here. one more step will have been taken by the united states and the soviet union to fulfill their obligation to reduce the dangers of our nuclear world. it is this goal that should be dominant in our approach to this issue.
. the playwright webster once wrote: integrity of life is fames best friend. which ly. beyond death. shall crown the end. so it is with ernest h. gruening. whose lifeboth public and privatewas marked by that quality of penetrating sincerity which we call integrity. he never turned away from the great public issues of his time. in everything he upheld the cause of the oppressed and the deprived. and served tirelessly the larger good. in these troubled and sometimes discouraging days it is heartening to recall the achievements of his life and the inspiring example of his dedicated. courageous service. it reaffirms for us all that basic faith in the possibilities of man which is at the heart of our democratic system. an indefatigable campaigner. outspoken in his views. good humored in his style. senator ernest gruening compiled a progressive voting record. especially in the area of civil rights. never one to shy away from controversy. he took vigorous stands on such issues as abortion. birth control. womens rights. and. above all. the war in southeast asia. which he forthrightly opposed. his vote was one of two to be cast in 1964 against the gulf of tonkin resolution. more recently. senator gruening spoke out with characteristic vigor regarding the watergate investigations and the impeachment issue. his autobiography. called. fittingly egh. "many battles." appeared in 1973. ernest gruening believed in the viability of the democratic system because he believed in the intelligence and good sense of the electorate. he was fearless in his advocacy of what he held to be right. yet respectful of dissent and open to criticism. he earned the respect of men and women in both parties. and retained the love of the people of alaska. it has been said that he "established the basis ofourcivilized life" in alaska. where he will always be remembered as one of the great men of this century. but it is here in the halls of the congress that he will be best remembered by his colleagues and perhaps by the nation. too. for his steadfast commitment to conscience during a deeply unpopular war and in a deeply troubled time. i extend to his widow and son my heartfelt sympathy in theirand the nations loss. a loss which is the more grievous in these days of trial for our country. yet. i k that they. even as we. will find consolation and strength in the memory of his character and achievements. he will be numbered among the great members of this body.  least for helping to reaffirm our faith in democracy and in the integrity of public service.
. this bill has been of great concern to me and i am sure that this holds true for all members of the senate. i have looked over this bill from an environmental point of view and from the point of view of project independence. i have also looked at it from the point of view of jobs. and in this regard i have some very practical questions. as i am sure has been pointed out. they concern the senior senator from massachusetts. and they certainly concern the junior senator. we lost the boston navy yard. and we are very much concerned about getting some work there for a new group that wants to open up a shipyard in those facilities. my question to the distinguished senator from kansasand he has been very enlightening throughout this debate. he has done. i think. an outstanding job on this legislationis whether he fears that if this bill is  passed there will be available work. say. for a group that wants to open up a new shipyard using the boston navy yard facilities. i understand that most shipyards have as much work as they can take at the present time. but i am talking about a new shipyard. is it a fact that they can or will  be able to get sufficient work under the merchant marine act of 1970.
. the unfortunate events of the past few weeks in cyprus have evoked a great many comments concerning the appropriate role of the united states in the situation. there have been numerous calls for a far more active american role in the dispute. ranging from demands for direct american intervention to requests that we cut off aid to either or both greece and turkey. these etreme positions make little sense in terms of our national interests. moreover. they would prove of little benefit in alleviating the problem. greece and turkey form the cornerstone of the crucial eastern flank of the nato alliance. for that reason. the main objective of our policy must be to preclude open warfare from breaking out between the two countries. it is most important that in our attempts to help bring about a resolution of the conflict we avoid alienating the parties involved. in this period of high tension. it would indeed be unwise for the american government. or any of our public officials. to make condemnatory statements which would long be resented by the party to whom they are directed. furthermore. the united states would actually undermine its ability to help bring about a settlement if it "tilted" to one side at this time. we can best bring about an end to the conflict by continuing to lend our "good offices" to involved parties and to serve as a constructive mediator. by striving to maintain the trust and confidence of all parties. we can best hope to exert a moderating influence in the situation. any settlement requires the cooperation of both greece and turkey as well as the indiges cypriots. it is only through the maintenance of open contacts with all parties that we can hope to foster the cooperation necessary for the implementation of the ceasefire. it is my hope that all parties will immediately abide strictly by its requirements. especially those relating to a freezing of territory  occupied by the respective forces. since the signing of the 1959 constitution. there has been great cypriot dissatisfaction among both nationalities. the turkish miity of about 15 percent has long felt that it has  received an adequate share of political power. at the same time. many greek cypriots have desired closer ties with greece. some. ably members of the eoka faction. have expressed a desire for "eis" or reunion with greece. while certain turkish cypriots want "taksim"-union with turkey. however. a formal partition of the island and such "double eis" is  a viable solution. it would simply bring the two mainland adversaries into direct confrontation on a small island. making further provocative incidents inevitable. under those circumstances the likelihood of open warfare between greece and turkey would be great. at the same time it is unrealistic to expect peace if the island is forced to endure under the same conditions which had prevailed previous to the conflict.  is it tenable to believe that an occupying force. even if it were the united nations. would be able to enforce a settlement which does  reflect a reasonable compromise of the opposing wishes of the cypriots themselves. any lasting peace must be based upon several principles which are applicable to most conflicts. there must be direct negotiations between the parties involved. leading to a peace which reflects the military and political realities of the island. as well as those of mainland europe. most importantly. a settlement must reflect the desires of the cypriot peoples themselves. perhaps the most viable solution would be a federal system with a strong measure of local autoy. in a sense. the conflict. as deplorable as it certainly is. may have afforded cyprus a greater opportunity to realize a durable peace. the significant migrations forced by the clash and the subsequent ceasefire. have perhaps helped to galvanize the island into far more homogeneous zones as well as allowing the ethnic boundaries to reach a more natural equilibrium based on the militarypolitical realities of the region. these processes may help render a federal system more feasible. as relative homogeneity is certainly a prerequisite to such a solution. however. once again. the particulars of such a solution must be left up to the parties most affected by the conflictthe cypriots themselves. it is our opportunity to help bring these parties together and to grant them our services as friendly. neutral observers. to take a stronger position would be to undermine confidence and trust in america. thereby endangering our nato alliance. and undermining our ability to help the cypriot people together to bring about a just and lasting settlement.
. while i reject secretary schlesingers response to the challenge presented by the dynamic soviet strategic program. i do  ige the need to respond to that challenge in an effective and intelligent manner. we can ige the possibility that moscow has set forth on a course of action designed to achieve a capability similar to the one i believe should be eschewed by our government. our response to that possibility. rather than being one which results in both sides seeking efficient countersilo capabilities. thus leading to the "hairtrigger" condition. should concentrate instead on denying the soviet union an effective countersilo option regardless of the types of initiatives it undertakes. in essence. i am advocating a defensive posture. one in which the united states takes whatever steps necessary to protect the survivability of its deterrent systems rather than pursues the destabilizing course of threatening its opponents deterrent forces. the option of pursuing a defensive reaction to the soviet challenge is available right . one can identify programs in the dod budget request that conform to the defensive criterion. the mx program emphasizing land mobility for our icbms is one such program. accelerated development of standoff missile capabilities is aher. the trident program as originally conceived is a third. and. there are more. until salt or similar negotiations result in effective superpower agreements  only capping the arms race but also opening the way to substantive disarmament. we will have to take the steps necessary to guarantee the survivability of our nuclear forces and their credibility as a deterrent against undue pressures and provocations by our adversaries. the defensive approach advocated here. while perhaps a more costly proposition ultimately than the "strategic initiatives." is preferable to the latter that has within it the seeds of its and our own destructionthe lessening of inhibitions against resort to nuclear war as a policy option.
. there has been extensive discussion of the p18 issue in the senate corridors. actually. in the past several weeks. with the abundance of socalled facts surrounding this issue. i think it is important to point out a few that are  controversial. the f18 has the support of senior officials of the office of the secretary of defense. the secretary of defense wrote to congress on september 23 expressing his firm endorsement of the program. the f18 has the strong support of the procurement and operational senior naval officers. admiral holloway. dr. currie. admiral houser. and others. have testified at length about the merits of the program. moneys for the f18 have been authorized by congress and the appropriation has been approved in the house. the senate committee on appropriations has recommended its funding. the f18 program came alive originally with the decision in 1971. by the thendeputy secretary of defense. david packard. to limit the scope of the f14a program. this was done by cutting the approved buy to 313 f14as in the 5year defense plan. in 1973. deputy secretary of defense clements looked at other alternatives to supplement the f14 by proposing a prototype flyoff program between a lower cost version of the f14 and a naval version of the f15. when congress rejected this proposal as too expensive. the navy organized a fighter study group iv to investigate and compare f14 variants. navy versions of the f15. and a new lightweight fighter. then. in april 1974. the navy advanced two suggestions to the secretary of defense. one proposal was a simplified version of the f14 without the phoenix missile but with the ability to incorporate it later. this recommendation was  approved by the secretary of defense. aher proposal was made to look at a lighterweight. lowercost. multimission aircraft which would serve to replace some of the f4s and all of the a7s in the attack mission this was accepted by the secretary of defense. implementing this alternative involved investigating the performance and costs required for this multimission airplane which was at that time called vfax. the entire aircraft industry participated in developing design characteristics of a suitable airframe. this was done through the issuance of a presolicitation ice in june 1974 to the mcdonnell douglas corp.. grumman. ltv. lockheed aircraft co.. general dynamics. rockwell international. throp corp.. and boeing. most of these companies had been doing conceptual design studies with the naval air systems command in anticipation of this new development. the important thing to recognize is that all of these companieswith the exception of boeing and lockheedresponded and enthusiastically supported the vfax program and expressed their intent to compete for that program which we  k as the f18. it was only after they were eliminated from consideration that some of the contractors attacked the f18 program. likewise. the cognizant committees of congress over the years have encouraged the secretary of defense to develop a lowercost alternate and complement to the f14 airplane for the u.s. navy. the latest expression of that encouragement is the language in the conference report on the appropriations bill for fiscal year 1975 supporting the navy air combat fighter as well as the 94th congress support of the f18 program during the authorization process and during the appropriations process in the house of representatives. the f18 procurement activity was protested by ltv to the general accounting office. but. as is well kn. all bases for the ltv protest were denied after review by gao. the legality. appropriateness. fairness. and technical quality of the competition that led to the selection of the company to build the f18 were fully upheld. the only truly expert testimony opposing the f18 was that offered by george spangenberg. previously of the naval air systems command. recently retired. who appeared before the senate tactical air power subcommittee on october 9. 1975. mr. spangenberg is well kn as a competent engineering evaluator. highly .respected for his dedicated service before he retired. he was last involved in the f14 before his retirement. and this clearly influenced his views. also. he is out of his field of expertise trying to establish the operational characteristics required rather than evaluate the ability of a design to meet the requirement. examples include his statements about the inferiority of the f18 to the mcdonnell f4 and the douglas a4m. which are totally misleading. probably the biggest confusion has been raised in the matter of costs. and this confusion has been raised. i think somewhat deliberately by f18 adversaries. by selective -use of data with various treatment of r. & d. and investment costs. operating and maintenance costs. different rates and quantities of production. and selective time periods for evaluating the comparisons. quite a wide range of numbers have been produced. most of which can be reconciled by expert cost estimators when malized to the appropriate comparative parameters. for instance. before the tactical air power subcommittee. the argument was made that 291 f14as could be procured for the cost of the first 117 f18s plus the associated research and development expense. this is a narrowlydrawn and irrelevant comparison which neglects the true size of the planned f18 program800 plus aircraftthat should be considered for the amortization of the r. & d. investment and the advantage of the learning curve which would turn in favor of f18 for all procurement. it also neglects the very large operational and maintenance savings associated with the smaller and more reliable aircraft--$9 million per .aircraft operated for 15 years. aher shortcoming of arguments of f18 opponents is that they fail to recognize that the r. & d. expense contemplated for the f18 is an expense that can be avoided anyway. in reality. the navy is going to have to spend that kind of money to develop the replacement for the a7. it is the ecoic blessing of the f18 program that the need for both fighter and ground attack airplanes is solved by the same basic aircraft. if one discounts the $1.4 billion r. & d. on the f18 as a necessary expense that is going to be made anyway and then if one recognizes that the f14a is  really acceptable and what the navy actually would need is the f14b. then the proper comparative numbers would look something like this: billions acquisition cost of 400 f14bs (after 390 f14as) ----------------------$5.8 acquisition cost of 1st 400 f18s --- 4.0 acquisition savings with the f18 ------------------------1.8 15yr. operating costs of 400 f14 ..- 8.4 15yr. operaing costs of 400 f18s ---- 4.9 operations savings with the f18 ----------------------- 3.6 grand total acquisition and operations saving with the f18-- 5.4 (all in january 1975 dollars to eliminate distortion of inflation.) the general electric co. has been selected by- the navy to provide the engines for the f18. i am pleased about this. naturally. because the ge aircraft engine group does a good deal of work in my state. but also because ge has an outstanding track record in the engine business. the f18 program. many do  realize. offers the last opportunity in a number of years for our country to avoid almost total dependence on one engine manufacturer for high performance fighter engines. currently the engines in the u.s. inventory of high performance fighters. including the f111. the f14. the f15 and the f16. are all built by one manufacturer. prattwhitney. the ge 404 engine will power the f18. thereby keeping ge as a viable engine competitor and providing the united states with two sources of supply. the distinguished senator from arizona said that we should have competition. we should  have one engine company doing it all. i think he further said that any company in the united states was capable of producing a good aircraft. i do  think anyone wo.ldi doubt tbat in summary. the kind of airplane that the f18 is. is needed by the navy. this kind of airplane. as an alternate and supplemental to the f14 and as a replacement for the a7. has been supported by congress. has been supported by the aerospace industry as long as they had a chance of participating in it. and has been consistently supported by the secretary of defense and his senior officials. the current criticism of the program has arisen only as the industrial participation has been narrowed to the winners of the competition cited as fair and legal by the gao. the data used as the base for the criticism has been selective and sometimes. unfortunately. misleading and does  properly represent the potential of the f18 for fulfilling the role desired for it by the navy at significant cost savings compared to other alternatives. i am hopeful that my colleagues will reject the amendment of the distinguished senator from arizona and allow the f18 program to move forward as proposed
. during the past several days the senate has attempted a substantive discussion of the angolan crisis. we have met in secret session twice. we have debated several amendments. one of which i am a cosponsor. and a resolution setting forth certain policy perspectives on the matter. the decisions we have made or will make by our votes are important ones for which the congress. in exercising its power. must bear a major share of the responsibility for the events that result therefrom. before i detail why i believe the proper policy choice for the congress is to legislate a cessation of covert support for any of the angolan factions it is necessary to set forth certain basic considerations. first. the angolan conflict is  aher vietnam in any meaningful analytical sense. this is the case even though there are certain generic similarities in that both can be viewed as primarily internal conflicts while at the same time being situations wherein the soviet union has attempted to expand its influence by massive support of one of the contending parties. our reaction in both cases. however unwise it may have been or is. has been predicated on a belief that our interests deliand some form of support for elements opposing the sovietbacked groups. but. i emphasize that these are generic similarities endemic to any socalled liberation struggle in which soviet expansionism and u.s. interests collide. these similarities do  provide an adequate basis to judge the specific case of angola. far too often in our discussions in the congress and in performing our educational responsibilities to the american people. the vietnam tragedy is being used as an emotive rationale for certain actions when what is needed is sober. responsible analysis of a unique situation and its relevance to u.s. interests. it is wisdom to learn from past errors. it is folly to be the prisoner of them. second. our limited involvement to date in the angolan conflict is  aher example of executive malfeasance.  an indication that the executive has tried to cover up its actions by iging the congressional channels set up for the processing of highly sensitive information. there are designated individuals in this chamber who have been or should have been aware that the united states has been interested in certain angolan groups for a number of years. the exact nature of that interest may  have been widely kn. but the fact that we have had an active interest in the angolan situation for some time certainly should  have come as a great surprise to many individuals in the congress.  would it have been impossible for other members. through study of the situation there. to attain a general understanding of how we have sought to promote our interests. on this matter the executive has reached certain conclusions based upon its interpretation of information available to it and u.s. interests. we may reach different conclusions at this point in time. if we do. they should be based upon our own best judgments on the substantive issues involved in the angolan situation. riot on any shallow attempt to argue the matter as a congressionalexecutive confrontation. third. contrary .to what some have argued. i do  believe that angola is unimportant to us. the plight of the angolan peoples should be of great concern to our country. angola is stategically located close to important sea lanes. angola is richly endowed with natural resources and will become one of the more important countries of africa in the years ahead. it is ludicrous to claim that we have interest in angolas future in light of these factors. just as ludicrous. in fact. as the claim that our interests inevitably compel us to intercede further in the present conflict. finally. the angolan conflict. - while mainly a war between competing groups in angola. is  without its international implications. the relatively massive involvement of the soviet union and cuba in the conflict. the abhorrent presence of south african forces in angola. and our own comparatively modest involvement to date have made the conflict more than just a civil war. we obscure the complex nature of the problem by categorizing it as such. having examined the angolan question with these considerations in mind. i have concluded that longterm u.s. interests will  be served by continued covert support of any of the contending factions. convincing case has been made for such continued support under existing conditions. the factions that we have helped can hope to attain effective control of angola. our continued covert involvement serves to increase rather than decrease soviet influence over elements that may come out of the conflict in the strongest position. our involvement runs counter to the expressed desire of oau countries for a cessation of all foreign intervention in angola. our present policies threaten to create an association. at least in the minds of many africans. of ourselves with the south african forces who have intervened in angola. any such association with a country whose government continues to advocate racial separation is anathema to most americans and will ill serve our interests in africa for years to come. for these and other reasons. continued u.s. covert support for any of the factions in angola is  the proper course of action for the united states. i am naturally concerned with the willingness of the soviet union and its client state. cuba. to intervene in the angolan conflict. such intervention. i believe. is one indication that detente. as practiced by the kremlin. could be used as a cover for soviet expansionism. while one must hope that such will  be the case. it is impossible to ige the contradiction posed by the soviet intervention in angola. the soviet union may gain certain advantages if the faction it is supporting wins uncontested control of angola. one such advantage would be soviet access to and possible control of certain port facilities in angola. this would provide moscow with an opportunity to project a very strong naval presence in the south atlantic and along shipping lanes of great importance to western europe and the united states. soviet control of angolan resources would also be very disturbing. yet. i am firmly convinced that such advantages. if they materialize. will be shortlived. african states. whatever their expressed ideologies. will  long tolerate dominance by any outside power. they have struggled too long for independence to forfeit it to the soviet union or anyone else. indeed. i venture to predict that the soviet union will be astonished at the depth of ingratitude the mpla will manifest in the aftermath of the current struggle should it emerge as the victor. the need  is for the united states to fashion its policies so that it will be in a position to provide any party that ultimately gains control in angola the option to establish good relations with our country. in doing so we will give an angolan regime the opportunity to avoid dependence on the soviet union or some other power. it is a proper objective of u.s. foreign policy to provide such an option. to be in a position to do so we must indicate our willingness to abide by the desire of the majority of african states for intervention in angola by any outside power.
. i thank by distinguished colleague from new mexico. he has certainly stated both my purpose and motivations in bringing this matter to the attention of the u.s. senate. i feel that the ecoic problems that face italya country which the distinguished senator certainly loves. and all of us here in the congress and the american people lovecompel us to direct careful attention to the manner by which we can help our italian ally. the marshall plan was a great success after world war ii and helped italy rebuild its ecoy. similar success is called for . the serious problems italy faces are of such magnitude that we can afford to stand by without helping them without jeopardizing our own interests. in italy we help ourselves because the atlantic alliance is still as important today as it ever was. perhaps more so than it ever was. i hope this concurrent resolution will be agreed to in the senate and in the house of representatives and that it will become law. i am very pleased to have the distinguished senator from new mexico as a cosponsor of this concurrent resolution.
 had in so many areas in our countrys development. as it is being planned. the program will start with a presentation of the colors by the continental color guard. this will be followed by the hoable secretary of the navy. j. william middendorf. conducting the navy band in a performance of the bicentennial march he has composed. the three speakers who have graciously accepted our invitation to address the congress are all distinguished scholars. they are dr. julian boyd. one of the outstanding experts on thomas jefferson. he is senior.research historian at princeton university. and is editor of the jefferson papers. dr. cecelia kenyon. the charles n. clark professor of government at smith college. whom we had the privilege of hearing speak at the 200th anniversary celebration of the first continental congress held in the house of representatives in 1974. and frederick nichols. the outstanding architectural historian who is chairman of the division of architectural history at the university of virginia. dr. boyd will speak to us on thomas jefferson: philosopher/statesman. dr. kenyon will talk about thomas jefferson and his thoughts on liberty and consensus in the american republic. and mr. nichols will address the subject of thomas jefferson as an architect and his influence in that field. i am bringing this resolution to your attention for much more than just your information. i urge every member of the senate to make an effort to attend the ceremony on that tuesday. april 13. at 11 a.m. in the house chamber. it is particularly appropriate this year. which in many ways is thomas jeffersons year. that each of us take the time to be a part of this activity.
briefly. the preamble of the resolution sets forth the following points: the atlantic alliance is the cornerstone of u.s. foreign policy. the basic purposes of the alliance are to preserve the security of its members and promote the ideals of freedom and democracy they hold in common. the effective functioning of nato is crucial to the realization of these purposes. the effectiveness of nato is dependent upon general agreement among alliance members as to their mutual security needs. the full and unencumbered participation of italy in nato is of vital importance in sustaining such agreement. the u.s. ties to italy are based  only upon the alliance but also upon friendship and kinship as well as shared ideals and viewpoints between the two peoples. and the united states owes a debt of gratitude to italy for its contribution to our own development as a free nation. the resolving clauses state: that the government of the united states and the american people reaffirm their sympathetic interest in italian democracy and call upon italys freedom loving friends to confirm their support for the italian people and their government. that it is the sense of the congress that the ecoic viability of italy is important to both the united states and the atlantic alliance in general. that the united states. in conjunction with other friends and allies of italy. should be prepared to participate in efforts to provide financial assistance to italy in a manner appropriate to preserving the ecoic viability of that country. senate passage of this resolution is particularly appropriate in light of the upcoming national elections in italy. the italian electorate should receive a reaffirmation of our interest in their democratic experiment and our intense desire to strengthen our relationship with italy both as an ally and as a friend before they cast votes that will decide whether or  the italian communist party will participate in their countrys national government. the italian public has often expressed its frustration with inept and corrupt government by casting protest votes in favor of the communists. thus. while actual membership in the pci. the italian communist party. is approximately 1.5 to 1.7 million. the communists have garnered a much larger number of votes in various elections than their party membership would warrant. still. in previous years. protest voting for communists. while a problem. had  threatened to upset the political balance in italy. the regional elections of june 1975 represented a turning point. the communist vote totaled 33 percent of all ballots cast. this was an impressive percentage increase over previous elections. placing the communists clearly in reach of their goal of being the plurality party. the election results were a clear signal that reform within the democratic parties would be necessary if the tide of growing communist influence was to be stemmed. political and ecoic conditions in italy have continued to deteriorate. the ecoic crisis has deepened. inflation and unemployment have proved intractable. allegations of misdeeds by italian officials. resulting in part from the u.s. investigations of the activities of our intelligence agencies and multinational corporations. have further damaged the italian governments credibility at home and abroad. italy has suffered from a disastrous earthquake. and the inability of the existing democratic parties to reconcile their differences and present a united front to the communists has been manifested on numerous occasions. the pending resolution is designed to indicate the importance the united states attaches to a continued relationship with italy within the context of a functioning atlantic alliance. it proposes the the united states should participate in efforts to assist the italian government in meeting the ecoic as well as political challenges it faces. some have questioned whether or  the proposed resolution constitutes an attempt to interfere unjustifiably in the internal politics of aher country. the answer is  it is an attempt to indicate our support of those in aher country who hold ideals similar to our own. it is an attempt to influence developments in the direction of preserving the integrity of the atlantic alliance. and it is an attempt to point out the risks inherent in accepting the facile declarations of adherence to democracy on the part of a political movement whose internal organization and external affiliations indicate a close affinity with those espousing a closed system of government and society. i have qualms in advocating this initiative because i refuse to believe that our confidence in ourselves and our ideals has been so eroded by the events of the past decade that we can recognize and respond to a clear challenge to our interests and our ideals. i am personally concerned by this challenge as manifested in italy because of my respect and affection for italy and the italian people. these feelings stem from my experience of fighting alongside italian partisans in the second world war. from the continuous interest i have had in italian affairs since that time. and from contacts i have maintained with italy through the italianamerican community in the united states. i am involved also out of concern for the ecoic and political difficulties currently besetting italy. difficulties that if left to fester could lead to substantial erosion of personal freedom for the italian people and an alienation of italy from her allies in the free world. i believe it is selfevident that an italy able to guarantee internal freedom and able to carry out fully its responsibilities within the atlantic alliance is of vital concern to the united states and the american people. i am particularly sensitive to current developments in italy because of my recent visit to rome for the senate committee on appropriations. the informal conversations i held with italian officials. journalists. and private citizens and with american diplomatic personnel further confirmed my belief that the future of united statesitaly relations should be one of the primary concerns of our foreign policy endeavors. it is important to keep clearly in mind what our interests are in relationship to the italian situation. first. the united states has a direct interest in preserving the integrity of the atlantic alliance in general and nato in particular. despite the fact that the italian communist party states that it is  against nato and would  insist that italy withdraw from nato were it to become the ruling party. the pci also advocates the withdrawal of nato bases from italy and a more neutral italian posture. consequently i do  believe that the collective security arrangement that has provided the cornerstone of our foreign policy for 30 years can be maintained over time if the communists become integral fixtures in the government of one of the alliances primary members. if this occurs. i believe the united states will find itself compelled by the course of events to refashion its security arrangements with europe along bilateral axes to the federal republic of germany. the united kingdom. and possibly to several of the smaller european countries. the nato facade might continue to exist but the collective security arrangement would have become a hollow shell. second. we have an interest in discouraging the belief in moscow and elsewhere that "communism is the wave of the future." given the bleak state of affairs in italy. some appear ready to accept communist participation in the national government as inevitable. many have adopted uncritically the view that efficient communist management of several major italian cities could readily be transferred to the central government without serious risk to the democratic fabric of italian political life. i recognize that the kremlin has exhibited concern over the possibility of the participation of the italian communists in a coalition government. the alleged reason for this concern is the fear that the supposed independent stance taken by the italian communists might encourage other communist parties or regimes to insist on increased independence from moscow. still. even if moscow were truly concerned about this possibility. i do  believe that such concern would inhibit in any way the kremlins use of the entry of communists into a government in western europe as a means of furthering the "inevitable victory of communism mystique" that could be used to erode further the will to resist soviet subversive efforts in various countries. in addition. the involvement of the italian communists in a coalition government might also create greater soviet pressures on eastern europe to conform to moscows dictates. this. combined with other developments. could reverse the trend toward liberalization in eastwest relations in that area of europe. it would be ironic if the italian communists involvement in a national government in italy were a major cause of greater pressure for conformity in eastern europe. yet that possibility is a real one. third. we continue to have a substantial interest in avoiding situations that threaten to erode the practice of true democracy. a way of ordering political life that has come under increasing pressure. while the right of the italian people to make their own decisions in this area must be affirmed. i do  accept the view that we should remain silent regarding our justified apprehensions over the possible consequences they may suffer if their choice is to accept communist participation in the national government. under conditions do i believe the united states should be party to encouraging a ready acceptance of the italian communists claim of conversion to democratic values. the arguments against taking them at their word are. in my own mind. convincing. first. wherever the communists have come into national power. political and cultural freedoms have lessened. some would have us believe that this is the result of unique circumstances in the particular countries over which the communists have gained control. i believe. however. that the loss of freedom results from the commitment to marxistleninist organizing principles regarding society. evidence that the italian communists have abandoned those principles is superficial at best. second. a principal tenet of communism has been that it is infantile to permit respect for democratic processes to stand in the way of using whatever techniques are necessary to promote communist ordering of society. lenin. of course. was the chief exponent of this view. it would be unwise to dismiss his influence in this area as irrelevant when the communists. including the italian communists. insist that they are faithful to his teachings. third. the italian communist party continues to follow the organizational principle of "democratic centralism" which is little more than a euphemism for dictatorial control by a small group of individuals committed to the view that freedom of discussion and dissent are inappropriate within the party. it is difficult for me to believe that this same type of insistence upon conformity would  characterize the italian communists approach to participation in the national government over time. fourth. it is hard to believe that the italian communists are truly committed to democracy when they affirm solidarity with a "socialist camp" that is dominated by the totalitarian states of russia and china. many have argued that the fact that the italian communists openly disagreed with the kremlin on several points during the recent meetings of communist parties in moscow indicates that they are truly committed to an independent path. i take the contrary view that the fact that the italian communists. professing independence from the kremlin. felt compelled to go to moscow to affirm solidarity with the communist world view seriously undermines the claim of independence from the soviet union. finally. even if one gives the italian communists the benefit of the doubt in these four areas. which i certainly can. there is little reason to believe that they would adhere to professed allegiance to democracy if confronted with the prospect of being turned out of office after having attained national dominance. there is hing in the principles or practices of communism that indicates any willingness to share power with other parties in good faith. to resist the opportunity to subvert democratic processes from within. or to agree willingly to relinquish power if the popular mandate is withdrawn. faced with the prospect of loss of power and the resulting pressures from the totalitarians within the party and in moscow. i greatly fear that the italian communists would quickly revert to the historical communist methods for retaining power. in light of our basic interests regarding united statesitalian relations and the likely speciousness of the italian communists conversion to democracy. i believe the correct policy for the united states is to take responsible and legitimate actions to help reduce the attractiveness of the "communist alternative" in italy. the united states. acting in concert with its allies in europe. can assist the democratic forces in italy who desire to bring about the reforms needed to strengthen the italian electorates confidence in the effectiveness of an open democratic society. one means of doing so may be shortterm financial assistance to the italian government designed to give the democratic forces the breathing space needed to regain their confidence and begin the process of reform. the pending resolution indicates a willingness to explore the appropriate means for providing such assistance. our actions should  be limited to any specific time frame and should  be solely dependent on whether or  the communists come into the national government of italy in the near future. for. given the chance of communist participation in the government as a result of the upcoming elections. a chance that i hope is remote. we must demonstrate that our concern for italian democracy will  diminish over time. the congress recently provided emergency disaster assistance for italy in the aftermath of a succession of earthquakes. we thus acted rapidly to ameliorate the effects of a natural disaster. passage of the pending resolution will also indicate that the united states stands ready to cooperate with our democratic allies in helping italy avoid further ecoic and political disasters that can have farreaching negative consequences for  only the italian people but also for the other nations of the world who are committed to the principles and practices of freedom and democracy. therefore. i urge immediate senate approval of this resolution.
. i might add that one of the great spokesmen for amnesty in this chamber. philip a. hart. died the day after christmas. he had been the first to file legislation which would have accomplished the act we seek today. and he spoke out on this issue whenever and wherever the opportunity arose. it would be a fitting tribute to senator hart if we could resolve quite soon the issue with which he so forcefully involved himself. a similar resolution has been introduced in the house by congressman koch. i hope both can be considered and passed expeditiously so that we can finally put the tragedy of the vietnam war behind us.
. i am these force commitments can only be today introducing a bill to authorize a met through considerable allied asmilitary assistance program for portu- sistance. gal of $34.5 million for fiscal year 1977. the u.s. contribution to the portuthis will require an additional authori- guese modernization plan would include. zation of $19.5 million for fiscal year among other things. transport aircraft 1977 anda supplemental appropriation. to support the mobility aspect of the portugal is struggling to consolidate brigade. new democratic institutions. with the the federal republic of germany has inauguration of an elected government. already contributed 20 g91 aircraft and portugals armed forces have voluntarily is actively considering contributing adrelinquished adirect role in politics.and ditional equipment for the brigade. a government. the present moderate mill- nato ad hoe group on assistance to tary leadership has turned its attention portugal has been established and the to creating a new. postcolonial mission allies will be using that forum to coemphasizing a political professionalism. ordinate the assistance program for discipline. and a significantly enhanced portugal. role in the nato alliance. the military the funds i am requesting in this legassistance this funding will permit is islation are a modest u.s. investment in aimed at support and encouragement aprogram which is of critical importance for this new sense of direction. in to the united states and europe. our strengthening the military forces of a interests require that we support the nato ally. our program also contributes efforts to reorient the focus of the portudirectly to the defense of western guese folrces. to democratize their forces europe and the united states. and the rest of the country. and to maina high priority aspect of the portu- tain the level of stability which has been guese armed forces modernization pro- so painfully gained. if we do . there gram. which has been approved by the will likely be a reduction in internal ponato allies. and to which they are co- litical and military confidence in the efordinating their. contributions. is the fectiveness of the current government. establishment of a portuguese. nato- and we might see its downfall and a recommitted partially air transportable turn to the chaotic revolutionary climate army infantry brigade: this brigade will which reigned in portugal during 1974
. the senate foreign relations committee is to be commended for the speed with which it has considered s. 489. when i introduced this measure i anticipated that it would be considered by the full senate sometime in april. that we are  ready to act on it is an indication of the excellent work of the foreign relations committees staff and the importance members of that committee attach to our relations with portugal. i wish to e the following senators as cosponsors of this bill: senator humphrey. senator case. senator javits. senator stevenson. senator cranston. senator pell. senator mathias. senator kennedy. senator bartlett. and senator metcalf. i am also grateful that the administration has  indicated that it has objection to this bill as recommended by the committee. congressionalexecutive cooperation on providing support for portugals adventure in democracy. as evidenced by this bill. is a good example of the type of cooperation necessary to formulate and carry out important foreign policy objectives. the bill we are considering will permit a $34.5 million military assistance program for portugal in fiscal year 1977. this program will be funded by $.15 million in refiows and recoupments from already appropriated funds and a new appropriation of $19.5 million. portugal is struggling to consolidate new democratic institutions. with the inauguration of a freely elected government portugals armed forces have voluntarily relinquished a direct role in politics and government. the present moderate military leadership has turned its attention to creating a new. postcolonial mission emphasizing apolitical professionalism. discipline and a significantly enhanced role in the nato alliance. the military assistance that passage of this measure will permit is aimed at supporting and encouraging this new sense of direction. in strengthening the military forces of a nato ally. this program will also contribute directly to the defense of western europe and the united states. a high priority aspect of the portuguese armed forces modernization program. which has been approved by the nato allies. and to which they are coordinating their contributions. is the establishment of a portuguese. natocommitted. partially air transportable army infantry brigade. this brigade will be integrated into the nato command structure. and natos supreme allied commander. europe. has designated this brigade for reenforcement of southern europe. portugal has already completed the initial stages of this brigade formation. with the guidance and active encouragement of nato military authorities and secretary general luns. the present leaders of portugals armed forces have committed themselves and their careers to this modernization effort. new equipment. which portugal can buy without undermining its ecoic stabilization program. is essential to its success. a sustained u.s. commitment of support is necessary to ensure that portugals nato oriented force modernization does  flounder at this critical stage. delay would raise questions.  only by portugal. but also by our other allies engaged in this cooperative endeavor. as to the strength of our commitment. in a very real sense. this support for portugal will be tangible evidence of the renewed u.s. emphasis on nato. a joint united stateswest german survey has been made of portuguese army deficiencies and efforts needed to upgrade its capabilities to nato standards. in addition. the u.s. air force and u.s. navy have conducted surveys of the portuguese air force and navy and made extensive recommendations which the portuguese have accepted. the portuguese have  submitted their reorganization plans for the next 5 years to nato. and have indicated that these force commitments can only be met through considerable allied assistance. the following table outlines u.s. involvement to date in support of this modernization effort and what is anticipated to be funded by the proposed assistance. fiscal year 1977 map [in thousands dollars] s. 489 program already committed projection loan fees (5 tanks. 20 apcs) ------ $233 loan of six t38 trainer a/c -------- 880 five engines for f86 a/c ----------- 112 c130 package one c130 aircraft ---------------- 8.200 spare engines --------------------- 500 spare parts -------------------- 2. 400 ground support equipment -------- 4. 000 recommended ground package: apcs m113a1 ----------------------11.295 493 law a/t rkts ---------------- 54 16 tow launchers ---------------- 845 log/maint. survey ---------------- 50 training ammo -------------------- 149 one m88 tank recovery vehs ------- 700 four m578 light recovery vehs .- 1.306 ten m10gai w/4.2" mortars ------- 1.221 spare parts --------------------- 856 supply operations ----------------- 700 tow missiles -------------------- 999 grand total ---------------- 34. 500 the federal republic of germany has already contributed 20 g91 aircraft and is actively considering contributing additional equipment for the brigade. a nato ad hoc group on assistance to portugal has been established and the allies will be using that forum to coordinate the assistance program for portugal. the funds requested in this legislation are a modest u.s. investment in a program which is of critical importance to the united states and europe. our interests require that we support the efforts to reorient the focus of the portuguese military. to assist the process of democratization and to maintain the level of stability which has been so painfully gained. if we do . there will likely be a reduction in internal political and military confidence in the effectiveness of the current government. and we might see its downfall and a return to the chaotic revolutionary climate which reigned in portugal during 1974 and 1975. threatening radical takeover and a weakening of western europe and the atlantic alliance. the u.s. effort is strongly supported by our nato allies. by our supreme commander in europe. by our ambassador to portugal and by our state and defense departments. i had the good fortune of recently visiting portugal and seeing with my own eyes the great democratic progress that has been made there under the current government. i met with the portuguese leadership and am thoroughly convinced of their sincere desire to bring democracy to the country. and to dedicate their armed forces to nato missions in close cooperation with the united states. the congress should take the initiative in providing additional map funds for portugal. the attitude of the portuguese military toward the democratic experiment is still a key factor in portugal. assistance from the united states that solidifies support in the military for democracy would be a wise investment. some have raised questions as to why a $34.5 million program makes more sense than the original request of $30.0 million. i posed this question to representatives of the department of defense who testified before the foreign operations subcommittee of the senate committee on appropriations. the reply. in brief. was that it would accelerate the effort to make the brigade operationally effective. for example. while a $30 million figure would only allow the procurement of 66 armored personnel carriers. among other equipment. the additional $4.5 million would permit the procurement of 101 armored personnel carriersthe minimum requirement for the natocommitted portuguese brigade. having reviewed the information regarding the brigade. i am convinced that we should accelerate our efforts to make the brigade operationally effective by increasing the number or armored personnel carriers and other priority equipment for the brigade. i urge the senate to fund military assistance for portugal in fiscal year 1977 at a $34.5 million program level. it is well to keep in mind that the initiative contemplated in s. 489 is only one part of a multilateral effort by the worlds democracies to support a similar form of government in portugal. u.s. representatives are currently holding discussions with counterparts in other countries and with portuguese officials regarding the most effective way the democratic world can help portugal surmount the ecoic difficulties occasioned by years of authoritarian mismanagement of the ecoy under the pre1974 governments and. more recently. by the near anarchy in that country as a revolution into democracy was unfolding. in my talks with portuguese officials i have been impressed with their strong commitment to putting their countrys ecoic house in order. they are willing to undertake efforts that will  be universally popular in their country. they k their ecoic stability will ultimately prove to be the key as to whether or  their democracy survives. and the willingness of the united states and others to provide needed external assistance to help achieve this stability will be an important measure of how much of a commitment we. indeed. have to a form of government that is coming under increasing pressure in much of the world. i am convinced that the vast majority of the portuguese people and their present political leadership are firmly committed to democracy in close association with the united states and the worlds other truly free nations. i am equally convinced that the congress. and the american people. given a full and candid explanation of the need for u.s. assistance for portugal. will respond positively. both to the initiative anticipated in s. 489 and to future requests for ecoic assistance for that country.
. yesterday. during our consideration of the state department authorization bill. an amendment was passed stating strong senate opposition to the continued presence of cuban troops in africa. while certain concerns i had about the wording of the amendment required that i vote against it. i found myself in substantial agreement with its basic message. the united states can be indifferent to the aggressive activities of cuba and the soviet union in africa. the intent of those two countries is inimical to our ideals and interests. their thrust into africa threatens to destroy the ability of many african states to exercise their right to self -determination. i am. today. introducing a concurrent resolution regarding the situation in africa. in doing so i want to ackledge that senator bartletts amendment of yesterday helped crystalize some of my thinking on the matter. while the emphasis of my resolution. as it relates to the reasons why the united states must be unequivocal in its opposition to sovietcuban "adventurism" in africa. is somewhat different than that of the initiative of senator bartlett. i do believe we share the same intent. namely. that of assisting african states in their efforts to avoid domination by a foreign power. the "whereas" clauses of the resolution state the following: first. the interests of the united states coincide with the desire of african countries to avoid domination by any outside power. second. u.s. passivity in light of sovietcuban "imperialism" in africa would be interpreted as an act of weakness and as indifference to the fate of african peoples. third. the presence of cuban military forces in africa is a longterm threat to the right of selfdetermination for the countries of that continent. fourth. the activities of such military forces in africa are an impediment to the search for just resolutions of conflicts on that continent. fifth. cuban military forces in africa promote the expansion of soviet imperialism. sixth. the presence of cuban military forces in african states encourages the perpetuation of repressive dictatorial policies and lack of concern for internationally recognized human rights. the "resolve" clauses call for the following actions: first. the united states should encourage african states to act either individually or collectively through the organization of african unity to bring about the speedy withdrawal of cuban military forces from africa. second. the united states should indicate its intent to give meaningful support to those african states which seek to preserve their right to selfdetermination and which evidence respect for basic human rights. third. the united states should suspend all efforts to malize diplomatic and ecoic relations with cuba until such time that cuban involvement in military actions in africa has ceased and the withdrawal of cuban forces from that continent has commenced in a meaningful way. fourth. the united states should ify havana of its intent to withdraw the u.s. interests section from cuba later than december 31. 1978. unless a significant change in cuban policy regarding involvement in africa is evidenced in cuban actions. fifth. the united states should indicate to moscow that its continued imperialistic activities in africa and elsewhere will inevitably have a major impact on the willingness of the united states to enter into trade and arms control agreements with the soviet union. the "resolve" clauses also indicate that a resumption of efforts to malize relations with cuba. should havana evidence a more responsible policy regarding africa. should be conditioned by the following: first. cuban willingness to provide appropriate compensation for expropriated american properties. second. release of u.s. citizens held in cuban prisons for political reasons. third. greater respect for human rights on the part of the cuban government. fourth. cuban willingness to renew the antihijacking agreement between the united states and cuba. the measures advocated in the resolution are stark ones. they are recommended  to instigate a return to a "cold war" posture but to indicate the seriousness with which the united states views recent developments.  is the time to indicate that the united states will  passively acquiesce to soviet/cuban thrusts for domination in africa or elsewhere. the hope that some mysterious "invisible hand" will thwart "adventurism" on the part of the moscowhavana axis is a foolish one. i desperately desire for the african peoples the preservation of their right to make independent choices as nationstates. free from the coercive domination of militarily aggressive foreign powers. and i am convinced that they can only maintain that "right" if the united states and its allies are willing to provide countervailing influences to those of the soviet union and its proxies. pious hopes can substitute for concrete actions.o
. procurement of the f/a18 at the rate recommended by the armed services committee is a responsible decision that will enhance our military capabilities. it will insure that we will have in being in the mid1980s an f14/f18 combination that will provide a sophisticated capability to handle all threats to our air carrier forces and an advance capacity to provide needed naval air support for ground forces. one can argue that such a combination of capabilities can be inexpensive. there is such thing as an inexpensive option in this area or in most areas of our defense efforts. but a much higher cost would be borne by this country. in terms of deterrent credibility and military capacity. were we to take a decision  that would cause a serious gap in capabilities less than a decade from  in our tactical naval air forces. therefore. i urge the senate to reject this amendment and thus allow this successful and needed program to proceed in an orderly and rational fashion.*
i have a restricted document in my hand and consequently -can disclose what is in it. but i invite the gentleman to inspect it. he will see that georgia tech is  participating in the war department program.
 submitted to the speaker on monday. may i quote two sentences: the time has come  to put increased emphasis on programs that assure the restoration of a working world ecoy. in formulating new foreignaid programs we must consider  only the requirements of foreign countries for our aid. but also our own resources and needs. we are opposed in our efforts to devise such a program by those who count on their conviction that this country will  continue to try to establish a working world ecoy or. if it does. is so incapable of doing so. that we will collapse ecoically so that they can pick up the pieces. their fatal mistake is their complete inability to understand the sincerity. integrity. and good faith of the american people in the determination to bring about conditions in this world under which decent people can live in peace. in meeting that challenge. we can make a beginning through the unanimous passage of this resolution which can be and. i am confident. will be as important and as significant as any resolution passed by this congress since the declaration of war in 1941. as we united then in the great objective before that congress. i hope we can unite today in this equally important objective. some of those who then doubted our ability to realize that earlier objective  doubt our ability to realize the objective ahead of us at this time. but they will remember that we accomplished a miracle in the fight for that earlier objective because we were a united nation. this resolution gives us the best available means of acting as an informed. determined. and united nation in our effort to discharge the clear responsibilities we have in the world of today and of all the days to come.
i recall in reading the hearings that the chairman of the committee raised a question in connection with the activities of the naval reserve in new england. and received some assurances. though there appeared to be a lack of interest in the postwar development of the naval reserve. that they would receive favorable attention. are those assurances satisfactory.
then do i understand that if a veteran makes a sincere application supported by affidavits that he intends to use this as his vocation and furnishes the individual affidavits that there is a commitment upon which the veterans administration must grant -him the right to take that training.
i have read that report with care and great concern. as the gentleman says. it is worthy of serious study  only here in congress but throughout the country. the answers of the secretary to questions asked by all members of the subcommittee are revealing. there you will find the exact figures for a trial run during the war on a similar plan. you can form your own estimate of the probable cost of the proposed plan and then judge its effect upon agriculture. the consumers. the taxpayers. direct and indirect. and upon the ecoy of this nation.
. i suppose this might be called the final report on "project potatoes." i am glad to read a telegram which i have received from a young man who worked on this project. an employee of station whai of greenfield. mass. who has carried through to the finish. i believe i am correct in saying that he was a former air force man. the telegram reads as follows: mission accomplished 10:55 a. m. five tons potatoes crossed town line into greenfield. cirsenfield plan in action. letter will follow. i am  including a further list of the names and addresses of area offices of the fooddistributionprograms branch. and also of certain offices in the state of new york. this supplements other such data submitted monday and today:
s board in one of its reports has pointed out that what is needed is that each of these hundreds of agencies in our government that are engaged in extensive research programs should review those programs. should evaluate them. should set up a longrange plan which should then be submitted to this foundation so that we could integrate them into a national program. since the second world war the military expenditures on research have averaged over half a billion dollars a year. although this is but a small portion of the average total military budget. it is a large figure in comparison to the much smaller sums spent on military research and development before the warin comparison. say. to the $13.000.000 obligated for military research and development in 1939. the year world war ii began. the amount of money currently being spent for research and development is only slightly less than the entire military appropriation for 1924. and is almost 50 percent as much as the total military appropriation as late as 1937. in the national defense establishment this committee has been able to report that it has actually brought about substantial savings through this coordination. it makes the statement on page 61: formally effected coordination is illustrated by recent board action on the recommendation of the committee on guided missiles request that three existing projects be terminated and two others combined into one. through this action an estimated $6.000.000 in plant obligations for the fiscal year 1950 was made available for allocation to other guided missiles projects of high priority. carrying that over into the other fields of major research we can confidently anticipate. i believe. a much better and wellrounded program. i call your attention finally to this: the proposed amendment places the emphasis upon evaluation of scientific research programs undertaken by the federal government.  by the universities.  by the industries.  by private research. we have business going into that and telling them: "you shall do this. you shall  do that." that is their business and they should be permitted to plan and conduct their own business. but this foundation. if we adopt this amendment. would be under the obligation of correlating the foundations program with those of individuals and of public and private research groups. i am hopeful that my colleagues in the house will see it as do my colleagues on the committee.
i call the attention of the committee to the report made by the presidents board in terms of the division between basic and applied research. which the gentleman from new york mentioned a few minutes ago. within the war and navy departments in 1947. which is the latest information i have. a total of $500.000.000 was expended in that year. $35.000.000 for basic and $465.000.000 for applied research.
in connection with the statement made by the gentleman from california. i call attention to the fact that in the third report of the presidents scientific research board it is explained that the cost of developments in world war ii were switched completely from predominance within our own government facilities into contracts. there is this language: at present the war and navy departments expended over 90 percent of the funds covered in contracts for research and development.
. a few minutes ago i read to the committee something of the work the navy is doing in egypt. may i suggest that if we had had this information during the last war we would  have lost as many lives as we did from  king how to combat tengu fever and similar diseases. medical research unit  3 at cairo. egypt. passed to the navy from the united states typhus commission in january of 1946. it is engaged in research in local medical problems and diseases of military importance in the middle east. africa. europe. and india. specific projects are in collaboration with the egyptian government. the united states public health service. the war department. and the department of agriculture. let us  tie our hands in trying to combat military diseases.
. again i am sure we all owe to the manpower office of the national security resources board our thanks  only for their efforts. but for their patriotic devotion to the solution of this very important problem. may i summarize that material as follows: there is a clear and pressing need for the early development in government of a centralized. integrated program in the scientific manpower field. insofar as scientists and educators having kledge of this problem are concerned. there is practically universal agreement that steps be taken at the earliest possible date to develop such a program in anticipation of the early creation of a national science foundation. accordingly. the program discussed here envisages the establishment of a personnel inventory and the development of methods of appraising the nations scientific personnel resources and making appropriate plans for the best national use of these resources. both in peace and in war. the need for a program of this kind has been felt ever since the end of the war. the national security resources board has secognized the problem. but has deferred formal action pending the possible creation of a national science foundation. final passage of this legislation has been delayed and. even though the science bill should pass the congress early in this session. it would be a matter of at least a year. if  more. before the proposed foundation would be in a position to take positive action looking to the operation of the kind of a scientific manpowerinventory program which the federal government should carry on. in the meantime. a series of circumstances indicate that action in the matter should  be further delayed. and that constructive steps can and should be taken even in advance of the science legislationsteps which will be consistent with the objectives of the foundation when and if it does come into being. the most pressing circumstance in point oil time is represented by the need for a civilian agency of government to take over the results and to continue the operation of two scientific personnel registration projects sponsored by the military establishment through the office of naval research. the first of these projects provided for the registration of the names. locations. and special skills of some 50.000 physical and natural scientists possessing a doctor of philosophy degree or its equivalent. this project was contracted for with the national research council. and has been substantially completed. inventorying of special skills is  a static process. however. and if the full results are to be achieved from the project. the inventory must be continued and maintained on an operating basis. and studies based upon the findings should go forward. the second project results from a contract between the office of naval research and the engineers joint council. covering an assessment and registration of the qualifications of most of the countrys highly qualified engineers. this project is in process. and the cice of naval research is anxious that its supervision be taken over and that it be operated on a continuing basis under appropriate federal auspices. as matters stand. the office of naval research regards it as urgent that an appropriate unit of government assume the responsibility for the continued collection. analysis. and utilization of these data. so that the considerable investment of time and money represented in the projects will be realized. all of the approved science bills so far have provided that a roster of scientific personnel will be maintained. and that the foundation will take over and operate the former national roster. that operation. however. at the present time consists only of a series of files which are out of date and stored away without a custodian. it would thus be consistent with the intent of the bill if action should be taken . looking to the development of an active operation which. when the foundation is created. could be abeorbed as a live and useful activity. to commence the operation . therefore. would be entire:y compatible with the aims and purposes of the proposed science foundation. and would permit -mmediate initiation of an operation which sooner or later will have to be undertaken. thus gaining at least 2 years time. which would undoubtedly be lost if action were deferred until the foundation became organized and sufficiently developed to undertake the work. as a practical matter. the purposes and objectives of the science foundation would be better served if this operation were started  so that when the time came it would have something tangible to take over in the field of scientific personnel. this. coupled with the fact that the important work already done by the office of naval research should  be allowed to lapse or fall into disuse. seems to indicate that much would be gained ard hing would be lost by getting this program uiader way as soon as it can be organized. and more important than the question of the ultimate location and the organizational character of the activity is the fact that a longrange. carefully planned program in this field is sorely needed. and the longer action in the matter is deferred. the longer it will be before results can be obtained. the current consideration of this problem accepts the premise that a wellrounded scientific manpower registration program is indispensable to adequate planning for the use. in time of war. of americas trained brains in the techogies and sciences. the need for analytical studies of the problem is accentuated by the fact that the national supply of scientifically trained individuals was markedly depleted by world war ii. and that it is only . 5 years after the end of the war. that the output of fully trained scientists and techogists is catching up with the rate of production of prewar years. on the requirements side. the government is sponsoring a national research program of unprecedented size in a period when our scientific personnel resources are at a relatively low ebb. yet. in spite of the clear evidence of disparity between the supply of scientific manpower especially qualified for research and development and the greatly increased requirements for research. adequate steps have been taken by the federal government other than the two projects referred to above to identify or analyze the skills of the national supply of scientists as a means of enabling research administrators to plan and administer broad and comprehensive. research programs for national defense and for national progress. from the standpoint of mobilization planning. precise information should be continuously available with regard to the locations and skills of the countrys highly trained scientists and engineers. to develop and improve the national state of readiness. the lack of balance between kn supply of. and estimated requirements for. scientific personnel should be examined and. as disparities emerge. appropriate steps should be taken to plan for systematic methods of adjusting these imbalances. which may be qualitative as well as quantitative. these steps should include encouragement of fellowship and scholarship programs to increase the potential supply in shortage areas. to identify the fields in which our national position is weakest. and to keep all interested scientific and educational agencies. both governmental and private. aware of where the country stands in the scientific manpower field. what is needed at the present time is a small unit located in an appropriate federal agency to coordinate current activities in the field of scientific manpower registration to provide a basis for the" development of longrange plans which will bring about the best utilization of americas scientific personnel resources. both in time of peace and in the event of war. and to encourage the shaping of higher educational training programs to fill kn and anticipated gaps in particular scientific fields. this work could and should be commenced immediately in anticipation of its transfer to the national science foundation when that agency is in an operating position to take it over. the concept of the activity would be that the necessary registration operations be carried out through the councils and the professional societies. and that the coding work and machine studies be carried on under contract with such an agency as the bureau of labor statistics. which is equipped for such work. this would avoid the necessity for any considerable clerical operation. and leave the proposed unit free to do the more fundamental task of planning and coordinating the scientific manpower registration program. what is recommended is  the creation of a new field of activity. but rather the pulling together in one place. under appropriate auspices. of programs which are  being carried on without any direct toplevel coordination or direction. this is equally true with regard to funds. since the amount of money which will be needed to carry on a central operation is  being spent through grants from funds appropriated for defense research. it is emphasized that new funds. as far as the total government expenditure is concerned. will be involved in getting this started. upon careful consideration of the administrative problems involved. it seems clear that this is  the kind of activity which could be successfully carried on under the auspices of a parttime or ex officio committee. it requires the fulltime attention of a small technical staff guided by scientific groups in the formulation of policies and procedures designed to integrate with the probable functions of the national science foundation when that agency is created. the importance of this problem is such that further delay in giving positive attention to it could be disadvantageous to the national welfare and to the most effective utilization of the vitally important national resource represented by the countrys highly trained scientists and engineers. there follows a series of conclusions based upon the facts with regard to scientific personnel. as they  exist
. i am heartily in favor of the bill which is before us and which was reported by the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce. i think. however. it might be appropriate for me to mention at this point that there is pending before the committee on interstate and foreign commerce aher bill which has the purpose of amending section 7 of the war claims act of 1948. with respect to claims of certain religious organizations functioning in the philippine islands which were disapproved because of a construction or a ruling as to the meaning of the word "affiliated." i am confident that the congress did  intend such a restrictive construction to be placed upon that word and the bill which i have filed. h. r. 5722. probably would satisfactorily clarify the congressional intention. however. i do want to add that the subject matter is being still further studied and if it becomes necessary to file aher bill. i shall do so. the text of h. r. 5722 is as follows: be it enacted. etc.. that. effective as of july 3. 1948. section 7 of the war claims act of 1948. as amended. is amended. by adding at the end thereof the following subsection: "(h) for the purposes of this section. a religious organization functioning in the philippines shall be held and considered to be affiliated with a religious organization in the united states if it is of the same deination as a religious organization functioning in the united states." sec. 2. withstanding the provisions of subsection (f) of such section 7 relating to the time within which claims must be filed. adjudicated. -and paid. in any case where a claim heretofore has been rejected upon the basis of a decision that a religious organization functioning in the philippines was  affiliated with a religious organization in the united states. the claimant may. within 90 days after date of the enactment of this act. make a request in writing to the war claims commission for reconsideration of the claim. thereupon the commission shall reconsider the claim. and.  later than march 31. 1954. shall adjudicate such claim under the provisions of such section 7. as such provisions are amended by this act. and provide for payment thereof if the claimant is entitled to payment under such provisions as so amended.
the point the gentleman has so well made should be repeated emphatically through the rest of this debate. particularly in answer to the allegations that have been made on this floor by certain of our colleagues as to wpa. handouts. and giveaways. i want to ask a few questions to see if i am correct as to the information i have been able to develop. as i understand it. the request for the nato countries totals $760.471.000. as evidenced by a table which is restricted as far as the individual countries are concerned but as to the total appears on page 231 of the hearings. am i right about that.
that data is in the hearings available for anyone who takes the trouble to read it. one final question: if the reduction that is recommended by the majority of this committee prevails against the recommendation of president eisenhower. against the recommendation of admiral radford and of the members of the general staff. and against the recommendation of general gruenther. will it  be a fact that that appropriation to nato will be reduced. i can refer to the exact figures by countries but i think i have a right to refer to the percentages. will it  be reduced by nearly 80 percent.
. in connection with the 39th anniversary of lithuanias most recent independence day. february 16. it is a privilege and a pleasure to speak for that country of indomitable courage. of undying devotion to freedom. in commemorating that day we ho lithuania. ancient and modern. small in size but great in spirit. undaunted and indestructible at home and abroad. we in the united states have never acceded to the domination of lithuania by the soviets. we have only to look at lithuanias history for eloquent testimony of the character of her people and the promise of their future. through centuries of invasion. conflict. revolution. and international migration this nation. kn to have existed in prehistoric times. has been distinctive. the ancient phoenicians found lithuanians on the shores of the baltic. etruscan. greek. roman. arab travelers told of lithuania. "the gold of the th". archeologists today have found traces of the lithuanian people on the site of their homeland throughout the ages. the melting pot of europe was never able to mar their identity. unlike most of the peoples of the world they have retained their separate racial characteristics through centuries of settlement. conquest. occupation. insurrection. expansion. international union. partition. massacre. and dispersion. these lithuanians were the people who. embracing christianity in the 12th century. are said to have suffered martyrdom for their religion more than any other people except the early christians. similarly. they have endured conflict for the sake of freedom. these are the people whose nation. dating from the middle ages. has emerged from repeated attacks of powerful enemies. they have typified the cause of liberty. they have championed freedom through the centuries. these people. who won their latest independence after world war i only to suffer communist oppression with world war ii. have withstood the upheavals of history. they are certain to emerge again in enduring independence and in final freedom.
. the question before the senate is really the heart of the entire discussion. it is the question of the length of the additional service to be authorized by the pending measure. therefore it will require only a moment to explain the precise issue. the senate has just voted down the taft amendment. thereby. in substance. we have declined to extend the term of service by 6 months. making a total period of service of 18 months. 1 believe that the vote on the taft amendment reflects confidence in general marshall. who has frankly stated that he felt that an extension of 6 months. making a total service of 18 months. would  be a practical extension from the military standpoint. because he would  have sufficient time within which to complete the training. make substitutions of units. and release the men from service. we  come to the issue before the senate. as to how long a time shall be allowed. there is a grave responsibility upon the senate. because the testimony of general marshall stops at the 6month point. we do  find in the record testimony by general marshall to the effect that any period longer than an additional 6 months would be impracticable from a military standpoint. therefore it seems to me that before it adopts the committee amendment or the amendment of the senator from utah the senate should pause. because that amendment jumps the period by a full 12 months beyond the 6 months. before the senate adopts a period of additional service of 18 months it should look clearly to the situation. general marshall having testified against 6 months. it is my suggestion that we allow an additional 6 months. which would mean 1 year additional service. that would mean a duplication of the full period of service which was provided in the first instance. therefore it seems to me that from a military standpoint. and from the standpoint of the record. such a period would certainly give an opportunity to the general and his staff to meet the military needs of the situation. turning to the other side of the picture. the amendment of the senator from utah fixes a period of an additional 18 months. or a total period of two and a half years. by introducing that amendment to the original joint resolution the theory of an indefinite service has been abandoned. but by fixing the period at 21/2 years the amendment does  really take advantage of the opportunity that is open to the senate by such abandonment. if we are to cut short the period from infinity. we should at least bring it within the range of view of the soldier. so that he may derive whatever inspiration comes from seeing the termination of his service at some point down the road where he can recognize it. it seems to me that a service of two and a half years. or an additional period of service of 18 months. would put the termination out of sight. over the hill. it would result in a failure to obtain any advantage to the army spirit from cutting short the period. consequently my amendment is offered  merely as a direct compromise between the taft amendment. calling for 6 months additional service. and the thomas amendment. calling for 18 months additional service. it is offered because. to my mind. it provides the best solution in that it provides a period against which there is testimony from the standpoint of its military validity. and which is close egh so that the soldier may have the benefit of seeing an end to his service. it is clear to me that whatever action we take. if it is to extend the time at all. should extend it to a period which is long egh to avoid military objection. and yet short egh so that the end may be in sight of the soldier himself. for that reason i believe that we should adopt the. amendment to reduce the extended period to 12 months. making a total period of service of 2 years at the most. senators who just voted for the taft amendment should support my amendment because it cuts down the indefinite period to. a period much shorter than that contemplated by the thomas amendment. and senators who voted against the taft amendment should adopt this change for the reason that only by making the period reasonably short can we obtain the real advantage of eliminating the indefinite period and bringing it within range of the soldier. the ideal period is one which is long egh to be feasible from the military standpoint. and short egh to be recognized by the soldier. i think that an additional term of 12 months. or a total of 2 years. would meet this requirement.
i entirely disagree with the senator from texas on that point. i agree with the military affairs committee that it is justifiable that a limitation be placed on the period of service. when i was in the last war it was all right to say that the men were in "for the duration." because we had something to do with the end of the duration. we knew that the duration would end when we won the war. but it does  mean a thing to say that these men are in for the duration. they have war to win. there is way to find the end of their service. therefore the question is wide open. for that reason it seems to me that congress owes a duty to the men  merely to say that we will use our best judgment but to indicate to them our best judgment as to the maximum period they may be in service. as i understand. it is  the policy of the congress and the war department to release men over 28 and those who suffer special hardship. beyond that i believe that the young men who are devoting their time to the service and giving up their opportunities at home are entitled to an estimate from congress as to the earliest possible time at which they can be spared from the army to go home. i hope most of them will be released in less than 2 years. but they are at least entitled to k that we feel that by the end of 2 years they should be released. they have a right to rely upon the judgment of congress that they should be. sent home at the end of that time.
i think the answer to that question is rather simple. technically. of course. we shall have the opportunity again to extend the service. but practically we shall then have had in service men from the new draft. in the same position in which the present draftees  are. and the new men will have the full 2 years to serve. we shall  have a repetition of this problem. i think we shall have an army of 1.700.000 men without the necessity of reextending the period. because the new men will come in on a 2year basis.
let me say that from the lake erie end it is of the utmost -importance for the manufacture of steel that ore shall continue to come down the lakes in the quantities it reached during the past year. so that during the war we may have the continuous production we need. therefore. the movement to the lake erie end is essential.
do i correctly understand. therefore. that the occasion which really gfves rise to the insurance feature of the bill is related to bombing. the new incidents which have come about. and the method of warfare. and perhaps goes back to the fact that war creates a situation somewhat like that of a catastrophe such as an earthquake or a flood in a city in the united states to which the united states has always responded as a matter of national interest. and has tried to spread all over the country the burden of a loss that occurred in one place and hour. it is  proposed to provide .insurance in the case of a bombing or other isolated incident of damage. rather than for what might be the result of an oldtime war of invasion and the taking over of some of a countrys possessions. such as has been experienced in years past.
 lincoln toward the war then in progress. lincoln replied in a famous letter which has set the pattern for any statement seeking to emphasize singleness and clearness of purpose. in recommending a policy for the present war. therefore. i wrote a paraphrase of that letter. which i read on march 23 in cleveland. ohio. and more recently in portland. maine. i believe its pattern of thought is helpful. and therefore i present it here as a recommendation to all of us alikerepublicans. democrats. independents. employees. employers. farmers. and all other american men and women. and every race. condition. and creed. lincolns letter. paraphrased to meet the condition of today. is as follows: as to the policy we are pursuing we must  leave anyone in doubt. we would win the war. we would win it completely and in the shortest way. the sooner it is won the greater will be the opportunity of america and of all humanity to resume the forward course of civilization. if there be those who would  win the war unless they could at the same time save the new deal. or any other deal. we do  agree with them. if there be those who would  win the war unless they could at the same time destroy the new deal. or any other deal. we do  agree with them. our
in listening to the statement of the senator with. regard to the report. i gathered that it is  the intent of the senator to point out that at the present time there is a failure on the part of the war production board. or those in charge of it. to proceed rapidly with the conversion program and make a creditable record as they are  proceeding. but it is directed primarily to the fact that the steps toward conversion were slow in coming. and that the government did suffer from the slowness of the conversion of various lines of industry to war needs.
we join in commending mr. nelson for his leadership in bringing about increased war production. it is increasing day by day but we feel that a statement of the facts. based upon past history. will benefit the war effort by bringing forth circumstances which should be avoided in the future.
on pages 70 and 71 of the hearings before the senate subcommittee appears a letter from  of the war manpower commission. mr. mcnutt says: the reduction from $6.131.049 to $5.000.000 in our request for funds for the completion of the selective service occupational inventory will make it difficult. if  impossible. for this important task to be completed during this fiscal year. the information to be derived through this project will furnish the only complete record of the skills of our men between the ages of 18 and 65. consequently. this information is urgently neaded by the war department. the selective service system. and the war manpower commission at the earliest possible moment. accordingly. the $6.131.049 required for the completion of this project should be made available if this important task is to be completed this year. am i to understand that the committee has received assurances that with an appropriation of $5.000.000 the national occupational survey will be completed within the fiscal year. or will the reduction provide an excuse for delaying it several months beyond that time.
my question is for information as to a particular matter which has been presented. as i understand the provision. it relates to any and all uligated balances from existing appropriations which may be developed under the head of rivers and harbors appropriations under the war department appropriation bill and similar appropriation bills of 1943. and it is  possible to ascertain how large such amounts will be. is that correct.
 long ago i examined the figures relating to the civil war. and i was surprised to see the official statement that of 2.700.000 men on the union side. 1.100.000 were 18 or under. i do  have the figures for the other side. referring again to the senators question about the draft in the last world war. i think it is interesting to e that even under the last draft. which reached men from 18 to 20. and from 32 to 45. the new classes after august 31. 1918. there were 120.157 inducted under the new draft. but. of course. few of the class of 18- and 19yearolds would have been in that 120.000. however. such a draft was being put into effect at the time of the armistice.
i have  spoken on the bill. i should like to speak for about 1 minute on the bill. the amendment has been interpreted as though it related to the entire draft act. it does . it is  an amendment to the draft act. it relates only to section 2 of the pending bill. and therefore applies only to 18- and 19yearold men.
starting with the . premise that these ships were privately owned by danish owners. there is included in lines 12 to 17 the clause- with rejard to sound ships. ships still on the seas. that "such determination" on our partnamely. to turn them over from a status of requisition for title to one of requisition for use--"shall be made with respect to any vessel after the expiration of a period of 2 months after the date of delivery of such vessel pursuant to title requisition except with the consent of the owner." that is. such determination would be made. as to one of these danish ships which is on the high seas. to convert our theory from one of requisition for title to one of requisition for use. except with the consent of the owner. that is in the bill. the clause we are referring to deals. as i understand. only with those ships which have been "lost or destroyed or converted to naval or military use."
. it has been my privilege to serve 2 years on the committee on commerce. and 1 year on the truman committee. and during that time i have frequently heard admiral land testify as a witness. i wish to state. in my opinion. that admiral land is the most strikingly direct witness i have heard before any committee. either in open or closed hearings. his testimony always has been  only the truth. but also to a refreshing and unusual degree the whole truth and hing but the truth. although serving as a civilian. his devotion to duty is on the high standard of that of a naval officer on active duty. his devotion to duty has carried with it a courage and a willingness to disregard private considerations which are greatly to be desired and rarely found. his integrity is so clear that it is  questioned. his diligence. his courage. and his technical kledge. are  questioned. with these assets. i think admiral land can be relied upon to carry out completely and fearlessly the policies laid down by the congress. i am convinced that he can be counted on to resist any and all private pressures. however great. because his devotion to his public duty is many times greater. differences of opinion as to interpretation of acts of congress which have been presented justify us in depriving the nation of the value of the services of admiral land as a member of the maritime commission.
 let me say. without encumbering the record further. that i wish to point out that the measure passed last december was merely to bring the salaries of federal employees approximately into line with those of all other persons in the united states. or at least nearly into line. with their salaries. in order that there might be some -additional -allowance for the increased cost of living. even though it might  equal it fully. i believe that during the last war approximately $240per person was added to the pay. and this time the increase amounts to approximately $300.
. i wish to address only one or two questions to the senator from missouri relating to the report which he submitted on behalf of the special committee to investigate the national defense program. i ice that in referring to the report he emphasized the fact that the committee had recently submitted its second annual report. and that it had made certain recommendations with regard to the conduct of the various administrative bodies in the war effort. that indicated a study over the past year or two of the subject of organization of the government. the example which arose and is made the subject of the report was a typical example of the operation of that system. i take it that the report. in which i concur and with which i strongly agree. is a recommendation that the individuals concerned get together and work together.  a recommendation for the need of any statutory change at this time in the administrative organization of the government. is that correct.
. let me make an inquiry relative to the amendment. i understand that the item referred to does  really represent an additional appropriation. but merely involves putting the appropriation in this bill. instead of in the regular war department appropriation bill. is that correct.
i am sure i agree with the senator that we should have a vital interest in these questions. both  and in times to come. at the time when we entered the war. it seemed to me that we should hav6 the greatest responsibility in winning it. and it also seemed to me that if germany and the other axis powers were able to win the war in europe. we would be in a tremendously dangerous situation in at-" tempting to win by ourselves. therefore. the attack was made largely on the european front. i assume that the premise on which the senator is  proceeding is that we have  gone far egh ahead in europe so that we can let go there. and can start against japan.
just before the discussion turned to the matter of electors and voters for representatives and senators. i was interested in the point raised by the distinguished senator from iowa. if i may refer to it for a moment. he was referring to section 102. subsection (c). subdivision 2. on page 20. which provides that the bill shall apply to civilians outside the united states who are attached to and serving with the armed forces or are officers or employees of the united states. of course. i am sympathetic with the fundamental purpose of making some provision. during wartimes. so that members of the armed forces shall participate in elections. inasmuch as they have been drafted or. being under orders. have been sent away. i merely wonder how the senator justifies applying the provisions of the bill to officers or employees of the united states who are  drafted or are  outside the united states under orders. and who. during wartime. and under war conditions. are carrying out precisely the same duties they carry out during peacetimesfor instance. our consular officers in foreign fields and persons .similarly employed.. who are  compelled to be where they are during wartime any more than they are compelled to be there during peacetime. let me inquire why the provisions of the bill should appy to them.
recurring for a moment to the language on page 20 to which i referred. let me inquire whether it is within the contemplation of the senator that after the war is over such civilians. staying in the same places and carrying on the same duties. except that they will  relate to duties of war. but to duties of peace. at that time would return to their original status. and would vote by absentee ballot. although they were carrying on precisely the identical duties they were carrying on during the war.
if i may inquire again. then. referring solely to the election of the federal officersthat is. of senators and representatives in september. and the presidential electors in emberwould it be necessary for the soldier from maine to have two powers of attorney. or could the soldier sign one power of attorney and have his proxy use that to vote in the september election. and then let it remain on file. to be used again by his proxy in ember for casting a ballot in the election for presidential electors.
. i should like to clarify the situation. if i am able to do so. i understood the senator from maine to suggest that the language relative to the power of attorney be so changed that it would cover the power of attorney for the general elections in 1944. thereby requiring the soldier to sign but one instrument. i am simply wondering whether that would be sufficient. if the suggestion were adopted.
in his letter to the senator from tennessee. dated ember 11. 1943. appearing at page 150 of the committee hearings. admiral land said: increase of the revolving fund of the war shipping adminilstration is involved. but only a change of the limitation on the amount which may be used for administrative expenses. therefore. the item here involved does  go into the total of the appropriation bill for this year. and of course does  increase the amount over the amount which came to us from the other house. but is merely a change of allocation based on the justification set forth.
and that the federal ballot will be available to a citizen of. let us say. the state of ohio. even if ohio has a workable absenteevoting law. if the soldier certifies that he is unable to receive a state absenteevoting ballot.
emphasizing that point of unity. is it . then. the senators feeling that in this critical year i944. critical in the war and in our generation. the primary obligation we have is to make sure that there shall be a spirit of unity within the united states and among all our allies. it seems to me that the only chance the enemy may have to win the war and to defeat us will be to devide the allies from one aher. or to bring about a division within america or within some other one of the great allies. to gain this spirit of unity for which we look in the future. is it  a fact that we must rise immediately above all things which would interfere with unity within america or among the allies in order that we may have a united front in the war and maintain it in the peace.
the first item is the one to which the senator from california referred. it amounts to $1.890.000. that is the amount urged by the commission in connection with the recruiting of personnel for the war agencies. if the senator would care to have me read a brief statement into the record. that will explain it. although the senator from california already has done so.
. to complete the reply to the senator from vermont on the other three items involved. which are  presented by the senator from california. they may be briefly summarized as follows: one of them is $1.000.000. -which will  be available to investigate the suitability and loyalty of persons selected for key war positions. aher is an item of $200.000 which will  be available for use in connection with studies which the commission constantly makes in an effort to improye its methods of doing business in connection with personnel. budget. purchasing. and other staff and administrative services. the final item is $500.000. which will  be available for travel in connection with investigating activities for carrying on the special recruiting programs for such establishments as pearl harbor. navy yards. and so forth. which are related to the other items. i am recommending that we approve the committee recommendation of $8.840.000. but that the rest of the matters go to conference.
am i to understand that there is any necessary relationship between these two items. might it  be possible that senators who wish to preserve the foreign broadcast intelligence service with an appropriation of $500.000 would like to vote to do so. and yet be opposed to using $1.000.000 against the recommendations of the war and navy departments. yet the pending question requires us to approve the $1.000.000 as well as the $500.000 in order to save the $500.000 item.
. i may say though. in reply to the question. that the report of the army engineers. as i understand it. is based on the ground that the congress has  as yet authorized such action on lakes as compared with rivers. and that is why we are offering the amendment at this time. it is  that the engineers do  recommend that this work be done as an engineering project. i might interject at this point that this reclamation project was begun 45 years ago. and if it was good egh to stand up for 45 years i do  think it can properly be designated as a poorly constructed project. the land involved is fine farming land and productive of much needed food. the men who reclaimed the land should  be blamed for what they did. the land was reclaimed much as land is being constantly reclaimed in the west. it was done at their own expense. the dikes stood up against ordinary rises of water and wind for 45 years. and then were overcome by high water combined with high winds.. it seems to me that under those circumstances. if relief is justified on the rivers it is equally justified on the lakes.
i wish to emphasize the fact that this matter was submitted to the army engineers. the estimate of $265.000. which is included here. is their estimate. the ground on which the army engineers declined to go ahead and recommend the project is that they are  authorized to construct these projects on lakes. as contrasted with rivers. that is why the amendment is offeredto show that when there is high water and high wind on a lake. the result is the same as when there is high water and high wind or windstorms along a river. which is precisely what was stated by the senator from missouri.
the survey to which the senator has referred is the beach erosion survey. if we wait for that. the war will be over. the need for additional food will have passed. and the people who live in this particular area will have had their land under water for 2 years or more. this matter is  one which merely involves a slight rise in the water along the regular shore line. in this case the people were protected in the use of their land by a dike which had been erected for. approximately 45 years. that dike finally was washed out by the high water and heavy winds. this matter involves  only erosion. but flood and storms.
i do  believe it is fair to say that it has been peddled all around. this is an area which needs relief. the people in that area have tried to obtain relief where it has been proper to do so. they properly asked for relief from the emergency fund. they properly asked for relief from the army engineers. the army engineers reply that the congress has  authorized relief on the lakes as it has on the rivers. that is why this amendment is presented at this time. because congress is the only agency which can act in this matter.
director. bureau of the budget. washington. d. c. dear s emergency fund for assistance in works of this nature falls within an existing public policy. the necessary funds be made available to the war department for the work necessary to rehabilitate the area. the lucas county u. s. d. a. war board. after considering the problems wlth the ohio state -war board. has requested that consideration be given to the agricultural production in the area in reaching a decision with respect to rebuilding the dikes. representatives -from the local area have informed us that as soon as practicable after the dikes are repaired .the residents definitely intend to organize a conservancy district under provisions of ohio statutes to insure the proper operation and maintenance of any rehabilitation works installed with federal assistance. sincerely.
. it is as a member of the subcommittee that i wish to say just a word. because it seems to me that here we have two wellthoughtout programs for postwar work. there is question that in both bills there is a great volume of instances with respect to which the engineers have approved and worked out programs which will be of constructive value to the nation. under those circumstances it would be tragic if there were delay in approving this valuable program. and if we were to go ahead withsomething less valuable. it would be even more tragic if we failed entirely to adopt any program of river and harbor improvement and flood control. therefore. i am in entire agreement with the senator from louisiana in urging the earliest possible consideration of both these bills. and as separate bills. it seems to me that while there are controversies as to the rivers and harbors bill. they relate only to particular projects in it. it will  take long to dispose of that particular bill. as to the floodcontrol bill. i believe it will take considerable time to dispose of it unless some compromise can be reached on the missouri river project. but i believe the intervening time can well be spent in attempting to reach agreement on that. therefore. i hope it will be possible to work out an agreement as to the time when these two important bills can be considered and acted upon. i agree that a definite date should be set down for bringing up the river and harbor bill first. if possible. because i believe these national projects should be approved. and that the projects should be ready to be put into operation at the earliest possible date when they shall be needed. there are so many projects which are  worth spending money on that it seems to me these projects. which have the benefit of approval by the army engineers and which have been favorably acted upon by the house and are ready for action by the senate. should be promptly acted on by the senate. the senate should  be the body which fails to provide for valuable and desirable postwar projects of that kind.
at the time the army took possession of the property agreement was entered into as to the amount of rental to be paid. the owners of the hotel were contending for approximately $400.000 or $500.000 a year. the army apparently estimated that the rental should be $200.000 a year. the inadequacy of the armys estimate is  apparent. because in its readiness to return the hotel to its owners after 2 years of occupancy. it is. willing to pay twice the amount of the original estimate.
. i should like to point out that on page 77 of the bill. beginning in line 21. the definition of a veteran is as follows: the term "veteran" means any person who during the present war was entitled to the benefits afforded by the soldiers and sailors civil relief act of 1940. as  or hereafter amended. and who has been hoably discharged or otherwise hoably separated from the service entitling him to such benefitsand so forth.
that is correct. because the first postwar fiscal year is going on at the time when the war ends. immediately after the war ends the expenditure can be made. and the contract can be made at any time before that.
a moment ago the senate approved the committee amendment to section 4. with which i concur. but i wish to ask the chairman of the subcommittee a question or two in order to help clarify the situation. in the interest of some who are much interested in the use of the war department reservoirs for recreational purposes. as i understand the effect of the amendment. it provides that the water areas of the war department reservoirs shall be available to the public without charge. that would mean the use of the water and the use of access to the water. and that would be without charge. is  that correct.
. calendar 1164. house bill 86. relates to widows of civil war veterans who were married to the veterans subsequent to june 26. 1905. which was before world war  1. the adjustment provided for in this bill is  the same type of adjustment as is provided by house bill 5041. calendar 1162. the purpose of house bill 86 is to bring the treatment in line with that given to other widows. but the bill does  relate to veterans of either world war  1 or world war  2. all three calendar . 1162. 1163. and 1164 relate to veterans of wars before world war  1. and the purpose of calendar  1162 is quite similar to that of calendar 1163.
. as a member of the committee on pensions. i - believe that i can point out the main purpose. it is to correct a situation relating to the adjustment of disability rates of pensions for certain regular establishment veterans and veterans of wars prior to world war  1. it deals largely with veterans who have  been injured as a result of -ombat service. or do  have wartime serviceconnected disabilities. we recently increased the pensions based on wartime servicecon.nected disabilities. but failed to change the compensation to the socalled peacetime veterans. which has been on the basis of 75 percent of the wartime serviceconnected disabilities. this measure reestablishes the same ratio for the two classes of pensions that has existed before. it brings the various rates into .line. on the same basis as that previously established.
as the matter stands on the record. it was approved by the house committee on rivers and harbors. but the bill. as a war measure. died in the congress at thttime. it was  consi(ered likely that many of these projects could be completed during the war. and the bill was dropped. . -
i am  arguing what the senator may k about a caucus. i have information about that. but. whatever may be the case. the bill was proposed as a war measure at war prices. but it was never thought to have egh chance of passage as a war measure to bring it to a vote in the house.
. commenting on house bill 1284. which is recommended by the committee on immigration. it has already passed the house of representatives. but the committee on immigration felt it might be wise to make it a little more restrictive. the purpose of it is especially this: there are many men in the armed services who had some irregularity relating to their entry into this country. and who. therefore. were unable to obtain prompt naturalization. the result was that they became involved in military service abroad under conditions which might get them into difficulty with the enemy. they  being american citizens. therefore it is felt vitally important. and recommended by the war department. the american legion. and the department of justice. that the procedure be simplified so that they can be promptly made citizens. when the bill passed the house it was in a broad form. but when acted upon by the committee on immigration two amendments were inserted. one limited the measure to those who entered the service of the united states and began to reside here prior to september 1. 1943. so as to avoid its being made use of as an escape from immigration procedures in the future. but to cover those features where there had been some irregularities which could  otherwise be met. the other limited the measure to cases overseas. it being felt that those were the cases where the need would arise and where the soldiers would be put in jeopardy. whereas so long as they were in the united states they could follow the mal procedure. as i understand. the objection has been withdrawn. .
there may have been a few of them transferred to other agencies. but the commission has been disbanded. i understand. there is some hope. however. of other procedures being adopted on the recommendation of the culbertson commission. but just what the leadership will be has  been disclosed. i may say that the foreign ecoic administration. which worked actively with dean landis. is there. and is taking over some functions from the army and being assigned some from the state department. and that may become a nucleous of an additional staff that may go in.
i thank the senator from utah. ahd i think for the record it might well appear that the amendments which were under discussion at that time between the chairman of the committee and general hershey were the amendments to house bill 1752 which would place the allocation of workers under the director of war mobilization and reconversion.
i am  advocating that we do that. what i am advocating is the committees recommendation as a substitute for the house bill. the house bill is an abandonment of that theory. it provides for a drafting of labor. and although it is  a national service act. it is a partial drafting of labor. the attitude of the committee is that we  have this voluntary system. it is just about on the border line of reaching its maximum performance. but it needs help in order to carry it further in an equitable manner under the system already operating. and i will outline later the provisions that are put into this bill for that purpose. for example. if a man is directed into other work and taken from the work that he has. he is given the right of reemployment. he is given transportation to go to the place of employment and transportation back again. there is a new right given to the war manpower commission to survey governmental plants themselves and to see whether they are using unnecessary labor. this right of survey heretofore has  been open to the war manpower commission. there are various steps of that kind authorized in order to help redistribute the labor that is  in some places being hoarded and while in other places it is needed. we are facing the great crisis of the war itself. and we want to make sure that as we proceed toward that crisis we have our manpower allocated where it will give the most and best production. i am  asking that we abandon our theory of voluntary cooperation. i am asking that we officially adopt that plan of operation and give it statutory support right along the lines on which it is  proceeding. i believe that to do this will help rather than hinder the results  being obtained.
 it is  quite as simple as that. let me explain it. the representatives of the army came before us and urged upon us what i urged upon the senator. namely. the seriousness of the present military situation. they went further and recommended the house bill. with an amendment as to procedure. turning the administration of it over to the war manpower commission and the office of war mobilization and reconversion. the army recommendation. therefore. is that we should increase production. and do it by drafting labor. as provided in the house bill. with an amendment. what is propcsed to the senate is recognition of the fact that the army has told us that there is a need. but changing the method of meeting that need to the method recommended by industry. agriculture. and labor unanimously. but by a preponderance of their testimony. i believe that the substitute. as presented to the committee on behalf of the senator from wyoming . the senator from west virginia . the senator from new york . the senator from michigan . and the senator from minnesota . was a measure agreed to among representatives of labor and of industry. however. in the committee an amendment was added. providing an additional penalty. with respect to that additional penalty. i do  believe there is complete agreement. however. except for that penaltyand i believe that the bill is a good bill. either with or without the penaltythe substance of the bill which comes before us is a recognition by labor and industry as to the method by which production can be increased. labor and industry k more about the way in which production can be increased than do we. or. i believe. than do the war and navy departments. this measure is a declaration by industry that. instead of the army method of drafting labor. they would welcome recognition by statute of the voluntary system. and that they will go ahead on that basis.
that is a subject for separate investigation. all of us sympathize with the position of the senator from tennessee. however. the question which we are facing here is  the question of drafting men for military service. i believe that that subject is adequately covered by statute. it is a question of administration. the problem which we have before us is that of reallocatingijand redistributing workers in industry where they are needed. i believe that we are doing what the senator wants us to do. we are  drafting. labor. we are putting into statutory language the voluntary system  being used. i believe that that is the kind of contribution to the morale of the soldiers that we can well make. because it shows them that we here at home are doing everything we can to make sure that our..labor is put to the best possible use. the war department and the navy department argued strongly on the basis of morale.- they say that what is needed at this time is a demonstration by the people athome that they are willing to work as hard as the men at the front are working. therefore. they argue for this kind of a measure. they go even further and argue for the bill which passed the house. i do  believe that it is necessary to pass the house bill in order to meet the morale argument. i believe that the best way to meet the morale argument is to provide the solution which will result in the greatest production. and i believe that the committee substitute will accomplish that purpose.
i have an idea. i will say to the senator from kentucky. that matter what we do or do  do. the nazis will find something to broadcast which will be critical of our people and of our efforts. but i think there are many persons who give more consideration to the judgment of the congress than they do to statements made by the nazis. i think our obligation is to take the step which will provide the best production of war materials which are needed at this time. that is what the army is looking for.
let me say that i think we are justified in taking the recommendation of the army and the navy regarding the need. and i think we are justified -in taking the recommendation of the industrialists and of labor regarding the method. i believe that the record already made by this method. in addition to their recommendation of it. is a sufficient recommendation of it for us. and i believe that if we follow that course we will be serving the best interests of our country.
i think that is correct. to emphasize what the senator from minnesota has been saying. let me state that there  has been established under authority of congress something which i felt was needed from the beginning of the war. and which. i think. would have been most helpful if we had had it all during the war. namely. a joint committee representing agriculture. labor. industry. and the public. to act as an advisory committee on such questions as this. such committee was formed under the leadership of this administration during the war until congress provided for it. finally. it was appointed as a 12member board in order to help the board on war mobilzation and reconversion. that 12member board included as its members  of the united states chamber of commerce. george h. mead. chairman of the board of the mead corporation. and nathaniel dyke. jr.. special assistant. smaller war plants corporation. i may say that we think that committee is the kind of committee which is patriotically and also professionally capable of passing upon issues of this kind. that committee has been working on this matter. this committee. under whose advice the voluntary system to which the senator has referred has been developed. on last january 10 went so far. upon the presentation made to it at that time. as to endorse even the house bill. that committees opinion is to be found in a resolution which was disclosed to the senate committee on military affairs and appears on page 254 of the hearings. as follows: resolved. that the board advises the director that it favors the principle that persons  drafted but subject to draft are under obligation to serve in the civilian forces wherever their services are most needed. but it feels that any act of congress embodying that principle shall contain adequate safeguards to assure the placement of all civilian workers in the hands of the war manpower commission and the war food administration and their duly constituted labor. agriculture. management committees. and that the selective service boards should determine only whether the individual is to be inducted into the military service. in other words. they endorsed the house bill with amendments providing for utilization of the machinery which already is handling the voluntary problem. if the senate adopts the substitute proposal  before it. the senate will be following the directions in the second part of the advisory boards recommendations and will be putting into law the voluntary system. to do this the senate will  be going even as far as the advisory board recommended on january 10. the senate in approving the substitute will be more conservative than the army and navy and more conservative than the advisory board was on january 10.
 insofar as the secretary of war and the secretary of the navy report to us what the war needs are. we take their word for it and follow their recommendations. but insofar as they get into the field of industry and attempt to tell us how to fill industrial needs. we take the word of the industrial leaders and workers in that field.
i pointed out that the morale argument was presented by the war and navy departments. i am presenting this matter.  based on the morale argument but on the basis of what will result in the best war production we can secure. some of the servicemen may hear about it and some may . i agree with the senator that what the servicemen want to hear is that congress is doing its job as they are doing theirs. so far as morale is concerned. however. i think it is important for us to recognize that we will  be doing our share. and therefore we will be weakening morale. if we do  pass a bill to meet the needs. for from this being a pallid substitute. i believe the substitute of the committee will do more to produce the materials needed than will the house bill. and that is why i am for it.
those who. would determine it under the second war powers act. it is  a special clause. or an especially harsh clause. whenever there is enacted a statute placing an obligation upon someone. almost always there is a provision incorporated making a violation of the act a misdemea. it is  an extraordinary penalty. it would merely provide that if one willfully violates the provisions which have been enacted into law. he is guilty of a misdemea.
. i wish to speak upon the question directly before the senate. and i wish to speak in support of the substitute which is offered by the committee .p military affairs to h. r. 1752. i believe that a clear understanding of the bill and the issues will demonstrate the wisdom of using that substitute. i thinkit is helpful for us to realize that thiis bill originated in the senate. as senate bill 36. introduced by the senator from th carolina . and the senator from maine . the senate. however. did  act upon that bill except to refer it to the committee on military affairs. however. in the house of representatives a similar bill was introduced by mr. may. and on february 6 was passed by the house of representatives and reached the committee on military affairs of the senate. the committee on military affairs then having before it both the house bill and the senate bill. voted to proceed with h. r. 1752. there were presented to the committee certain amendments to h. r. 1752. there also was presented to the committee a substitute for the bill. this substitute was presented before the military affairs committee by the senator from wyoming .. the senator from west virginia . the senator from minnesota . the senator fromh michigan . and the senator from new york .- the committee thereupon voted to proceed with the consideratio that substitute. it voted.this by a large majority. i believe about 12 to 6. therefore the senate committee on military affairs has  considered amendments to h. r. 1752 on any basis except that of this substitute. that is important to remember. i believe. as we proceed to consider the issue before the senate. because the issue is between h. r. 1752. a draft bill drafting labor. and the substitute which is  a draft bill at all. the substitute merely places the authority of law behind the procedures of the war manpower commission and the office of war mobilization and reconversion. as  being operated on a voluntary basis. the substitute also adds to those practices certain additional practices which experience has shown will be helpful in increasing production. yesterday i emphasized the fact that before the committee on military affairs there were witnesses who advocated the passage of the house bill as it passed the house. the witnesses representing the war department. the navy department. and the government in general did emphasize the great crisis we are facing. did urge upon us the taking of immediate steps to increase the production of this nation so as to meet  only the present emergencies but what might become future emergencies 4. 5. or 6 months ahead. in doing so. they said that if the house bill were to be passed it should be amended so that the administration of it. so far. as it relates to the allocation of labor. would be placed in the hands of the office of war mobilization and reconversion and. through it. the war manpower commission. instead of under the selective service system. i believe that such amendments would greatly improve the bill as it passed the house. but the committee on military affairs proceeded to take further testimony. the rest of the testimony before the committee consisting primarily of the testimony of representatives of industry. labor. and agriculture. was striking. in that. while it recognized the same necessity for action which the war and navy departments recognized. and took their judgment upon the military necessity. it also pointed out that to follow the procedure in the house bill might very well handicap instead of advance production by changing the method at this time and discarding the procedures which have been developed. those witnesses recommended. as the procedure for meeting the industrial side of the crisis. the procedure which the committee adopted. on that basis. the committee adopted the principle of following the experts in the army and navy as to the military necessity. and of following the experts in industry. labor. and agriculture. as to the method of meeting that necessity with increased production of war materials. i believe that is the best procedure to follow. to the extent that we are to rely on the judgment of others. however. i believe that we should consider the question on its merits and take primary responsibility ourselves for the decisions to be reached. the critical point is that it is obvious that the nation and the congress must do everything possible to provide adequate war materials for fighting the war. our obligation is to see that that is done. as regards the argument as to the effect on the morale of the troops. i believe that the thing which would help the morale of the troops to the greatest extent would be for them to realize that we have acted in accordance with the best advice. and have taken a course which will give them the greatest amount of material at the earliest possible date. therefore. our responsibility is to follow that course. and i believe it can be demonstrated that the substitute reported by the committee does follow that course.
when the senator asks whether it imposes a penalty on employers. i wish to say that here is an act which applies primarily to employers. to whatever group the act applies. we then apply precisely the same language relating to court procedure and to misdemeas that is contained in the act relating to the war powers of the nation. all we say by way ofpenalty is that we apply under this act the same penalties as apply under the second war powers act. it is a misdemea if that act is violated. and it will be a misdemea if this act is violated. if there is any obligation on the employer. the misdemea provisions will apply to the employer if he violates that obligation. if there is any obligation on the employee. the misdemea provisions will apply to the employee if he violates the obligation. if most of the obligations are imposed on employers. then. of course. most of the penalties would be imposed on the employers if they violate the obligations.
i think i can answer those questions to the satisfaction of the senator. attempt is made to pick out the employers or to distinguish them from the employees. as the penalty clause has been inserted in the bill. it follows the same structure which the representatives of labor and industry themselves followed when agreeing upon this proposition. in order to bring into operation existing uniform methods of enforcement and in order  to repeat at length paragraphs of existing law relating merely to procedure. they said in section 7 of the substitute that paragraphs (3). (4). (6). (7). and (8) of subsection (a) of section 2 of the act of june 28. 1940. as amended by title iii of the second war powers act of 1942. shall be applicable. i think that is a perfectly mal way to say. "we have passed this act to meet the conditions as we see them. we therefore include by reference. as the procedure to be used in enforcing this act. the same procedure we have already enacted under the second war powers act." however. they did  include paragraph (5). which provided for the misdemea penalty. all that the committee on military affairs did was to put paragraph (5) in with paragraphs (3). (4). (6). (7). and (8). which already are in the bill. therefore. the committee adopted precisely the existing procedure approved by congress in connection with the second war powers act. so the bill provides that the penalties will apply to anyone affected by the act. if this bill. in the judgment of the representatives of the public. labor. agriculture. and industry. will be most effective by placing obligations upon employers. and if such provisions are enacted into law. it is mal that whatever penalties go with such obligations should be applied to the law. and the penalties will then fall wherever they may. if the obligation itself is properly placed on the employer. then the pen. alty is properly placed on the employer.
 here is paragraph (5) to which the senator has referred in particular. it is paragraph .(5) of subsection (a) of section 2 of the second war powers act. it is perfectly simple. here it is: any person who willfully performs any act prohibited. or willfully fails to perform any act required. by any provision of this subsection (a) or any rule. regulation. or order thereunder. whether heretofore or hereafter issued. shall be guilty of a misdemea. and shall. upon conviction. be fined  more than $10.000 or imprisoned for  more than 1 year. or both. that is the clause which we have put into many bills. it is as precise and as definite as the bill itself. if the bill itself is  clear the penalty is  clear. but the fault is  with subsection (5).
i should like to complete this little group of excerpts from the hearings. i find on page 282 the statement of fred brenckman. washington representative of the national grange. in which he said: the national grange. as such. has taken action on the bill  before this committee. when our annual convention was held in ember this proposed legislation had  been introduced. however. i may say that from the start the grange has been in favor of the voluntary system of meeting our labor requirements. it is. of course. perfectly proper to draft men for military services in time of war when the life of the nation is at stake. but we do  consider it proper to draft men to work in industry for the profit of someone else. we believe auch a proposal to be of very doubtful constitutionality. further than that. we do  believe such a plan would produce the desired results. and on page 276 james g. patton. president of the national farmers union. said: on behalf of the national farmers union. i wish to express opposition to the house bill providing limited national service legislation. we believe it  only unnecessary at this time but "positively harmful to the best utilization of all available manpower and to the most effective prosecution of the war. instead. we recommend a unified and strengthened war manpower commission. having responsibility for the best use of all manpower in industry. agriculture. and all civilian services. and with statutory authority to enforce directives issued after consultation with managementlaboragriculture committees. that is the trend of the testimony plus the fact that when the senator from wyoming and the senator from west virginia presented the substitute they presented it with the statement that it was the result of understandings reached between industry and labor. and it was presented in that manner.
most of the testimony before the committee. except from our government officials. would be consistent in general with that view. there is a great deal of opposition to the drafting of labor. but very little opposition to carrying forward the present program and putting the strength of congress behind it. there are some direct endorsements of that policy by those who are most directly concerned. the issue that comes to the senate as presented by the war and navy departments is this: there is an emergency. there is a need. shall we draft labor. shall we do hing. or shall we do that which will increase production with the least trouble and delay. we believe the substitute goes down that last middle road.
yes. it strengthens the war manpower commission. by adding to its powers the 14 points that i will name. i believe it contributes just egh to strengthen the commission without disorganizing the progress we have made and without placing a draft upon labor.
i thank the senator from new jersey for his contribution. the second point is: by reducing wasteful labor turer and unnecessary labor migration. that is carried out by the certificates of availability. to which i have referred: (3) by channeling available manpower to employments in which workers will contribute most to the war effort. that is provided for through the special provisions on channeling and directing labor. (4) by making available. for work in essential activities. workers presently employed in activities of relative unimportance to the war effort. that is provided for by provisions relating to ceilings. (5) by promoting the maximum utilization by employers of their available work force. that is especially emphasized by provisions for managementlabor committees . as to the 14 points: the first point is  one that appears in any particular section. the first point is that the substitute gives congressional sanction to the declaration that there is need for all available people to go into essential industry at this time. all of us k that there is a natural disinclination on the part of individuals to give up whatever they are doing even to go into an essential industry. it is an inconvenience for them. let us say. and they will  do it unless they recognize there is a real need for it.  long ago i was in ohio. and there was discussion there of the bill we are considering. i was told that just the discussion had already resulted in a number of young people leaving what they were doing and going into essential industries. because they recognized from the discussion that there was a real need. i think that is an important phase. the congressional sanction given to the need which has been explained to us by the war agencies of our government. the second point relates to management and labor conditions. this is covered on page 13. in section 2 (b). here i wish to emphasize what i believe is an important point in our whole consideration of the progress we have made. as i stated yesterday. from the beginning. of the war the nation would have benefited tremendously by the appointment of an advisory board composed of people who had drawn experience directly from management. labor. agriculture. and public service. placed together on an advisory board they could turn their attention as a unit upon the problems of the nation. that came about for the first time when there was appointed. under the war mobilization act. a national advisory board. testimony was given before our committee to the effect that the managementlabor policy committees. which had been appointed under the voluntary system. had brought about such a meeting between management and labor that it had proven invaluable in meeting many problems. some of the witnesses pointed out that the experience and the community of interest that came from the national committees and local committees was of permanent benefit to our nation4. therefore we find in section 2 (b) this paragraph which has  been the law. but would  give official recognition to these committees: (b) the chairman shall provide for the es. tablishment of a national managementlabor policy committee. regional managementlabor committees. and state or local managementlabor committees consisting in each case of representatives of labor. industrial management. and. where appropriate. agriculture. the members of which shall be appointed without regard to the civilservice laws or the classification act of 1923. these committees shall be consulted on basic policy decisions made at their respective administrative levels in the course of the administration of the functions vested in the chairman by this act. the third point deals with the coordination of labor and service through the war manpower commission and the war mobilization and reconversion office. we find that on page 14. in section 3 (a). it is clear from the testimony that some of the troubles which have resulted in the past were due to lack of coordination. that is to say. a contract would be let to one plant. and then when that plant. we will say. had shut down a little later. and the men went to aher plant. it would get aher contract. whereas if it had been ified and there had been coordination. there would  have been that disruption of industry. this paragraph contains these important provisions   existing: sec. 3 (a) the director of war mobilization and reconversion shall. subject to the direction of the president. provide for coordinating the activities of all departments and agencies of the government responsible for production. procurement. or manpower in such manner as to carry out most effectively the purposes declared in the first section of this act. then this provision: the director shall provide. among other things that manpower requirements and the availability of manpower shall be given due consideration in determining where production schedules shall be increased or decreased and where contracts shall be awarded. terminated. or permitted to expireand then there is this new practical provision  existing before in the lawand that ice shall be given to the chairman of the war manpower commission at the earliest practicable time of all changes or anticipated changes in warproduction schedules. all awards or anticipated awards of war contracts. and all terminations or anticipated terminations of war contracts. which are likely to result in any substantial increase or decrease of the manpower requirements of any employer or any area. all departments and agencies of the government shall comply with orders and regulations issued by the director under authority of this section. . that is a provision which does  need enforcement by penalty. it simply calls upon a public officer to do the things that he has  been able to do before. that is to make surveys of government plants. the director of war mobilization and reconversion. where he finds hoarding and excess labor in the plants of the united states. can himself take or cause to be taken appropriate measures to eliminate labor wastage and labor hoarding in such places. that is the type of contribution which the act makes which is needed in order to give a fair deal to industry and to labor and to the armed forces. by increasing our production. the fifth point. this applies to similar surveys in plants other than governmental plants. this provision is found on page 15. in section 4 (a). there it is provided thatthe chairman shall provide for such inplant surveys and other investigations of activities and places of employment. as may be necessary to determine the extent to which such activities or places of employment are making the most effective use of individuals in their employ. to the end that appropriate measures may be taken to eliminate labor wastage and labor hoarding. to promote full utilization for purposes essential to the war effort. by employers of their available work force. and otherwise to promote the purposes of this act.
i should say he would lose a bonus rather than suffer a penalty. the tenth point relates to reemployment. this provision is roughly similar in its intent. but  entirely identical with the provision for men who are drafted into the military service. and who will come back and seek their original employment after having been taken from it. this provision is found on pages 17 and 18. in section 6 (a). first of all. it provides for a certificate to be issued. which will be helpful in the administration of the act. beginning on page 18. line 6. the language is then as follows: any person to whom such a certificate is issued under this subsection shall be entitled to the benefits of section 8 (b) (except the last paragraph thereof and except that in lieu of the 0day period therein specified. the time within which application for reemployment in his former position must be made shall be 30 days). 8 (c). and 8 (e) of the selective training and service act of 1940. as amended. to the same extent as if he had left such position in order to be and had been inducted into the land or naval forces for training and service. had been relieved therefrom on the day on which such certificate is issued to him. and had been given the certificate referred to in section 8 (a) of such act. there is a provislo which puts him back in precisely the same position in which he was when he left. he does  get an added guaranty of a years employmont upon his return: provided. that this section shall  be construed to confer greater employment rights than the individual would have had if he had remained employed in such position during the period of the employment or employments accepted by him upon the request of the chairman of the war manpower commission. the eleventh point has to do with one of the enforcement provisions. unique in this bill. i believe. although  entirely unique in its conception. it is found on page 20. in section 8. which provides that if an employer shall violate the act by employing men above the ceiling. for example. he shall then  be allowed to count his expenditures in such employment as a deduction from income. or as a cost or expense for the purpose of computing the tax payable under any act of congress. or for the purpose of determining the amount to be paid or recowered from any person with respect to the performance of any contract with the united states. . i believe that in these 14 points of the substitute we have made 9jn intelligent survey of the needs of our time. the substitute would help. and  hinder the increased production so urgently called for by the war and navy departments. i believe that the substitute proceeds along the middle ground. it is neither two drastic  too lenient. i believe that it is the answer which we should give promptly to the demand that the congress and the people at home do their full share toward winning this war. which shall and must be won.
while the senator is speaking about breaking records. i wish to call to his attention certain paragraphs from the testimony of the under secretary of war before our committee. to me his statement was very impressive. indicating that we are reaching the point where perhaps we should be strengthening our production beyond what we have accomplished heretofore. i read from page 28. to show that we need still further to break records which we have already established. the under secretary said: the 1945 requirements. as estimated by the war production board. call for more munitions than were produced in 1944. and 1944 was our biggest year in war production. how much higher the overall 1945 requirements will be has  yet been determined. scheduled 1945 requirements for army munitions are 15 percent above the 1944 production figure. for a number of critical items the required increase is much higher. the schedule for heavy field artillery ammunition is 200 percent above last years production. the schedule for bombs and mines is up 49 percent. tanks up 64 percent. airborne radar 59 percent. clothing 29 percent. that program for army munitions for 1945 is a staggering task. yet even these sharply increased schedules do  fully reflect military needs. for our needs have been scaled down in the light of kn limitations on productive capacity. it is also a matter of concern to us that last year we were unable to make more modest production schedules for a number of critical items. in the second half of 1944. output of mortar ammunition was 12 percent below the schedule of june 30. 1944. production of cotton duck was 14 percent under schedule. heavyduty truck tires 10. percent under. and 105 howitzer ammunition 8 percent under. deliveries of 21/2ton trucks dropped 13 percent under the june 30 schedule. and deliveries of heavier trucks dropped 20 percent below schedule. we mean to meet the needs for 1945. i am sure the senator means to meet them. it is our obligation to do all we can to see that they are met.
in order that i may make sure that i understand the matter clearly. let me state that i believe this amendment is offered in an attempt to make the provisions of the selective training and service act more enforceable. i understand that if a man who is hoably discharged from the service applies within 40 days thereafter for restoration to his former position. he can get it back. if it was  a temporary one. the pending amendment to the committee amendment is for the purpose of making sure that if such a veteran does apply for his former position. one who filled that position after he left it could be paid any salary. therefore. i understand that the amendment would make available to him a way which might  otherwise be open to him. is that correct.
. i rise for the purpose of helping to straighten out the record insofar as the discussion with reference to the war manpower bill is concerned. and i can do so in a few moments. i realize that the measure before the senate  is house bill 2404. dealing with the debt limit of the united states. a little while ago the senior senator from wyoming diverted the discussion to the conference report on the war manpower measure. namely. house bill 1752. it is for the purpose of insuring that the record be correct that i wish to say a few words. the conferees held a final meeting today. on each side the vote was 4 to 1 in favor of the conference report. the conference report has  gone to the house. it -probably will be voted on there tomorrow. it will probably come to the senate shortly thereafter with the approval of the house. therefore i think it is.important for us to understand it in its present form. i believe we can describe the situation in this manner: the conferees on the part of the senate were in direct opposition to the conferees on the part of the house with regard to the theory of the war manpower bill. the original house bill was a draft bill. a form of national selective service act. the senate amendment was  a draftoflabor measure. it was an approach to the existing system with statutory authority behind it. the conferees on the part of the senate stood by their ground. and the result reached was. in substance. the senate amendment. slightly corrected and modified. plus authority to apply a freeze on labor in the sarme manner and within the same scope that a ceiling may be applied on labor. administering authority was taken from the chairman of the war manpower commission and given to the director of war mobilization and reconversion. therefore. to convey the impression to the senate that discretion has been widely changed from what was provided in the bill as it passed the senate is  correctly to interpret the action of the conference committee. the same discretion which had been vested in the chairman of the war manpower commission is . in substance. to be vested in the director of war mobilization and reconversion. the same type of discretion which he had been allowed to exercise with regard to ceilings and regulations for employment may. under the compromise form. also be applied to the freezing of labor in plants in which he may feel it is necessary to freeze it. the conference bill is. therefore. the senate theory of approach to the whole matter. and i believe we can say that if the conferees had  reached this compromise. if both sides had  given way on some points. we would  have been in position to provide the added production which the nation needs in order to support properly the men who are at the front. i believe the compromise is thoroughly loyal to the position of the senate. it carries it out in an effective and reasonable manner. in my opinion. failure to agree upon the compromise would mean that we would be giving the soldiers hing. whereas they need the support of the nation by an act of congress which will help to provide the production so needed in the months which lie ahead of us.
. i have appreciated this opportunity of listening to a full discussion of the conference report for i was a member of the conference committee. this measure is a war measure. i wish to speak in support of the conference report because i believe the choice is between adopting the conference report or entirely failing to act. to fail to act would be a failure on the part of the senate to meet a serious obligation in time of war. it is nearly 3 months since the chief executive of the united states called the attention of the congress to the fact that there was a need for stabilizing production in order to make sure that we would meet the schedules of essential war goods facing us. it is over 2 months since the house of representatives met that request by passing the house bill. it passed a labordraft bill. during the following 2 months the senate committee and the senate have considered the measure. the senate was unwilling to pass the labordraft measure. but it passed the senate bill. i believe that in passing the senate bill the senate did meet the issue. to my mind the senate bill was a measure which well met the challenge. it was sent to conference because the house had voted for a measure fundamentally different from the bill passed by the senate. and the senate can legislate alone. the obligation of the conferees was to find some way whereby the senate and the house could agree. i believe the conferees on the part of the senate went just as far as they had to go to obtain the consent of the house of representatives. and further. therefore. i believe they have performed for the senate the assignment we gave them. the proof of this is that when this measure went back to the house of representatives the conference report was approved by the house. but it was approved by a margin of but seven votes. the house had receded from the substance of its original proposala labordraft billand it had received in return merely two modifications of the senate bill. those modifications stiffened the senate bill just egh to get the approval of the house and more. under those circumstances. i believe the conference committee in reporting to the senate is properly reporting that the conferees have modified the senate bill as little as it can be modified and still obtain an act of congress. it is under those circumstances that i believe we should view the action taken by the house of representatives justthe other day.
. the reason why i mentioned the vote in the house of representatives on the conference report was because a little while ago the senator from oregon stated what he has just repeated* and because i believe. as a result of my contacts with the conferees. that the senator from oregon is overestimating the situation. in reply to his suggestion i say that when the conferees on the part of the senate met with the conferees on the part of the house. the conferees on the part of the house were most specific and plain in stating that they would  vote to report to the house a measure which amounted to the senate bill. they would  agree to a conference report on that basis. and there would have been agreement at all on such a basis. we k that at first hand. that is  an argument based on what happened in the house of representatives after the conference report was before it. i mentioned the vote in the hcuse of representatives only to show that the conference report was nearly defeated. as it was.  the conference report is before the senate. and the final choice rests with the senate. let us remember that this is a war measure. it has been nearly 3 months since the needs of the administration were placed before the congress. yet the congress has  taken action. the measure has been in the senate itself for over 2 months. yet the senate has  been able to convince itself of the merit of the modifications made in the senate proposals by the conference committee. to which modifications the other house has agreed. the senate has  the entire responsibility for this measure. we k that the house will  again be in session with a quorum until after april 10. as i see it. this is  the time "for us to delay while the war calls upon us for action. we have fully debated both the conference report and the bill as originally passed by the senate. there are 14 excellent steps in the senate proposals. if we enact them into law we shall be taking forward steps which are badly needed. failure to enact them would set a bad example in a time of great need.
yes. but if the house is called into session to consider this matter there is assurance that aher conference will be had since the conference originally authorized has already acted. . i believe that we should  retreat from the 14 points to which i have referred. the only ground which could be urged for retreating is the fact that.two provisions have been added in the conference ieport in order to secure the assent of the house of representatives. it is the opinion of the. conferees that in the emergency  existing it would be well to accept those two points. one of them places in the director of war mobilization and reconversion. the principal administrative authority. including the power to choose the chairman of the war manpower commission to act under him if he should wish to do so it apparently meant much to the house conferees. the second point was the freeze. the freeze was far from an acceptance of the draft program. we already had authority in the senate bill to establish employment ceilings. and require certificates of availability in places where they were needed. we merely added authority for a freeze in places where it. might be needed to do. work essential to the war effort. -furthermore. the worker remains on the job merely until the director determines that it is longer necessary for him to remain in such employment. if he has a justifiable reason for leaving such employment. it is also. within the discretion. of the director to release him. we have therefore a flexible freeze added to a flexible ceiling. it would .  be . a nationwide freeze. in adopting those measures i believe that to a great degree we would meet the needs of the war effort. it is clear that the war is going rather well -for us in germany at this time. therefore. under the circumstances. we might say. if we guided our legislation by the reports from the front day by day. that we might postpone legislating. on the other hand. what it means to me is that we should pass our legislation but make it flexible so that it will meet the needs of the time as they arise. -including those brought about by the war with japan. we provide here.  a general freeze.  a general ceiling. but a freeze adapted to the needs and the time and. place. so that in spots in this country where certain kindsof employment may be needed at different times. congress will have placed in the hands of those who administer the laj authority to be sure that production will continue when and where it is needed. that is little egh for congress to do in meeting the emergency. that is little egh insurance for our men at the front. as to the senates 14 points. there is controversy. those 14 points will remain in the bill if the conference report is accepted. to them the report adds an optional freeze. to be used in appropriate places. i believe that addition does  justify defeating the other 14 points. we owe it to the men in the service and to the leaders of our armed forces to respond to their request of nearly 3 months ago. to furnish the needed authority to insure the maintenance of the production schedules so necessary at this time. something has been said of morale. i am  arguing this matter on the basis of the probable effect of the adoption of the report on the morale of our soldiers. but i do wish -to repeat a suggestion made to me. that the enactment of the pending measure. whether or  we have concluded our war in germany. will mean that we are proceeding to maintain our full speed against japan. and that we are providing egh authority so that there will be doubt about our determination to press the war against japan. that will have an adverse effect on the morale of japan. if anything canhave such an effect. it is the kind of message that will mean to japan that we are going all the way with our attack on japan. and that there will  *be a chance for a draw on that side of the earth. that is the kind of message to send to the men fighting in the far east. it is a message of full support from the home front. that there shall be draw. it is a message to our men at the front everywhere: "we are  going to let you down." what we are striving for is production for the war effort. we have been warned by our military and civil authorities that there is great need for added authority behind the program to increase production. we have had 3 months in congress in which to act. 2 full months in the senate. i believe we passed a good bill in the senate. the question is how can we save it. i believe that the decision rests with us. shall we accept the fifteenth point as an addition and go through with it and give the authority needed. or shall we let the plan drop and do hing.
as i understand it. the senators argument is that even though we adopt an amendmentit has to. be a short amendment. a general amendmentwhen we have enacted it. requiring 6 months military training or a years military training. we have  required what is really needed. because we can go into detail to make sure that a man gets the kind of training he needs to fit him to go into combat service. similarly. we use the general term "combat" to describe what the man be kept out of. a man gets a bronze star if he is in a combat zone. so that he is likely to be in "combat." in a broad sense even though far from the front line. the only way the army could be sure to comply with our amendment would be to keep all new men out of zones where it is  at all important that they have combat training or frontline training. it would mean a waste of manpower. "combat zone" is much broader than "front line." -so that even though we do the best we can in the halls of congress to provide for -the war we can manage the front line and we are likely to interfere with it rather than help it. it seems to me the proposed legislation would be futile because it could  guarantee the right kind of training. furthermore. it would keep men out of many zones where they should be.
i merely wish to read into the record the statement which was made by the senior senator from ohio yesterday. he said: it seems to me that naval training is a very different thing from army training. he suggested inserting the word "combat" before the word "vessel". and stated: i merely wanted to suggest that men could be placed on combat vessels for training. and clearly if they are combat vessels then the men go on combat vessels. that is all.
did i correctly understand the senator from maine to indicate that the figures from general .l.rshey showed that at the present time. the current month. these men who would  be excluded from the draft. or would be excluded after may 1. constitute from 10 to 15 percent of the draft. that. therefore. the amendment would result in cutting the draft from 10 to 15 percent.
a moment ago. when i inquired of the senator from maine if the fact that the amendment would stop the drafting of about 10 or i5 percent of the draft men over 31 would mean a reduction of the draft. his reply was  it would  reduce the number drafted. but would place the pressure on other groups. i would assume therefore that instead of testing men in accordance. with whether they were engaged in essential industries. the test would be shifted by this amendment to the question of age. and that therefore it would exclude men of 31. regardless of what they were doing. but would make up the 10 or 15 percent reduction by taking men from whatever industries they were in. and thus aggravate the manpower situation with respect to war production.
 of the united states. so yesterday throughout the country we were paying ho to our new citizens. those who had become citizens during the -past year by naturalization or by reaching the age of 21. thus enabling them to vote. at the same time. we were bringing before these new citizens a picture of america at home. a picture of america doing business with the world. and a picture of americas responsibility in the world of tomorrow. so i believe it likewise is fitting that all over the nation we recognize tomorrow as merchant marine day. inasmuch as there- will be session of the senate tomorrow. we may well pause to pay tribute today to those in the merchant marine who have been helping us to. win this war and who will be the mainstay -of the merchant marine after the war. the ships of our merchant marine certainly have been a major factor in helping to win the war. we pay tribute to those who designed the ships. those who built them. and those who manned them. they include  only combat ships. but auxiliary ships. and all types of cargo ships upon which members of the merchant marine have served. it is recognized that those who serve in the merchant marine do  serve as members of our armed forces. but they take great risks.- -as has been pointed out. -6.000 -of those men already have lost their lives in 1he service of our nation in this war. we have  reached the point in this war where the service of the merchant marine probably is more essential than it has been at any other period in the course of the war. from ncw on we deal entirely with an enemy. across the pa-. cific. we m ust have the navy. but the navy is impotent without auxiliary ships.  and in the auxiliary.service i am including the merchant marine. *so as we proceed from this point on. we give -ice to the world. and particularly -to japan. of .the determination of america. through its navy and through its merchant marine. to use its full force in winning the war. but we also appropriately look beyond the war as we consider this subject. before the war our merchant marine had shrunk to a small estate. and yet today 479a vie have the largest navy and the largest merchant marine in the world. as has been well said. when the war comes to an. end we shall have the ships. the men. and the training schools. and we shall have free seamen. we shall have the shipbuilding industry and its related industries. if we lose our merchant marine. or if it returns to its- prewar status. it will be a blow to our shipbuilding industry and related industries. to the training schools. and to the many officers and men who are anxious to sail the ships as their permanent employment. in facing international competition in the merchant marine field we always have a problem. because of the high standard of wages which we pay. and the comparatively high standard of conditions under which our men. work. i believe that  is the time to make up our minds to maintain our position in this field. and also to maintain the high standards under which we operate. congress has participated in setting those standards. the mcguire act of 1895. the white act of 1898. the la follette act of 1915. the jones act of 1920. and undoubtedly other acts have brought about the present status of our merchant seamen. and put them on a plane where they are free men. we may well te proud of that status. in march. i placed in the congressional record. a reference to andrew furuseth. who was a leader in muchof the work for our merchantmarine sailors and for this. legislation. i quote one paragraph from that article: the principal accomplishment of mr. furuseth can be said to be that in an entirely unselfish manner he has. almost single handed. been responsible for changing the legal status of seamen in the united states from that of a comparative serf or peon to that of a freeborn american citizen. this reform he has accomplished in a lawful manner. he has addressed himself to the agencies of law and order that are in existence in the united states. he has convinced members of the house and senate of the justice of the seamens cause and. accordingly. the statutes of the united states have been amended so as to provide for the freedom which the seaman of today has. we. as a nation. should  permit ourselves to be driven from the seas. merely. for the reason that we have recognized the rights of our seamen to serve as freemen on the seas. after the war we shall have a great navy. a great navy can exist without a great auxiliary. and in order to have a great auxiliary available in time of emergency. there must be a great merchant marine in existence. ready for that time.
. i shall be happy to have the senator from vermont place in the record the figures which will bring out the fact that. of course. the nerchant marine does serve the entire nation. both the army and the navy. peacetimecargo ships of the chant marine in time of war carries into strictly naval ships which serve as auxiliaries to the navy. but the merchant marine in time of war carries cargo for everyoneand the army is its  1 customer.
the argument still applies. because if we eliminate the entire $8.000.000 for the servicemen. from a reduced appropriation. there will  be a sufficient amount to carry on the other related services. and the result will be that adequate support to the job as a whole will  be given. . i believe the position of the acting chairman of the committee should be supported. fifteen million dollars should be added to the appropriation in order to take care of employment in the war industries. to take care of our returning soldiers. and to help make the reconversion program a success.
i submit a statement relative to certain individuals who because of the alleged sympathy with subversive ideologies on their part. according to the advice from intelligence sources. had their commissions withheld or were removed from officer candidate schools. whose records were submitted to the secretary of wars personnel board (frequently termed the craig board) and then reviewed for final decision by the deputy chief of staff. acting in consultation with the assistant secretary of war and to nine of whom commissions were issued withstanding the adverse recommendation of the board. to be entered in the record if approved.
the statement referred to is as follows:  "in 1942 and 1943 the commanding officers of the various officer candidate schools and aviation cadet training schools. for alleged counterintelligence reasons. removed certain candidates from these schools or upon graduation withheld from them their commissions.. such action was taken in accordance with the recommendations or directions of intelligence agencies at appropriate levels. "to determine whether any injustice had been done to the individuals involved. the war department during 1943 and 1944 reviewed 42 such cases. "of the 42 cases so reviewed. 2 involved allegations affecting the moral character of the candidates and 40 involved matters of alleged sympathy or affiliation with subversive ideologies (8 nazi. 30 communist. 1 fascist. and 1 japanese). "there 40 cases were initially reviewed by the secretary of wars personnel board. under a special reference. and. were finally reviewed by the office of the deputy chief of staff. acting in consultation with the assistant secretary of war. "the personnel board recommended that in one case the removal from school or the withholding of commission bereversed and the individual be commissioned. and that in the other 39 cases the removal or withholding be sustained. "the final reviewing authority confirmed the personnel boards recommendations as to 25 of the 40 cases. that is. it ordered commissioned the one man recommended by the personnel board to be commissioned and it sustained the removal or withholding action taken by the local commanders in 24 other cases. in a 26th case. the individual had been discharged from the army before completion of the final review. "in the remaining 14 cases which were thus reviewed. the final reviewing authority did  follow the recommendations of the personnel board that the removal or withholding be sustained. the final reviewing authority authorized 5 of these 14 candidates toreturn to schoolbut e of them ever graduated or were commissioned. it ordered the other 9 candidates to be commissioned as second lieutenants in the army of the united states. all but one (limited service for physical disability) serving overseas. of these 9 lastmentioned individuals. 3 were the subject of testimony before this special committee by major general bissell and major general doan on march 13. 1945."
i have found certain persons who hold commissions and also some enlisted personnel in the army whose backgrounds reflect communism in some form and am prepared to present the facts which have been developed thus far. . we had before the war and during the european war. and have even today. many of these nazi and fascist misled men and women. many of whom have been indicted and are to be tried or have been convicted. yet they are still permitted to undermine and weaken the position of our government in its efforts to effect the successful ending of the asiatic war and in every way possible aim to create disunity among the united nations. i will insert  the names of only a small number that come to my mind of these men and women and the names of the organizations with which they are affiliated. many of whom were seditiously and openly active before the war and who  continue their activities and propaganda of unamericanism and subversion. as follows:
i would say that when aher nation steps in and fights an entirely independent nation. regardless of what the cause may be. whether it i in sympathy with the revolutionary group or what . you may very well find yourself getting into what we. call here a "threat to the peace" or "breach of the peace." or "an act of aggression." and thereby find the whole thing opened up. you can simply use the revolution as an excuse for getting into a war with aher nation and  incur the penalties under the charter.
i think again the circumstances will have to decide the issue. if it endangered the maintenance of international peace and security the security council certainly could come in. and i should think it would be likely to reach that point as soon as one nation got into ahers war. whether or  it was called a civil war or a revolution.
it is my understanding that the security council remains in command. in much the same way that the commander in chief of the united states forces remains in command. but he is given the assistance of a military staff committee. which is charged especially with strategic questions. but the security council is always the top deciding factor in the decisions both as to starting and stopping such action. and i suppose even iii conducting the war in its own best judgment. subject to advice from its military committee. i read from article 47:
that relates particularly to those questions arising out of the second world war. it is under chapter xvii. relating to "transitional security arrangements." therefore having to do with immediate conditions. article 107 reads as follows: hing in the present charter shall invalidate or preclude action. in relation to any state which during the second world war has been an enemy of any signatory to the present charter. taken or authorized as a result of that war by the governments having responsibility for such action.
(office of war mobilization and reconversion). you read my mind. senator. i would like to say two things. if i may. first. that i do  believe that there is any measure that could be adopted. either by the congress or by the administration. that will be a complete. total. final. and perfect solution of the veterans problem. it is too complicated and too large to lend itself to complete and perfect solution. senator omahoney. the primary cause of that is that there is  egh surplus property to meet the veterans demand.
 may designate. the planning commission would investigate the nations requirements for permanent civilian agencies. to operate under the direction of the national security resources board and to be charged with preparing plans for the civilian aspects of industrial and manpower. mobilization for war and with supervising the execution of such plans in time of war or national emergency. the temporary commission would be directed to recommend to congress. within 1 year. the permanent establishment. under the national security resources board. of such civilian war agencies as the commission deems essential. the commission. as i stated. would be a temporary body and would cease to exist 2 years from the date of enactment of the act. unless sooner terminated by joint resolution. the purpose of this part of the amendment is obvious. here in the bill is there clear provision for the preparation. in peacetime. by civilian agencies of industrial and ecoic mobilization plans. my amendment recognizes that principle and provides a method by which it may be made effective. i hope that the committee will see fit to adopt it.. if it is adopted. it is my intention to suggest a further amendment to the section of the bill relating to the munitions board. so that the committed may have a complete picture of my purpose. i would briefly explain my munitions board amendment: it would substitute for paragraph 2 on page 27. which  charges the munitions board with planning for the military aspects of industrial mobilization. a provision making it the duty of the munitions board to advise the national security resources board of military mat6riel and manpower requirements in order that they may be integrated into the overall plans for national industrial and manpower mobilization plans which. under the amendment  pending. would be made by the national security resources board and its subordinate civilian agencies. i said earlier that i was convinced that the great majority of the members of the house believed deeply in the principle that the ecoy of the country. in wartime as well as in peacetime. must be controlled and directed by civilians. i have attempted to point out that under the pending bill there is at least great danger that this would  follow. i believe that it is more than a danger and would be the certain result. and i am  alone in my fear. the christian science monitor which. like me. supports the principle of unification. has clearly expressed the same fear in a number of its recent editorials. thus. on may 26. it stated: this bill does more than draw a blueprint of unified direction and better teamwork for the military and naval services. of much deeper significance. it is a piece of basic legislation which establishes how and by whom national policy and the civilian ecoy shall be controlled in any prospect of war. the editorial continues: we have supported the general provisions of the merger. particularly coordination of foreign policy. military policy and industrial potential. but because this bill originated in the thinking of military men. the power it assigns or permits to the military over national policy and civilian affairs is very greatmuch greater. we think. than the american people would kingly choose. i am sure that a number of the members of the committee very honestly believe that my fears in this connection will  materialize. it is my own equally honest and deep conviction that the situation presents very great danger. should we  take a course which would eliminate any possibility of results which we all would deplore. my amendment offers a way to avoid that risk. i believe that it is well drawn. and i can say so without embarrassment because it is taken very largely from the carefully prepared bill. h. r. 3979. introduced on june 25 by the distinguished chairman of the committee. but. even if there should be imperfections in it. in detail. that should  deter anyone from supporting it. since any such defects can. and of course would. be eliminated in conference with the other body. to which this bill. of course. will go in any event.
may i state to the gentleman that both the war department and the navy department have stated that it was their purpose under unification that the execution of the plans should be carried out by civilian agencies similar to the war manpower commission. the office of defense transportation. and the like. i would  willingly accept management of our ecoy in wartime or peacetime by the military. i believe that in both wartime and peacetime it should be managed by civilian agencies. and i am very much afraid that will  be the result under this bill.
these cases have all been investigated very carefully and very thoroughly by the navy department. in some instances the insurance companies may be subjugated to the original claimants. especially where the companies may have paid the claimants.
. even 5 minutes is  sufficient for an adequate discussion of this subject. i take the floor primarily to emphasize one point: that this proposed legislation is . and has been since its inception. a bipartisan effort to take care of one of the great social and ecoic problems of our time. and it should be so. it is perfectly clear to me that this is a problem which private enterprise can never solve. it has  solved it in the past. it is  a matter of the dislocations caused by the war or of the rentcontrol laws of the past few years. we have had people living in inadequate housing long before world war ii. the oldlaw slums of new york have been in constant use for over half a century. private enterprise has never succeeded in getting rid of those things. the forces that have prevented it from doing so still operate. unless government financial assistance is given. the problem never will be solved.
may i point out that what we are  talking about is in line of duty or resulting from an offense which may occur in the performance of duty and that those terms have been well defined and construed by statutes which have been in existence since civil war days.
. the distinguished and very able senator from oregon made a speech on the bill the other day. which was one of the finest speeches i have ever had the privilege of hearing in the senate. it is useful with respect to many aspects and many of the questions involved in the proposed legislation. i should like to quote briefly from it: it gives me pause. in this regard. to read in the new york times of may 31. 1957. that in the montgomery. ala.. trial of two white defendants on charges of bombing a negro church: "the defense appealed for a verdict that would give encouragement to every white man. every white woman. and every white child in the south who is looking to you to preserve our sacred traditions." the senator from oregon continued: it is only partially pertinent that the defendants were acquitted. the appeal to prejudice. the force of community pressure. were there. i should like to call attention to a report published in the new york times of july 25. 1957. quoting an editorial from the news of jackson. miss.. headed " southern sentiment":
. the subcommittee on immigration of the senate judiciary committee opened hearings this morning on pending immigration legislation. i am informed that deputy attorney general william p. rogers testified in favor of expeditious enactment of revisions in the immigration law. i was pleased indeed to see that the justice department saw fit to endorse s. 2023 introduced by me on may 8 on behalf of myself and senators ives. javits. cooper. smith of new jersey. and bush. there is a pressing need for action to clarify the status of the hungarian refugees who fled their communist oppressors in this country. but who  live under a shadow of uncertain status. certainly. too. there is a great need to assist refugees from other forms of aggression such as the jews. who have been driven out of egypt. less essential is the enactment of legislation to admit war orphans. deprived of their parents through the ravages of war and whose admission is being eagerly sought by childless american citizens. i commend the acting attorney general for his forthright statement on these problems and i ask unanimous consent to place his statement in the record.
. i do  have to tell the members of this body that this in way involves any criticism at all of any members who wanted. with me. to obtain an effective change in the rules of the senate. and who will vote against the resolution. i agree with them utterly that it is a very sorry day for the senate when this good chance to make an effective change has been wasted. but while the battle has been lost. the war has  been lost. and eventuallyand. i hope. very soonwhat we have failed to do here today will be done.
. march 15 marks the 112th anniversary of the hungarian revolution of 1848. an expression of the millenniumlong love of the people of hungary for national independence. as with the repression of the hungarian freedom fighters in 1956 by russian tanks. the revolution of 1848 was crushed the following year with the help of russians serving in the czarist army. with the memory of the repression of the hungarian freedom fighters still afflicting the conscience of civilized peoples everywhere. it is appropriate to pay tribute to the historic efforts of the hungarian people to defend their national independence. but it would be hypocritical to do so if we did  also e that soviet troops still occupy this brave land. and that many of those who struggled for freedom in 1956 are still in prison. these harsh facts remain in an era when all sides proclaim their desire for improved international relations and when almost every speech by the rulers of the soviet world professes a desire to reduce international tensions. i believe it is appropriate to emphasize that in hungary alone the soviet leaders could greatly contribute to he achievement of the peaceful world which they claim they are seeking. they could recall their troops from this valiant little country which poses threat whatever to the soviet union. e of the hungarian governments since world war ii has sought to join any grouping of states which could be seen as a military menace to the soviet union. and. at the least. the present regime of ja kadar could well extend an amnesty to those who participated in the 1956 demonstration of the hungarian peoples will to govern themselves. until such time as these things have happened. this anniversary of the temporarily victorious hungarian revolution of 1848 for national independence can only be greeted with sadness and firm resolve in free countries.
there is need. . this resolution takes position on the difficult problem of enforcement action by the united nations involving what amounts to war on behalf of the international organization. we are concerned here with a combatant force which would undertake such functions as observation. patrol. guard duty. truce supervision. and similar functions. such activities. carried out promptly and effectively. may well help to put out sparks before they touch off a major conflagration. at our present state of development of military techogy. where an accidental war could destroy tens or hundreds of millions of people just as thoroughly as a war resulting from planned aggression. i believe it is incumbent upon us to support any promising opportunity to reduce conflict at the earliest possible stage. a permanent united nations force represents such an opportunity.
. it seems clear that more crucial issue confronts this session of congress than our countrys course in international ecoic affairs. with the reciprocal trade agreements program expiring on june 30. the action of congress in this field may influence the course of history for years to come. i believe that one has given more thoughtful consideratior. to the tremendous significance of this decision than my distinguished colleague. the senior senator from new york. in an article entitled "foreign trade in a decade of challenge." published in the january issue of the carpenter. senator javits has weighed the consequences of this pending decision. in the light of his experience during the intersession period. when he served as chairman of the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarians conference and studied in moscow the communist ecoic offensive for the joint ecoic com*mittee of the congress. he considers  only such important matters as employment and the expansion of our own ecoy. but also the ecoic strength and military power of the nations confronted today by a massive and multifaceted soviet challenge. i ask unanimous consent to have the text of this article printed at this point in the record.
. i join my colleagues on a very special occasionthe 50th anniversary of senator carl haydens service in the congress. i join them in paying tribute to our distinguished colleague who has the unique distinction of having served uninterruptedly for a half century in the house of representatives and the senate. it is with a sense of deep respect and admiration that i avail myself of the privilege to add my own voice to the many that have already been raised so eloquently and with deserved praise for our veteran leader. senator haydens calm. inconspicuous and thoughtful approach to the everyday legislative problems has won for him the esteem and high regard of everyone who has had the good fortune to work with him. his softspoken manner. while  diminishing his influence in areas where it counted most. has made him one of the senates most beloved members. i k i express the sentiments of everyone who has ever been associated with him in wishing him many more years of continued useful service coupled with a sense of fulfillment and satisfaction which are indeed his due.
. i ask unanimous consent to place in the record an article describing the activities of the rutgers rangers. a group of army rotc members at our state university who are learning how to fit themselves for leadership and at the same time develop their physical fitness.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to amend the laws with respect to federal participation in shore protection. the bill was drafted at my request by the army corps of engineers. i ask unanimous consent that the bill remain at the desk for cosponsors until the close of business. friday. may 18. at this point in my remarks. i ask unanimous consent that a summary. also prepared by the engineers. of the bills provisions.
. i asked for recognition in order to speak briefly on a matter of great urgency to our state. and i think to other states along the atlantic and other coastlines of the country. as a result of the storm in the spring. as i think everyone ks. a great deal of the beach protection in the form of dunes was destroyed. and the army engineers have developed a plan for erecting temporary. low dune barriers in order to prevent the next storm from completing the devastation. which would be awful in its consequences. this program has been underway in new jersey and other areas along the atlantic coast. but we have run into the situation in new jerseyand i am sure the situation may exist elsewhere alsothat a considerable amount of the shore front is  accessible to the engineers for the building of these temporary dune protections. our state conservation commissioner. h. mat adams. reported recently that the state needs to acquire 17 miles of beachfront in order to make it possible for the army engineers to complete the necessary temporary emergency barriers. commissioner adams urges that the federal government should have a part in this proposal. and. to that end. that the bill which the senate passed last year. s. 543. which is  pending in the house. be passed by the house and implemented as quickly as possible. there appeared in the newark star ledger for june 3. 1962. an article on this subject. which i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point.
. i also report favorably 136 officers for promotions and appointments in the regular army in the grades of major and below. and 533 officers for appointments and promotions in the navy and marine corps in grades of captain and below. all of these names have already so in order to save the expense of printing on the executive calendar. i ask unanimous consent that they be ordered to lie on the secretarys desk. for the information of any senator.
. the nations stockpile program is a keystone of our national defense. it is too important to the welfare of the american people to be used as a whipping boy for partisan politics or for press discussion of purported excerpts of the draft subcommittee report. the publics right to k about how this program has been handled demands that an objective study go to great lengths to avoid partisan political tone. in making legislative- recommendations about the future of this program. i believe we should have the views of the peopledemocrats and republicanswho over the years have had the responsibility for carrying. out this program. subcommittee consideration should  be limited to a partial examination of the handling of a few metals during the period of the previous administration. when the subcommittee report refers to such officials. simple fairness. as well as the public interest in a accurate and complete report. requires that they should have a chance to see the proposed report and make their comments to the subcommittee before final action is taken. furthermore. any sound appraisal of past policies requires at least kledge of the goals established in comparable areas by the present administration. i became a member of the subcommittee in april of this year. filling a post left vacant by the departure of senator prescott bush from the senate in january of this year. he. in turn. filled. a seat which had been held by the late senator francis case. who died in 1962. i was  a member of the subcommittee during any part of its hearings on the stockpile program. the last of which was held on january 30 of this year. shortly after i became a member of the subcommittee. a draft report. marked "secret." was presented to the members of the subcommittee by the chairman. this draft was the work principally of the assistant majority counsel. he was a member of the white house staff at the time of his appointment to the subcommittee staff. and is  back on the white house staff. the miity has had counsel or other staff assistance since i became a member of the subcommittee. a short time after the members of the subcommittee had been presented with the draft report. the chairman of our subcommittee called a meeting. at this time. i presented to the chairman a request that i be permitted to circulate copies of the draft report among at least those prominently referred to or mentioned therein. my request was primarily based on the public interest in a balanced and accurate report. as well as the matter of fair treatment of public officials. a secondary consideration was my feeling that. since i did  participate in the hearings. and since it was manifestly impossible to go through the entire record and the documents filed. but  printed. the comments of those chiefly mentioned would be of help to me in determining what should be my position concerning the legislative recommendations made in the subcommittee report. i am  interested in covering up or in accusing anyone. i am interested only in the facts and in developing wise and useful stockpile legislation for the future. while the chairman thus far has refused to permit the draft report to be circulated. several stories which have appeared in the daily press purport to disclose the contents. in reporting on a program as important to our national welfare as the stockpile program. we have a particular responsibility to see that all the facts are gatheredboth those which relate to democratic administrations and those which relate to republican administrationsand that the individuals referred to are treated with scrupulous fairness.
s earlier expressed concern for assisting persons rejected by the selective service as physically or mentally unqualified demonstrates the need for a wider perspective on the draft. its effect. and its problems. lastly. and  of the least importance. s. 2432 insures congressional participation in the study. we should wait until the defense department study is over to express our views and those of the people we represent. it is a fact that congress in the past has devoted little attention to the draft problem. last year the senate passed the draft act extension after only about an hours discussion. we should  permit ourselves to get into such a situation of helplessness and inactivity on a legislative matter affecting 500.000 or so volunteers and draftees each year.  we have time to study the future of this program. we should try to find the answers to such questions as these: are present priorities for selection fair and equitable. is the present draft law an efficient instrument for maintaining military manpower in the light of the increasing specialization imposed by modem military techogy. how does the draft affect civilian needs for more and better trained professional people. what is the ecoic and social impact of the draft on young men reaching the draft age and making career plans. these are the questions that should be considered by a panel of both military and civilian experts. such as envisioned by s. 2432. so that the armed services committee and the congress can have their findings and recommendations at hand before taking further action on our draft laws.
is it  true that mr. reyds was the subject of some information released from either army or defense department files. in a way which was at least irregular. if  a violation of the law. and under circumstances which would suggest that he was being intimidated. or that an attempt was being made to intimidate him by the release. on the order of someoneperhaps on the order of someone in very high authorityof information which was supposed to be kept confidential.
 eisenhower were an inspected cutoff in the production of fissionable materials for weapons purposes. the use of outer space exclusively for peaceful purposes. the creation of inspection systems to guard against surprise attack. the first formal united states program for general and complete disarmament. under effective international control. and the creation in the department of state of a disarmament administration. out of this grew the u.s. arms control and disarmament agency. e of these was a partisan effort. all of them received bipartisan support. rooted in the conviction that the search for peace is an undertaking in the national interest which transcends partisan. political considerations. this was never more evident that in the part played by the distinguished miity leader in securing approval of the test ban treaty. it was ratified by an overwhelming majority of senators from each side of the aisle. i am proud to have been one of them.
. today we join 1 million lithuanian americans in commemorating the 47th anniversary of the declaration of lithuanias independence. lithuania joined the free world at the conclusion of world war i. only to be subjugated once again 22 years laterfirst. by nazi germany. and then by soviet russia. although soviet russias oppression continues. the united states refuses to recognize lithuanias status as a component republic of the soviet union. and continues diplomatic relations with the lithuanian legation maintained here by the former independent government. lithuania made valuable progress during her 22 years of selfgovernment: she reduced illiteracy from 64 to 15 percent. through a program of compulsory education. and she enacted a landreform lawthe first in europe. trade. agriculture. and industry flourished. as did the arts. the illegal incorporation of the baltic states into the soviet union stifled this vital development. we must continue to strive by all peaceful means to achieve the day when lithuania will once again work proudly beside us as a free. selfgoverning nation. and once again will pick up her broken thread of progress.
san bernardi calif. dear m. turner: thank you for sending to me a copy of the suicide e of alice herz. i have  obtained a copy of the julyaugust issue of fact. but i shall do so tomorrow and read it. i am enclosing tear sheets from the congressional record. containing the latest major speech i have made in the senate on the shocking u.s. war in vietnam. in your letter. you asked me for my views concerning your suggestion that steps should be taken to impeach president johnson and perhaps some other officials. it is my view that such an impeachment attempt would be a very serious mistake. all it would do would be to divert attention away from the basic issues involved in american foreign policy in asia and center attention on president johnson. as an individual. it would cause many people who disagree with his foreign policy to rally behind him. because they would consider such a movement to be an ad hominem approach. attacking johnson. personally. will  change his course of action. and it will  win supporters for a change of foreign policy in asia. but to the contrary. it will drive supporters away. in my opinion. there is question about johnsons sincerity or his patriotism or his desire for peace. it is johnsons bad judgment and mistaken reasoning in respect to the war in asia that constitute the basis of the crucial problems that confront us in trying to get a change in johnsons policies in asia. to attack him. personally. by proposing impeachment would be the most serious personal attack that could be made upon him. it would rally the nation behind him and result in his policies being escalated into a major war at a much faster rate. those of us who oppose johnsons foreign policies must meet his views on their merits. we should never attack him. personally. although you may disagree with me on this matter. i am giving you my honest advice in this letter. i hope that the opponents of johnsons policy in vietnam will  fall apart by adopting what we call splinter tactics in conducting this struggle for peace in asia. with best wishes. sincerely yours.
 eisenhower secured a truce in korea. to do so. however. would be to ige the realities of the nuclear era. the fact that the united states and the soviet union share a capability for mutual destruction establishes their common interest in avoiding such a fate. to that end we agreed to a limited test ban. and to that end we must seek other meaningful and mutually beneficial agreements such as a proliferation treaty. let us. above all. resist those emotional arguments grounded on the assumption that the alternatives before us are simple. they are .  have they been for a long time. if the true selfinterest of the united states is to be served. we must continue to explore every avenue of common interest with our adversaries even as we stand firmly against communist aggression in vietnam. that is the meaning of the resolution i join in introducing today.
 eisenhower and such close colleagues of mine as senator morton. senator aiken. and majority leader mansfield. e of these men. i am convinced. has any illusion that the proposed conference can settle the war overnight or quickly relieve the united states of its present burdens in southeast asia.  is any such hope buttressed by the initial reactions of peking and ha to the thai proposal. yet the proposed conference might well point the way to the means by which the logjam could be broken. furthermore. an allasian conference would focus attention and thought on certain realities that have been pushed into the background by the escalating military struggle in vietnam. first is the fact that this struggle and its outcome are of primary and most direct concern. both immediately and in the long run. to the independent nations of asia. second. i believe. is the fact that. real as our interest in the security of southeast asia is and will remain. it is these asian nations that must assume primary and major responsibility for their own security if the peace and stability of the area are to be established and maintained. third. the asians may well have a better understanding of how "to get from here to there" than would americans. for these reasons. i very much hope that we may see increasing support for the convening of an asian conference. and while it will be for the asians to decide and to arrange. we should welcome and encourage such an initiative.
. 5 months have passed since the senate. by a unanimous vote. declared its support for an allout effort to negotiate a treaty to prevent the prolifertaion of nuclear weapons. as one of the original sponsors of senate resolution 179. i believed then and i believe  that we must continue to give the highest priority to reaching agreement on effective measures for the control of nuclear weapons. i also believe. however. that we should  overlook the potential threat of bacteriological warfare. any agreement -we may reach for the control of nuclear weapons might well serve to enhance the importance of bacteriological weapons and. thereby. increase the difficulty of achieving any international agreement for their control. biological agents can be produced with relative ease and ecoy. we are told. this fact could make them increasingly attractive as a strategic weapon to nations lacking the means to develop nuclear weapons. these points suggest to me that we should be taking steps toward the control of bacteriological weapons. concurrently with our effort in the nuclear field. measures to halt the proliferaiton of such capabilities could be an important first step in this direction and a constructive precedent for other areas of arms control. i am persuaded. moreover. that new initiatives are essential if we are to maintain the momentum of our search for arms control. a move toward reducing the threat of bacteriological warfare would strike a responsive chord in the minds of people everywhere. i believe. i have therefore written to the secretary of state. the secretary of defense. and the director of the u.s. arms control and disarmament agency. with a request that they give to these proposals the early and full consideration i believe they merit.
. my state of new jersey was hoed recently when one of its residents. mr. nicholas raimo. of belleville. was elected national commander of the italianamerican war veterans. commander raimo. who was elected national commander at the 31st annual convention of the italianamerican war veterans held in philadelphia. will head the 65.000member national organization for a 1year term. for the past 21 years. mr. raimo has been active in veterans affairs on a local. state. and national level. in recognition of his outstanding service to the community and nation. he has received five past national commanders awards. in addition to his work in behalf of veterans. mr. raimo has found time for numerous civic and community activities. we are indeed fortunate to have such a publicspirited man in our state. and i am glad that his capabilities have been recognized by the italianamerican war veterans. mr. raimo. a world war ii army veteran. served in europe. he holds five combat stars. the purple heart. and the combat infantrymans badge. a lifelong resident of belleville. n.j.. mr. raimo publishes a monthly newspaper. the belleville record. i offer my warmest congratulations to commander raimo. and i am glad to have an opportunity to invite the attention of the senate to his election.
. on last sunday. march 5. a delegation of some 24 persons representing the crispus attucks society. inc.. made a pilgrimage to boston for memorial services and the laying of a wreath at the attucks monument. the pilgrimage was the first event of a week officially proclaimed "crispus attucks week" in new jersey in ho of the first patriot to give his life in the revolutionary war in the cause of freedom and liberty for all americans. regardless of race. color. creed. or national origin. the weeklong celebration will be climaxed by the crispus attucks day parade in the city of newark this sunday. the parade is intended as a tribute to the courage and sacrifice of american fightingmen from the revolutionary war to vietnam. this is only one way in which the crispus attucks society. dedicated to the history and culture of the american negro. endeavors to bring into proper focus an understanding and kledge of the invaluable contributions men of color have made to the american society. the basic philosophy the society seeks to emphasize is. "it is better to march with pridethan in protest." i commend the society and its activities to the attention of senators from other states. it is making. i believe. a significant contribution toward helping the nation "march with pride" toward a fuller realization of american brotherhood. the founder of the crispus attucks society is john a. thomas. other offcers of the crispus attucks day parade committee are: general chairman: capt. roscoe jennings. hoary chairman: mayor hugh j. addonislo. vice chairman: lewis n. miles. ii. hoary vice chairman: james threatt. sheriff leroy j. dalola. treasurer: james moore. jr. secretary: connie woodruff. grand marshall: timothy still. deputy grand marshall: hattie coppock. chief of staff: det. william a. stewart. deputy chiefs of staff: melvin calloway. officer harold gibson. jenkins holman. fireman william thomas. danny williams. parade adjutant: john h. brown. asst. parade adjutant: frank ray. richard lang. public relations: rudy kinchen. publicity: william s. thomas. trustees: irvin b. booker. esq.. chairman. james e. anderson. ida barker. joseph james. queen e. james. rev. langston miles. simeon moss. rev. james e. myers. loretta starks. tally talbot. annette wheeler. committee: james blair. cheri coleman. patricia gibbs. barbara gibson. kenneth a. gibson. hickman holmes. sarah jennings. carolyn kelly. mae massie. william mercer. marlene miles. william d. payne. george l. richardson. mervin robinson. bernice sanders. vera l. stewart. major taylor. stephen s. thomas. esta williams.
i thank the senator from virginia. his thoughtful study of this problem. including a trip which he himself recently took to south vietnam and other countries in that area. gives added weight to his comments. i am most grateful for his addition to this colloquy. the point with which i should like to close. merely as a matter of reemphasis. has been. i think. well introduced by the senator from virginia. president kennedy made it the central point of his own attitude that we alone can win the war in southeast asia. we can only help. everything we do must be directed to that end.  to try to win it ourselves. because that is impossible. certainly we must  detract from any legitimate help we can give. but by making the war an american war. we are doing the opposite of what we ought to be doing. the real test of the administration is . as some people have tried to make it. whether we should or should  have got into this mess in the first place. i have pointed out on previous occasions that president johnson has been badly treated by many people who have at.tempted to put upon him the primary responsibility for our countrys involvement in south vietnam. it is  his. when he became president. the united states was already deeply involved. thousands of american troops were there when he became president. we had already acquiesced in. if we had  actively instigated. the overthrow of diem. and thereby assumed an unusual degree of responsibility for the government of south vietnam before president johnson took office.  . that was  his primary responsibility.
president johnsons responsibility is the conduct of the operation with which he found himself saddled. or with which the american people had been saddled when he took office. that is what he ought to be held responsible for. and that responsibility includes the matter of doing the job right. the job requires. first. that we get the south vietnamese to handle the war by themselves with such military helpand money. as wellas we may be able to contribute. second. to get the south vietnamese government to put themselves in such a position that they can command the loyalty and support of the south vietnamese people for that government. so that it can be a country that will be able to stand on its own feet. under a government which the people will respect. this is the responsibility. this is the test. of the johnson administration. and its success or failure must be determined by the degree to which it rucceeds in this endeavor. so far. it has failed.
i appreciate the comments and the generous statement about my own effort in this matter by the senator from mississippi. when i said "rapid." i meant. of course. recognizing that everything is relative. and that some matters have been going more rapidly than others. but we have been waiting for some years . manila and guam happened some time ago. we have been hearing promises of reform. there have been statements that progress has. been made. yet when we examine what has happened on the ground we find evidence of that. and hing in the way of evidence to show that the problem has been accepted by the south vietnamese. instead. i have seen from our own government reportsand this is  stated in any spirit except that of sorrow. as i am sure the senator understandsthat progress is almost imperceptible in the real question of getting the south vietnamese to do the job. i said. as i have said before. that when the president annced his decision to send at least 45.000 more troops. he did it without coming to the congress. without any statement of justification. without any statement of what.the troops are to perform. without any recognition that he understandsalthough i think he must understand- that only the south vietnamese can do this job. and just how additional american troops will help to bring about a situation in which the south vietnamese will take on the job is more than i can understand. in light of the fact that we already almost match the number of troops the south vietnamese have on the ground. as the senator ks. that matter is what i regard as the crux of the problem. other senators have taken different views. other senators regard the bombing of the th as perhaps crucially important. my own view has been stated a number of times. i think we should bomb to the extent. and only to the extent. that it has a significant effect upon the infiltration of men and supplies into the south. what i have had a concern about is the lack of response by the administration to the questions raised by highly responsible senators and others about the necessity for the bombing. i am unhappy because we can get response from the administrationand by the administration i mean the presidentto the many expressions of concern about increasing the size of the american forces. in the face of the lack of response by the south vietnamese leaders to the job which they need to be doing. this raises the question in my mind as to whether the present administration has  fallen. as i suggested in my statement. into the trap or the dilemma that we are afraid to press the south vietnamese harder. and yet without pressing them harder. the job can be done.
. i thank to accomplish that role. to fulfill ii. re- the senator. the real point is that we quies hins tat hisadministration would make a serious mistake in our own quires things that this national interest if we were to permit our has  done. this administration has been blamed- sense of pique or frustration or impaand i have pointed this outunfairly for tience about what is taking. place inside i ua government in saigon or inside the mogetting us into the mess in south tivations of the peoples in a part of the it was  its primary responsibility. world where they have already been at but that of predecessors of this admin- war constantly for 20 years 2 years. istration. the situation existed before but 20 yearstake precedence over the this administration took over:" but the substantive. basic. and able gains in unfairness of this blame should  be the feeling and outlook of the. peoples allowed to detract one bit from the re- that surround vietnam. sponsibility of the administration to heaven ks. it is going to take a meet the obligations itand it alone- long time for. any kind of elections with has. and that is to get the south viet- great meaning to take place. for any kind namese to do this job without which all of selfparticipation on a local level in our efforts and purpose. it is suggested vietnam. some strides have been made quite correctly by the senator from even so. i hasten to add. but excepting wyoming. can be fulfilled. that. we ought to remember in our own that is the purpose of my boring in experienceand i trust that we keep this on this point. do  talk about whether in mind -around the worldthat it may the blame is unfairly placed or whether be that our particular form of governit is right or wrong to try to do this. ment is  the best for those people. talk about whether one is succeeding we have to quit trying to have ameriin the job. that is the thing i wanted to can aspirations for people of different discuss in my remarks today. lands. however. there are fundamental
then. i think. the question of deciding what is the best way to proceed is one for consideration by the highest councils. i am  attempting to dictate policy as to the daytoday operations. we can. however. for the longer period. decide broad policy and at least participate equally in the making of broad policy. which must be on a cooperative basis. of course. i am  trying. as i have said. to run the war. which a committee can do. but as one american and as one senator. i am longer prepared indefinitely to support our government in the dilemma. in which it appears to find itself. in the opinion of some in our governmentand i have seen official statements to that effectnamely that there is hing we can do about this or that failure of the south vietnamese government. because we are too deeply involved to withdraw. that might be fine if it meant hing more than spending money indefinitely. but i will  see american boys killedindefinitely if the south vietnamese will  correct their operations in what is becoming a hopeless cause in the end. we must make the south vietnamese government realize this. we must cause them to discard the happy feeling which they apparently are indulging in that they can do anything they please. for. example. in regard to tolerating corruption or even participating in it. in regard to letting the american army carry the military burden. both in pacification and also in large unit fighting. and in a kind of money making for a favored few. which is disgusting. as the senator ks.
this. i think. represents the kind of way in which the administration has been ducking responsibility for failure by asking every critic: "what would you do." i am  the president of the united states.  is the senator.  is the senate. the operation of this policy is the job of the president. when one asks a taxicab driver to drive him from here to the station. he does  take the wheel and drive for the taxicab driver. one tells the driver what he wants done and the objective. and it is the drivers job to get you there. in broad policy we are in agreement. the president wants this war ended and the objective accomplished. it has  been accomplished and he is the president. this adds up to responsibility which can be ducked by asking. "what would you do." i would get this job done my making the south vietnamese reform itself and  by asking it to. as the senator suggests this administration has done. we are getting the blame all over th( world for the conduct of the vietnamese war. we had better see that what we are being blamed for is what we actually deserve.
 and congress. this is important in tranquil times. it is essential in times of stress like the present. yet. in somber fact. the johnson administrations handling of the war in vietnam since 1964 has produced a crisis of confidence. the basis anxiety of americans. in and out of congress. by means rests solely on the rising casualty lists or the increased money cost of the war or its diversion of resources and energy from urgent domestic needscritical as these are. the peoples anxiety. and that of congress. too. springs perhaps in greatest part from a growing conviction that the administration is  telling them the truth. i have pointed out before that the administrations continuing assurances of progress in vietnam simply do  square with the cold fact that toward our basic objectivethat of creating an independent selfgoverning society supported by its citizensthere has been significant progress at all. this week. for example. u.s. news & world report. in a wellbalanced appraisal of the vietnam war. points up the continuing failure of the south vietnamese to do the job only they can doto bring security to the countryside. the writer concludes that "unless there are major changes in the way things are goingparticularly. changes in the south vietnamese armythe united states will continue to be dragged steadily into a long. frustrating job of occupation." i ask unanimous consent that the article. entitled "a fresh look at the vietnam war." be printed at the conclusion of my remarks.
recently. the clash between administration words and deeds has enveloped the bombing issue. on august 25. secretary mcnamara. in stating the case for a policy of limited bombing of th vietnam. argued persuasively that attacks on the ports of th vietnam "would  be an effective means of stopping the infiltration of supplies into south vietnam." we were assured. moreover. that the secretary was speaking for the president in this regardi was involved in this colloquy myselfboth by the white house and the majority leader of the senate. shortly thereafter. however. heavy attacks were launched against targets in two of th vietnams three major ports. has secretary mcnamara been overruled by the president. it may  be so. but it looks that way. an alternative assumption is even more omisthat the president. whatever his own attitude toward the need for restraint. is indulging the proponents of a "military solution" in vietnam for political reasons. today i wish to call attention to aher example of what one prominent correspondent has called the johnson administrations "operation behind a false front." this concerns the interpretation given by the president and his advisers to the joint resolution passed by the congress on august 7. 1964the socalled tonkin gulf resolution. that resolution. it will be recalled. was presented to congress by the president in an atmosphere of emergency. american naval vessels. we were told. had been attacked off th vietnam. and the president had ordered a retaliatory raid against "gunboats and supporting facilities used in these hostile operations." thereforesaid the presidenti have concluded that i should  ask the congress. on its part. to join in affirming the national determination that all such attacks will be met. and that the united states will continue in its basic policy of assisting the free nations of the area to defend their freedom.
the resolution that we then adopted. with only two dissenting votes in the senate and e in the house. stated: congress approves and supports the determination of the president. as commanderinchief. to take all necessary measures to repel any armed attack against the forces of the united states and to prevent further aggression. it further stated that the united states is "prepared. as the president determines. to take all necessary steps. including the use of armed force. to assist any member or protocol state of the southeast asia collective defense treaty requesting assistance in defense of its freedom." the members of congress knew the wording of the resolution. they knew that the naked words could be construed to give the president almost complete sanction to involve the united states militarily in anything he considered necessary to the national interest in southeast asia. that. however. was  the nations understanding of administration intentions in the summer of 1964. to the contrary. it was the understanding of congress and of the public that it was our basic policy to "assist" south vietnam and that. as the president put it in september. he was  about to send american boys to fight a war that asian boys should fight for themselves. the members of congress were. in fact. given specific assurance that the tonkin gulf resolution was  intended to grant the unlimited sanction which. stretched to their ultimate. the words could be taken to convey. they had specific assurance on this point from senator fulbright. chairman of the committee on foreign relations. who persuaded senator nelson  to offer an amendment to bar "extension of the present conflict." such a proviso was unnecessary. senator fuleright told us. because the objective sought was an "accurate reflection of what i believe is the presidents policy." senator fulbright was then kn to be a confidant of the president. and the authority of his words was unchallenged. and if senator fulbright had asserted. to the contrary. that congress was being asked to approve a fundamental change in our role in vietnam. the administration "would have repudiated him out of hand." as senator nelson stated the other day on the floor of the senate. there was. moreover. the presidents own suggestion that the expression of support he sought from congress was limited in time. less than in scope. for this is how he concluded his message of august 5. 1964: the events of this week would in any event made the passage of a congressional resolution essential. but there is an additional reason for doing so at a time when we are entering on three months of political campaigning. hostile nations must understand that in such a period the united states will continue to protect its national interests. and that in these matters there is division among us. those 3 months have stretched into 3 years. yet we still find the president relying upon the literal words of the tonkin gulf resolution to justify every action he has taken in vietnamactions that have raised the number of americans engaged from a few thousand to more than onehalf million. have initiated and expanded the bombing of th vietnam. and have turned this into a largely american war with end in sight. only recently. on august 18. the president told his news conference: i believe that every congressman and most of the senators knew what that resolution said. that resolution authorized the presidentand expressed the congress willingness to go along with the presidentto do whatever was necessary to deter aggression.
i think that congress must be seized of the issue at all times and continuously. i agree with the senator that the president. taunting us in this fashion. has increased the obligation of congress to come up with constructive alternative solutions. but it is clear that congress can run the war and. if the president can run it. ody can take the place of congress except aher president.
. i have indicated many times i do  favor pulling out of vietnam. i favor winning the war in south vietnam. i think that is the only sound way to do it. i have been critical about the methods applied here in seeking to meet this problem. however. i oppose pulling out. i am sure the senator did  mean to give any such implication.
i do  have to agree that this is so. because i did  say it in the first place. i do say. and i repeat. that the president has misused the tonkin gulf resolution. i saidand made it clear in the development of the pointthat he has done it by relying on the exact language of the resolution. rather than upon the spirit in which we moved together in a particular emergency. the president. of course. has the power which he has under the constitution. it can be added to and it can be taken away from him by congress. so the exact language of the resolution is  something which can grant or take away power from the president. this should be clear to every member of congress and to the people of this country. what we were doing when we adopted the resolution was showing unity at a time of emergency. this was the purpose of the resolution. when the senator from wisconsin expressed concernas others did at that timeabout the breadth of the language of the resolution. he was reassured specifically. by the senator from arkansas . the chairman of the committee on foreign relations. who stood right here. that it was  meant to extend the present conflict. so it was  necessary for the senator from wisconsin to propose an amendment to the effect that he had in mind. this was expected by everybody. we all knew the language. of course. and what it could be taken to mean if interpreted literally. we all understoodexcept two of us. at leastthat we were  adopting a resolution giving specific authority or authorization to the president. we were just agreeing in general with the course which he had in mind in the immediate emergency. that was the purpose of the resolution. my reason for bringing this matter up  is  to attack the adoption of the resolution.  to talk at all about the conduct of the war. but to say that for the president to say that our adoption of the resolution 3 years ago forecloses us from questioning the way in which the war is being conducted . or its extent. is a misuse of that resolution. because he relies on the exact language. that is my point. if this be giving aid and comfort to the enemy. in the judgment of the senator from louisiana. the senator from new jersey completely disagrees. if this country. this great democracy. can stand discussion of great issues in time of war or in time of peace without fear that it is giving aid and comfort to the enemy. then we have come to a pretty pass. i would say that to adopt the view of the senator from louisiana about refraining from discussion of this sort with respect to the resolution would leave the president untrammeled and unchecked. man is entitled or should be entitled to that kind of untrammeled. uncriticized power. so long as i am able to use the english language. i will raise my voice whenever in my judgmentit will always be a responsible judgment. at least in intentthe president is taking action that is unwise or wrong. if this be wrong in time of war. then i believe we have come to a pretty pass. it is  a question of disagreement with basic objectives. i agree with the basic objectives. i want to see them achieved. but for anybody to say that suggesting the way the president is going about accomplishing them is the wrong wayat least in partis treasos. is misusing words.
. is a false issue. i want to win the war in the south. and by win the war i mean bring about the creation of a south vietnamese nation whose citizens support their government and the society in which they live. a government which is capable of giving south vietnam protection against outside aggression and leadership internally in those reforms which are essential to bring that nation.into the modern world. this. as i have said before. is a job which only the south vietnamese can do. our governments failure in south vietnam is that we have attempted to do this ourselves with american manpower and american material resources and have failed to get the south vietnamese to do the job themselves. despite continuing administration claims of progress. impartial observers continue to report that progress is minimal. if it exists at all. with respect to the pacification program. to the efforts to improve the south vietnamese armed forces. and. indeed. to the conduct of the purely military side of the war itself. it seems to me time that someone pointed out the extraordinary fact that almost without exception the firstrate press reports from south vietnam give. and have given. a gloomy picture in direct opposition to the rosy reports by military and civilian agencies of our government. the more i look into the matter. the more i become convinced that our reporters are right. and that their view of reality is far closer to the truth than the official version. the administration. it seems clear. has been unwilling to look at the facts and the realities. it has  encouraged the public or the congress to do this either. but we can never hope to make progress in south vietnam unless we are willing to face reality and to deal with things as they are.  as we would wish them to be.
. i think the senator is performing a distinctly important and necessary public service. i join with him wholeheartedly in the call for justification by the administration to this body. to the congress of the united states. and the people before any major increase in american force in south vietnam is decided upon. i think we must insist upon that. unless congress takes the responsibility of insisting it be advised of the reason. the justification. and the hopes of this administration we should refuse to go along. i say this because it has been increasingly made apparent to me. at least. and i think to all of us in this body. and to all the american people that there are unexplainable discrepancies between reports that have come back to us from disinterested observers by the score. of the press. magazines. and all media of information who have observed what has been going on in south vietnam for a long time. and the official optimistic reports that have come to us from the administration. the department of defense. and the department of state. i think we can any longer evade the responsibility of a share in the decision as to whether we are to continue in the present way. for it is  a question as to whether or  the war is winnable without the destruction of south vietnam and much of american might itself. we must insist that the administration justify any conclusion. that the commitment of additional american forces will  be selfdefeating and the cause of possibly great disaster. i commend the senator and i join with him.
i. too. commend the senator and. in my case. join with him at least as far as he has reached his own determination in opposition to the antiballistic missile system. both the large system which is  being immediately projected and the socalled thin system. it seems to me the senator has pointed out many things that needed to be said. and he has correctly posed the issue as this: will what is proposed add to or lessen the security of the united states. will it increase or decrease the possible destruction of human life. in this connection i would put to the senator a specific argument by. i think. the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff in some testimony i have read or heard. to the general effect that an antiballistic missile system might save the lives of some 30 million to 60 million americans. and would it  be worth putting into effect for that reason. even if hundreds of millions of people were killed. this is  a precise statement of the argument. but it is the substance of it. there is. i k. in the senators mind. a very specific answer to this argument. he has answered it already. in fact. in the way he has made his statement. but i wonder if he would comment on that specific point.
is it  the senators understanding. as it is mine. that the top scientific advisers to the executive department for the last several administrations have unanimously agreed in advising against the deployment of either a full or a light antiballistic missile system.
 has again appealed to the soviet union to join the united states in further arms control agreements. perhaps what we can reasonably hope might be accomplished in this direction may  be much. in the light of present tensions. but surely it is within our capacity to refrain from actions that can only have the effect of increasing tensions and military expenditures on both sides. with gain in security for any of us.
this is an extremely important point. and i think it deserves discussion. the feeling that has been advanced. and that some of us share. as to the particular importance upon the attitude of the soviet union of our appearing to intend to deploy what would. of course. be a defensive weapon. is this: the important thing in this confrontation with intercontinental ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons is the second strike capacity. as long as each of usand i believe this is a facthas the capacity to retaliate against a first strike. and to retaliate in a fashion which is unacceptable to the other side. i think we have the basis for the continuation of the uneasy peace which we have so far enjoyed. if that word can properly be used. but if that ability to retaliate with unacceptable force is destroyedand that might be the effect of a really effective antiballistic missile systemthen the basis for-
first. may i ask some of our colleagues who are versed in these matters. particularly in a scientific way. this question. i was always under the impression that this business of radars and computers in some mystical waythat is. mystical to mepermitted the tracking of an oncoming offensive missile and then the setting by mathematical calculation of the defensive missilestrajectory or whatever you call itin such a fashion that. matter where one was coming. the targeting of the defensive missile was done after the offensive missile had been observed. . i understand i am incorrect in this and that the computers do  take the data from the oncoming offensive missile and then plot a course for the defensive missile. but. rather. that the system is in substance this: that there are a number of preplanned defensive missile paths and that all the radar and the computer together do is to select from these-
i want to be sure about that. because it is my understanding that we do  have an absolute ability with our radars and computers to pick up a target for a defensive missile wherever the offensive missile is coming in. but. rather. all the system can do is pick one of a limited number of preplanned defensive missile paths for our defensive missile. and if the chosen path does  lead to the offensive missile the system does  work. am i correct in this.
. i join my colleagues in expressing my appreciation for the fine talk which the senator from maryland has just made. those of us on this side of the capitol who have been expressing our concern about this specific matter for many months  welcome the addition of someone who brings the same viewpoint. and great strength to it. as a new member of this body. he has expressed with clarity the position which all of us feel. his statement. as the chairman of our committee on foreign relations has said. was an excellent summary of the position that we believe is bringing matters more and more to the point that the burden of proof of the necessity of such a system is  upon its proponents. the burden. if it ever was on those who oppose it. has certainly shifted. and i think we are correct in calling upon its advocates. whether it be the administration. if that should be its position. or those in this body who have taken that viewpoint in the past. to demonstrate clearly. and with the burden of proof on their side.  only that this step is necessary. but also that it is  positively harmful. as the senator has so well suggested. i think. in this connection. it is proper to point out that we have all heard suggestions that the point of view from which the argument for a socalled light system is advanced is  going to be shifted from the defense of our cities to the defense of our missile bases. if that is so. it invalidates much of what. even at the time. some of us thought was ineffective. and an inadequate reason for this action. when expressed and advanced last year. i again express my appreciation to our colleague from maryland.
 eisenhower had a kind of intuitive sense of what was necessary in the gravest matters that put him uniquely into a position of world leadership as well as. of course. the leadership of our country. he articulated and made it acceptable to the people of this country and. i think. of the world. too. that atomic war could longer be tolerated. that confrontation between the great powers in the direct sense would longer be possible. that that sort of war unthinkable. he sensed this. and he made it stick. it is  accepted doctrine. and men have found that they can live in such a world. we will always be blessed with the guidance which he gave us on that issue which. i think. was the greatest contribution any man could possibly have given any nation or the world. it is for this intuitive understanding of what human respect required and his ability to make that understanding common property that i think he will go down in history. we are lucky in our time to have found the leader that our time required.
. when th secretary of state appeared before thi committee on foreign relations last month and was questioned about the wis- r dom of deploying an abm system at this c time. i observed that "our biggest con- c cern is with its effect on the escalation t of the arms race itself and bringing us r to a higher level of armaments on both a sides." the reason for this concern. i said to mr. rogers: we will then be much less able to negotiate effective arms limitations because at a higher and more sophisticated level of armaments on both sides we will be unable to be sure. without the kind of inspection that the russians will never permit. that they are abiding by their agreements. we who have opposed abm deployment at this time are less. concerned by the implications for arms control of aher impending developmentthe deployment of multiple independently targetable reentry vehicles. or mirvs. deployment of these multiple warheads may well be the "point of return" in the arms race. at which time we might be unable to trust to national inspection systems to verify compliance with a strategic arms freeze. and when i recently asked the secretary of defense how soon we might reach this "point of return." he replied:  in the too distant future. the urgency of this matter was underscored last week by the junior senator from massachusetts in a most lucid and forceful address to the american newspaper publishers association. i commend his analysis to the attention of all senators. i very much hope that his suggestion for a negotiated freeze  on further mirv air tests will be given the full and quick consideration by the administration that it deserves. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the address be printed in the record.
i think we have all been attempting to do that in our arguments but i should be glad to review briefly and in skeleton form the thrust of the argument. i think it is axiomatic that we. and i am sure the soviet union. would be unwilling to make any serious agreement limiting our strategic arms that was  subject to surveillance. each by the other side. at present the number of missiles deployed is so subject. with one weapon in each missile we k pretty much where we stand and we would continue this relative to the other. once we have independently targetable weapons. three to 10. or maybe more inside a single missile. the numbers of weapons are then longer subject to surveillance by external means. it is most unlikely. in our judgmentthose of us who feel strongly on this matterif  impossible. that an agreement on the limitation of weapons would be made then because it would  be subject then to inspection and verification. it is about that simple. so long as the mirv is in the testing stage. tests can be monitored and they are being monitored. we k where we stand. if either side tests further. we shall k that by our external means of inspection and surveillance. it is about as simple as that. if we let these weapons get to the point where either side can deploy them without further testing. we shall be in danger of  being able to make an arms limitation agreement.
i thank the senator from maryland. i thank him  only for joining. us in general support of our objective. but also for the particular contribution he has just made in regard to this matter as an element in the escalation of the arms race. the arms race will go from level to level. ever higher in escalation. unless it is stopped by verifiable agreements. this matter is important further for two reasons: in itself as an escalation of the arms race and. most important. as an element. depending on how we deal with it. which will have perhaps crucial importance upon the possibility of securing verifiable arms reduction agreements. i thank the senator .
s hand in negotiations or make more or less likely a viable arms control agreement with the soviets. those questions are imponderable. i believe.  is the central issue a question as to whether there is something inherently right or wrong about seeking an active defense against ballistic missiles. we have spent $3 billion on that search in this decade. and i fully expect that we will spend as much or more over the next decade on abm research and development. for the need is as intractable as the problem is infinitely complex.  is the central issue the question of "national priorities." that concept has served and will continue to serve a useful purpose in focusing attention on the fact that we do  possess unlimited resources and must. therefore. give greater heed to how we use them. and if safeguard offered any real assurance of adding to the nations security. i would give it as much support as i must  deny it. the central issue is whether safeguard would do the job the administration says it must and can do. that job. as we all k. is to provide by the mid1970s sufficient assurance that a significant portion of our minuteman force would survive a soviet attack so that such attack would be tempting. such assurance. we have been told. would serve the imperative of deterrence. and without such assurance the credibility of our capacity to respond in kind to a devastating attack would be seriously eroded some years hence. the question before us is simply this: will safeguard do the job of deterring an attack on those 350 minuteman missiles in montana and th dakota. the evidence is overwhelming that the answer must be "" it is undisputed that all of the components to be usedthe radars to detect and track incoming warheads. the spartan and sprint missiles to be fired at them. and the computers to make all this possible within secondsall were designed for the quite different purpose of meeting a missile attack on our cities. this is understandable. for since the army was first given responsibility for ballistic missile defense back in the 1950s. it has concentrated its research efforts on area defense of cities or "soft targets."  on point defense of such "hard targets" as underground minuteman silos. and it was to the protection of cities that sentinel deployment was pointed. but when that was found to be undesirable by the new administrationand i agree with their decisionthe very same components of sentinel were repackaged as safeguard and assigned the job of hardpoint defense. the trouble with this is that a system which may be well designed to intercept a few warheads directed at a city turns out to be very poorly designed to intercept many warheads directed against a hardened minuteman field. the critically important missile site radar turns out to be far more vulnerable to destruction than the minuteman the system is asked to defend. and for that reason the most likely target of a first strike. so the radar itself must be defended by safeguards own spartan and sprint missiles. but these could easily be exhausted in defending the radar against the soviet version of our minutemanthe ssl. the radar would then almost certainly be destroyed. leaving the minuteman themselves defenseless against attack by that much larger soviet ss9 missiles. safeguard would be. quite simply. the wrong system in the wrong place at the wrong time. rather than engage in such needless waste. we should heed the advice of dr. wolfgang pasky. the eminent physicist who  heads the stanford linear accelerator center. here is the way he summarized the problem when he testified before the armed services committee on april 22: on reviewing the stated purposes of the modified sentinel system i conclude that the mission of defending the minuteman force is the only one which may become a valid and important motive in the future. however. the modified sentinel system which is a simple reconfiguration of components designed for city defense is  a reasonable engineering solution for this problem. a good technical solution for this purpose should involve smaller and less expensive missiles and larger numbers of simpler hardened radars.
. that is  a very good reason for going ahead with the cvan69 in advance of the study that we are proposing.. because one of the major questions to be answered concerns the cost effectiveness of attack carriers as bases for tactical airpower. if there is any reason to believe that there may be need for attack carriers 10 or 15 years hence. then to build a new one  could be an unpardonable extravagance. as concerned as i am to avoid unnecessary expenditures. however. i am more concerned about the foreign policy implications of continuing to deploy attack carriers around the world. in that connection. i requested of the secretary of the navy a report of each instance since the korean war in which one or more attack carriers were ordered to proceed to or maneuver in a given area for "show of force" or other foreign policy purpose short of armed combat. i informed the secretary of state of my request. and wrote him as follows: since the department of state bears primarily responsibility for the execution of foreign policy. i would assume that in each instance the decision to employ the carriers for such purpose originated in the department. it would be helpful to me. therefore. if you could furnish me with a concurrent report on the departments role in each such instance. secretary chafee furnished me with a classified list of about 50 such instances. when i protested the classification of what seemed to me to be information of security interest to anyone. the secretary very promptly provided me with an unclassified list from which eight instances of carrier use for foreign policy purposes had been removed. working with the same unclassified list. the state department furnished me yesterday with comments on its role in these instances of carrier usage. and i shall shortly ask that the entire unclassified report be placed in the record. along with the covering letter from assistant secretary of state macomber. first. however. i believe the senate will be interested in the following excerpt from secretary macombers letter: it is  the function of the department of state to make the decision to employ attack carriers. in some cases. the department recommended a show of force or requested evacuation of u.s. nationals and then approved the method proposed to carry out the task. but state did  direct the type of force to be used. however. the department participated in the development of the u.s. policies which these deployments supported. with that as background. i wish to briefly review the substance of the report. of the 42 instances of carrier usage cited by the navy. the state department could find record of its involvement in six. and could  document its involvement in aher seven.for example. the navy reported that from july to september of 1957: four attack carriers provided a u.s. presence and show of force to defend taiwan during chinese communist shelling of kinmen island. yet the state department reported record of any role in that deployment. two years later. according to the navy report. two attack carriers "provided presence and u.s. force in south china sea during laotian crisis." but "state department involvement can be documented." in 1961. there was aher laotian crisis. and from february to april three attack carriers "provided u.s. presence in south china sea and prepared to protect and support amphibious and airborne assault force." according to the navy. yet there is "record of states role in the deployment."  is the carriers freewheeling record confined to the far east. in april 1963. in the face of "increasing middle east tensions." two attack carriers "provided u.s. presence and show of force." presumably in the mediterranean. again there is "record of state role in this deployment." a different kind of relationship seems to exist with respect to "show of flag" visits by carriers. in april of 1960. the bon homme richard provided a "u.s. show of flag to india"-that is a great expression. is it .-in what the navy described as "first carrier to visit since world war ii." according to the state department. its role "can be documented. however. most visits of this kind are proposed by dod and coordinated by state. port clearance obtained through embassy." the state department has  always been in a subsidiary role so far as the use of attack carriers for foreign policy purposes is concerned. in april 1957. two carriers "provided show of force and presence" during the jordan crisis. in this case. the state department reported that "show of force in support of king hussein was agreed to by secretary of state." whether the "show of force" was proposed by king hussein. the navy or the american embassy in amman is  clear. what is most striking about these 42 instances of attack carrier usage. however. is that in the vast majority of cases the mission could have been accomplished by other means--whether by smaller vessels or landbased aircraft. in most cases. the attack carriers were assigned to the mission simply because they were in the vicinity. that is  to their discredit. of course. but it does raise serious questions as to the need for and the propriety of using attack carriers for such purposes in the years ahead. at this point. i ask unanimous consent that copies of my letters to secretary chaffee and secretary rogers. and of secretary macombers letter to me be printed in the record. along with the unclassified report prepared by the navy and state departments. entitled "summary of attack carrier support of u.s. foreign policy since the korean war."
. the senator from kentucky is one of the brighest stars that has entered this firnament in my time here. i  only cherish our personal relationship. but i have great admiration for his enthusiasm. and almost always for his substantive position. i am  sure i disagree  with the propositions the senator has put forward. the point is  that wethe senator from minnesota and iare deciding we want only nine carriers. or 10 carriers. or carriers. or 15 or 16 carriers. we just say this body. after study. ought to determine these questions. and that study has  been made. of course i agree with the statement that the fact that neither the russians  any other power has any attack carrier force is  a reason necessarily why we should  have one if our responsibilities. as determined after deliberate thought by this body and the executive branch. require or suggest that that kind of military weapon is useful for us. it may be that we are the only ones who need it and that we should have it. what the senator from minnesota and i are saying and urging as strongly as we can is that we ought to take a look at these questions and  just assume that we need them and go ahead. of course. we want the best and the most modern weapons. i agree with that. the question is: for what purpose and how large.
the presidents action today in rencing biological warfare. limiting first use of chemical weapons. and ordering steps toward the disposal of existing bacteriological stocks. is a potentially farreaching decision. less than nuclear armaments. the proliferation of chemical and biological weapons has represented a grave threat to world security. together with yesterdays joint approval of the nuclear proliferation treaty by this country and the soviet union. todays declaration by president nixon represents an initiative which could bring the world closer to the real security of genuine arms control. such initiatives are critical if we are to break through the mutual distrust and suspicion which otherwise will stalemate the strategic arms limitations talks just begun in helsinki.
. i thank the senator from florida. and i am very happy indeed. jointly with the senator from maryland . to have cosponsored a declaration in support of peace in the middle east. sixtyfour other senators have joined us in placing their names on this bipartisan declaration. i joined in sponsoring this declaration because the situation in the middle east is a major concern for all of us. for the wellbeing of the peoples of that area and for the peace of the world. the middle east must be at peace. this peace. i believe. should be arrived at by negotiations between the parties and should be binding on all concerned. neither side should believe itself threatened by the other. neither side should threaten the other. in this latter regard. we have expressed the view. in our declaration. that israel must  be left defenseless. this. we have said. would  be in the interests of the united states or in the interests of world peace. peace in the middle east must be our aim as well as our desire. only when war is ended can the peoples of the middle east pursue their social and ecoic betterment. before i ask that the declaration be printed in the record. perhaps the senator from maryland would like to make a brief statement.
. the subject of our strategic defense. including the controversy over the antiballistic missile. is a truly vital subject. vital because it concerns the preservation of our national security. we must  leave undone anything essential to our security. we must  squander money when it is  necessary for our security. this is a matter above individual whim. above the interest of any particular group. above partisanship of any kind. i agree with those who hold that building an abm area defense system against china is unsupportable in foreign policy terms and in light of the facts about the safeguard system. quite contrary to the proposition that its deployment would be helpful in context of the strategic arms limitation talks with the soviet union. i suggest that it would be escalatory and likely harmful to these talks. these matters i shall devote more time to very soon. furthermore. it would in truth damage the credibility of our asian deterrent.  enhance that deterrent. as has been claimed. the secretary of defense has told us that the chinese might have nucleartipped strategic missiles in 1975. but as he also conceded. our civilian population would  be protected against the chinese from the safeguard abm until the entire 12site system were deployed. this would be many years after 1975. so the safeguard defense of our civilian population. which we are told is necessary for a credible asian policy. will  exist during a lengthy period when the chinese have strategic missiles. this would. by the administrations definition. render our asian policy "uncredible." the fact is that with china. as with any other nuclear power. what makes our foreign policy credible is our large strategic missile deterrent. this is fortunate because expert testimony has shown that the workability of the safeguard abm is open to the gravest doubts. so far as protection against the soviet union goes. it is  clear that those who opposed safeguard last year were right. secretary laird conceded this when he said that continued ss9 deployment could present our country with a threat "much too large to be handled by the level of defense envisioned in the safeguard system without substantial improvement and modification." i am reassured that the secretary has come to agree what we told him last spring: that safeguard would  protect our deterrent and that if we are to protect our strategic missile force. we must seek new hardware and new techniques of using it. but even here there is a contradiction in the administrations position. for although the administration this year speaks primarily of safeguards importance in protecting our strategic missiles. four out of the five additional sites on which "long leadtime advanced preparation work" would be undertaken in phase ii of safeguard can only be understood in terms of area defense. like a cat chasing its tail. we are back at area defense against the chinese. safeguard is being justified to the american people  by sound reasoning but by sleight of hand. there is a safeguard rationale to fit every occasion. it seems. but  increased security for the united states.
. i associate myself completely with everything that has been said before on this resolution. it has been a great satisfaction to have had a part in this whole exercise. as the senator from massachusetts ks. both he and i were very much interested in the possibility of a halt to mirv testing. realizing. as we were advised by all the good scientific expertise in this country. that once mirv had been tested to the point where it was deployable. it would be most difficult. if  impossible. to put a limitation on this proliferation of strategic weapons. because it would be very difficult to tell whether in a particular nuclear weapon there was one. two. three. four. five. or 10 warheads merely by the process of examination or inspection from the outside. we all realize the difficulty. if  the impossibility. of any ontheground inspection insofar as the soviet union is concerned. and perhaps even as far as we are concerned. so. we both attempted to get an expression of the opinion of the senate on the importance of suspension. and the senator from massachusetts did this in a way which indicates  only his great dedication to the cause of peace. but also his political sagacity. he put it in the form of his resolution. my own suggestion was a slightly different one. calling for an immediate stoppage on our part and the keeping up of the suspension on testing so long as the russians did the same. the senator from massachusetts realized that my approach. regardless of the merits relative to his. was perhaps more susceptible to the chargealthough. i think equally unfoundedof unilateral disarmament. and realizing how important it is to people in the political worldand we are all in the political worldto avoid that. he was able to get almost a majority of the members of the senate. including. of course. the senator from new jersey. to support his resolution. so. we came to hearings before the foreign relations committee under the guidance of our chairman and with the full cooperation of members of the senate on both sides of the aisle. we had hearings on this resolution. considered it carefully. and. as the senator ks. on the motion of the senator from kentucky broadened it to include a moratorium on the deployment of all strategic weapons. both offensive and defensive. pending the conclusion of the salt talks. i was glad to support this change. and i k that the senator from massachusetts was also. especially since our action in wayas our committee report showsintended to diminish or downgrade the importance of a cessation of the testing of mirvs. because it still seems possible that we can ask for such a suspension safely and that its significance is still as great as when we first proposed it. this is very much a part of the sense of the committee on foreign relations and all of us on the floor that supported it. i want to emphasize again that the committee on foreign relations acted unanimously in this matter.
the only chance we have in the salt talks is to define something that we both accept as in our interest. as was the case in the proliferation treaty. for example. neither side gave up anything then. we just recognized that it was in the interests of both sides that this arrangement should be made and recognized. and that is what we are seeking herethe maintenance of a situation. of course. our present resolution deals only with the discussion period. and is  in any way an attempt to lay out the definitive agreement. though i would assume that it will very much follow this pattern. if it is to be successful. but we will achieve success here only if the russians agree and understand that it is in their interest to do what we are proposing. otherwise promise. concession. or anything else on our part will have one bit of effect upon the russians. . indeed. will any concession that they might make induce us to give up anything we think is essential for our interest. i have great respect for kenneth crawford. he is a great personal friend. and he provides. i think. an astringent antidote to many of the fuzzy and softheaded discussions and proposals that are from time to time advanced. here i think that i must disagree with him. if he is thinking about this resolutionand i do  k that he is.
i want to thank the senator for his contribution today and during the committees discussion of this resolution by his proposal of the amendmentwhich the committee adopted unanimouslybroadening the scope of the original resolution to include all strategic nuclear weapons. both offensive and defensive. he has very clearly summarized the objective which we seek by this resolution. and he has. with customary generosity. given credit to everyone else. as a matter of fact. there is plenty of credit to go around. if this thing works. e of us is really seeking credit. we are simply seeking survival for ourselves. for our country. and for our progeny. as far as that goes. the senator is quite correct in emphasizing the importance of these negotiations. there is hing more important going on in the world than the discussions about the limitation. and all of us hope eventually the reduction. of strategic nuclear weapons. this is in the spirit of the proliferation treaty. which was a specific agreement on the part of the soviets and ourselves. and in which all parties. of course. concurred. that we would seek these limitations. what we are really saying is. will the president please  just talk about a reduction. but reduce the number of strategic weapons. and halt further deployment at the point. at which we have  arrived. of rough parity. this is the point. of course. which makes possible an agreement between the russians and ourselves. and it is undoubtedly the recognition that this point has been reached that is the reason why both countries are willing to sit down and discuss the limitation treaty. what we urge is that this halt be continued during the discussions. and  lost in the inevitable delays. which may well be unavoidable. i look forward to further discussion of this matter with the senator from kentucky next week. and with anyone else who will join. and it is my hope. and i think  we see some prospect. that there will be unanimous action by this body on the resolution. if that is so. the share of the senator from kentucky will have been of emous importance.
. i would like to add this observation. we shall be dealing in this body at considerable length somewhat later in this session on the justifications offered by the administration and the department of defense for the expansion of the safeguard antiballisticmissile system. of course. the major justifications were three: the defense of our missile sites. protection against the socalled chinese threat. and protection against stray or accidental missiles which might be fired and which might have devastating effect in a particular locality. many questions will be presented as to the effectiveness of the safeguard system from the standpoint of its techogy. i have  attempted to go into these questions in this talk. since such technical issues must be gone into at length at the proper time. but at this time i did want to bring out into the open and express my own belief that any further justificationapart from the technical question. apart from the question of the necessity of safeguard as a weapons systemdoes  have a sound basis in fact. and. in fact. would be counterproductive. namely. the argument that we need it as a bargaining counter for the salt talks in vienna. i think this argument is wholly without a sound basis. and even to urge it could present an added difficulty to the success of the salt negotiations
i want to address myself briefly to the matter raised by the senator from colorado and to express my agreement with him in the proposed legislation and in his concern for the prisoners of war who. with their families. suffer. it seems to me. the most bitter burden of this whole conflict. his efforts and the efforts of the senator. from kansas are something that this country and all of us must be grateful for. because we really can do hing to be helpful here. except along the lines that both our colleagues have indicated.
 i asked him to do so only for the purpose of adding a little cumulative weight to what has been said already. those of us who do  believe that the pending amendment is the best way to proceed in the matter of helping prisoners of war are very much concerned that our opposition to it should  in any way be misunderstood. as the senator from idaho and other colleagues who have just spoken have clearly indicated. our concern for these menand women. if there be anywho are in the hands of the enemy is in way diminished by the action that we expect to take in regard to this amendment. and we do  want anyone to misunderstand this. we shall continue as strongly as we can in all the various ways that have been pursued. and in others. too. if they can be found. to ameliorate this situation and to bring. if it is possible in any way to do it. the force of world opinion to bear upon the th vietnamese and upon the people who are holding americans as prisoners of war in circumstances that are  tolerable. i commend my colleague for having raised this issue. and other senators as well.
. an article written by orr kelly and published in the washington star of july 6. 1970. quoted air force officials as stating that a new method has been found of providing protection for our minuteman silos. as a byproduct of the air force "hard rock" research program. according to the news report. it was found that additional concrete could be poured around missile silos in such a way that the resistance of these silos against attack could be increased by a factor of 10. in fact. air force officials were quoted as predicting that this technique would produce "substantially the same results" as the previous plan for boring silos in solid rock. this discovery could represent a farreaching breakthrough and could. as the writer of the article suggests. provide a relatively inexpensive alternative to safeguard abm as protection for our landbased nuclear deterrent against surprise attack. i ask unanimous consent that mr. kellys article entitled "new protection found for minuteman silos." be printed in the record.
. americans have prided themselves on their magnanimity to others. on their sense of fairplay. and. above all. on their sense of common decency. these virtues are real only as they are practiced. like muscles. they atrophy without exercise. like muscles. they show their real strength when challenged. the reality of our possession of these virtues has most lately been challenged by the six letters of a remote islandcon son. magnanimity. fairplay. decency. all dictate that the evils of this prison. and of other vietnamese prisons. be eliminated. so long as the united states is in vietnam. it shares the guilt for the existence of such conditions. there are excuses. we can claim igance. we can claim lack of responsibility. we can. in good conscience. claim that tiger cages are acceptable in south vietnam because they may exist in the th. our virtues are  relative. we practice them or we dont have them. i am shocked that anyone could even consider  reporting the conditions at con son prison to the american people. our people need to k the facts so that they can be changed. americans will be weak when they can face the truth. americans will be evil when. king the truth. they do  act on it. beyond these most basic considerations. there are others. the brutal treatment of th vietnamese prisoners of war at con so anywhere elseendangers allied pows in the th. can we honestly plead for better treatment of american prisoners in the th when tiger cages exist in the south. can we really expect ha to supply the names of american prisoners when on con son prisoners are lost to humanity in tiger cages. u.s. policy toward prisoners of war in south vietnam has long been misguided. we have disclaimed responsibility for prisoners of war because we hold e. having turned them over to the south vietnamese. this policy must be changed. for these prisoners are our responsibility. and do americans accept the ugly equation of con son: that tiger cages equal "selfdetermination". are we to believe that the political prisoners at con son. in the tiger cages. represent the liberty for south vietnamese that american men are dying for in vietnam. are the american people asked to support a war to preserve freedom. or to end it. man is an island. the bells on con son island toll for all of us. the tiger cages. we are told. were built by the french when south vietnam was their colony. thus are the present saigon regime and the united states linked to an imperialism we had told ourselves had disappeared into the past. yet. does  con son make us the new imperialists. can any prisoner come out of con sonif. indeed. he survives to come outwithout hating those who put him there. without hating americans who preach liberty but permit tiger cages. man. nation. is an island. as americans we can simply call for an investigation. we can be content with the sequence of bunker to thieu to oblivion. the con sons of vietnam must be eliminated. as decent human beings. as americans. as members of the government of the united states. we must see that this is done. to fail to act would be to deny liberty and decency. it would be to deny ourselves.
 eisenhower. herbert scoville. jr.. former deputy director for research. cia. and former assistant director for science and techogy. arms control and disarmament agency. even from our own military establishment comes highly significant testimony. secretary of defense laird at the hearings before the senate armed services committee on february 20 of this year said: to be perfectly candid. . it must be recognized that the threat could actually turn out to be considerably larger than the safeguard defense is designed to handle. that is one reason we have decided to pursue several courses which should lead to less expensive options for the solution to this problem than expanding safeguard to meet the highest threat level. we have further decided. to- continue deployment of safeguard because the additional cost needed todefend a portilon of minuteman is small if the full area defense is bought. in other words. the cost of safeguard to -defend a portion of -minuteman is  justified unless it is designed to serve the other objectives. that is. chinese defense and accidental launch. which have already been abandoned. general betts. army chief of research and development. testified before the house appropriations committee on april 23 of this year: we -postulate that if the soviet chooses to put smaller reentry vehicles on its boosters. he can put moreand that means big numbersand in the process of making them smaller. he also makes them so they come into the atmosphere much faster and with a much smaller radar image. when you get to that kind of threat. then the safeguard is  the way to defend. assistant secretary of the army r. c. johnson stated at the same hearings: it (a defense specifically designed to protect the minuteman) would be less expensive than safeguard to defend the minuteman. further. the armys testimony before the -house appropriations committee indicates that to build an abm specifically designed for defense of minuteman would  involve the delays that have been claimed. dr. gilstein. army director of advanced ballistic missile defense. testified: i it (a defense specifically designed to protect the minuteman) is in operating condition in various facilities. the data processors exist. the software for the processors is being written. the processes are starting to .be demonstrated. the techogy for much of the radars. the phased array antennas. the crossfield antenna tubes. modulators. and so on. also exist as components. they exist in full .scale right and have been demonstrated. an integrated radar has  been made. the matter was summed up by prof. sidney drell.. deputy director of the stanford university linear accelerator center. before the subcommittee on arms control of the senate foreign relations committee in june of this year: all analyses of which i am aware make it clear that if defense of minuteman is the principal or sole mission of safeguard. its further deployment can be justified (italics in original).
when president eisenhower negotiated the agreement to keep the antarctic free of weapons of mass destruction he did  first introduce or even threaten to introduce such weapons into the antarctic waste. when president kennedy negotiated the nuclear test ban treaty he had preceded this discussion by a voluntary cessation of atmospheric tests. president johnson succeeded in negotiating the nuclear proliferation treaty and was  hindered in doing so but rather helped by the pastore resolution (s. res. 179). 89th congress. with which we are all so familiar. and which we passed by such an overwhelming vote in this body. this resolution made it clear in the light of its legislative history that the united states had intention of transferring nuclear weapons to any country. on the other hand. in the worlds most able effort to "negotiate from strength." the united states failed completely. we failed to gain acceptance of the baruch plan at a time when we had a mooly on nuclear weapons for over a year and were to maintain that mooly for 3 years more. the russian reaction was  to negotiate on the baruch plan. it was to press on with the development of their own nuclear weapons. and the same reaction by the united states occurred when russia launched sputnik and chairman khrushchev tried negotiation from strength. our reaction was to engage in a buildup of minutemen icbms. more than egh to overcome any real or imagined missile gap. and so it seems clear to me that the argument that we must deploy safeguard or endanger the success of salt fails utterly to withstand scrutiny. with it falls the last shred of justification for safeguards deployment. i urge the senate to oppose it. exhiimrr 1
 makes it clear to the country that a longer time is needed. the congress will surely grant it. and if the case can be justified before the people of america. then it will  warrant further loss of american life and further expenditure of our material resources. i am confident that the people can be trusted to make the right decision in this matter and i am confident that the congress can be counted on to reflect the peoples will. this is the way in which the great decisions of war and peace must be made in democratic america.
. the senator from new york has produced. on this occasion as on many other occasions. a most useful speech. if i may for just a moment digress to a personal observation. i have to say. as a member of this years th atlantic assembly and of its political committee. of which the senator from new york was chairman. that i was emously proud of the job that he did as head of that committee.  only in formal ways but in substantive ways. i can imagine anyone who could have created. from the somewhat negative material at hand. a more useful end product. his two resolutions demonstrated his wellkn ability to make bricks without straw. the senators two resolutions are useful and important. and his introduction of them required a keen kledge of important aspects of our alliance and our relations with the countries of western europe which some would prefer to forget. in regard to the position of the senator from montana. the majority leader. i think the senator from new york has rightly ed its importance. particularly at this time. i do  think anyone ought to have illusions about the extent to which america is going to act on the matter of troops in europe. the position of the senator from montana. represents the outer limit of what the broad range of american opinion will support in the way of carrying peoples who are r ot willing to do their fare share. it will be very unfortunate if the message from the senator from new york and the senator from montan- does  get through to the nato ministers at their meeting this week. since there is a clear limit beyond which the united states can or will  go in supporting people who will  support themselves. in a sense. the same principle is involved here as in south vietnam. i am most pleased that the senator in his speech has cut through the usual wall of rhetoric and has avoided the kinds of pious statements that they done so much to cloud thinking on this matter. he deserves emous credit for yet aher example of what a man of his ability can do in dealing with difficult situations. i again wish to say i am proud to have been associated with the senator from new york during his outstanding service.
s stated intention of winding .down the war and reducing american troop levels. we have made progress in this direction but we have  gone far egh. an annced timetable will require the saigon government to decide whether it can achieve military success on its own or whether it can work out a peaceful solution. the problem in vietnam is essentially a vietnamese one. and any final settlement will have to be found in terms of the relative strengths of the various indiges forces involved there. as long as american forces remain in vietnam the incentive for saigon to shape up or negotiate is very. slight. since its leaders realize all too well that american power keeps them secure. only when they understand that the americans will depart on a definite date. with ifs. ands. or buts about it. with residual forces left. will the south vietnamese face up to the job they alone can do. i feel very strongly that by mid1972 the united states will have done everything that can be done in direct military support of our saigon allies. in fact i think it is quite clear that in many ways we have already done too much and by our overhelpfulness we have prevented the south vietnamese from developing their own capacities. nevertheless we have given south vietnam a fighting chance for life. but. only when saigon faces a final deadline on u.s. military support. will it take those actions which are necessary for its survival. here i wish to emphasize again that. as my colleagues k. i have never been one who felt that the vietnam effort on the part of the united states was ab initio inherently evil. that our motives were  good motives. or that we were impelled by some unworthy imperialistic desire to rule the world. as everyone who is aware of my views ks. i have  felt we were doing anything but our best to try to maintain stability in that part of the world and. although we found it emously difficult. we nevertheless pressed on in the attempt. it was only 2 or 3 years ago. somewhere around 1967. that i came to realize that the effort we were making had become counterproductive. that we were doing more harm than good. and that more could be done. but rather harm would be done if we continued. so i came to the conclusion. and it is a matter of public record that we must disengage. i have  ever thought we should leave precipitately so as to. pull the rug out from under the people who have come to rely upon our aid. i would have been grossly unfair and unwise to do so. since the time i reached the conclusion we should disengage. i have advocated that a definite deadline be fixed and publicly annced. a matter that deeply concerns me and all americans is the fate of our prisoners in indochina. i have roundly condemned the lack of humanity in has treatment of these men and has failure to live up to the clearly defined rules of the geneva convention. yet. for the united states to declare that it will remain in vietnam until the prisoners are released gives ha the ability to keep us there indefinitely. to concede this veto power to ha is intolerable in terms of our own national interests. if we withdraw and ha does  return the prisoners. then we will do whatever we must do to get them back. this purpose will  be advanced. however. by our keeping indefinitely a residual force of some 50.000 men or any other amount in indochina. the distinguished senior senator from new york can be here this morning but he has previously made quite clear his views on the vietnam question. he is firmly committed to the idea of a deadline being set on american involvement in vietnam. and he has already gone on record as a cosponsor of the vietnam disengagement act. accordingly. at his request. i ask unanimous consent that the excellent remarks of the senator from new york
. i ask unanimous conwhich i have received in regard to dis- sent that excerpts from an address by cussion at a 7day conference sponsored hon. william c. foster. referred to in by the pentagons advanced research my statement. a washington post article projects agency at woods hole. mass.. commenting upon the woods hole conlast july indicate that our capacity to ference. and a u.s. arms control and distinguish between earthquakes and disarmament agency analysis of test nuclear explosions has improved tenfold ban negotiations through 1965 be printed since 1963. in the record. if in 1963 the united states considered there being objection. the items it could safely agree to a comprehensive were ordered to be printed in the record. test ban if we were allowed seven onsite as follows: inspections each year. would it  seem excerpt from an address by william c. selfevident that we could safely accept foster. former director. u.s. arms con the two or three onsite inspections trol and disarmament agency. fairleigh the u.s.s.r. was willing to allow in 1963. dickinson university. teaneck. n.j.. a highly competent authority in the february 26. 1971 field of nuclear disarmament. william moving to the final item in my outline i foster. formerly director of the arms would like to make a proposal which could disarmament agency. ex- be both psychologically and politically most control and iuseful. let me tell you what it is. pressed the view recently in a speech in i would recommend. as soon as possible. new jersey that with our improved ca- a comprehensive nuclear test bana total pacity to identify nuclear explosions by ban on all nuclear weapon tests. including means other than onsite inspections. it underground tests. would be feasible for us to accede to a this proposal of course is  by any means comprehensive test ban treaty providing new. in fact we have long been committed for onsite inspections at all. to work toward a comprehensive test ban by dor stpresme i n t ass j the language of two treaties which we have do  presume  to pass judg- ratified: the limited test ban treaty and ment on this question. but i believe that the proliferation treaty. but we seem egh has been brought to our atten- closer to the actual conclusion of a comtion to place upon us the responsibility plete test ban  than we were some years to make a thorough inquiry as to whether agoalthough some have predicted that it a comprehensive test ban treaty may  may become possible if there are positive be possible. results from the salt talks. accordingly. i shall ask the senator well my idea is that we should  wait from arkansas . chair- for that. first of all. because i believe a comprehensive ban on nuclear tests could be man of the foreign relations commit- a considerable stimulus to the salt talks. tee. and the senator from maine ( of the subcommittee show in a demonstrative way that we are  on arms control. schedule hearings on the just expert technicians but -that we are also matter. human beingsthat we have the wisdom. the "if scientists can detect the very smau moral courage and imagination to get off "fsinit a eettevr ml thimo cura and wim inaing to gtoff nuclear explosions. it would be a major step this moving train which is taking us  towards an agreement on a total nuclear test where but to oblivion. ban." muskie said. "such an agreement would be very opportune. since it would [from the washington post. apr. 11. 19711 provide a means for verifying that certain tiniest ablasts identifiable  types of qualitative improvements will  be (by thomas otoole and marilyn berger) made in nuclear weapons systems. it would such dramatic strides have been made in be a great boost to the pace and progress of detecting distant underground atomic ex- the salt talks and movement towards a plosions that scientists can  discriminate proliferation treaty." between earthquakes and the smallest nu- the united states has conducted 228 clear tests conducted either by the united atomic weapons tests underground in the states or the soviet union. eight years since the limited test ban these scientific gains are expected to have treaty was signed. most of them at the a sweeping impact on the diplomatic front nevada test site. the soviet union has had. and promise to remove one of the last ob- by the atomic energy commissions edited stacles to a ban on underground testing of count. 47 underground weapons test in the atomic weapons. that obstacle is u.s. insist- same period. ence on as many as seven inspections a year the question of a ban on underground of the two soviet test sites. and soviet refusal weapons testing first came up 10 years ago. to allow any inspections. when diplomats from the united states and "there is absolutely more need for on soviet union began the talks that led to the site inspections." one conservative u.s. arms ban on atmospheric testing. expert declared. any decision against an un- at the time. u.s. scientists could detect derground test ban from here on in is purely underground tests in the soviet union that political." were equivalent in earthquake force to 4.75 the improvements in explosion detection on -the richter scale. which is about the same  enable seismometers as far away as 4.000 as 20 kilotons (20.000 tons) of explosive miles to pick out weapons tests with less force energy. since many weapons tests are below than one kiloton. one kiloton (1.000 tons of 20 kilotons. the united states felt that ontnt) is onetwentieth the force of the bomb site inspections of soviet test sites were a dropped on hiroshima in 1945 and a thousand necessitv for an underground test ban to times smaller than the warhead ce the work. minuteman missile. the soviet union rejected the proposal for present capacity to detect tests of less than onsite inspections and has stayed with that one kiloton is better than a 20fold gain over position ever since. what scientists were able to do five years ago and covers just about every weapons test strt of payoff the united states and the soviet union have in the last 10 years. the united states has conducted since testing in the atmosphere spent more than $300 million on surveillance was banned by treaty in 1963. and detection research. and it is this work there have been tests of less than half a that has begun to pay off as far as detection kiloton. but these are believed to have been techogy goes. experimental explosions largely unrelated to "there hasnt been any spectacular breakweapons. through." one american scientist said. "just the gains in detection and the work that a lot of hard work and a steady flow of unled up to them were discussed last summer spectacular gains." in a meeting sponsored by the pentagons ad- scientists have long been able to pick up vanced research projects agency. the pro- the seismic disturbances of small underceedings of that meeting have been declassi- ground explosions. but below 20 kilotons cxvii---885part 11 they could never tell if their instruments had detected an atomic test or a natural earthquake. the reason was that most of the seismic waves generated by quakes and small explosions were remarkably similar. more sensitive seismometers. the use of seismometer arrays to mask out background earth se and learning to recognize certain long period surface motions triggered by underground explosions changed all that. "this was the key to the detection of small explosions." one scientist explained. "underground tests move the surface of the earth up and down in a different way than earthquakes do and the difference seems concentrated in surface motions of very long periods. motions that occur once every 20 seconds or so." in the last four years. seismometer arrays in way and in four states in the united states have been used to study the seismic motions of more than 400 earthquakes. many of them outside the united states and at least 20 inside the soviet union. at the same time. the seismometers studied more than 50 underground explosions at all five united states and soviet sites. the two in nevada. one at amchitka island in alaska. at semipalitinsk in siberia and aya zemlya island in the arctic ocean. "the surface waves are consistently different for underground explosions than for earthquakes for all of the events we studied." one scientist wrote in the woods hole report. "this difference or discriminant is nearly always more pronced for longperiod waves than for those of shorter periods." the scientists who conducted the studies say the only way to get around the new detection techogy would be to set off a very small atomic device that was buried several miles in desert sand. the trouble with that. they claim is that there are kn deserts whose dry sands go that deep.
. today i have joined in cosponsoring the schweikerhughes amendments to the draft bill currently before the senate. the first of these amendments will provide for a 1year extension of the draft. rather than the 2year term requested by the administration and recommended by the senate armed services committee. a 1year extension will require the congress to consider this issue iext year and to exercise the responsibility which we have to participate in this matter which so affects the lives and fortunes of all citizens. this period of extension will also enable the congress to have the benefit of 1 years experience with those inations contained in the bill that are designed to bring about an allvolunteer force before we are obliged again next year to decide whether the draft should be continued. the. most important of these inations is reflected in the second amendment which i am cosponsoring. this amendment will substitute the amount of the $2.7 billion pay increase as passed by the house for the approximately $1 billion recommended by the administration. as one who first called public attention to the spectacle of military families on welfare. i can do less. for 13 years. from 1952 through 1964. the basic pay of enlisted men with less than 2 years service remained unchanged. and since 1966 personnel in this category have only received acrosstheboard increases which served to maintain their -position of relative penury. under the terms of the amendment which i am supporting. 86 percent of the increase authorized will go to enlisted men and junior officers with less than 2 years service. thus lifting virtually all in this category from below the poverty level of income. if enacted. this pay increase. which will be close to the amount recommended by the gates commission as necessary to man a volunteer force. should also begin to test the assumption that increased compensation can in fact attract sufficient volunteers to man our armed forces. it goes without saying that if the draft is to be retained. it must be made more equitable. a number of other amendments for this purpose will be offered. and i. of course. will support those which advance this purpose.
 of the new jersey state cio council and eastern area director of the cio. he has also served with distinction in a number of state and federal posts. during wartime. he served as a member of the executive committee of the national war fund. on the enemy alien board. and national chairman of the cio war relief committee. it is a pleasure for me to join with his many friends in hoing such a distinguished citizen of new jersey.
. it is  an uncommon occurrence for scientific findings to be strongly resisted by government bureaucracies. especially when such findings conflict with entrenched interests or cause the government embarrassment. when such bureaucratic resistance is translated into overt manipulation or suppression of the frank opinion of scientists. however. it becomes an abuse of authority which can be tolerated. such i believe is the case with pentagon handling of recent scientific assessments of the technical advances which might enable an underground nuclear test ban without the requirement for onsite inspections. early this year i learned that a conference of this countrys leading seismologists sponsored by the defense department advanced research projects agency at woods hole. mass.. in july 1970. had presented evidence of a twentyfold gain in our capability to detect and identify underground nuclear explosions in the soviet union. specifically. advances in these techniques enabled identification of testing down to approximately 4.0 on the richter scale. which is the equivalent of a 1 or 2 kiloton explosionfor purposes of comparison the first indication that an underground test ban treaty might be entered into without the necessity for onsite inspections was of obvious importance and i began a series of efforts to have this woods hole report released. in april i finally received the body of the report. but the summary had been ripped out and the summary was the only portion of the report comprehensible to the layman. i was subsequently told that the pentagons advanced projects research agency. the conferences sponsor. had decided that it disagreed with this summary and was going to write its own version of what the scientists had had to say.  satisfied with simply releasing its statement in disagreement. however. arpa. on its own initiative. thereupon withdrew the scientists summary from publication and classified this previously unclassified product of an unclassified conference "for official use only." forced to rely on competent. uficial sources for an assessment. early in may i issued a statement incorporating an unedited evaluation of the significance of these scientific advances. i called for hearings on the prospects for a comprehensive nuclear test ban by the foreign relations arms control subcommittee on which i am the ranking republican. and senator muskie. its chairman. agreed to proceed with these hearings in midjuly. i would have been satisfied to leave this matter to be explored in detail at these hearings. but  it has come to my attention that arpa is explicitly representing its version of the summary as reflecting the judgment of the scientists who attended the conference. in a washington post article of june 13. an arpa representative. attempting to explain his agencys actions. stated that the original summary failed to reflect a "consensus" of the conference but instead represented the views of only one unnamed man. this i have confirmed to be simply  true. arpa apparently did  even bother to get in touch with the woods hole participants before issuing its own version of the proceedings. i am releasing today letters from six of the scientists who presented papers at this conference. these letters clearly rebut the assertion by the arpa spokesman that the original summary represented the views "of only one man." the letters clearly underscore the advances which have been made enabling our seismic identification of nuclear explosions in the soviet union down to the approximate level of very small blasts of from 1 to 2 kilotons. however. i would like to emphasize that this briefly summarized affair of manipulation and management of scientific findings has an importance far beyond its seemingly esoteric subject matter. because of the way in which the results of the woods hole conference have been handled. i am concerned that the u.s. representatives soon to meet with other members of the united nations conference on the committee on disarmament at geneva on june 30 might  be as forthcoming as they might be. serious as this incident is in itself. it has particular significance that the director of arpa will be one of the u.s. representatives at geneva. this conference was called at the behest of the canadian delegation to explore just those advances which i have described. the nuclear countries. some of which have been represented at geneva. have been pressing for an underground nuclear test ban ever since the limited test ban treaty was concluded in 1963. these nations in fact entered into nuclear proliferation treaty on the basis of a solemn promise by the nuclear powers to. among other things. bring about a ban on all nuclear testing. in the words of the preamble to the u.n. resolution of december 7. 1970. which pertains to the june 30 meeting in geneva and which the government of the united states agreed to. the united states and other u.n. members. recognize ".... the urgent need for the cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear weapon tests. including those carried out underground." this recognition. in turn. is based upon the agreedto statement of the parties of the proliferation treaty ". . . to pursue negotiations in good faith on effective measures to the cessation of the arms race at any early date." i am confident that the united states intends to fulfill this pledge. but even stated national policy can be thwarted by bureaucratic resistance. these findings of the scientists participating in the woods hole conference must be placed clearly on the record so they can be explored without prejudice by the arms control subcommittee and understood by the public. and certainly the technical advances described by them must receive a full and frank airing during our countrys negotiations at geneva. i ask unanimous consent to have two letters printed in the record.
. the senator sociated harvard alumni at the harvard from maryland has in- commencement on june 17. 1971. troduced a bill which i have been glad to mr. patons perceptive and thoughtcosponsor. greatly improving the corn- ful comments about race relations in this pensation to be received by veterans country and in south africa fully deserve under the gi bill. the attention of every senator. his rethe bill represents a return to the marks accurately describe my own conidea behind the world war ii gi bill. in cerns about the need for america to disthat a veteran would be entitled to an engage its commercial commitments to allowance of up to $1.000 a year for tui- that racist regime. i can see way for tion and books in addition to the monthly us in this country to continue the finaneducational allowance  authorized. cial and ecoic support invested in as the world war ii bill was of genuine that country while the tragedies of assistance to thousands of veterans who apartheid are allowed to exist. hypocritotherwise could  have gone to colleges ically. americans have decried the reand technical schools. this bill might well pression of that government. while at the stimulate a revival of this type of interest same time continuing to pump american among vietnam veterans. dollars into the south african ecoy. i ask unanimous consent that an arti- such behavior can only serve to comfort cle on the proposed legislation. published the white south african who believes in the" washington afroamerican. be that americans are willing to place profit printed in the record. above principle.
. the executive order 11507. set forth the policy thatthe federal government in the design. operation. and maintenance of its facilities shall provide leadership in the nationwide effort to protect and enhance the quality of our air and water resources. this executive order requires that necessary actions to abate pollution by federal agencies be completed or under way by december 31. 1972. unfortunately. this policy is  being followed by federal facilities at fort monmouth. n.j. the community surrounding fort monmouth has developed the theast monmouth county regional sewerage authority. a $40 million project to combat water pollution. the regional sewerage authority invited fort monmouth to join the system. pointing out that the fort monmouth system in a few years would be inadequate to handle sewage generated by the base. the department of the army requested that it be authorized to join the system. this request was included in the military construction authorization bill last year and the year before. in those years. the request was denied by the house on grounds that pressing need had been shown to justify the expenditure of funds. but recently i have received two letters from the new jersey department of environmental protection which state that fort monmouth is in violation of the new jersey state water quality standards. i ask unanimous consent that the texts of these letters be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
in a letter dated june 7. 1971. charles m. pike. director of the division of environmental quality. said a number of investigations had been conducted of the pollution being caused by the fort monmouth facilities. he said the evidence obtained as a consequence of these investigations has led state officials to the conclusion thatnew jerseys water quality standards are being violated due to the discharge of treated sewerage from the fort monmouth installations. pike went on to say that the new jersey department of environmental protection considers this " a most urgent situation which should be rectified through the required appropriation to allow for the abandonment of the two federal treatment plants serving fort monmouth." in a letter dated july 9. 1971. ernest r. segesser. assistant director for water quality. said: our field and laboratory findings confirm the position taken by this department for the past several years that the waters of the shrewsbury river and its tributaries can best be restored and protected by fort monmouth participating in the theast monmouth county regional sewerage authority project which. as you k. is well underway. i can assure you that if the sewage discharges from fort monmouth were. in fact. originating from a municipality or an industry we would have initiated legal measures to achieve compliance with this states water pollution control laws. in other words. the federal installations are  only failing to provide leadership as required by executive order 11507. but they are trailing so badly that only their federal status is protecting them from legal action. it is interesting to e that the eatontown sewerage authority was informed by new jersey state officials that they could  expand their secondary treatment plant or intensify the degree of treatment with discharge into the same stream which the federal installations use to discharge their effluent. they were required to abandon their facility and connect to the regional system even though their plant was completed in 1960 and payment on the outstanding bonded indebtedness had  been completed. in contrast. the two muitary treatment plants at fort monmonth are 28 and 30 years old. because of the discharges from the fort monmouth treatment plants. all shellfishing in the shrewsbury river has been forbidden and state officials say any possibility of resuming shellifshing is precluded by continued operation of the fort monmouth plants. the military construction authorization bill already provides $61.9 million for abatement of water pollution at 81 installations. including $32.791.000 for this purpose at army installations. it is my hope that we will be able to add a small amount. $1.4 million. to the bill to permit fort monmouth to join the theast monmouth county regional sewerage authority system so that the federal installations can at least keep pace with the surrounding community in this one case. . this proposal has been before the government for some time. twice it was approved by the department of the army. included in the bill that was sent here. once. the senate approved it. twice. the house turned it down. because in those yearslast year and the year beforeit felt that there was  sufficient justification. both of these installations had their own sewage disposal plant.  that plant has been declared by the state inadequate and as  meeting current standards. so we come here. unfortunately. the information i received from the state was  received in time to permit its consideration by the committee when it was marking up the bill. so i ask. if i may. that the committee consider taking this amendment to conference. so that it can be thoroughly threshed out there. exhibirr 1
. our distinguished colleague. the senior senator from new york . is  able to be present today. he has asked that i make his views on the f14 navy fighter program available to the senate before the votes are taken on amendments to delete funds for this program. i ask unanimous consent that the statement of senator javits supporting the f14 program be printed in the record at this point.
just let me make one more point on the argument of the senator from wyoming that we should allow the president flexibility so that it may be used at the bargaining table in paris. th vietnam is  going to be persuaded to make any concessions unless it sees some advantage to itself by doing so. that has always been true in regard to the vietnamese situation. there was never any real chance of the th vietnamese making a deal in which they would be the losers. it has been perfectly clear from the beginning to everyone who thought about it. that america would  indefinitely support the war itself in vietnam. it is. i suggest. equally true that the united states of america will  ndeflnitely support a war in cambodia. there will be a time coming. . when the senate and the congress as a whole must exercise their constitutional authority. i therefore believe that to strike the symingtoncase amendment from the bill would be very unfortunate.
. last montl the allied council of new jersey veterans organizations held a most successful salute to veterans program at the woodbridge veterans memorial park in woodbridge. n.j. i am pleased to pay tribute to the allied council of new jersey veterans organizations for the fine work it is doing in behalf of the vietnam veterans in new jersey. i ask unanimous consent that the letter i have received from martin kaufman. commander of elinunger post  273. jewish war veterans. and chairman of the salute to veterans program. be printed in the record.
 has taken all of us into his confidence. it is good to k too that our government has been actively trying to pursue serious negotiations to end the war in indochina. obviously the th vietnamese have  been interested in negotiation. this does  surprise me since i have long felt that the th vietnamese would  enter into serious negotiations unless they felt that they could make a better compromise  than after the united states had withdrawn from vietnam. the th vietnamese clearly have  believed that the united states would continue indefinitely to support a regime that seemed unlikely to be able to support itself at any time in the foreseeable future. they have been reinforced in this position by their conviction that the people of the united states would  support a policy which required us to destroy vietnam. or much of it. in order to save it. i have believed also that the only way in which there might be a chance that south vietnam would shape up for its own defense would be for us to let them k there was a definite time limit to our support. i shall continue. therefore. to support our fixing of a definite date for complete withdrawal.
that could happen. and. as the senator ks. it has happened. if i may advert to the matter of the war powers act. the senators initiative here in connection with the war powers act is in the same direction. for the same broad purpose. and i have been so happy to be associated with him in that particular.
. carl hayden was already a veteran legislator when i first came to congress in the forties. he truly became a legend in his time. a bridge between the days of the pioneers and our modern society. arizona was fortunate indeed to have such an able advocate in the halls of congress.
. i submit for appropriate reference an amendment to s. 3200. the arms control and disarmament agency authorization bill. together with a related amendment i am today submitting to s. 3108. the defense procurement bill. the purpose of my proposal is to transfer responsibility for seismic research from the defense departments advanced research projects agency to the arms control agency. i ask unanimous consent that a statement explaining these amendments. prepared for delivery at the senate foreign relations committee hearings today. be printed in the record.
. the bombing points up the essential importance of ending american involvement in southeast asia. we must renew our effort to get congress to fix a firm date for the final termination of all u.s. military involvement. subject only to the release of american prisoners of war. so long as we are involved. the bombing will continue.
the senator has made a strong speech. a speech which measures up to the high standards which he has set in this body and in his forensic achievements in other forums. beyond that. he has come very directly to the heart of the issue. one does  have to agree with every statement that the senator has made. and i do  in all respects. but on the essential point that we are faced with the necessity for stopping a war without end. i agree with him completely. i believe that the american people instinctively recognize that we have been taking the wrong approach and that  the congress should follow their lead. as a matter of fact. i ask the senator. is it  true that the american people have indicated their agreement with our amendment in response to a recent gallup poll question on complete withdrawal of u.s. forces from indochina by the end of the year.
it seems to me that this is very close to the heart of the matter. in fact. i think it probably is the heart of the matter. i do  k whether the following story is apocryphal. but an american officer is supposed to have said. in regard to the 1968 devastation visited upon the city of ben tre in south vietnam: we had to destroy the city in order to save it. whether or  that actually was said. we seem to be faced with the same problem  in vietnam. do we want to destroy vietnam in order to "save" it. i think . and to accept that fact is. it seems to the senator from new jersey. scarcely a sign of weakness either of intelligence or of moral fiber. to refuse to accept that fact seems intolerable for us as responsible members of the congress of the united states. i will say one more thing and then i shall  keep the senator from idaho on his feet any longer. because he has done a stupendous job: is  the effort that he and i are making on this occasion. with many supporters. one to provide the nation and its leaders. including the president. a way by which all of us may join in a common effort to conclude a war which otherwise is a hopeless situation and an endless one. i can too strongly express my hope that our amendment will be accepted in that fashionif  today. then in the very near future. i have come to the conclusion that there is other way out and that the only alternative is indefinite continuation of intolerable destruction. we are physically capable of continuing this destruction but we can much longer continue and still retain the national confidence in our rightness that is essential for a country and its leaders to hold.
i thank the presiding officer. the pending amendment introduced by senator dominick proposes to strike section 302 of the state departmentusia authorization bill . as adopted by the foreign relations committee. section 302 has the effect of authorizing funds so that the u.s. arms control and disarmament agency can for the first time in its history fulfill its responsibility for seismic research as is provided for in law. this action by the foreign relations committee had its origins in an amendment introduced by me and the following cosponsors: senators hart. church. pell. hum-
. the arms control and disarmament agency will have the money. and it will do this if we say it should do it. the arms control and disarmament agency does  decide what it wants to do. congress is the policymaking body of this nation. naturally. the department of defense would like to keep its finger in here. and it certainly has an interest in the matter of protection and a legitimate responsibility of its own. but the primary responsibility should be where congress originally placed it. in 1959 when arpa was given responsibility in this area the arms control agency did  exist. we created that agency several years later and we gave it precisely this function and we did it because we wanted an agency whose sole responsibility would be unconfused and without conflict. and it should have as its work the lessening of armaments. the control of armaments. and all manner and means necessary for that purpose. and this is vital to that purpose. if the department of defense needs to do this for purposes of defense. i am  for taking anything away from the defense of this country. but i am in favor of placing the primary emphasis on the need for nuclear testing. and i am  for leaving that in the hands of those who feel that nuclear testing should continue forever. there are those in the department of defense who sincerely believe that. and that is fine for them but they should  have the responsibility for the research which is necessary to find ways in which we can eliminate all nuclear testing. it seems clear that the arms control and disarmament agency has  participated in the most basic decisions about the content of this research. i am told the agency does  k how much is going to be spent until the decision is made. the blunt judgment of one scientist who was intimately aware of the history of this program was expressed to me as follows: although there has always been the fiction that the seismic research program was being conducted by the defense department in a manner responsive to the arms control agencys wishes. the fact of the matter has been that the agency has exercised influence on program formulation or on specific content. there never have been any discussions between the arms control agency and arpa (the defense department organization in charge of seismic research) as to major research results required or as to fund allocations. either to major program ele. ments or to specific contractors. program outlines as regards research planned or contractors were  submitted to the arms control agency either for review or as information. in fact. the climate has developed whereby arpa considers the seismic research program as theirs to conform and direct as they choose. with the arms control agency constituting a mi irritant to be iged. this is  the way congress intended the matter to rest. congress intended when it created the arms control agency to give it full authority.
the senator is very gracious. i will  trespass on the time of the senator. it was the intent of congress that this be handled by the arms control agency and congress should insist that this be carried out.
. 50 years ago this month. the order of the american hellenic educational progressive association was founded in atlanta. ga. today the organizations jurisdiction extends through 49 states. canada. and alaska. with 430 local chapters. over the past 50 years members of this worthy fraternal order have banded together to come to the aid of natural disaster victims and war refugees throughout our nation and the world. in accordance with their objective of promoting a better and more comprehensive understanding of the attributes and ideals of hellenism and hellenic culture. they have sponsored scholarships and prizes for worthy students. to further world understanding. students are offered summer study in greece through the ahepa educational journey to greece program. the hellenic heritage has served as a great model for our democratic traditions in this country. ahepas primary goal of improving social. moral. and family life is truly admirable and merits our recognition during this 50th anniversary month.
. it is true that the casechurch amendment did include theprior condition of an agreement for release of prisoners of war. but i want to say frankly to: the..n45eate. that the purpose of this pxreconltipn was to prevent the absence ofj sueh .a condiction from being used as an mgprgentagainst an amendment whi -.t people wanted to vote against for fpndazpental reasons. we did  include.. tj..precondition because we thoughjt it wa necessary to bring the war totan end. i do  think any preconditions-.: are necessary. i have come to the conclujsion tha t the cooper amendment givws me a chance to vote for what i have always thought was the purest exprsgt my own views.  we shall be considering an amendmentofegd by the distinguished senator fromra massachusetts . in consideration of his amendment. we shaedi sewhether members of the senate want a precondition. and whether the absence of such- a precondition would be disabling insofar as passage of .-he cqoper amendment itself goes.
i think todays senate action is most timely. i am  going to repeat my oftstated views on why the senate should vote an end to american participation in the war. i hold the same views just as strongly as ever. todays vote is a most responsible action. it will be helpful in bringing this war to a conclusion and it will help the president to have congress share with him responsibility for this action.
in august the statement was made on this page recently that conditions are better in the united states today than they were four years ago. it has been challenged by a reader who asks for evidence. we would submit the following on this subject which is of first interest to all voters beginning to think about how they will cast their ballots come ember. four years ago the united states was at a peak of a military commitment in vietnam. the war was taking between 400 and 500 american lives a week. it had long since divided the country bitterly over its justification. had disastrously upset the national budget. had unleashed the worst and longest round of inflation in american history. and yet curiously was accompanied by ecoic depression and disturbing unemployment. today the american commitment to the war is far down. from more than a half million americans in vietnam we are down to fewer than 50.000. true. some of these have been transferred to thailand. true. american air and sea forces continue to support the south vietnamese military effort from outside of south vietnam itself. and true also. the bombing continues with debatable military results but deep anguish in the conscience of many americans as well as most of the rest of the world. however. the sending of american conscripts to vietnam has ended. the rate of conscription is down to a peacetime level. and those doing what fighting is left for americans are professional volunteers. the war is  over. but the degree of american involvement is so low that in spite of the continued bombing the war has ceased to be a major factor either in the american ecoy or in american politics.  rests his case.
. it is true that the casechurch amendment did include the prior condition of an agreement for release of prisoners of war. but i want to say frankly to the senate that the purpose of this precondition was to prevent the absence of such a condition from being used as an argument against an amendment which people wanted to vote against for fundamental reasons. we did  include the precondition because we thought it was necessary to bring the war to an end. i do  think any preconditions are necessary. i have come to the conclusion that the cooper amendment gives me a chance to vote for what i have always thought was the purest expression of my own views.  we shall be considering an amendment offered by the distinguished senator from massachusetts . in consideration of his amendment. we shall see whether members of the senate want a precondition. and whether the absence of such a precondition would be disabling insofar as passage of the cooper amendment itself goes.
the senator from kentucky is absolutely right when he says we are  abandoning our prisoners of war or those missing in action. if they are  released when our troops are withdrawn from the three indochinese countries. we shall still have forces in that region which can be. so far as the senator from new jersey is concerned. and should be applied in whatever manner and in whatever degree and to whatever extent necessary to accomplish the release of our prisoners of war and the accounting for those missing in action. but in the meantime. we will longer be sanctioning the slaughter of inent people. that is the primary advantage of the course of action that the cooper amendment would bring about. it is time we took this action in congress because it seems it will  be taken otherwise. i am very grateful to the senator from kentucky for giving us this chance.
 is  free to make war at any time or at any place he pleases. the purpose of the casechurch amendment is simply to assure that congress will henceforth be able to exercise its constitutional responsibility and decide whether or  the united states should continue to fight in indochina. under present circumstances. i would oppose authorizing a continuation or a renewal of american military involvement anywhere in indochina. that is  involved in the casechurch amendment. however. what casechurch does is to say that without congressional approval. u.s. military involvement shall  be continued. congress should reassert. by passing casechurch. the principle that only congress can declare war and that unless and until we do so. the executive branch has authority to bomb in cambodia or intervene militarily anywhere in indochina.
. i am today reintroducing legislation that would focus the attention of the u.s. army corps of engineers on civil works projects that reflect the changing needs and priorities of this country. currently there are some 1.300 corps of engineers projects authorized by congress. some of them were authorized as long ago as the late 1880s. many of them were designed to meet objectives that were valid at the time but have long since become outdated. since i first introduced this legislation last year. the administration has proposed one step toward eliminating the corps stockpile of backlogged projects and the senate has approved a modified version of the administration proposal. in the flood control act. the senate approved a provision that requires the chief of the corps of engineers to submit annually to congress a list of projects that have been authorized for 8 years or more that he believes should be deauthorized. in my view. this provision places the burden of proof in the wrong place. it requires the chief of the corps of engineers to review the corps own backlog of outdated projects and to recommend which ones should be deauthorized. my bill would proclaim the intent of congress that continued lack of funding of projects shall be taken as evidence that they do  reflect current needs and priorities. it provides for automatic deauthorization of any corps project that has been authorized for 8 years or more but has  had construction funds appropriated for it by congress during that time. this would eliminate any need for the chief of the corps annually to review a huge backlog of outdated projects. it also would eliminate the paradox of the chief of the corps of engineers acting as both an advocate of projects that come under his jurisdiction and as a critic of these projects. in formulating my bill. i had discussions with various persons who arc familiar with the operations of the corps of engineers and interested in making the corps a more positive instrument for environmental protection in this country. without exception. they emphasized that congressional direction was needed if the corps is to become more deeply committed to the protection of the environment. for example. charles h. stoddard. former chairman of the environmental advisory board of the corps of engineers. said: the slate should be wiped clean by congress. the corps is so imbued with traditional developmental concepts that it really can become committed to projects designed to protect the environment so long as it has a backlog of (traditional) projects. it is difficult to draw any deadline without providing for some exceptions. therefore. my bill authorizes the secretary of the army to submit to congress a study and recommended plan for re- c authorization of any project terminated under the provisions of the bill if the f plan for reauthorization reflects environmental standards in effect at the time the plan is submitted. the corps of engineers. drawing on the best of west points engineering graduates and supported by more than 40.000 civilian employees. is potentially the greatest single instrument in this country for the protection of the environment. eventually. the corps of engineers could provide studies. plans. and technical assistance. and in some cases. it could construct public works for the collection. purification. storage. or reuse of storm waters. sanitary sewage. waterborne industrial wastes. and other liquid wastes. it could restore land areas scarred by strip mining. construction projects. and other means. it could reclaim lakes. rivers. streams. and other bodies of water that have become polluted to an extent that they are longer useable for recreational or commercial purposes. the corps could develop means of reducing or disposing of solid wastes and providing for adequate supplies of potable water. it could help reclaim deteriorating areas such as waterfronts. and it could help to clear flood plain areas to help prevent flood damage. but before all that can happen. we in congress have to work out priorities that the corps can follow in determining which of its responsibilities it should take on first. my bill is the first step in this direction. it is my hope that hearings can be held on this bill this year and that it will be given careful consideration. by mr. robert c. byrd (for himself and mr. williams):
. i do  expect that i shall take that time. at least in my own right. some of my colleagues may want to add something. this is  a new issue. twice last year. the senate approved this proposition. the sky did  fall. portugal did  declare war on us. it did  even break off diplomatic relations. the azores bases remained in operation. so far as i k. i ask the senator from alabama. is that true.
 is without authority to commit u.s. forces to combat in indochina. by upholding the casechurch amendment today. the senate will make clear its determination that more government funds shall be expended to pay for a war which is being waged in violation of the constitution.
. the committee on armed services has approved hr. 16136. the military construction authorization bill for 1975 with an amendment providing for congressional approval. by joint resolution. of further expansion of the diego garcia naval and air base facility in the indian ocean. as the committee correctly pointed out: by increasing logistic flexibility and capability. expansion of the diego garcia base is a distinct step in facilitating u.s. operations in the indian ocean and thus is directly related to the broader policy questions associated with a u.s. military presence in the indian ocean. it has long been my own view that such policy questions must be resolved by congress pursuant to its constitutional role in approving treaties. in this respect. there is conflict in usage between treaties and other international agreements. as the american society of international law recently pointed out. the society went on to state that: international agreement which itself assumes significant international obligations or otherwise determines important policy issues should be concluded without congressional participation. last year i introduced legislation to the state department authorization bill requiring approval by congress of all major military base agreements. the senate approved this amendment. it was accepted in conference. but unfortunately it was deleted on the house floor on a point of order. again this year the senate approved an amendment i introduced on this years state department authorization bill. it would prohibit spending to carry out any agreement between the united states and any foreign country: first. establishing a major military installation for u.s. troops. or second. renewing. extending. or significantly altering the terms of any such agreement. unless congress approves the agreement by law. or. if a treaty. the senate advises and consents. the senate also approved. on the same bill. an amendment i proposed requiring congressional approval of any expansion of facilities on diego garcia. earlier that amendment was approved unanimously by the senate foreign relations committee. the action taken by the senate armed services committee is. in all essential respects. identical to the language already approved by the senate on the state department authorization bill. it has my full support and. i k. it will have the support of the foreign relations committee. i urge approval by the full senate of this most important matter. it is an important step in restoring the authority of congress.
. today i am submitting a concurrent resolution objecting to the proposed sale of air defense equipment to the government of jordan. this resolution includes three different weapons systems: the hawk surfacetoair missile system. the vulcan antiaircraft. selfpropelled. 20millimeter gun system. the redeye shoulder fired surfacetoair missile system. my objective in offering this resolution is to permit hearings before the foreign relations committee concerning these proposed sales of equipment. while i do  myself have a final view on whether these weapons sales should ultimately be permitted. there are many grave unanswered questions congress should consider. i am especially concerned. myself. whether this rather large proposed sale of hawk surfacetoair missiles. mounted on mobile carriers. can be considered a defensive weapons system. while i might understand a fixed site air defense system as fufiling jordans needs at this time. i want to hear from the state department and the department of defense why a highly mobile system is being offered for sale to jordan. i am also concerned about the redeye antiaircraft missile. this is a highly portable. shoulderfired missile that is much like the soviet built strella missile. it was the strella that caused so much trouble for helicopters and civilian aircraft in vietnam. for example. near the end of the war many will recall a vietnamese civilian airliner was shot down on a routine flight to saigon. near the same time an air america cargo aircraft was shot down by a strella in the mekong delta. there is a danger that the redeye might fall into the hands of terrorist organizations that could use it against civilian aircraft anywhere in the middle east. it will require a lot of security to protect the redeye from misuse. moreover. i am  sure exactly what military function the redeye will have as part of a jordanian air defense system. indeed. it was our understanding that the administration included all three weapons as part of an air defense system for jordan. however. in anncing to congress its proposed sale there is official mention of the redeye. ostensibly because the sale of redeye is less than $25 million and thus is outside the reach of the reporting law. i can accept such reasoning. accordingly. the resolution i am submitting today explicitly includes the contemplated sale of redeye missiles to jordan. congress has only 20 days to enact a concurrent resolution objecting to such an offer of sale. it is an inadequate amount of time for both houses to do their work. but i. for one. will do what i can to expedite action by the committee on foreign relations.
 as being a joint resolution. it would become law. and override everything else with respect to the agreement made by this government as to the assurances or the undertakings given by the government. it would prevent any of them from having binding effect. whether or  in the absence of such an amendment as this it would have binding effect. it would state. further. that it is simply a statement of present intentions and is  binding under domestic or international law. then it goes further. in a quite gratuitous way. to say that it can be construed as limiting the freedom of the united states to pursue its national interest in the middle east. if i thought this was necessary in order to prevent aggressive action on the part of the administration or any administration in the middle east. without approval of congress under the war powers act. under the constitution. i certainly would be willing to enlarge the disclaimer that the present resolution contains. i do  believe that. quite extraordinary consideration that has been given by our committee on foreign relations and by the senate when i say "extraordinary" i do  in any sense mean improper. i believe it is altogether right and proper. as my colleagues k. i had some considerable part in insisting that all the documents. all the undertakings and assurances. on which the partiesisrael and egyptrely in making their agreement be made available to the committee. i think that so far as this is humanly possible. it has been done. having looked at the whole gamut of assurances and undertakings. i. for one. am prepared to adopt the resolution. letting those assurances and undertakings stand for what they are. without attempting any kind of gloss upon them. without attempting to eviscerate them. as this amendment would doat least. to the extent that they have an effect in international law. this would be wrong. these countries. israel and egypt. have made considerable sacrifices and have taken considerable risks in reliance upon our assurafices and undertakings. and to say that e of them is of any effect would be unfair. beyond that. it would be a very dangerous thing."because it would have the effect of giving the irresponsible elements. the more radical elements. in each of those countries the chance to say to the moderate elements  in control of those countries. "you fools. to rely upon the assurances of the united states in taking any risk for peace." i am  prepared to do that. i think it would be wrong for us to do that. when we have said. as we do say in our own resolution. in section 5. that our action approving the proposal of the united states for the earlywarning system and the technicians does  signify approval by congress of any other agreement. understanding. or commitment made by the executive branch. i believe we have done exactly what we should do. we have negated any effect as approval. if congressional approval is required. to make any of those assurances. undertakings. or commitments binding when they would  be without our approval. we have taken care of that. but we do  in any way alter or remove such effect as they may have in the absence of that approval. and i think we should .
i am sure i understand the thought that the senator has. i think that both israel and egypt are required to take e of the constitutional system of the united states and its laws. its public laws. those include a requirement in the constitution of a declaration of war by congress before war may be engaged in by the united states and. for matters less than allout war. the procedures required and stipulated in the war powers act. they are  entitled to assume that the president of the united states can take this country into war. except in those circumstances. i do  hesitate for one moment to say that. having gone through this whole exercise and laying these things out and explaining to ourselves and to the world the limits of the words used by the administration in these various undertakings and assurances under our constitutional system. i think we have done auseful service. but i do  think we should take away that vitality from such parts of these assurances as have vitality in themselves. the amendment of the senator from delaware says that this is simply a statement of the present intentions of the executive branch. i think that in some cases it is more than that. but we go beyond that. and we say that agreement. understanding. or assurance made by any u.s. official is binding under domestic or international law. that means that they are negated entirely. rendered nugatory. i do  believe that is the right way to do this business. if i were the president and this resolution were submitted to me with this in it. i would say that i can sign it. whether or  the agreement between israel and egypt went down the drain by reason of the failure of my putting my name on there. that is because it would be an action entirely destructive of the various statements and assurances and undertakings that were made in the diplomatic intercourse. and we must preserve the executive branchs right to undertake that within its proper limits. i believe the proper limits are established by the constitution and by law. and we should go further than we propose here.
 i knewx the senator was in some doubt. l r. allen. i appreciete the senator from new jersey supplying this information. it seems that right here. on the floor of the senate. we are going to decide the foreign relations questions and problems of the nation without actually having these problems before us and. gratuitously and unilaterally. endorse these various concepts. so this resolution talks about. in effect. the helsinki accord. the helsinki accord. of course. i think everyone ks. was an accord that was entered into to give rubber stamp approval to the russian conquests in world war ii. while it also provided other things. and we have talked about giving rubber stamp approval to russian conquests in world war ii. i think we have a whole lot more important things to be doing here in the senate than to give rubber stamp approval to the boundaries as set by russia in europe. so that is involved in this resolution. let us see if i am right about that. yes. here it is. on page 6. starting on line 11: we therefore support efforts to conclude. as soon as practicable. .negotiations. on* a timely basis to implement the priticiples of the ember 1974that is the vladivostok one. the helsinki language is found on page 7: other diplomatic. ecoic. commercial. and cultural initiatives which are undertaken with a careful regard for the balance of risks and advantages. which are implemented on a mutual and reciprocal basis. which are consistent with the ecoic and national security interests of the united states. and which support the implementation of the articles of the final act of the conference on security and cooperation in europeparticularly the provisions relating to respect for human rights and cooperation in humanitarian fields. that has reference to the helsinki accord.
. i strongly support senator javrrs in his effort to obtain improved facilities for fort drum. n.y. where 80.000 army national guard and reserve component citizen soldiers from pennsylvania. new york. the six new england states. and the 50th armored division from my own state of new jersey conduct annual training each summer and weekend drills during the winter. our new jersey adjutant general. maj. gen. wilfred c. menard. jr.. has long urged improved facilities at fort drum. while i can appreciate the priority given to active army needs. our reserve component troops. which form the backbone of our national defense. deserve to live and train in adequate facilities. too. they have backed this nation in every war. but have too often been neglected in peacetime. approval of even this small request would show our concern and enhance the morale and welfare of these important members of our national defense team.
s action cleared the way. the king of jordan signed the contract for the hawk missile system. american technical teams later visited jordan and began to develop the infrastructure for the hawk system. following the return to the united states of the first technical field team. i was able to report to the foreign relations committee that the conditions were being hoed. however. by february there were rumors of serious obstacles. the first indications surfaced in press reports of a drastic increase in the costs of the project. the state department later told us of what it called this "increase in price." the defense department. directly involved in the weapons discussions. provided aher version which differed with the state departments. the defense department version made it clear that the list of prices for the equipment to be provided under the contracts approved by congress had  increased. except for some relatively minimal training costs. what had happened was that the state department and the government of jordan expanded the original program and had contemplated additional expenditures far above the original program limits. including equipment  related to the hawk missile system. furthermore. the proposed additional expenditures. which would raise the total program nearly three times the original costs. were being resisted by the saudi arabians who had agreed to finance the original package. these developments did  involve congress in any way. indeed. congress was  even consulted about the proposed expenditures until the last week of may. after the saudis had declined to pay for them. though it  appears that the state department knew of the saudi reluctance much earlier and had been increasingly worried about jordanian discussions with the soviets as an alternate arms supplier. i deeply regret any possible arms deal between moscow and amman. such an arms deal would endanger the cause of peace in the middle east and the independence of jordan itself. i can only speculate about why jordan and the state department decided to try to expand upon the original program and why the jordanians are holding discussions with the russians amid their financial discussions with the saudis. but the original congressional scrutiny and approval of the original hawk system to fit jordans proclaimed desire for a selfdefense system. is in way responsible for the present impasse.
. i commend the administration for its wise decision to work toward greater standardization of major components in the new generation of nato tanks. the armys anncement yesterday that it will delay final selection of the american xm1 tank should help the efforts to obtain a higher level of standardization with the new west german tank. the views of the senate appropriations committee were expressed in the following language approved wednesday for the report on the fiscal year 1977 defense department appropriation bill. the report language which i offered and which was modified at the suggestion of the senatorfrom south carolina said: the appropriations committee is concerned about reports that there have been difficulties in working out an agreement on use of common components in the proposed new tanks for nato forces. the committee encourages the defense department to work out agreements on a mutual basis to standardize parts and components to the greatest extent feasible. this language is  intended to delay the u.s. xmi development program. i do  think the delay until the end of the year is an undue one in view of the potential benefits in lowered costs and battlefield efficiency if standardization can be achieved on major components. the armys decision was a good one and worthy of our support. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record two articles on the issue.
. the senate foreign relations committee today decided  to take aher vote on the sale of maverick tvguided bombs to saudi arabia. the resolution had been referred back tothe committee yesterday in a parliamentary move which violated the traditions of senatorial courtesy and which was discussed fully on the senate floor yesterday. i believe that it is important that the senate be given a fuller explanation of why there was so much concern on my part about the proposed sale of maverick bombs. my goal is and has been to bring some sanity to our sales to arab countries of offensive weapons which could be used against israel instead of for legitimate defensive purposes. the highly accurate maverick missile is an offensive weapon and the sale of further numbers of these weapons would destabilize an already precarious balance of power in the middle east. israel will need additional. and more sophisticated. weapons to counter the increasing threat. i believe the congress will be responsive to these requests. our arms sales policy ought to be based on the basic requirements of peace in the middle east and  on considerations of the balance of payments or fears of oil reprisals. and certainly. we should  abandon our foreign policy to arms salesmen and purchasing agents. this is reckless and i will continue to oppose it. for the record. the latest maverick sale was only one of 10 proposed contracts for weapons and services to saudi arabia submitted to congress on september 1. it is in addition to 19 other military contracts with saudi arabia worth over $25 million each during 1976. the current sales proposals which the senate foreign relations committee did  oppose include sidewinder airtoair missiles. additional f5 jet fighter planes. and tow antitank missiles. saudi arabia has purchased about $7 billion worth of military weapons and services from the united states in the past year. previous sales include 1.000 mavericks. thus the resolution of disapproval which the senate foreign relations committee approved last friday would  have prevented saudi arabia from m6eting its legitimate defense requirements and should  be regarded as an affront to that nation. the resolution dealt with only one specific sale. the one which is least justified. the pending sale of 650 mavericks. coupled with the previous sales. would give saudi arabia more than two dozen per plane and is unwise and unnecessary. the maverick is effective  only against tanks and other armored vehicles but also against buildings and other structures. the "force threat" given as a rationale. for the sales is based on "worst. case scenarios" in which iraq and the peoples democratic republic of yemen would deploy nearly all their armored vehicles in an invasion to cross hundreds of miles of desert to reach saudi arabias cities. such projections are highly questionable. if such an invasion actually took place. the saudis could be resupplied quickly with the easily portable mavericks if its already purchased stockpiles of mavericks. conventional bombs. and antitank weapons were insufficient. the recent hearings by senate foreign relations subcomhiittees have exposed deep flaws in the procedures in which the .united states sells sophisticated weapons. the maverick sale is only one example of the questionable practice under which agreements with potential purchasers are worked out on specific weapons systems and numbers of weapons without adequate consultation within the executive branch. let alone between the executive branch and congress.
. the recent rt to pass a resolution of disapproval inst the sale of 650 additional mavemissiles to saudi arabia was only manifestation of the congressional cern over the lack of proper coordiion in the decisions to offer u.s. pons for purchase by other nations. lthough this particular effort ran into cedural problems during the final s of this congressional session. my cern over the issue continues. during recess and in the next session of conss there will be. i am sure. a reexamiion of existing legislation and procees. therefore. i would like to share h my colleagues a september 29 edial in the new york times. n discussing the controversy over the vericks. the editorial accurately es: le congressional effort to block this parlar missiles order could hardly be debed as a move to strip a relatively friendly ldeeastern nation of its capacity to deitself against outside attack. it would fore accurate to say that this was an atpt to apply some needed controls to the easingly dangerous proliferation of rican weapons in the middle east. ask unanimous consent that the edial be printed in the record. here being objection. the editorial ordered to be printed in the record. ollows:
and on other matters. too. we have agreed with respect. for instance. to mirv testing. it would have been possible to stop mirv if we could have gotten an agreement when we were in a position to get it. because we were ahead on mirv testing. it is  a question of his position on weapons systems. it is  a question of his position of the need for a strong defense of this country. on the question of the defense of nato and others. he has been much tougher than many. and willing to spend the money. it comes down to this. i think. : some people have felt that in the past he was rather too enamored of the proposition that it did  matter how many strategic weapons we had so long as each side had egh to destroy the other. and the ability to absorb a first strike and therefore be able to retaliate with unacceptable force. as opposed to the feelings that others have had that the relative size of the two weapons systems did matter. i do  k how i could say for certain. because one ks everything anybody else may have said or thought. whether mr. warnke may have felt this way at some time. if he did. he was  alone. i have heard our colleagues in the house and in the senate say. "what difference does it make if both sides can destroy each other. if the russians can destroy us 10 time and we can destroy them 25 times. what difference does it make." words such as these were sometimes uncritically uttered. for all i k i may have been guilty of them at some time myself. i think it is generally recognized  that the relative size of our weapons systems does have some bearing upon the perception the world has of our willingness to fight for the things that are necessary. in a clinch.
. the washington post on april 19 carried an editorial concerning the situation in rhodesia. the statement by the post is. i believe. a significant one. it asks whether an internal solution inside rhodesia is a possible alternative of a civil war in that country among the conflicting black factions. it has been an open secret for some time that the black factions outside rhodesia. supported and backed by the socalled frontline african statesmainly mozambique. zambia. and tanzaniaare opposed to one aher. indeed. the situation is so fraught with peril that there is even a strong possibility that the leaders of these guerrilla factions. most prominently robert mugabe. joshua nkomo. and rev. ndabaningi sithole. do  have the support of their own organizations. one result of a forced settlement could be a multisided power struggle that might result in a civil war with outside backers taking different sides. the alternative of an acceptable transfer of power involving the popular bishop abel muzorewa ought  to be overlooked. given the proper backing from the west and with arrangements suitable to protection of the white miity in rhodesia. it may be possible to work something out. the key ingredient. though. may be some positive indication of political support from both the united states and great britain. a recent foreign relations committee staff report pointed in this direction in suggesting an american temporary mission to rhodesia which could perform a moderating role between the black organizations there. ably bishop muzorewa. and the smith government. it is  too late to consider heading in this direction. the post editorial deserves careful study and i commend it to my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
thank you. the u.s. army band and the boston public schools allcity chorus rendered "america. the beautiful." the colors were retired from the chamber. the u.s. army band playing the "national emblem."
it is important to emphasize that the presidents policy on coproduction for israel and on the restatement of the special historical relationship with israel is shared fully in the congress. i believe it can be said it is clearly american policy that israel should be allowed to coproduce military equipment and to buy u.s. components. and ought to be permitted to bid on nato contracts which are made available to foreign bidders. the reason why coproduction and the sale of military equipment is essential for israel ought to be clear to any observer of the defense problems israel as a nation faces. moreover. israel is a valuable defensive asset for the united states. our strategic and tactical planning for nato relies on the israeli capability to hold the balance of power in the middle east and  to require the massive input of american forces in that area. it is essential that israel can rely on itself and at the same time can perform an essential balancing role in the middle east which includes holding off the most advanced soviet type weapons which could be rushed into the area in great quantities at any time. to stay in good defensive posture and maintain her defense capabilities in this time of rapidly developing sophisticated techogy israel must have assistance from the united states. this assistance can be in the form of grants and credits alone. since these are inadequate to finance the huge costs associated with israels defense requirements. she has to be able to manufacture a good part of what she needs because this is a financially sounder approach and because it allows israel to tailor her military equipment to her specific needs. the presidents stated policy encourages such coproduction and adapts the policy review memorandum to attain this end. it is our hope and belief that the administration will  move rapidly to clear up the backlog of dozens of requests by israel for coproduction which have been held up or blocked by bureaucrats in the department of defense and in the state department. it is my belief the white house will make it clear that the president and the congress have set a policy which is intended to be carried out. i k the foreign relations committee will continue to keep a close and careful eye on the specific implementation of this new policy. aher aspect of the security assistance and arms export act requires. i believe. additional elaboration. this is the creation of a special interagency task force with a congressional advisory board to review and prepare a study on the security supporting assistance program for egypt. we have made available to egypt over $4 billion in assistance since 1974. there has been little in the way of concrete ecoic improvement in that country. instead. egypts ecoic difficulties have multiplied and foreign dosincluding saudi arabiahave grave doubts about the usefulness of further investments in egypt. one important area which must be improved within egypt is the private ecoic sector which. under former president nasser. was gutted on the recommendation of the u.s.s.r. if the orivate sector is revitalized this would give real hope and encouragement to egypts middle class. moreover. it would also produce tangible benefits for the whole country. so far. the u.s. program has been directed at improving the public as opposed to the private sector. in addition. the capital projects we have undertaken are massive in scale and will require years to complete. while they are for the most part projects that will help in the long run they do little to bring improvements in the near term. the task force report should be ready in 6 months. it will include specific recommendations. including legislative and administrative remedies where required. it is in the interest of all parties to work diligently and quickly to develop a plan of action that will bring real benefits to the egyptian people. a third aspect of the pending international security assistance and arms export control act affects the administration proposal for a development fund for rhodesia. the administration requested a u.s. contribution of $100 million and suggested that other nations would also make pledges to a zimbabwe development fund. while it is  at all certain that other nations would put up significant moneys for such a fund. the main issue was on the timing and appropriateness approval of such a fund in advance of the successful conclusion of negotiations. the committee believed it was inappropriate to do more than state a willingness to consider a fund at the appropriate time. i want to comment on the process  going on that is intended to lead to a settlement in rhodesia. there is doubt that rhodesia by itself can continue indefinitely to maintain its position through military means. eventually an agreement will have to be reached which gives to rhodesias black citizens a leading position in that country. on the other hand. i do  go along with those who see the white population of that country as irrelevant or expendable. a number of worthwhile improvements have been made in rhodesia. including the repeal of a good many of the most repressive racial laws. these are recent developments which the present government implemented in spite of stiff opposition in the rhodesian parliament. in addition. rhodesian defense is  a "whites only" affair. the army is increasingly integrated and black officers for the army are being trained on a rapid basis. any settlement for rhodesia will have to include a place for white citizens in the country and it will have to be moderate egh and internally strong egh to prevent the radicalization of the country by outside forces. it is my belief the united states can play an active and useful role in such a settlement drawing on our own unique civil rights experience. a fair settlement in rhodesia could be a model for the rest of southern africa. a brutal rhodesian settlement could raise a terrible specter in africa and around the world. injurious to american principles and ideals. i am  at all pleased that so far we have left the negotiating in the area largely to surrogates or to third parties. i have suggested and continue to encourage active american participation in a settlement process in rhodesia. including direct relationships inside rhodesia between american representatives and the different parties to the conflict. the u.s. government has  yet moved this far. though some tentative steps have been taken. the sooner we get some kind of mission into rhodesia talking to all the parties within the country the sooner a settlement may be worked out. these points of discussion do  cover all the elements of the legislation before the senate. but the matters i have reviewed indicate the importance of the pending bill and the need to enact it promptly.
i shall  detain my colleagues really appreciably longer. but the senator from illis is absolutely right. our colleague. senator nunn. has a pretty good sense of these things. one of the things he worries about is that this is going to be blown out of all proportion as a great weapon that is going to revolutionize the position of western forces in europe. he worries about it because it may. well he thinks. denigrate further their own interest. the interest of the western powers in europe in protecting themselves and making the necessary effort. this is a serious matter. it is most important that we  go into it in such a way that it is going to arouse illusory hopes or. on the other side. as the senator has said. the idea that we had changed in some way our basic nuclear policy so as to rely upon technical weapons of this sort. these are big questions. they are  questions to be brushed aside in a rush to adjourn on a warm july evening when people want to get home. it would be wrong for us to vote tonight. and i believe that we shall  take any final action tonight. i certainly hope we should . and certainly we should  approve this production before the president has determined that it is a necessary and right thing for us to do. several senators addressed the chair.
. i appreciate the syrians have  had an easy task and that they have shown a measure of restraint in certain cases in restoring order to this embattled country. the syrians in the early stages of the civil war saved the lives of many christian lebanese. including whole villages. . the next progression to restoring leba to the lebanese must begin. the united states should stand ready to assist the syrians in meeting this goal. for example. i seconded an amendment offered by senator eagleton in the appropriations committee recently that would provide $50 million in foreign military sales credits for leba. it was made clear then as i am underscoring  that a reconstituted lebanese arm needs to replace the syrian forces as expeditiously as possible and also protect the religious communities of that country. there is doubt that the syrian attitude toward camp david has been negative. however. in view of secretary vances current trip during which he is expected to meet syrian leaders. i will  move to reduce or eliminate the funds provided for syria in this bill. however. i hope that the situation will be reassessed carefully before the conference committee meets to work out a final version of the bill. as you k. the house cut all the syrian money and thus this chamber can be patient and wait for the conference committee to make whatever decisions it believes the situation warrants.
. one of the concerns facing the navy for years has been the protection of aircraft carriers and other ships against enemy ships. the aegis system of sophisticated computers. radar. fire control mechanisms and missiles is intended to do this. the navy recently awarded to litton industries a contract for building the first of the aegis destroyers at the pascagoula. miss.. shipyard. work on the aegis components themselves already has been underway at the rca facilities in moorestown. n.j. i ask that a recent article on the system be printed in the record.
. reserving the right to object. i wish to ask the gentleman from new jersey. a member of the judiciary committeehe mayhave answered it. but i would like it to be very clear. as i understand it. this is  intended to preempt the field of veterans organizations representing world war ii veterans. it will still be possible for other veterans organizations representing world war ii veterans which can qualify within the definition given by the gentleman from new jersey also to get a charter.
it will be ed.  of the committee how every veteran feels when he goes into any city in the united states and sees office buildings and department stores being erected. and he ks that homes can be built because of the shortage of the very materials which are going into these commercial structures.
 i would . every one of us ks just how a veteran who has fought in the war feels when he sees a department store getting a new building. when we all k they could make it do for a little while longer. yet he ks the stuff going into that new building could very well have been used to help in the homeconstruction program. under the amendment i have proposed there would be authoritythat is all that is askedauthority. if needed to require permits for commercial. as well as amusement and recreational structures. if it is found that any of these materials going into commercial construction could better be used in home construction. the authority would be there to adjust what is obviously a maladjustment. i really and honestly think that the committee might well accept this amendment and put it in the bill in order to complete the objectives which they undoubtedly had in mind when they gave this authority in the bill.
. the true measure of assistance to a working world at. peace is  the amount of expenditures to. sustain life but the amount of assistance for ecoic reconstruction. the best contrast.between the performances of democracy and the promises of communism. is what the united states has done since the end of the war to help wardevastated countries to rebuild their ecoies.. based on a study prepared under.the direction of the assistant secretary of state. hon. willard l. thorp. from the office of under secretary will clayton. entitled "american ecoic and technical aid to foreign countries since mid1945." a summary of which appears in the appendix. i estimate the united states expenditures since vj-:day at about $6.000.000.000 in longterm credits and grants. exclusive of the british loan of $3.750.000.000 being used partly for food and partly for reconstruction. this sum is an investment in peace. in trade. and in health. our expenditures since vjday include loans and technical assistance. vast war installations transferred. agricultural and industrial "hard goods" of permanent benefit to the recipient countries distributed through unrra. and special bilateral financial arrangements. though nation on earth has ever done as much to. help other peoples to help themselves in peacetime. it represents but a little over 6 percent of 1 years production of our ecoy. it is  our lifeblood. as many would have us believe do the peoples we help want it to be. on the contrary. a healthy and prosperous world holds  only the promise of peace. but the promise of greater wellbeing for us in common with other nations. such a world can make possible for the united states an aggregate annual production of $250.000.000.000. opening up new vistas of ecoic security and culture to all our people. our nation whose productive machine could almost double its output for war from about ninety billion. the peacetime top. to one hundred and seventy billion. can reach new heights of production in one world. as a result of american credits and grants. technical services. transfers. settlements. allocations. and surplusproperty sales. many countries on every continent have a greater share of roads. hospitals. airfields. libraries. machinery. sanitation. cargo ships. and other tools of a civilized ecoy.
are we to understand that the 12.030 additional units contracted for will use upand i quote from the report-"all the publicly owned temporary structures. such as military barracks. dormitories. and temporary war housing." or will that aggregate number  use up all of that.
s. our congress and our people since the issue was first opened in 1917. the smaller nations of the world will be watching  the words. but the performance of the united states on this palestine question. either international covenants to people in desperate need and without armies and navies will be hoed. or the world is still entirely ruled by threats and power politics.
. i think the question before us can be summed u in this fashion. we fought the war  with money alone. we fought it with money. with men. and with ideas. we are  asked by the opponents of this bill to win the peace with money alone. this we can do unless we want to tie one hand behind our backs. we can win the peace only with men and with ideas as well as money. let us see what arguments the gentlemen who oppose this bill have to muster against it and how they square those arguments with the arguments they themselves have made in the past.
it has beon argued before on many occasions by these who . oppose this bill. and at great length. that appropriations which were made for relief and other purposes to aid in the reconstruction of europe that they dtd the united states good. because ody knew that they came from the united states. and that such assistance represented the humanitarian and statesmanlike act of the united states. here is a bill which proposes to make us to make clear to the world just what we are doing and why we are doing it. nevertheless it is opposed. may i point out that the cost involved in this whole program is at most threetenths of 1 percent of our program of reconstruction since vjday and probably as little as twotenths of 1 percent. the second argument which has been made is that our friends tell us that if we just stick to the united states and use all our money here to make this the best system on earth. everybody will want to imitate it. but if we do  tell them what it is. and do  tell them how it works. then they will  be able to imitate it because they will  k what it is. and they. will  k just what it is we want them to imitate. last. the gentlemen who oppose this bill have told us befor. that they want to save money. they want to make the program for the worlds reconstruction as inexpensive as possible. is there any better way to save money than to convey information on the policies. the motives. and the ideas of the united states by every media of radio. movies. and press. thereby encouraging efforts at reconstruction within these countries and shortening the time within which we must assist them with the goods which these very same gentleman have constantly opposed our appropriating money for. obviously. what is happening is very simple. the gentlemen who always oppose every measure which would enable the united states to strike a blow for world peace by assisting with postwar reconstruction are opposing this bill. this bill has one other very important point. it tries to inject into our foreign policy the necessary human quotient. for what is foreign policy. it is hing but mens aspirations. their hopes. their fears. their prejudices. if we do  transmit ideas abroad we can never hope in an effective wry to deal with the hopes. the fears. the prejudices. and the aspirations of the world. finally. this is  a program in the main for broadcasting the voice of america. the bill has been very wisely drawn and very necessarily drawn to be a prograin for the exchange of men. too. that to my mind is one of its important and principal points. it proposes the exchange of technicians. of students. and of professors. it proposes to help to acquaint the people of the world personally and physically with each other. . every traveler. every soldier who has been abroad and who has seen the conditions abroad and talked with foreign peoples. will tell you that the most effective way to convince the world that americas purposes are peaceful and constructive. that we want hing and want to exploit one. is by having people see us in action on our home grounds. i think this bill. considering its benefits is the cheap.. expenditure the congress has been called upon to make for a very long time.
if the gentlemans assertion is correct. we would never have sent an army to europe because there was some incompetence and inefficiency in the army and navy here. what we are arguing about in this bill is that the job ought to be done. all the congress is doing by this bill is authorizing the job to be done. we will. see that it is carried out right if the necessary machinery is provided. but if the machinery is  provided there is hing to work with.
. i shall vote for this bill. from my own military experience i consider this legislation essential to the coordination of our military establishment. and to the performance of our national responsibilities in foreign affairs. during world war ii. i was for some years as an army officer on duty as the secretary of the joint united states army. navy. and air forces committee to coordinate our chemical warfare effort with that of our allies. i worked in an area exactly in line with that sought to be covered by this bill. the coordination contemplated by this bill was attempted during the war. it worked well egh to win. but i felt on many occasions the need for a statutory basis for the boards and staffs engaged. this bill will give background and substance to the joint and combined efforts which were responsible for our winning the war. one further point needs to be emphasized. the tempo of a future war will be so highly accelerated that we must be completely ready with the right organization from the start. the peacetime creation. functioning. and experience of a war council. a joint chiefs of staff to deal with strategic plans. a munitions board to coordinate production and procurement. a national security resource board to plan for industrial and civilian mobilization. and a research and development board to provide integrated programs for research and development for military purposes gives us realistic implementation of a policy of national security and for the discharge of our international responsibilities.
the president. in. his address on the state of the union. said that "inflation holds the threat of aher depression." but he failed to say anything about one of the potent weapons with which to fight it. a weapon which he is just taking out of the hands of the american peoplean effective foodconservation programand incidentally jeopardizing the european recovery program in the process. in my city of new york. for example. the foodconservation program is falling apart with most of the restaurants and hotels refusing to go along with it and housewives. bitterly disappointed. paying little attention to it. regardless of how i feel about itand i stated at the close of the special session that i favored the authorization by congress itself of rationing and price controls on key items like steel. grain. butter. milk. and meati k that any kind of rationing and pricecontrol program for food faces a hard fight. but voluntary conservation administered on a big scale will get the prompt support of the whole country. instead of disestablishing the presidents citizens food committee. there should be immediately established a national foodconservation administration. and congress should adequately finance such an agency. this house has shown its attitude on this question by the insertion in the version of the foreign aid bill of 1947. which we approved. of a provision for a national citizens foodconservation committee. but it was stricken out in conference. the provisions of the recently passed antiinflation bill for voluntary agreements should be used to get the support of food producers and processors. distributors. and consumers. city people whose standarc. of living is being undermined by inflation should. be given a weapon with which to help themselves . an editorial from the new york times of -january 7. 1948. on this subject follows:
 i would like to add my support and endorsement of mr. ploesers statement and join in supporting restoration of the appropriation for the office of technical services. i happen to have had considerable experience during the war with the national inventors council. one of the agencies of the office of technical services. an activity which they support. i can say from my own personal experience as the officer who was assistant to the chief of operations of the chemical warfare service. where we dealt with many technical matters. inventions. and ideas for inventions. that the work of the national inventors council in clearing for us civilian suggestions was absolutely invaluable. we would have been sed under without their help. they turned up and evaluated some very interesting and some very useful suggestions for us. today my branch of the service is still engaged in the extremely difficult phases of chemical and bacteriological warfare. the use of incendiaries. and the use of smoke. the work of the natiohal inventors council continues to be very important. i understand that both the secretaries of navy and army have asked the secretary of commerce to continue this .work of the national inventors council as a phase of work of the office of technical services so useful to our national security. it is my hope that we may find some way to continue this excellent work with which i have myself had such a direct experience.
there is law against askingand the gentleman will agree with me on that. there is commitment because someone can ask. the gentleman. i think. will agree with that. let me call the attention of the gentleman to the senate language and. to the house language. let us see if we are  creating confusion or if there is confusion. the senate language is found in the draft which is before us all on page 31.
. today is panamerican day. symbolizing the unity of interest among the 21 american republics. the question of the hour is the lesson of bogota. the lesson is that ecoic. political. and socfal conditions in the vast areas of central and south america. and among the 125.000.000 people there. can also create tools for the policestate forces right here on -ur doorstep. standards of living for the great majority of the people in too many of the other american republics are lower than those in europe even today. here. too. there is an emous job of reconstruction in which the leadership is ours out of sheer necessity to protect our own hemisphere security and our free institutions. we have kn the ways of war and they are hard. the way of peace is hard. too. but certainly our people prefer it. failure to read into the events of bogota the confirmation that our foreign policy and our responsibility are both world wide. requiring much simultaneous action. will catch us as unprepared as it caught our delegates at bogota.
. yesterday mr. bevin told the house of commons. accordifig to a report in the new york herald tribune today. that the attack on jerusalem by the arab legion does  "oblige the british government to review their obligations to the transjordan government." the obligations referred to are contained in a treaty of alliance made as recently as march 15. 1948. reports which i consider to be reliable. show that as recently as february 1948 the british were recruiting men from their own troops forthe arab legion and. second. that as recently as the middle of may 1948 the british were shipping to the arab legion war materials to a port bordering palestine. those facts certainly are the best interpretation of mr. bevins statement. after all the talk of war on the jews by the arab states it turns out that the only force capable of waging such a war effectively is the arab legion. officered. trained. financed. and operated by the british. and that the first objective of this force was the city of jerusalem containing the holiest shrines of christians. jews. and moslems. it will be of interest to the members to consider the facts in order to see how. destructive and misguided has been this british policy in palestine. walter lippmann. in a recent syndicated column. truly called transjordans arab legion "a british satellite army."
i am sorry that just is  -the fact. the other nations have taken more dps than we have. it has been stated on the floor and  denied that great britain with 30 percent of our population has taken 60.000 dps this year. that little belgium is taking 30.000. that france is taking over 50.000. that canada is taking 15.000. that australia is taking 7.500. all the united states is doing in this bill is catching up with the parade which has gone by it. and for the first time is proposing to take its fair share which it has  been taking. also this bill admits free of the quota unmarried mi orphan children who are dps. it follows in this report from the bill h. r. 2466. i offered in march 1947. and which was also offered by the junior senator from new york in the other body. to admit war orphans for adoption by united states citizens free of the quotas. i believe that the committee should decisively turn down this amendment. for a vote for this amendment will be a vote against the bill. it will be a vote to inter the bill. this amendment is a motion to inter.
mrs. devan. the executive secretary of the gold. star society of american war widows and orphans. who has done a great deal of work on legislation for war widows. lives in my district. that organization has been working for a bill extending gi rights to war widows. and this should be done. i am sure they also would want the bill before the house passed. i would like to add my appreciation to the committee. i would also like to state that the majority leader in particular and the house leadership are to be complimented for the courtesy with which they received mrs. devan and mrs. nelson of the organization mentioned. and for bringing out this very deserving bill which is  before us and which i very much favor.
i am sorry . meat represents about 25 percent of the familys mal food budget. food prices have gone up 60 percent to 100 percent depending on the item. since the war ended. if we really want to strike at inflationary food prices with respect to the high cost of living. we must strike at meat as the key sector of the whole problem.
i have already referred to the gentlemans remarks. . the gentleman from new york premised his argument on two points. as i understand him. first. that in italy. as an example. the marshall plan has  worked well. second. that the marshall plan. generally speaking. as he said in connection with the debate on the rule. is a war program. briefly. i would like to take those arguments in turn. in the first place. i think an argument with respect to united states imperialism is refuted with respect to italy by the figures. for it appears that this great imperialist democracy of the united states has. in its relations with italy. allotted to italy in grants from july 1948 to march 1949. $345.300.000. whereas this great imperialist democracy has loaned to italy during the same period $42.000.000. or something in the magnitude of 90 percent in grants to 10 percent in loans. then i might say if there is a deficiency in italian production. and i think there is. we must  forget that the th and other parts of italy were  so long ago literally torn asunder by politically inspired and communistled strikes which absolutely crippled its productionthis very industrial production which is  said to be so much impaired. by september 1948. however. this production had again attained the peak of the year 1947. though  yet up to capacity or to prewar standards. statements have also been made about j. d. zellerbach. the eca administrator in italy. members should read the facts in his testimony at pages 171 to 209 of the printed hearings to see what an honest and outstandingly capable job he has done in italy. what alternative does the gentleman from new york offer. who is going to do anything for italy. these povertystricken countries behind the irdn curtain. which have  paid us the greatest mark of flattery. the flattery of imitation. for they. too. have a marshall plan. at least. a very puny imitation of one. their marshall plan. as far as we k . consists largely of an anncement goods. but an anncement. the system under which they are found is great for anncements and for promisesfor "pie in the sky when you die"-but  for goods. . the anncement in moscow on january 25. 1949. says that there has been organized an eastern european council for ecoic mutual aid. that is all we have. that is all we k about it. we k all about the european recovery program. but we k hing about the eastern european council. and that is typical. as to the situation in italy. it certainly is grave. and well it might be. italy having been torn asunder by the same kind of totalitarian war which tyrannies and totalitarian governments always wage. governments which bolster their peoples hopes with propaganda and then give them war. the italian people certainly have a low standard of living. but what will raise their standard of living. will propaganda raise their standard of living. or to share among them the proceeds of want. will that raise their standard of living. what will raise the standard of living of the italian people is the reestablishment of their production. certainly i am the first to say that i k there are deficiencies in the denazification programs for the people of germany and italy. very grave deficiencies. and i have fought against them before and will continue to do so. but at least we can see these deficiencies. we can argue about these deficiencies. we can endeavor to cure them. indeed. the united states government and the governments of france and britain are about to undertake a great effort to change from military to civilian government in the occupied areas right . i ask. what is the answer to that. as to other places which we are asked to believe are better places to live.  only do we have kledge. but we can believe they offer any opportunity for change whatever. it is said that the marshall plan is a war program. the marshall plan. in my view. is the greatest contribution of the united states to foreign policy in all his.tory. because. for the first time. a great industrial nation has gone out to create industrial competitors. a very strange sight indeed. and why. because that industrial nation has come to the realization that only in a prosperous world is prosperity possible. and that prosperity can be contained here by the walls of oceans any more than misery and want can be contained there by iron curtains. . we k one thing. we k it in business. we k it in the army. we k it in the very spirit of american living. you must follow through on success. the most dangerous thing you can do is to stop. get scared. and run at the very time you are successful. so. this second year of the european recovery program is an opportunity to follow through on the successes already achieved.
that is perfectly true. that the dollar has been inflated in terms of its value prior to 1939. but it is a fact. also. that our actual production in the terms of goods and services has almost doubled during the war period. and we must take this factor into consideration in considering the inflation.
. the united states should go slow on moving the bulk of its military government officials out of berlin. the reported plan of mr. mccloy. the high commissioner. and reducing the military force for policing. the cold war may last as long as 20 years. and by being prepared for a cold war of that duration we are adopting the best way to avoid a hot war. as americans we like to button things up and get them finished. and this may be the reason for the projected berlintofrankfurt move. but the maintenance of our forward positions in berlin. vienna. trieste. japan. and korea is one of the most significant guaranties to the democratic peoples of the world that we mean what we say in terms of the respect for international obligations and a determined opposition to conquest by permitting communist infiltration. let us  nullify the great victory for freedom of the berlin air lift by a shortsighted move out of berlin on grounds of administrative efficiencyvalid as they may be.
it is a fact. is it . that there still are segregated negro units in the army even under the present order of secretary gray. i do agree. however. that the department of the army has been at long last making some real efforts to deal with the problem. it is a fact. though. that segregated units remain. in view therefore of the long time it has tak3n even to get to even this stage. have we in the congress  a right to ask that the whole process which is  said to be continuing in a more opportune way. that the whole process should be subject to legislative oversight.
. the house is taking a second thought on korean aid and from all appearances it is fixed in its determination and will pass this bill. perhaps the occasion can be improved. because we have debated the korean aid matter pretty thoroughly already. by taking a look generally at where our foreign policy is taking us and understanding that this particular bill is fitted into a very much larger framework and is  quite as isolated as some would have us believe. we have heard a lot of expressions here. including "pouring money down a rat hole." and about our policy of containment.  too often has american foreign policy been put in terms of a word which people could feel. i would say  that american foreign policy as we see it developing. and as thig korean aid bill demonstrates it to be developing. is a human policy. it is a fact that in korea as in berlin. in korea as in trieste. in korea as in any other place in the world where americas interests are concerned and where the forces of freedom fight. the soviet union could if it desired. if it wished to mount all of its power by air and on land. roll back the forces of freedom right there on the spot. crush them and take over. as it could also take over western europe. we might argue that there should be european recovery program. that there should be mutual defense assistance act. because the russian legions could roll over these areas any time they wished to. indeed. they probably can do so. but the soviet union ks that the minute it does that. it is taking on aher world war. so. we have one of two choices: either we do hing about those areas and let the totalitarian forces of what we consider to be the reaction. which is communism. triumph in those areas by default. because the people in them are starving. because they are in despair. because they have been completely infiltratedjust exactly what would be true in south korea if we do  pass this billand we lose them by default. or we help them. and if we do that and take the chance. if the communists want war. they must come and ask for it. we will have to first lend these people our support based on the human policy by rehabilitating their countries and their institutions. and that is the fundamental decision we come to. but we do  make it blindly. we already have had a precedent in the atlantic pact. and i believe it must necessarily be followed by a pacific pact. our precedent is this: we say that until these countries are built up to the point where they can run thvlr own military policy. to the point where they can maintain their internal defense against the present land might of the soviet armies. until that time we will cover them with our pledge. with our commitment. with our armies. with our air force. and that our armies will come to their defense if the soviet should attack. . that is a very wise policy. we are already committed to a great military establishment. and we can undertake to utilize that great military establishment. in the defense of the atlantic. and i believe we must do it in the pacific as well. we k very well that if the soviet union should move into the pacific. we would have to oppose. so that we might as well say so. and give the pacifiic nations this commitment. having given them this commitment. which is the best we can do. we leave free the necessary resources which we are  using to militarize them. but to rehabilitate them and give them both the moral. political. and ecoic advantages from which they can grow to a stature which will enable them to participate adequately and effectively if need be in their own military defense. it is a cohesive world policy. we may falter. we may make many mistakes. as we did in china. but we must. first and foremost. recognize the totality of our policy and see that it is going in one direction in an organized and orderly way. in my opinion. the reason the house is having a second thought on the korean aid bill is because many a member who voted against the bill before  sees that he was voting against the policy out of context. that we could  go in any other direction. that we were so firmly committed in this direction. and. what is more. that this direction had been successfulthat we could  deviate. and let us never forget that the policy of helping ecoic recovery has been successful. western europe is in better shape today than it has been since the war ended. and if we pass this bill and also go forward on the point 4 policy. we will continue to find the free world in better and better shape than it has ever been before.
i thank the gentleman. the reality of the situation remains a fact. however. we are  face to face with the glories of europe in the days before napoleon. we are face to face with the misery and the decay and the difficulty and the destruction of europe which resulted from world war ii. and which faced us in 1945.
 tell us what the strategic mission of the navy is insofar as it can be made public that justifies this carrier. may i just amplify that question in this way: we always understood and like other members in the house i went to the coinmand and general staff school at leavenworth. and i have a certain amount of military kledge. that the classical role of the aircraft carrier was attack on enemy ships and support of aviation in connection with amphibious missions. thequestion i want to ask is: what is the role of the navy in strategic bombing which justifies this emous expense for a new supercarrier which the gentleman from indiana has properly emphasized. and which justifies us in passing this bill in this fashion.
will the gentleman tell us what has been told to the committee. what the committee can tell the public. as to the role of the navy in strategic bombing. does the navy have a strategic bombing role and. if so. what is it.
we are then to understand. and the chairman will correct me if i am incorrect. that this is a secondary bombing role which the air force agrees. which the joint chiefs of staff agree. and which our military authorities agree. it is necessary to vest in the navy.
the gentleman does agree with me. though. that both the air force and the joint chiefs of staff have agreed that the effort this supercarrier has the capability of mounting shall be part of the navy mission.
may i say to the gentleman that i did  recall that anything was slipped into the act. the act was very carefully analyzed and very carefully drawn. when the gentleman from georgia alluded to this act i called a page and sent for a copy of the act to study it in order to determine just exactly what it did do. i did  have it fresh in my mind. i will go to the gentlemans table and read it. but i am confidentand i can say this as a responsible person in the congress. regardless of what committee one belongs tothere was hing in the act that was slipped in or slipped by. it was analyzed. it was discussed on the floor. and it was debated. the gentleman from pennsylvania has just said that he himself raised the question with respect to this provision. an. analysis of title iv of the mutual defense assistance act shows by section 401 that the president could transfer naval vessel out of military stocks ifthe secretary of defense. after consultation with the joint chiefs of staff. determines that such transfer would be detrimental to the national security of the united states. orthe equipmentis needed by the reserve components of the armed forces to meet their training require. ments. considering the character of the defense secretary and his experience. considering also the confidence of the congress in the joint chiefs of staff. i can certainly understand the acceptability of this provision within the context of the mutual defense assistance act. i do  see that this should prevent the house from  recalling this power with respect to naval vessels. but i certainly do  see how it can be called a provision slipped by when the power is provided to be so carefully checked.
i think what is worrying us and i think what the gentleman from iowa tried to put his finger on. is the fact that when a soldier enlists he is giving 100 percent. and what i think worries us is the statement in the bill that seems to confine it to preventing excessive profits. is there anything in the bill to stop a company from saying to the government. "we will do this without any profits at all. after adequate reserves. we do  want any profits on defense work any more than the soldier in korea." is there anything in this bill that would prevent any companyand i think this ought to be made clear generallyfrom saying to the government. "we will do this job without profit".
is it  a fact that this bill represents a fundamental change in the matter of the type of insurance provided. you are going to give all indemnity against the hazards of being in the armed services.  as a perquisite such as we gave them in world war ii but on a very much different basis.
i ice a sentence in the report which troubles me. i wish the gentleman would speak on it. it is to be found on page 36. with reference to taking over this warning system by. the civil defense authorities jeopardizing the function of the air force. the question i ask the gentleman is this: is the committee satisfied that the retention of a warning system by the air force will  jeopardize the civilian population. does this work both ways. can the job be done for the civilians. though the warning system remains where it is.
may i say that the activities of the gentleman from new jersey. whose district includes fort dix. are equally important. and that the bipartisanship on this issue which he has contributed means a great deal to the success of the effort. to continue with my conclusions: the fourth is that full utilization of manpower in purely military terms requires integration. segregation wastes and. in addition. debases manpower. which we have found when the question of low morale of negro troops who were segregated has come up. fifth. and this is a point that has been very well made. our whole moral leadership in the world is materially hurt by policies of segregation in the armed forces and by discrimination and segregation generally. we are fighting the battle for the minds of over a billion people. especially in asia and in africa. who have some kind of color. certainly they do  get too much comfort from the fact that segregation and discrimination continue in our own country. though. of course. the communists inflate it far beyond its true compass. and the elimination of segregation in the armed forces is a big thing for them. there are just two other points i should like to make. first. that one hears about the solicitude of people who live in areas where segregation is part of the social pattern. yet it is a fact that this elimination of segregation in the armed services should be the easiest to accomplish fully. it seems so logical. in view of the fact that men as soldiers are commonly dedicated to risking their lives for their country and should certainly be equally protected in their service by the flag and the constitution. i would like to end. . by quoting from a letter written to me by general marshall. secretary of defense. on march 30. 1951. after the gentleman from new jersey and i made this fort dixon inspection in which he said. as follows: i do  believe we need a new committee or a new blueprint at this time. but rather a continuation of the sincere effort that has been made in the 10 months since the fahy report to insure every soldier will have a maximum opportunity to make his contriloution to the effectiveness of our army without regard for his race or color. that is certainly a declaration of a great soldier and a great leader of world war ii as our chief of staffunder whom i served and others in this house served. feeling it a great privilegethat segregation hurts us in the very area that we are trying the most  to hurt. the effectiveness of the armed forces.
. i have been trying to get recognition for the 4 days we have been considering this bill for amendment in order to propose an amendment. one which i have sponsored every time the draft bill has been up. the text of the amendment is as follows: my amendment was intended to declare it as the policy of congress that there should be discrimination in selection. or service. on account of race. creed. color. or national origin. i should like to inform the house that i will   offer that amendment. i do that in deference to the antisegregation vote which the house cast yesterday. and because i have faith that the house will be consistent. i think a magnificent illustration was given yesterday of the fact that we believe in the principles of the constitution. both in the general tone of the debate and in the vote that was cast. i think a great speech was made by the gentleman from illis and i think a great speech was made by the gentleman from new york . i think it is only fair. therefore. that the question  be labored further in this debate by anybody for any purposes. in the sincere faith that the house shall express its will on this amendment as it expressed its will on the situation yesterday. i should like to add this one point: let it be clear that if there had  been the votes against segregation in the armed services on the republican side of the aisle yesterday this winstead proposal could never have been stricken out of the bill. and it will  be today unless the republican votes for the same purpose are available. so many of us have always maintained that this fight against segregation and discrimination is a bipartisan issue. the votes have to come from the republican side of the aisle to be added to those on the democratic side if a fight like this is to be won. that is a happy idea. that we should combine in doing decent things. i am hopeful that the same votes we had yesterday will be forthcoming today to defeat this provision contained in the bill which would turn the clock back and force segregation even where it has already been eliminated.
ial elections held last april and may the extreme right wing parties also polled a heavy vote. these percentages may be compared with the fact that the nazy party when it came to power only counted 3.750.000 members. or 5 percent of the population in 1933. and that the communist party in the u. s. s. r. probably numbers only about 5 percent of the population . our stake in germany is very great. we have spent about $1.000.000.000 a year during the occupation to keep west germany fed and orderly and to encourage recovery. i wish to emphasize that i have supported these appropriations for west germanys part in the european recovery program and other steps to help rehabilitate the west german people and rebuild their area. we are a party to a guaranty of west germanys eastern border. including berlin. and we k that germanys industrial power is the most attractive area. in terms of vastly enhancing their capability for world conquest. of soviet imperialism and expansionism. we have tried to woo west germany in every way possiblewith financial support. with easy occupation terms. with shutting our eyes to the return of former nazis to high places in industry and government. with greater autoy in government. with receiving their diplomatic representatives and giving them international recognition. with an often hardtojustify leniency to war criminals convicted of the most revolting and degrading crimes against humanity. and in manifold other ways. . we are by this resolution going even further and giving the germans aher and a very important concession they want very badly. at the same time that there is much in quid pro quo still to be given to us. it has just been said here that the state of war was terminated with germany quickly in 1921 by resolution. but have they forgotten the fact that in 18 short years thereafter there was aher war. in which the germans were the principal aggressors. they have to account for that.  we. and we must counsel caution and moderation.
. it seems clear from the way the debate has proceeded so far that if we pass this amendment we are  going to limit the number of troops going to europe. that is clear from the testimony that is referred to in support of the amendment. it can be 200.000 or 400.000 or antiaircraft and many other troop units can be added. i served in the army. and a great many others have. they k that when you add the aa and the corps and army artillery and the various troops of other auxiliary and supply services you have an estimate of six divisions. but you can put a firm roof on the number of troops. everybody understands that. hence. what is the reason for proposing this amendment. the reason is to give expression. i believe. of the intent of congress. and to assert what the proponent of the amendment claims to be the power of congress. that congress should control the place to which the commander in chief and the joint chiefs of staff may deploy troops. i will  repeat the splendid argument made by the gentleman from new york against this amendment. but i would like to take up where he left off. let us see from the point of view of assessing the capability of those opposed to us what this means to the communists. that is whom this mobilization is directed toward defending against. let us see what it means to them if we pass this amendment. it means two things. as i see it. of great importance. and it represents a real gain for them. first. those of us who have been deeply concerned about how much we have already told them about what is our basic strategy will find that we have by this amendment only agreed for the future to take them further into our confidence. suppose general collins says tomorrow: "i do  need only six divisions for europe. i  need eight divisions." then we have got to come back to the floor and amend this bill or take some other legislative action. which expresses the very reason why we are proposing to change our troop employment for any observer in the gallery to e. secondly. what are the communists going to do with this amendment. if we pass it. they will blast their propaganda everywhere in the world. saying: "you see. we told you. these american representatives. these american generals can go around the world and ask you to be all out for defense. but they are  going to be all for defense. because their congress is still holding backgoing part wayshowing again those views which they had in the nineteen twenties." this will be used in their propaganda to support the phoney argument the soviets have been making about how we intend to deal with our allied peoples in respect of mutuality of sacrifice. i think it is a mistake then to adopt this amendment at this particular time. especially when it does. as it admitted. substantial good to a roof on troops. a lot has been said here about the dignity and power of the congress. but there is also the question whether the congress is  stepping out of its established powers and if the amendment proposed would . if carried. amount to taking over the powers of the executive as commander in chief. are we  by this ammendment seeking to assume to ourselves the prerogatives and functions of military command. clearly contrary to the constitutional arrangement for three effective branches of government.
. may i tell my colleagues that i expect to speak against the motion. and i hope the committee will turn down the motion. this is a serious matter that we have before us. and it ranks in importance with the appropriations for our own armed services. i do  believe this committee would think for a moment of being irresponsible egh to toss over the vitally important remainder of the great alliance which was successful in world wars i and ii. and which we are counting on to protect us against the possibility of world war iii. in any such summary fashion as to vote favorably on this motion. i would like to clarify two things. first. let us understand that the answer to the military cut has been made best by the gentleman from masschusetts . if we want to arm westorn europe. we want arm it in a hurryand it is a fact. and i state it as a factthat europ3 can mobilize the men if we give them the equipmentthen. certainly. the authorization for equipment is place to cut. we k the time is limited. we k the danger is great. we have to get the end items to arm and men ready to receive them in w~stern europe. certainly it is a shortsighted saving if we cut the military provision. my colleague from massauchetts has well pointed out that his saving provision with regard to end items that can move out of the regular military appropriation will  cure the cut in the military authorization in this bill. because the additional amount of money in this bill is needed for the purpose to b2 served by this bill. and he himself. therefore. opposes the militaryaid cut. i would like to call to the attention of the committee the consequences of the ecoic cut. if members will look at page 20 of the committees report they will find that $840.000.000 of the total amount to europe for ecoic aid is for rearmanent. it is for coal. steel. leather. machine tools. and other items in order to enable the western european peoples themselves to manufacture equipment to effect rearmament. the remainder between that amount of $840.000.000 and tie amounts in the bill for ecoic aid amounts to approximately $500.000.000 according to the committees figures with respect to the completion of the marshall plan thereand i think this is very importantwe should understand that the peoples who are to get the whole of this $500.000.000 are in austria. western germany. greece. and italy. this is longer money that is going to france. england. and other countries that had been provided for in marshall plan funds. this is going to the hard core of nations who are really having fundamental ecoic difficulties and which we are anxious to save ecoically. these figures are disclosed. and they are in the committees report on page 20. a cut in ecoic aid represents a diminution in one of two things: one. the amount that is going to buttress armament by manufacture and self help in western europe itself. or. two. the amount that is going to austria. western germany. greece. and italy. which we are anxious to sustain in the paths of freedom.
. the people of israel have shown from the early days when they fought alone with rifles that they were able to defeat aggressors who sought to drive them into the sea.  the analogy in respect of the hard core of defense that is israel. can be very exactly drawn with greece. greece was the hard core of resistance to the communist drive in the balkans despite the fact that she had 7.000.000 people as against 35.000.000 other peoples in the balkans. that showed their military capacity and their spirit. they need help but they are selfreliant. those were the people who were determined for freedom. their small population. just as israels relative population to the arab states. was egh because of thei: capacity and spirit. the same is true in israel. they are the people who are determined for freedom. therefore. in the fundamental strategic interest of the united states. this is the hard core of resistance in that area of the world. the proponent of this amendment said something about the fact that israel will  be dependent upon the united states governments generosity. the gentleman ks. and i think every member ks. that the greatest drive for fundraising that has probably ever been carried on by any organization of private citizens has been carried on among the jewish people of the united states. who have raised hundreds of millions of dollars to aid in israel. these drives have been going on and are being continued. but the problem is just too big even for that kind of scraping of the bottom of the barrel which they have done. someone asked if the israeli army would fight on our side. our military people have given the best answer to that. right  there are a considerable number of israeli officers training in military schools in the united states. do you think our military people would permit that for a minute if they did  have confidence that this new state of israel was indeed an arm of the defense of freedom in that area of the world. we are dealing with both arab and jewish refugees in this bill and the treatment of both grave problems is even handed. the great need of the near east is a firm peace and common efforts at ecoic progress. israel. as the arab states. is a part of the near east and its future is bound to the future of that area. it is these common objectives which the bill is designed to serve. i ask that the house defeat this amendment.
the gentleman. i am sure. ks that the arabs openly and callously defied the u. n. by their invasion by force in organized armies of israel. the present lines are armistice lines and the arab states which were aggressors still are in territory they have business in. israel certainly is entitled to the right of self defense. the main point i would like to agree with the gentleman on. and that is the last thing that the gentleman said. that we play the game fairly and squarely. matter where it leads and without appeasement to anybody. and without being intimidated by any arab leaders who most irresponsibly may flirt with communism. the gentleman would agree on that. i take it.
. the proposal for making a vital part of the defense of western europe and of general eisenhowers forces the european defense communitythe european army planis entirely right. but the conditions attached by the west german bundestag to the acceptance of this european army plan pose great dangers for the defense of europe and the free world. conditions imposed just yesterday by the french chamber of deputies do  improve the situation. the bundestags conditions show that we are in the midst of a bargaining process in which the german federal government is being pushed by elements in west germany and that our administration shows disposition to call a halt to it. the way the negotiations are going . they could result in giving germany the unlimited and unrestricted right to make weapons and war materials. in the freeing of the major german war criminals. in giving germany such claims to the saar as could encourage a new recurrence of the state of mind there which was responsible for the march 7. 1936. march into the rhineland and in restoring a german general staff and a separate german national military force. this is a price which the free world can pay even for german participation in europes defense. desirable as that is. we are in danger of forgetting too soon the brutal aggression and unparalelled destruction of the moral code of civilization in world wars i and ii loosed by wilhelms germany and hitlers reich.
. those of us who advocated the battle bill.  law. to regulate eastwest trade in the interests of american and of freeworld security rather than to break it off entirely. have a particular duty to see that such trade proceeds only on the basis of strict necessity. it is for this reason that i call to the attention of the house substantial purchases by the quartermaster general of the army from january to june of 1951 of tomato paste made in hungary. ironically egh. a large amount of what was procured recently had to be confiscated and condemned as unsuitable for consumption. i have also been advised by a constituent serving in the armed forces in germany that occasional shipments of glass and chinaware from czechoslovakia and the east zone of germany are found in the armys pxs there. mistakes will happen. but i trust that american authorities. and especially the army. will be vigilant to see that wherever there is a matter of choice. and even where we may have to do without. as with tomato paste. we should avoid unnecessarily fortifying the communist bloc with dollars earned through trade. a memorandum from the office of the chief of legislative liaison. department of the army. and a news item on this subject are attached: [from the new york times of february 2.
exactly. it is my purpose to make both this act and the selective service act cotermis. i feel the chairman of the committee has distinctly improved the bill and its prospects by his amendment. and i am proposing further improvement. the purpose of my amendment is to make this act. if it passes. and the selective service act end on exactly the same date. and these are my reasons. we have adopted a manpower policy for military defense in the selective service act. we are  asked by the advocates of universal military training to substitute aher manpower policy. there may be merit in that substitution. i think the vote here a while ago  to strike out the enacting clause was a determination to keep an open mind on the subject and see if this bill could be put in shape as a manpower policy to fit in with selective service which the house could approve. i have an amendment against segregation and discrimination in the reserve components which i will propose at the proper time. for instance. and i am sure there are other amendments. but i do  conceive it to be the purpose of a good manycertainly it is  my purposeto adopt a totally different military manpower policy extending beyond the period upon which we have already decided as a proper terminal date for the manpower policy of military defense generally. to wit. 1955. i happen to feel myself that the path of peace means that we are in for a long period of strain with the soviet union and the communist bloc. but if we are going to have a total and complete military mobilization. a drafting of everybody. and a calling in of all reserves as we did during world war ii. then. obviously. we are looking forward to a war. what we want is a manpower policy which is designed for impregnable defense and for the performance of our security commitments abroad under present conditions of what is generally "cold war"  major "hot war" which we perforce consider to be peace. there is undoubtedly considerable merit to the manpower system proposed by this bill for universal training at 18 in a special corps and building up of a powerful ready reserve. but if we put it in effect beyond the period for which we have already adopted a manpower policy in selective service which is 1955. we deprive congress of the opportunity to review the military manpower system as a unit at that time and to determine its continuance as a unit. i think the congress has the best chance to deal with it in that way. without just being against it because it is labeled "umt." and that we are doing the best job as far as the country is concerned by trying to put the bill in proper shape.
. the treatment of german war criminals is a subject of major importance. it has figured prominently in the negotiations between the allied high commission and the german federal government in connection with new contractual status for west germany. it involves a fundamental question of punishment for acts of geide and similar acts against the free worlds moral code and outside the rules of war. it represents in the eyes of the free world probably the deciding factor in determining whether the aggression and outrage of civilized values practiced by germany under hitler has been forgotten or condoned or whether we still intend to keep this experience before us as an object lesson for the future. the arrangements to be made regarding these german war criminals in the pending contract arrangement with the german federal government is therefore a major question. i have just received a statement from the department of state on this subject. appended below. which relates to the over 800 major war criminals held outside of spandau prison in berlin. where those convicted by the international military tribunal at nuremberg are confined. this statement makes clear exactly what will happen with respect to these german war criminals under the contractual agreement. in view of the nature of these crimes application to these war criminals "of generally accepted peogical practices" as for commcn criminals can hardly seem justified. and the existence of an international board such as is contemplated will itself make for pressures to bring about early release of these prisoners as the subject is in germany an important political question. under the circumstances. it is at least much better to have a precise definition of exactly what will occur than to have the matter left in the nebulous state it has so far been by the reports of the negotiations. also it is important to e that the board will only have the authority to recommend to the affected allied country unless the decision is unanimous. and can only make a recommendation if the german members join with at least one allied member. it is hoped that these safeguards may avoid serious mistakes which could materially hurt the whole allied position as indicating a callous disregard for the tremendous crimes against civilization of which these german war criminals were found guilty. the text of the state department letter follows: my dear ma. javrrs: in your letter to the secretary of february 28 you inquire concerning the agreement recently reached to create a new board to consider questions regarding the reduction of sentence and parole of german war criminals. when the new agreements (or contractual arrangements) with the federal republic of germany enter into force. the occupation of that country will come to an end. certain basic allied rights will be retained. but only to the extent required by the continuing division of germany and the presence of a serious external threat to the federal republics security and our own. this means that the allied high commission will be abolished and separate embassies of the three powers will be established at bonn. relations with the federal republic will thereafter be conducted by the methods customary between equal nations. it would be inconsistent with this new relationship for the american. british. or french governments to maintain a prison for german nationals in the federal republic. therefore. it is intended to transfer to the german authorities custody of the war criminals held by the allies in western germany when the contractural agreements become effective. the federal republic will agree to carry out the sentences of these prisoners and to maintain the conditions of confinement existing when custody is transferred. an international board will be established in order to provide a means for considering questions of termination or reduction of sentence. or of parole. after custody has been transferred to the germans. since there were war crimes trials held  only by the united states authorities in germany. but also by the british and french. it was agreed that the board would be composed of one american. one british. one french. and three german members. the board will act only with respect to particular cases. and at the request of one of the four governments or upon the receipt of a petition by or on behalf of one of the convicted men. it will have independent authority. since the members. in formulating recommendations. will  be subject to instructions from the governments which appointed them. the board will have access to the prisoners and to the institutions in which they are confined. it will be empowered to act by majority vote. and its recommendatlons to the governments will be advisory only. except in a case when there is unanimous agreement. in which event the recommendation will be binding upon the government concerned. while the right to terminate or reduce a sentence. or to grant parole. will remain with the government which imposed the sentence. this right will  be exercised unless the board has previously made a recommendation. criteria for the boards actions have yet been established. however. it has been made clear that the board will  have any authority to question the validity of the convictions. it is expected that the board will follow generally accepted peogical practices in arriving at its recommendations. the boards jurisdiction covers those war criminals confined by the united states. the british. or the french in prisons in the federal republic at the time the contractual agreements enter into force. the board will have jurisdiction over those convicted by the international military tribunal at nuremberg. since they are held in joint custody by the american. british. french. and soviet authorities in berlin.
. the gentleman from texas and members of the committee on veterans affairs have done a monumental job. i hope this bill is approved. in common with other members. i am also the author of a bill to give the korean gis the same benefits as those in world war ii. my purpose in asking for this time is to emphasize that we  only give benefits to our veterans but we give them dignity. it is something that all ought to think about and i hope there will  be many who will  when this korean action became necessary. i think the history which we had in manchuria in 1931 and in the rhineland in 1934. when we let japan and germany. respectively. get away with armed aggression which brought on world war ii. demonstrates that even though we have allies. some of whom find it impossible to help as much as we feel they should due to their internal situation. and some of whom are busy in other places. the essential job had to be done. history will prove that if world war iii is prevented. which we are trying to do. it will have been prevented because we took this first step to stop armed aggression when it threatened us in this important area of the world.
. on the roll call on the motion to suspend the rules and pass the bill h. r. 7656. the veterans educational assistance act of 1952. i was unavoidably detained just ouside the chamber on the affairs of a constituent and was  informed that the roll call was being concluded. if i had been present i would have voted "yea." i introduced a similar measure myself in this session to give veterans of service after june 27. 1950. the full benefit of the gi bill as given to veterans of world war ii. i was present on monday last. june 2. for the debate on this bill and rose here immediately before the vote to obtain a roll call.
. neither can i conscientiously support this measure for the reasons stated. i point out one other thing: this issue is  what it always has been. the cold war is hotter than ever and we are in a hot war in korea. the federal government  clearly has these emous reserves of oil by virtue of the decisions of the supreme court. they can be best utilized for the strategic security of the united states in the hands of the federal government. i think that security consideration so pertinent today dictates that this house ought  under present circumstances to turn down this bill and the proposal to turn these great national resources under the tidelands over. in effect. to a few great states.
. i shall  take but a minute or two. i wish to join what is obviously the same opinion on the floor of a good many members in protesting against the widespread legislation of all veterans affairs in this appropriation bill. it is very seductive to be saving money. or what goes by way of saving money in dollars upon veterans activities. it is an easy place to do it in an appropriation bill where the tendency of members. many of whom are committed to ecoy. is to cut. i would like to call the attention of these members to the fact that you are changing basic policy here even if it is for 1 year. you are changing basic policy at a time when. as has been so often stated. we have just been through a hot war which is still going on with tremendous casualties to veterans. and at a time of great mobilization. and when you expect our men when they go into the army. navy. and air force. to go in without any reservations of what is going to happen to them when they get out. i think it is a very serious question involving the morale of those who enter the armed services of the united states. the committee on veterans affairs has shown itself very solicitous of this morale question. i think we are making a great mistake as we go through this bill provision after provision with legislation for veterans. which is  going through the committee on veterans affairs after holding hearings and the utilization of their own experience and after hearing veterans organizations and all the people who are generally heard upon these measures. i for one member. am going to vote and will continue to vote consistently against all of these legislative provisions in this bill because to my mind in deep conscience. i feel it is a grave mistake to jeopardize the question of morale of these men. the finest in america who are going into the armedservice if in this cavalier way under the guise of ecoy we deal with veterans affairs without leaving it to the committee on veterans affairs.
i am delighted the gentleman has asked me that question. we have put up the bulk of the forces in korea.  i would like to ask the gentleman a question. can he tell me how many men we have sent to aid the anticommunist struggle in indochina. how many men has the united states got in indochina and how many men has france got in indochina. how many men has britain in malaya in a hot war and how many has the united states.
. i do  like the nature of the administration of spain or the nature of the yugoslav administration. both are totalitarian forms of government. we all understand that. i have the greatest feelings of friendship for the peoples of spain and yugoslavia. it is a rather unhappy day for me to find it necessary. either in committee or on the floor. to vote mutualdefense aid even though military to help our own defense and military capabilitywhere such regimes are in power. but i am devoted to the cause of the free world and this must be safeguarded beyond all personal considerations. i believe thoroughly that it is essential to the security of our country that such mutualdefense aid shall be voted. therefore i am opposed to both amendments. this is based upon the hardest headed security grounds which i would like to analyze because i think it is very important. first. to lay at rest a question which is  too critical but one that has been raised here. i understand there are military inspections of the use and disposition of the equipment which we give to yugoslavia by a military group called by aher name from the military groups in other countries. because it has this distinction in procedure: when it goes into the field to make inspection which i understand it is completely free to do. the yugoslavs. who are still living with communist suspicions. insist on having our mission accompanied by their officers. so we call the mission by some other catechism of letters instead of the mal military mission titles used in the other states. to get at the fundamental point involved. spain is in a highly strategic part of europe. spain is isolated from the rest of the totalitarian world by many countries which are in the free world. when gen. mark clark and general eisenhower led our forces into th africa their published statements and reports state they were in grave fear they might be unable to go through the strait of gibraltar without some hostile action by franco. who was then on the side of hitler and mussolini. it seems to me that if we can secure that passage. the amount of money which is involved here is cheap and we are doing it on the straight grounds of the security of the united states and the security of the free world. it seems to me also. looking at the totalitarian governments. of which spain is one. it is much better to get their doors open even a little bit for the entry of ideas of freedom and our understanding of the struggle in the defense of freedom than if the doors remain shut tight. i think that is of benefit to the spanish people. i consider that benefit in addition to the paramount consideration of the security of the free world. which on a strategic level. based on the information of our joint chiefs of staff and borne out by the experience of world war ii. absolutely demand protection of that entrance into the mediterranean sea which spain offers. in addition. spain is of tremendous importance as a place for airfields and naval anchorages. as to yugoslavia. that country has. and this figure has been mentioned time and time again. therefore it is breach of security. 30 divisions. at least. considered to be good fighting divisions. in my opinion. the greatest blow the kremlin has ever suffered and what will yet result in a complete recession of russian power is the defection of yugoslavia. though yugoslavia gives evidence of really meaning its defection to be final. we are still approaching the problem there in a modest. reasonable way. we are  going overboard to keep yugoslavia in every field as the potential military strength of yugoslavia might dictate. we are moving in slowly and doing only what is absolutely necessary in order to give those yugoslav divisions some fighting power. first. there is the ideological point of causing tito to defect from the communist world. which he did because he felt he could get better support in the free world. and he has gotten that support. and it is very important to keep him on the freeworlds side. second. we talk about the weakness of the whole balkans. the balkans are vulnerable or they are communist. and here in yugoslavia is the solid threat in the underbelly of europe to any communist drive in that direction. on the complete flank of any such drive helping brave greece and protecting turkey. too. hitler understood that he had to -take yugoslavia before he could do anything in the balkans. and the russians understand the same thing. i would like very much. naturally. to see yugoslavia a democratic country. and again. there. too. any entry of ideas of freedom will be of some help to the people of yugoslavia in showing them that there are ways to freedom and away from communism. here is yugoslavia a thorn in the side of the russians. right on their flank. which helps make the balkans substantially secure from being overrun by the russians. and i think we are getting it at a cheap price and we would be foolish. indeed. if we kicked it away.
i believe from all the testimony before us the fact is. if that estimate was made. it is out of date. and that it is expected  that the free peoples are able to makeand the testimony before us showed that we are able to make for the first time since nato has been formed some reasonable defense of europe. which does  mean that europe is impregnable or that europe can be overrun. but for the first time that free peoples through nato are able to man some reasonable defense of europe through the help of our programs including this mutual security program.
. this is a very important amendment. the richards amendment in the bill to which this amendment applies is very important. what it does is to tie up a billion dollars until such time as all six powers ratifies the european defense community. it leaves a balance of about $1 billion to be used for western europes armament. to be divided among all the nations. i was against the richards amendment in committee. i am still against it. i think the whole concept is wrong. i think the amendment offered by the gentleman from pennsylvania ameliorates it a little. the question is. why do we who oppose the richards amendment  move to strike out the richards amendment. the answer is: the structure of the whole military phase of this bill is built upon the principle of the richards amendment. therefore. the only way to deal with it is to let the other body work its will on this program. then to let the two bodies. one of which will be this house. pass on the bill according to the different structures in each bill and work it out in conference. i believe the fulton amendment ameliorates the position of the richards amendment and makes it somewhat better. at least. it lets the program go forward to some extent. for each nation that approves the european defense community is under this amendment then to be entitled to participate in the amount tied up. the only thing that can be said for the richards amendment is that it proposes to give some incentive to the nations of europe to approve the edc plan. but it is fatally defective. as i see it. in that it crosses over and disregards the whole nato organization. consisting of 14 countries of europe which are kept together and are organized effectively for the common defense. it penalizes all of the 14 because only part of them5have  approved edc. therefore. the whole richards amendment is unsound. and i feel this view will prevail. and it will  be in the final legislation.
of course general ridgway would  k. he handles nato over in europe. and this is a program which was designed here. secondly. if we produced the program here this aftern it would be $500 million we would be talking about.  $100 million. this is an opportunity for them to do a job that they feel is urgent.
. which has had a most magnificent effect on american foreign policy throughout the whole world and upon the acceptability of our countrys leadership throughout the free world. i am deeply convinced that with this amendment we would put a roadblock in the way of all these efforts. which would. except under aher name. make us the victims of isolationism in the world. and do a great deal to keep the world from that kind of cooperation which can avoid world war iii.
. the raging controversy between a member of the other body and the department of the army. which started with army officers as witnesses. got into questions of special treatment for a draftee formerly a committee consultant. has become the concern  only of the other body. but of the whole congress and. therefore. of this house. this controversy  appears to affect discipline in the army and civilian control of the army. the purpose of all of us in this house who have advocated reforms in congressional investigating committees. which we said were vitally needed. or who have urged that there be a joint committee on internal security to replace the existing committees investigating communism and subversion has been to deal with excess and improper jeopardy to individuals in such investigations. but this situation has become a critical national issue overshadowing even the reform of the congressional investigating committee arrangements. and i respectfully urge the committee on armed services of the house to take .ognizance of that fact. i urge that the committee on armed services of the house inquire into the situation to be sure that. as between it and the committee on armed services of the other body. the public may be informed as to the proper operation of the army. which is far more important even than who told who what in this whole sorry business.
 does  commit our troops in indochina unless the congress agrees. but it is dangerous in its view because it fails to recognize that today our defense can be shackled by depriving ourselves of the timely opportunity to protect our national securityour defense today is intercontinental. to avoid world war iii. and  just a matter of defending the borders of the united states. and that is the way in which we and the other free peoples might have had a chance to avert world war iiby stopping japan when she went into manchuria. and by cracking down on hitler when he went into the rhineland. and by  having tolerated aggression anywhere in the world when we ought to have kn that it is inevitable when aggression is gotten away with by the communists or anybody else that ultimately it only breeds more aggression. until it is impossible to take it any more in terms of security and peace and a world war results. i would like to answer my colleague. the gentleman from massachusetts who asked. i think. a very important question. as to whether in the view of the gentleman who was then speaking. the very distinguished chairman of the armed services committee. the soviet union was deterred by fear of american power in  attacking us. i believe the soviet union is deterred by fear of american power in  attacking us. i believe the soviet union is deterred by fear of american power in  attacking us directly. but i believe that the soviet union believes in the opinion of its communist masters and their appraisal of public opinion and the general attitude in the united states. that it can get away successfully with attacking us indirectly. they tried it in korea where we finally had to accept a stalemate. about at the point where the aggression started and  they are trying it in indochina. from what we hear including this kind of amendment i am discussing. we have to be careful that soviet leader has a right to conclude that we will  stand up and do our share with other free nations. if need be and there is reasonable prospect of repelling aggression. from the frontiers of our own security. which in fact may prove to be far away from our shores and even on the other side of the pacific. it is our duty in this congress out of a sense of deep responsibility to face that issue. because it is before us and we must face it and one else will face it for us.
 and approved by him. as the act requires. negotiations are  underway with the respective governments as to these projects. providing for united states assistance to speed them up. and assuring that successful developments resulting will be available. subject to adequate security protection for nato defense. may i emphasize that the 36 projects have already been approved.  i continue on page 25: the second partthat is. the american partof this program includes a screening of the development of our own armed forces which might be useful for nato defense. finally. there is the view of mr. donald a. quarles. assistant secretary of defense for research and development. which appears further down on the page. as reported by mr. voorhees: mr. quarles * * * has in mind the possibility of utilizing a portion of this fund to develop a mutual arrangement with the different countries under which they will. with some assistance. round out their own aircraft control and warning systems. and these will be linked up with some assistance by the united states. including united states khow and experience through a central laboratory.
i stood with the gentleman on this position and i intend to offer aher alternative to the very general idea the gentleman is discussing. is it  a fact that france and italy could make a collective defense agreement. they are in nato  in fact. and if this amendment were adopted could qualify under this act.
. this is an amendment put into the bill by the committee on foreign affairs in its considered judgment. i believe it my duty to justify what is planned on the ground that it is in the national interest of the united states. i think it is right and in the national interest. and i intend to justify it to the committee of the whole. i am  a special expert on this subject. but i just could  sit and let this amendment go by. either we are doing things that we k something about. or we do . and it is high time we found out. the rap is the  3 air force in the world. it comes after the united states and soviet russia. we have on british soil emous air installations of very considerable consequence. the rap showed itself in world war ii to be as scrappy an air force as there is in the world. it stood up against all of the german might. all of the german power. for a time practically on its own.
i am indebted to my colleague. i generally find in this house. if the committee is  in order. it does  want to be. and if the members are  interested. there is hing to do about it. but. it is my bounden duty to stand up for this provision in the bill which was put in by the committee in a considered way. and is backed by the administration in a considered way. . the british raf. as i say. is the third largest air force in the world. after the united states and the soviet union comes the raf. we have great installations over there. the british showed themselves very scrappy in world war ii. particularly in fighter planes. they have been leading developers in the world of turbojets and ramjets and rockets. and in that research they had a very leading part and made emous contribution to the strength of the free world. we provided $85 million for exactly this kind of an operation to strengthen the rap. in the 1953 bill. it took about a year to negotiate that contract. as everybody ks who has had experience in these fields. it takes a long time to negotiate a contract for new types of aircraft. and i am in a position to state to the house authoritatively. withstanding what has been said in support of this amendment. that the $85 million provided for last year has been fully obligated in contracts signed. we have a memorandum to that effect sent to the committee table by the representatives of the administration who are up in the gallery. that is the situation today. the administration has represented to us.  on the word of an administrator. but on the word of general stewart. the defense departments representative who put this program before us. as follows. as stated at page 30 of the committee report: it is an overall plan in an effort to increase the finest air force outside of the united states. on the western side. * 0 * in the event of war all these forces are available for the th atlantic treaty organization. this whole plan is an effort to build up the raf to support the nato forces between ourselves in the event of war. this is pretty serious business. . and i. for one. am  going to take the responsibility of turning down this particular provision which has been put in in a considered way to strengthen such extremely important sinews of free world defense as the royal air force. which has certainly demonstrated that it is on our side. on the side of freedom. in the most effective way kn to date. by its heroic actions in world war ii.
. i have news for the gentleman from pennsylvania . my good friend who always delights us with the same kind of speeches. we are in an emergency. we do  have to wait for one. we are in one right . let us call the roll on where this money for military assistance is going sought to be cut by $300 million: greece. turkey. pakistan. iran. the philippines. formosa. thailand. and what is left of indochina. the independdent states of laos and cambodia and south viet nam. there is one thing i can do. i can undertake to convince a number of the gentlemen who have spoken. some have been frank egh to say that they will vote against the bill anyway. so i must direct my remarksto those who sustained this program a few short weeks ago. and who are  concerned with whether the cost which is put before us is legitimate. it is legitimate. for this reason: what the gentleman from wisconsin. mr. davis. has sought to cut are what he calls uligated funds. but he has  tried to cut new appropriations at all. the new appropriation has already been cut by the senate committee $165 million. this committee itself has already taken off $265 million of the uligated funds. i will assume that in the conference they will try to work that out with the senate. based upon the real needs. but the cut of the gentleman from wisconsin is a meataxe cut. because every dollar of this money is programed. that means it is promised to one of our allies in a military sense. let me call attention to the statement in the report of the committee on foreign affairs when we brought this bill up in 1954: nineteen hundred and fiftyfour will see a 5 percent increase in ground force strength. a 15 percent increase in naval strength. and a 25 percent increase in air strength in nato. these uligated balances are the amounts of money which will go under contract as soon as model questions and similar plans are decided upon. but they have been programed. that is the reason for the force goals which we are talking about in nato. that is the reason for the increase in military strength.
. i present for appropriate reference a resolution adopted by the polish central council. niagara falls. new york. favoring the enactment of legislation to utilize world war ii frozen assets of germany. japan and italy. originally amounting to approximately $575 million. for science and engineering scholarships for american students. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution may be printed in the record.
i was formerly a member of the committee on foreign affairs of the house. and i served in that capacity for about 8 years. therefore. i have some boldness in speaking on this subject. even though i am a junior senator. many times in similar situations during my service in the house. i. along with my colleagues. found that if the united states wanted to do a good job. it was necessary to get foreign nations to accept aid upon the terms we were willing to make or offer. is that  the real reason for giving the president authority to use $200 million free from any restrictions contained in the mutual security act. that act. as we k. contains certain restrictions and limitations on the use of money authorized by the act. many of the recipient countries may wish to accept money under those restrictions. but can very well do so because of an internal situation or because of adverse public opinion in some of them. therefore. if we give the money to the president to be used free of restrictions. the president can put it to use where heretofore it has  been accepted. some persons may think that is a silly way to get people to take money they were  willing to accept before. however. we must remember that this is a tough war. and it may be necessary to use just that kind of procedure. is that  the real and effectual and substantive reason why the ecoic aid part of the program is equally as strong and equally as important as the military part. and does  that fact also help answer the feeling of many millions of people in the world that we should  fight the war against communism only with military means. but that we should use our ecoic strength as well.
. i present. for appropriate reference. and ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. a resolution adopted by the 1956 convention of the national department of the catholic war veterans of the united states. relating to the construction of a war memorial in the district of columbia. in tribute to those who died in the armed forces. this project is  being considered by a federal commission.
i should like to make a contribution to the point the senator from california has made so well. in replying to the senator from ohio. i was in both thailand and the philippines only a few months age. in thailand. they consider that the front against communism should be vietnam. and they said so. and they gave evidence of their concern about weakness in laos and cambodia. the only reason why they felt there was any stability on that frontwhich is what they call itis that they feel that the vietnamese army is tough and dependable. the same position was taken by president magsaysay. of the philippines. whose untimely death was so unfortunate. i think those facts underlie and support all the senator from california has said.
i thank the senator from illis. . the united states had had remarkably good experience with loans in this field. since the end of world war ii. the united states has extended $47 billion in grants. including all forms of aid. including military aid. and approximately $11 billion in creditsin other words. in loans. of the $11 billion in credits. .046 percentless than onehalf of 1 percenthas been found to be uncollectible. and approximately onehalf of 1 percent is about 90 days overdue. therefore. i think the record demonstrates the constructive. character of what we are seeking to do in the present case.
 of the united states is one of the greatest developments in mankinds history and emphasizes the beneficent aspects of the atom instead of its war potentials. i think that is all to the good. and i hope the treaty will receive a resounding vote in the senate.
. i wish to say a word on the girard case. decided by the supreme court of the united states yesterday. because i think it poses an issue upon which those who feel deeply about the foreign affairs of our country need to speak unequivocally. what we need to realize is that we must  permit isolationism to induce us . under cover of the decision in the girard casewhich many of including myself. may disapprove of in terms of its practical outcometo abrogate the status of forces agreements under which we deal with 54 nations. and which. if abrogated. would represent one of the greatest victories for isolationism which this country has ever kn. it would result in making untenable the position of the united states abroad. and would accomplish in one fell swoop what the masters in the kremlin have been trying to do ever since world war ii closed. under cover of deep feeling on this subjectand i think justifiable feeling. on the merits of the girard case itselfwe could make an irrevocable mistake. tragic to our foreign policy and to the security of the united states if we should allow this emotional feeling to drive us into abrogation of the status of forces treaties. this is very difficult to say. and very difficult for the country to appreciate. however. it is the path of responsibility for those of us who k better. and it is our duty to say so. the new york times of this morning expresses this idea. in my opinion. most admirably in this sentence: at the same time congress must take warning  to permit diehard isolationists to confuse the issue and exploit the girard case to press for repeal of the status of forces as a whole. the editorial also says: one must question the wisdom of the original american waiver of jurisdiction in committee in the case of a soldier who was admittedly on duty. as certified by his commanding officer. even though he may have committed an unauthorized act. especially since the administration iged the last resort of diplomatic negotiations provided by the status of forces agreement itself. i believe that in the future we must make a much better record on that subject. and. indeed. even renegotiate our treaty with the japanese. but we should  be driven into an isolationist position by what has occurred in this case. i ask unanimous consent that editorials from the new york times and the new york herald tribune of today be printed in the record. at this point as a part of my remarks.
 said. "within the next 50 years. men will learn how to fly like birds." the bishop was truly shocked and told the college head that he was verging on blasphemy. "dont you realize." he questioned in amazement. "that flight is reserved for the angels." the eworthy point of this story is that the name of the bishop was milton wright. at his home in dayton. he had two small sons named orville and wilbur. the history which followed is well kn: the epochmaking flight at kitty hawk. the formation of an aeronautical division in the signal corps of the army to "study the flying machine and the possibility of adapting it to military purposes". the rapid progress of aviation. the battles over doctrine in which. by world war ii. the airminded military men had triumphed. and the emergence of the airplane and airpower from world war ii  merely as a most important weapon of modern war. but as a decisive weapon. even  we as a nation are  yet really adjusted to the imperatives and the implications of the jetatomic age in which we live. we have traditionally relied upon the oceans as barriers guarding our shores. those barriers are  dissolved. and th americas heartland could lie open and vulnerable to sudden and devastating air attack of unimaginably destructive force. i say "could" because i am assuming that we will  deny ourselves protection. and will devise an adequate defense. i can talk about the air force without talking about the future. the kind of air force we will have tomorrow. or 10 years or more from . depends upon what we do today. we can permit only actions which are wise. timely. and foresighted if we are to see the deterrent power of our air force flourish and grow. the future. i believe it is safe to assume. will belong to those nations which have scientific brainpower in the greatest quantity. resources. and an effective population. moral strength and leadership to back it up. we dare  fall behind in this race even though it will be a hard race and a fast race. greater numbers of people gifted in research must be developed. and in airpower we must build a continuously increasing corps of skilled technicians in both the operational and maintenance fields. these skilled people will  miraculously appear. they will appear only if we plan and act wisely and immediately toward that objective. in one of his last public statements. gen. "hap" ard said: most important of all. we will need an ably staffed. adequately financed. and properly equipped research and development program. i say. most important of all. because if we fall to keep.  merely abreast. but ahead of techogical development. we need  bother to train any force and we need  make plans for emergency expansion. we will be totally defeated before any expansion could take place. all of this is expensive. of course. but it is one expense that we can . or ever. skimp or stint. it is the price of security and the price of peace. general ard. gen. billy mitchell. gen. hoyt vandenberg. and all of the men who built our airpower. would be proud of the air force in this year of its 50th anniversary. it is the worlds finest because those men labored to make it so. it will remain the worlds finest only if we bring to it the same enthusiasm. vision. hard work. wisdom. and. above all. the personal sacrifice those men gave to it. this is the responsibility of every american. and i am confident that every american will recognize and assume to maintain our nation. under god. free. prosperous. and at peace.
. let us remember that the bill which came to the senate contained part iii. which was stricken out by the senate. and also contained part iv. without the socalled jurytrial amendment. so i believe we have a right to expect that the other body will take a position of dignity and selfrespect in standing for its own measure. therefore. the second reason for my determination is that i look toward a house and senate conference. which i confidently expect will take place. i do  expect the other body to accept the senate bill. but i believe the house will stand up for its bill. as a result. there will be a reasonable opportunity to get a civilrights measure with which we can live. third. a civilrights law is urgently needed in the national and international interest of the united states. the national interest has been very considerably discussed on both sides. by both those for and against this measure. but i think the international interest has been too little discussed. perhaps that was understandable when we were in the amendment stages of the bill. when it was  possible to determine what its final impact would be. but i think it becomes quite proper to discuss that aspect at a time such as this. when we are are considering the bill as a whole. the senate has a special responsibility in international affairs. it seems to me one of the major aspects of the civilrights struggle in this country has been its effect throughout the world. the struggle which we call the cold war is essentially being fought for the more than 1 billion people whose skins are yellow or black. who live in africa. the middle east. and the far east. who are  yet. in a fixed way. either in our own or in the communist orbit. who are newly emerging into nationhood. who are newly determining the forms of their governments and society. and who are trying to ascertain whether. in their quest for personal wellbeing and individual human dignity. they will accept the leadership of the united states or the leadership of the soviet union. the two super powers which exist on earth. let us put ourselves in the place of those people. i think we often underestimate the considerations which animate them. i might give as an example a fact which i believe will be confirmed by my most respected colleague from kentucky . despite the advertising to the effect that the people in the backcountry villages in india. some of which are 10 or more miles from any road. let alone a paved road. did  k that the united states was extending grain aid. some persons were very much surprised. on entering india and on visiting some of the really off -thebeatentrack villages. to learn that. by a process which i call intellectual osmosis. the people of those villages knew. or at least had some perception or understanding of what was going on in the world. and knew they had been helped. as a matter of fact. the village improvement program. backed by relatively modest funds on the part of the united states. amounting to approximately $30 million a year. has nevertheless had a most potent effect on our foreign policy in india. which country probably is the key to winning over the billion and a quarter people i have mentioned. because the villagers had background on which to base their acquaintance with our aid. and that background came from the relief we gave to india at the time of the great famine. so there is a consciousness of our aid. it may  be so sophisticated or perhaps so articulate as is our understanding of news. but more and more of this kledge is reaching the yellow and black peoples of the world. and that fact is demonstrated by the example i gave. it is an example based upon my personal experience. for my wife and i were in india in december. and actually went into the backcountry villages and learned personally of the understanding of the people as to what was happening to them. and who was. at least in part. responsible for it. so the civil rights struggle means to them a question of the moral character of the leadership which they are willing to accept. phrased in the most primitive terms. would we expect the yellow and black people in the world to look to us to lead them out of the wilderness of want. disease. bad sanitation. general backwardness. and into the upper plateau of wellbeing and freedom. if they had assurance from us that we conducted ourselves in our own country so that the color of ones skin made difference in terms of the acceptance of the individual in our society and giving him the rank and station in the society which his merits deserved. that fact has been apparent  only to us but to the communists as well. i k our dear friend (mr. morton). who is also from kentucky. and who was the congressional liaison officer for the state department. has had a number of years of experience in the state department. anyone who has listened to communist broadcasts and propaganda. who has read the daily translations. which come into the state department. of all the journals of the soviet union and the satellite countries. ks that one of the pieces of propaganda on which the communists have struck the most pay dirt. other than the propaganda of our "irperialist designs to foist war on the peoples of the world." which is pretty much beginning to sound like a broken record today. has been with respect to race relations in this country and what we do about them. i hope very much my voice will  be the only one raised in a discussion of the international implications of the problem we have here in hand. there are many members of this body who are tremendously experienced. from personal work and responsibility. in the field of foreign relations. i think this is a peculiarly timely moment to emphasize this aspect of the problem.
. let me conclude by pointing out that there is really hing greater. in terms of the help we have given by means of the programs for veterans. than our aid to veterans to enable them to obtain education and our aid to veterans to enable them to obtain housing. there are significant milestones in our countrys recognition of the special opportunities to which the veterans are entitled by reason of the fact that for some of the most productive years of their lives they have enlisted themselves in the service of their country. i k of veteran worthy of his salt who seeks any special break because he served the united states. these programs represent. on the other hand. our recognition of the need to make up to them for the productive years and the earning power they have lost while they have been in the service of their country. therefore. i am pleased to support what has transpired with respect to the amendments. and i am also pleased to support the entire measure. in the spirit which i have described.
i thank my colleague. who has so graciously welcomed our guests. for the information of the senate. i should like to say that our colleague has undertaken a great responsibility for the nato parliamentarians. as chairman of their political committee. with others. i look for very outstanding results from his work. our colleagues from canada. france. great britain. italy. iceland. the german federal republic. and denmark are most felicitously here. foras i said to them when we had our very pleasant luncheon in one of the most beautiful rooms of the capitol. the old supreme court chamber. and i should like to repeat the statement publicly at this time. here in the senateas they travel in our country. i believe they will find that the challenge we have faced and are facingnamely. the mortal danger to our joint survival. from the soviet union. with its emphasis on science in terms of destruction. rather than lifewill engrain in the minds of the american people a tremendous appreciation for their alliances. and particularly the most important alliance. the nato alliance. i hope that our colleagues from other lands in the nato alliance will watch with care for those indications. which i am sure they will find. i also hope that when they return to their homelands. they will join usking that we shall be expressing them herein the expression of the sentiments of mutual strength and cooperation. which are the most effective answer to the challenge we face. i may say to them. also. that although we constantly emphasize the challenge. we are at one with our president in the recognition that this is  the answer of life. but is only a current emergency. that the answer of life is to be found in the cultural and ecoic cooperation for the development of a finer. more moral. more ethical life for all of us. your peoples and the people of our own country. and that we are very conscious of that total human responsibility. and are even more determined to play our full share in the role of strength with which providence and the genius of our people have endowed us.
. senator can do more than use his effortsas i shall. and as i hope many other members of the senate willto urge upon the country and upon the senate and upon the majority leadership and upon the chairman of the judiciary committee the urgency. in the interests of the national security. of taking early action upon the matters i have discussed today. i am deeply convinced that. in a package. they are as essential as is our massive effort to catch up in terms of the weapons race. if we do  expectand certainly we do to resolve the conflict in the world by world war iii. then our other meansby ecoic and technical assistance. by recognition of human dignity. through enforcement of civil rights. and by immigration legislation which is just and fair. and takes account of what is taking place in the world. and takes account  only of our own strengths. but also of the weaknesses of our enemies. in terms of the things in which we believe and which we hold the most dearthat is the packageconstituting. as i see it. the way by which we hope to avoid world war iii. i shall do all that i can. and i deeply believe that many other members of the senate take the same position. in the belief that that is the packageone dealing with human values with weapons as our shieldby means of which we can negotiate for peace from a position of strength.
i interrupt the senator only because i must shortly leave the chamber to attend a conference on a bill. i have listened with interest. during the time i have been able to be present today. to the senators address. i have also read the text of his address. i believe that the senator from minnesota has touched upon several points of the utmost importance to our people with respect to this problem. i very much hope that he can gain encouragement from his colleagues from the various states. the senator may take such encouragement as he can from what i am about to say. first. he is pointing out to the american people that the russians. in entertaining the fears which they entertain. are only acting naturally. if we were in their place. we would consider such fears legitimate. just as we consider our concern legitimate. from our standpoint. therefore. it is superficial to write off the russians as fanatics. or as people who are needlessly concerned over what foreigners might do to them. their fears are the understandable. natural fears of any great power. and they must be separated from the philosophy which we should try to understand. and which we are doing our utmost to cope with. second. there are shortcuts to disarmament. just as there were shortcuts in the development of the icbm. which took place under tremendous pressure in the struggle for survival. the only real approach to disarmament is through painful progression from step to step. very much along the lines originally proposed by the united states after world war ii. it is necessary to understand each step in order to have a firm opinion about it. i believe that the avenues of approach suggested by the senator are of tremendous value to our people. though they deal with dangerous things. they tend to calm us. because they express reasonable ideas in an understandable context. i have supported the efforts of the senator from minnesota in the work of the disarmament subcommittee. i consider it an ho and a privilege to do so. i feel that the senator is making a significant contribution to our thinking. and that we should cheer him on.
. i have listened with the greatest interest. because of my own concern with our nations foreign policy. to the remarks this morning of the senator from montana and the senator from minnesota . on the subject of the french bombing of a village in tunisia. i believe we must be very precise on this subject. as my colleagues have tried to be. we must be precise in this way. namely. that we need a specific policy for our country. there appeared in the new york herald tribune. on february 11. an editorial entitled "a sad error." which i ask unanimous consent to have made a part of my remarks in the record at this point.
. i submit. for appropriate reference. a concurrent resolution to establish a 12member special joint committee on businessgovernment foreign policy cooperation. a companion measure is also being today introduced in the house of representatives by representative james g. fulton. of pennsylvania. the interests of the country and the interests of business itself dictate that our industrial establishment look upon the present russian scientific and weapons challenge as tantamount to a war emergency and act accordingly. this concurrent resolution calls for both business and the public to realize that the enlightened selfinterest of the united states demands a new approach by the private ecoy to meeting the coldwar ecoic challenge of the soviet union. in my view. sir. we are at present in what amounts to a war emergency. in view of the russian scientific and weapons challenge. and we need to act accordingly. the private ecoy of the united states represents 80 percent of american production. the private ecoy can make vital contributions to the foreign policy of the united states for peace through increased foreign private investments. foreign technical assistance. overseas information and education. training personnel for work overseas. encouraging tourism. and helping to staff higher educational facilities for engineers and scientists. the private ecoies of other nations in the free world can also make vital contributions to free world ideals and objectives. the concurrent resolution provides for the committee to be composed of 6 members from the senate and 6 from the house of representatives and to submit its final report to the congress by january 31. 1959.  more than 6 of the 12 may be from the same political party. the scope of the proposed committee is outlined by the concurrent resolution as follows: (a) conduct a study of the ways and means in which the role of the private sector of the national ecoy can be more effectively utilized in assisting the united states in its foreign policy efforts to promote world peace. and to encourage the establishment and preservation of free institutions and the progress of social. ecoic. and cultural development under them in foreign countries. (b) conduct a study of the extent to which the activities of the various departments. agencies. and instrumentalities of the government. as well as of business and private voluntary organizations have been and may be coordinated to promote the foreign policy of the united states. and (c) transmit to the congress. on or before january 31. 1959. a final report of its findings and conclusions resulting from such studies. together with its recommendations of ways and means by which the private ecoy may be more effectively utilized in assisting the united states in carrying out its foreign policy.
i e that the date. under section 3. has been extended from june 30. 1958. to june 30. 1960. it is my conviction and that of many other senators that perhaps one of the most powerful weapons in the cold war is public law 480. because therebyand this has been discussed many timeswe are able to help a people. like the people of india. bring about industrialization without collectivization. as is the case in communist china. by feeding themselves while engaging in some effort to industrialize in order to meet modern conditions. does the chairman of the committee on agriculture and forestry feel that the time allowed is adequate for longterm agreements with the recipients of this kind of aid so they can fit them into their plans. india. for example. has a 5year plan. we are helping india with money and also with some aid under public law 480. has the committee given consideration to the question of sufficient time being allowed for longterm contracts so as really to make this kind of aid the decisive weapon in the cold war it is capable of being.
. i offer for printing in the record a resolution of the department of new york of the reserve officers association of the united states. which was adopted at its convention at syracuse. n. y. the resolution calls for the immediate imple1958 col mentation of plans and the speedy construction of a joint army reserveait force reserve armory at hancock field. syracuse. n. y.
. the new york herald tribune of may 21 carried a most timely report on the organization of the armys strategic combat corps. which i commend to the attention of my colleagues. this strategic army force is the armys ready mobile force of highly trained infantrymen and paratroops. specifically designed to deal with brushfire conflicts and to prevent such conflicts from growing into a general war. it is a major instrument of deterrence to war. and its philosophy of operations is to move quickly. strike quickly. and put out a brushfire type of war before it can develop into a full blaze. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point the article which appeared in the new york herald tribune of wednesday. may 21. 1958. to which i referred.
. june 15 will mark the 18th anniversary of that day in 1940 when lithuania lost its freedom and became a soviet state by virtue of a contrived plebiscite conducted after invasion by soviet forces and during occupation by the red army. this was a plebiscite. the results of which were even annced in advance. after 4 years of german occupation during world war ii. lithuania was reoccupied by soviet forces and its incorporatioh into the soviet union was made complete. the united states. along with the other free western powers. refuses to recognize this annexation. an annexation of a country of some 3 million people made despite solemn treaties and agreements to the contrary. thus died the independence achieved in february 1918 when the lithuanians had declared themselves free after 123 years of russian rule. the independence of lithuania was shortlived. but 22 years. but it lives forever in the hearts of its sons and daughters who cherish liberty and abhor the enslavement and the tyranny imposed by imperialistic masters. by marking this anniversary of enslavement. as we have commemorated previously in this body the attainment of lithuanian independence. we keep fresh in the memory of americans a small country whose liberty was forfeited through agreement between nazi and communist totalitarian powers. we remind the world that lithuanian independence must remain a real expectation for the future and  merely a memory of the past.
 has recommended 5 years. only when armed with longrange powers can we fit ourselves into plans which must be closely coordinated over more than a decade. if we say that we can only go into the water up to our kneesif we say that we can only go along with the plan for 3 yearswe may  be invited to join in the negotiations at all. other nations also will be more apt to grant us concessions if they can look forward to a program which is able to progress over a substantial number of years instead of one which runs the danger of being stopped dead in its tracks after a short term. that the reciprocal trade program is in the best selfinterest of the united states ecoy is. to my mind. patently clear if only facts are used to prove that contention. from 1934. when our exports barely climbed above the $2 billion figure. they soared to nearly $20 billion last year. and of our favorable balance of trade. which amounts to nearly $6 billion. more than $4.5 billion of that surplus is with the countries with which we have trade agreements. traditionally. trade with the united states has meant the difference between prosperity or depression to many countries. but recently that picture has begun to change. this is the final point i should like to make. but. in my opinion. the supremely important one. especially in view of current events. high tariff walls in the united states may  spell depression for trading nations. but instead a growing dependence on new markets in the communist bloc nations and russia. which is far more devastating to the objectivesindeed. to the very survivalof the united states than would be merely loss of business on both sides. the door to these markets has been swung open wide. and premier khrushchev himself sounded the worldwide word of warning last ember when he said to us in the united states: we declare war upon you in the peaceful field of trade. we declare a war we will win over the united states * * * and it will prove the superiority of our system. these are very very bold words. which need to be engraved in the mind of every american as one of the major reasons why we are undertaking the dangers and the risks. especially is this true today in respect to the foreign policy of the united states. western europe has been a prime target for the communists. since 1951 the volume of soviet trade alone with that area has increased from $400 million to more than $800 million. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record as a part of my remarks a detailed. countrybycountry survey by the new york times. published on july 7. 1958. together with a news analysis. gaging the gain in ecoic influence for the communists. the report shows that they have penetrated more than 50 countries. and though their effectiveness varies sharply from country to country. it represents a portentous threat in the competition with us both as to quality and quantity.
i personally appreciate the statement the senator from missouri is making with respect to the army. i had the privilege of serving in the armymodestly. and  as a heroin world war ii. and i have been attending with reasonable regularity the morning sessions every tuesday of the reserve unit on capitol hill. the senator from missouri has almost made a speciality of the subject of the armed services. when he directs his attention in such a pointed way to this particular subject. i think he brings to it an enlightened interest and considerable kledge and experience. and performs a valuable service. all of us. including myself. who are army reservists are carried away by the glamour of the air force. or the marine corps. or the paratroopers. or the amphibious services. or some other specialized service. that is all fine. and it is a part of the spirit of our country. but. when we look at the troubles we have and the fires which have to be quenched. it is really the army which invariably carries the load. as is natural. the army is the fundamental organization. it is the staple goods on the shelf. it is what is always used the most and is the most important. i think all of us will benefit from a more balanced view. the senator from missouri is directing our attention to this critically essential element in our national defense. i do  share necessarily the prophecies of doom which we observe even in the columns of the distinguished mr. alsop. but i welcome them. i think mr. alsop renders us a great service. because in this country unless we have that kind of comment. we are often inclined to be complacent. so it is. too. with respect to the army. i think the analysis the senator from missouri is making of particular areas in which we really need armed forcessuch as leba. korea. and other similar areas. where. in the final analysis. the army represents the armed force which takes over after the marines have landed and secured a beachhead. which is the situation in leba. is extremely valuable. without in the least taking away from the great service. great valor. and outstanding quality of the other services. i think the senator from missouri is doing a favor to us and a favor to the country in applying his comments especially to the army. i want him to k my feelings.
 wilsons enunciation of the doctrine of selfdetermination for all people. we owe apology to arab nationalism. on the contrary. the new independent arab states ought to ackledge how much our government contributed to their independence. and they should realize that independent and free governments must respect the independence and freedom of others if they are to preserve their own. the senator from vermont speaks of the forcible occupation of arab land by the government of israel. is this a fair way to describe restoration of the jewish people to their national homeland. israel was restored.  by conquest. but by the international community. independence movement has had more authentic credentials from history and the international community than the rebirth of israel. never before has a people gone back to reestablish a state on land they possessed 20 centuries ago. this was the third restoration for israel. it was a return long predicted by the prophets and prayed for by multitudeschristian and jewish. it was a return twice approved by the international community -by the league of nations in 1922 and by the u. n. in 1947after solemn deliberations in periods of postwar restoration and healing. on april 23. with senator flanders. 10 senators joined in a resolution sponsored by the majority and miity leaders hailing the 10th anniversary of the state of israel. and in that resolution we said: whereas the establishment of israel as an independent state on may 14. 1948. represented a triumph  only for the jewish people but also for all men who believe in human freedom. justice. and dignity. it is well kn that the arab states. encouraged by the vacillation of the free world and by the inability of the u. n. to carry out its original decision. went to war against the state of israel. senator flanders predecessor. the late senator warren r. austin. represented the united states in the u. n. in may 1948 and offered the united states resolution which branded the arab assault on the new state of israel as aggression. the arab states rejected the u. n. decision. the u. n. commission reported to the u. n. security council on february 16. 1948: powerful arab interests both inside and outside palestine are defying the resolution of the general assembly and are engaged in a deliberate effort to alter by force the settlement envisaged therein. they resorted to aggression. they went to war to seize all of israels territory and to destroy the new state. they were thrown back by the israel army and they lost territory they might have had under the original u. n. decision. let the record be clear. it is true that israel holds some land inside palestine outside of the confines of the original 1947 decision. much of it land captured when the israel army came from the mediterranean seacoast to lift the arab siege of jerusalem and to bring water and food to the thirsty and hungry people of that holy city. but this land is within the territory of palestine promised to the jews in the balfour declaration. israel holds land belonging to any arab state. neither leba.  syria.  jordan.  egypt.  saudi arabia. and premier bengurion. backed by the whole government of israel. has solemnly pledged that israel seeks land from any one of these states. on the contrary. it is the arabsegypt and jordanwho  occupy land inside palestine. land that was taken.  by jewish force. but by the invasion of arab armies. and it is the arabs.  the jews. who make territorial demands for the truncation of what is  a very small country. israel. as we go back into history we find that the original arab nationalists. those who led the revolt in the desert. were  opposed to the restoration of the jewish people to palestine. a palestine which included. incidentally.  only the area that is  israel but the area that is  jordan. the arab leaders who wanted arab independence in a great arab state were  unreasonable men. they appreciated the great force for development of the region implicit in the zionist movement. some of them were aware that the original balfour declaration helped win world war i. helped bring about the dissolution of the ottoman empire and helped. thus.  only to open the way for the restoration of the jewish people but also for the independence of the arabs. the current issue of the near east report contains this report on the subject:
. i ask unanimous consent for leave to be absent from the senate on official business starting today at approximately 4 oclock p. m. until the senate resumes its session on monday. i am due in london tomorrow morning to preside as chairman of the ecoic section of the general affairs committee of the nato parliamentarian conference. if i did  attend. i would be disappointing representatives of 14 countries who will be assembling tomorrow at 10 oclock london time.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the uniondale federation of civic and taxpayers association. of uniondale. n. y.. relating to the preservation of the mitchel air force base for the mutual benefit of military and civilian personnel alike.
. i have just yesterday returned from presiding over a meeting of the ecoics section of the general affairs committee of the nato parliamentarians conference in london. i should like for the recorn to show that the time of my presence in london was roughly 3 to 4 days. simply egh to accomplish the purpose of the meeting. the purpose of the meeting was to determine what action nato countries might take collectively. though  necessarily through the nato organization. to help the underdeveloped areas and the ecoically underdeveloped members of the nato group. i desire to make the following report to my colleagues.
. khrushchev has said he declares war on us in the peaceful field of trade. unless we appropriate the full amount of $580 million. which is specified in the bill. then we shall be inviting disaster in respect of that challenge. dictators always tell us what they propose to do. the trouble with us is that we do  listen. i strongly urge that we listen .
i wish to express to the senate. as one member. my feeling that such action is a great disservice to the country. and is a great mistake. that we have plundered one of the most potent weapons we have in the cold war with the soviet union. that we shall rue the day we did it. and i hope the administration will have the courage. as it should. in january to request of the congress the enactment of a deficiency appropriation item for this purpose. as readily as it would in the case of a military item. for in my opinion this item is just that critical to the security of the nation and to the security of all the rest of the free world.
. i present. for appropriate reference. a series of resolutions adopted by the army and air national guard and naval militia association of the state of new york. at its annual conference in albany. i ask unanimous consent that the resolutions may be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by suffolk county post  488. jewish war veterans of the u.s.a.. at huntington. n.y.. relating to brotherhood and brotherhood week.
i answer the senator from montanaby saying that all this is completely true. but at the same time it must be said. on the other hand. that we must reflect that if there is a neutralized and a sterile germany in the center of europe. that is exactly the type of condition which brought on world war ii. a germany allied with the soviet union is certainly what brought on world war ii. if there is to be a germany. one part of which is communist and the other part of which is free. and if they are then combined under those terms. it will mean that both sections will go communist. and again aher world war will be started. that is what i am talking about today.
i thank the senator from montana. what he has said is quite typical of him. i am delighted that we are meeting upon common ground. even though we may differ on the method of approach. -. -it is rather symptomatic of how we are both thinking that the next lines in my prepared remarks are these: we have but 3 month. to establish firmly the lines. link the bonds with allies. and establish in the minds of the people of the world our position. and to begin negotiations. if possible. regarding berlin. for the soviets have placed a red circle about the date of may 27 as the deadline imposed by them for settlement of the berlin question the distinguished senator from idaho . i wanted to state my basic points. i think the issue is basic. the issue is. will the united states. the united kingdom. and france.  accept the basic position of the soviet union to allow negotiationsthis is a point espoused by the senator from montana and myselfto take place between the governments of west germany and east germany. respectively. about the unification of berlin and of germany. or will the three western powers insist that negotiations must be among the four powersthat is. the three principal western powers which defeated germany in world war ii. plus the soviet union. with the role of the west and east german governments that of advisers who are parties in interest. the negotiations to encompass the unification of all germany and the problems incident thereto. including berlin. a solution to be premised upon a free expression of will by all the german people in the only way we k to have their will expressed ultimately and finallynamely. by free. allgerman elections. . that it is the policy reflected by es of the four powersthe united states. the united kingdom. france and west germanyto the soviet union. rather than negotiations between the east and west german governments the senator from idaho.
in pursuance to the inquiry of my colleague from california . i  make the following proposals for fourpower negotiations. with east and west german advisory participation. the proposals. some of which are on the table. and some of which are and i will try to distinguish between themare suggestions on which the four powers can negotiate and still have the flexibility to which we have referred. the proposals are: first. a real understanding exists that the mutual security of both east and west demands that the military balance of power should  be changed to the detriment of either side. proposals have been made for an undertaking by the th atlantic alliance  to move its defenses eastward beyond their present position. if a reunited germany should choose to remain in the atlantic alliance. and to treat east germany as a demilitarized buffer zone containing only ordinary police forces to maintain internal order. so that there will be immediate entry into east germany of nato forces. even though they are germans. second. agreement is possible that missile bases are to be built on german soil. east or west. third. there can be a thinning out of forces in west germany  talking about west berlin. but west germanyin return for a thinning out of soviet forces in east germany. a process which lessened tensions after the achievement of german unification would make increasingly possible. fourth. the western powers have indicated their interest in entering into a european security pact. superimposed on both the nato alliance and the warsaw pact alliance. to meet the soviet proposal of an eastwest aggression pact. in this respect. action is necessary. it should be made clear. however. that the couversion of eastern european states into satellites is  condoned or approved. in that respect. we should all recall the words of the senator from montana that east germany is but one example of the complex of slavery which has been imposed upon eastern europe. it is my view that if we can be successful in working out the situation of east germany. then we will begin to unlock the door of central europe. while if we relegate east germany to soviet serfdom. for decades to come. we can write off eastern europe at one and the same time. fifth. every effort is being made at geneva to arrive at a solution with the soviet union on the problem of nuclear testing. and the prevention of surprise attack. both pacts to be made selfenforcing through effective systems of inspection and control under united nations auspices. it is well kn that those negotiations have gotten here. . under the spur of german reunification. these negotiations can be consummated. one way out of the present impasse at geneva opened by a european settlement would be the acceptability of a shortterm ice period for terminating any agreement entered into at geneva. thereby relieving the parties of fears of being parties to an agreement with the operation of which they are dissastisfied. and to which they are tied for a long time.
. wednesday. march 4. marked the 211th birthday anniversary of the birth of gen. casimir pulaski. the gallant pole who contributed his fortune and life to the cause of the american revolution. general pulaski fought for freedom in both the new and old world. in europe. he was a leader in the struggle for the liberty of his native poland against the tyranny of the russian empire. . forced to flee poland in 1773 because of his activities in freedoms cause. he came to france. where he met benjamin franklin and silas deane. who were recruiting volunteers for the war against the english. casimir pulaski offered his services "for your freedom and ours" and in 1777 joined the american forces. engaging in his first battle at brandywine in september of that year. where he distinguished himself by his courage. he earned a brigadier generals commission and commanded the entire cavalry of the american forces. wounded in 1779 at the battle of savannah. pulaski died on the american warship wasp on october 11. the monuments since raised to his memory have been many. but perhaps his greatest i planning terminated. 2planning suspended. monument is the freedom we enjoy today and the kledge among the people of poland that through general pulaski and the almost 5 million of fine americans of polish extraction who have lived in america since the jamestown settlement there is a strong bond of the love of liberty which binds our people. we have a right to hope that this inspiration will one day again light the way to making todays poland a free society.
. i congratulate the people of hawaii. i k they will perform their obligations and their responsibilities to the people of the united states with the same dignity and capacityindeed. with the same heroismwhich they evidenced in world war ii. when i saw them at close range.
. as we were also attacked in the case of residual fuel oil. we were attacked by soviet russias spot sale in an effort to break markets in the scandinavian countries. these efforts on the part of the soviet union have had very serious effects. that is the way the soviet union has been operating in connection with these commodities. and other commodities also. what can the international monetary fund do about it. in the first place. it can lend money to a particular country to enable that country to carry itself through such an ecoically depressed period and through the price situation created by the soviet union in its pricebreaking operations. a country such as bolivia or chile. or any other country so affected. can carry itself through until the law of supply and demand again reasserts itself. when that time comes and the soviet union is. of course. unable to supply the needs of the world. the users of the particular product again return to the main source of supply. if meanwhile the country in question can carry through. in that way the fund can make a very real contribution toward the peace of the world and help avoid the kind of dislocation and tension and upset which we saw happen in bolivia. therefore this is a very important aspect of the international fund. because the fund is ideally suited for carrying through that kind of operation. it can do it unless we increase its resources. therefore it is extremely important in terms of the whole cold war that the increase be provided. in this connection let me say that i speak from my own experience. i have the ho. under authority of the nato parliamentarian conference. to be chairman of its ecoic committee.
 eisenhower has urged that we wage the peace. this we must do. it will be recalled that in both world war i and world war ii declarations of high moral principle. the 14 points of woodrow wilson and the atlantic charter of roosevelt and churchill. were proclaimed to rally the world in the battle for liberty and survival. therefore. i urge that. between  and the conclusion of the th atlantic congress. by the cooperation of the heads of government. there be issued a similar declaration of high moral principles. making clear our goals and the tenets of our secular faith. for this purpose a convocation of the heads of the nato governments should be held prior to the summit meeting later in the summer. it is time that we remind the world. as well as ourselves. that we are  interested only in combating communism. but that we are also affirmatively interested in our principles. objectives. goals. and ideals. our task is to see  only that freedom survives and grows more pervasive and beneficent all the time but that for those  enslaved hope shall  perish from the earth. i  turn to aher subject.
. there are  pending before the senate committee on the judiciary a number of measures to deal with such incidents. which are popularly called "hate bombings." such as that which occurred in collins park last night. i am sponsoring one bill. the administration has such a bill. the majority leader has such a bill. i think this is a rather grim punctuation mark showing the urgency for getting action upon those bills. i direct the attention of the committee to this situation. and i hope very much that we shall have early action upon the socalled hate bombing bills. in an effort to make some measurable progress at an early date. and to enable the fbi to act on these situations which we have  observed occur  only in the south. but in a thern statein this instancein delaware.
i am going to point out the record. that is why i rose. i happened to be in italy on a number of occasions when clare boothe luce served there. and on a number of occasions since. if we are to evaluate this issue fairly. and throw into the balance what the senator from oregon has said about mrs. luceand i think it is fair to mention thatthere should also be thrown into the balance these facts: it seems to me that through the ambassadorships of mrs. luce and mr. zellerbach. two persons whom i happen to k better than one ks most ambassadors. we have developed a relationship with italy in which italy is probably as dependable a member of the nato alliance as we have in all western europe. if we are going to pass judgment on the question. i think it also is fair to give a very heavy value to the result. whatever may be the dynamics of the situation. and the senator from oregon is at liberty to speak to them. and argue them. and contend for the particular opinion which he espouses. the fact is that during the two tenureships. a relationship has been built up which has made italy. insofar as the united states is concerned. one of the most dependable allies we have in all of europe. i think it is only fair to tote up the whole score.
it seems to me that what we axe trying to reach is a union official. rather than an officer. who is exercising the governing authority. even though he does  preside over meetings. as would a president or vice president. does  have financial records. as a secretarytreasurer would have. and does  have administrative or membership records. as would a secretary. i do  believe that we differ in intention. i suggest that the change which the senator from massachusetts is willing to make go a little further. by adding. at the end of the category he has  written. the words "or exercising governing or executive functions therein." if we did that. we would include anyone. regardless of whether he qualifies. in ultimate effect or in name. as an officer. such as a president. vice president. secretarytreasurer. or secretary. it would include everyone who actually exercises any governing or executive functions. let us analyze the situation for a moment. first. the only thing that would be affected would be the communist affidavit. perhaps more persons would have to file a communist affidavit. i do  believe there is anything wrong with that. if. in the ultimate end. we are trying to reach those who really control the unions. and exercise governing or executive functions. although i must say i agree with my other colleagues. that we would rather have the power exercised completely. we wish to deal with the man who controls the union. whether or  he performs the functions of an officer. the only other complication that might ensue is with respect to the question of elections. i have asked the staff which handled the bill regarding that point. this is an important point for the purpose of the legislative record. the staff confirms my view that. withstanding the definition of the word "officer"  in the bill. it would  be necessary to elect all these people. under the terms of the bill. and that the election is confined to constitutional officers. which is aher legal definition.  this one. hence i believe that the senator from massachusetts might well accept this point. in order to satisfy the senator from arizona. if it willand i hope it willand thus meet the criteria which have been established in the mcclellan committee hearings. without materially jeopardizing the bill and causing it to break down because of administrative difficulties or because of the proliferation of some papers which must be signed. i hope the senator will give sympathetic consideration to this suggestion.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record as a part of my remarks the recommendations prepared by the ecoic section of the general affairs committee nearly 8 months ago. at the nato parliamentarians conference in paris. to which i was a delegate. and of which i was the rapporteur.
yes. that is the point i was making. they are leading citizens of the other nato countries. they were all represented. except iceland. for reasons which are internal to iceland and great britain. in connection with the fisheries dispute. the representatives of iceland did  attend. the other countries all back up this position. i am giving proof of it in this speech. i should like to make a brief report on the london conference which may be of interest to my colleagues. as i have said. the dates were june 5 to june 10. the atlantic congress was opened by queen elizabeth and prime minister macmillan. it was actively participated in by the american delegation. the american delegation was very privileged to have in it the senator from tennessee . who presided over one of the plenary sessions. he was chairman of one of the main committees. and generally had a very large part in the success of the conference. i. too. had the ho of being appointed a chairman of one of the main committees. as well as chairman of one of the subcommittees. and participated actively in the conference. the senator from indiana also was there for as long as he could remain. until he was called back by a situation which required his presence in the united states. a fine house delegation attended also. led by representative wayne hays. of ohio. it participated in a very distinguished way in the deliberations of the subcommittees and main committees and plenary sessions. the american civilians were outstanding. particularly eric johnston and lewis douglas. who were the leaders of the american delegation. they worked in the highest echelons of the congress. eric johnston. as one of two americans. with paul van zeland. was a member of a group which worked out the final declaration of the congress. i think that in every way the high quality and character of the american delegation and its personnel in the atlantic congress reflected the greatest credit upon the people of the united states and their participation in nato activities. i believe so strongly on this score that i am inserting in the congressional record. as soon as the edited copy is available. a list of the american delegation to the atlantic congress. both civilian and parliamentary alike. 
s of different partiesa man who is practically partisansuddenly become a man who can be trusted. who makes mistakes. who is duplicitous. a man who avoids and evades. who does  cooperate with congress. who would lead his agency into secret byways in order to avoid congressional scrutiny. this is a very challenging question. and a very strange one. in the first place. as a lawyer i k that what is reasonable is generally the fact. there are many exceptions but. generally. what is reasonable is the fact. and it is reasonable to believe that strauss has  changed. that he is the same strauss. but we have a situation in which a concentrated effortcompletely motivated by a desire to serve the best interests of the country. i am sure. but a concentrated efforthas shown up in bold relief the imperfections. the drawbacks. the mistakes which are mal in any man. my colleague from new hampshire . who made a magnificent speech in the senate yesterday. asked. who is free of such imperfections. who in this chamber is perfect. which one of us. if subjected to such a sharp searchlight and intensive scrutiny. would stand up as a man of pure and unalloyed virtue. it is  true that any one of us could. we k. i hazard the guess. without any disrespect to my colleagues. that the great majority of themand i include myselfwould  stand up as well as strauss did under the kind of scrutiny he received in this investigation. let me read first. because i think it is a proper point of departure. what some really distinguished people of our times and of our world have said about lewis strauss. first jim forrestal. whose name is certainly to be revered in our country. a man who literally gave up his life for his country. parenthetically. i may say. because i think any senator would be forgiven for being a little discursive today. this is one thing that interests me and the american people. all too infrequently do the american people have clearly before them the fact that so many of us are passionately interested in our jobs. that we really devotedly believe in the things we do. that we are  merely trying to be reelected. it is proper to have that desire. and all of us want to be reelected. because it is the mark of the people showing that we have done well and that they believe in us. but. in addition to that desire. there are certain beliefs and ideas we hold dear. we see examples of such devotion in sacrifices such as forrestal and bob taft made. who literally wore out their hearts in their efforts for the public good. why do we worry about the people who have elected us when we sit very late or under great strain. are we doing it because we like to or because we want to be reelected. we do it because of a deep compulsion in our hearts to a certain cause to which we have a special devotion and a particular emotion. i see present my very dear colleague and friend from new mexico . who has taken such a leading part against strauss. i am sure he would much rather be doing many other things. things which would give him more pleasure. he is a very kind man. i k him very well. i k this is  a job to his liking. but he has a deep compulsion that makes him do the things he does. i say that because it is fair to say that we are  merely heartless members of congress and votegetters. but we have compulsions which make us work hard and which occasionally kill some of us. that was true of forrestal. let me read what forrestal said about secretary strauss on may 31. 1946. he said: my dear admiral strauss: i have addressed this letter to reach you after all the formalities of your separation from active service are completed. i have done so because. without formality but as clearly as i k how to say it. i want the navys pride in you which it is my privilege to express. to reach into your civil life and to remain with you always. you have served in the greatest navy in the world. it crushed two enemy fleets at once. receiving their surrenders only 4 months apart. it brought our landbased airpower within bombing range of the enemy. and set our ground armies on the beachheads of final victory. it performed a multitude of tasks necessary to support these military operations. other navy at any time has done so much. for your part in these achievements you deserve to be proud as long as you livei repeat that sentencefor your part in these achievements you deserve to be proud as long as you live. it seems to me any member of the senate. any american. must feel his spine tingle to read those words addressed by jim forrestal to one of his aides. jim forrestal goes on to say: the nation which you served at a time of crisis will remember you with gratitude. the best wishes of the navy go with you into your future life. good luck. sincerely yours.
. first. i think we will develop. in the debate on the mutual security bill which will take place today. the idea of partnership. especially with our european allies. and technical aid and assistance. i think this is the coming e in mutual security. i shall speak on that subject today when the mutual security bill is discussed. i hope we may even get something into the bill on that subject which will signal the new road which we must travel in respect to this effort. which must be multilateral. the next stage after being bilateral. and yet  necessarily be an effort of the united nations. because of the difficulty in getting support for that type of approach in the united states. or indeed. in other countries. the second result which i think will follow is a greater dignity and importance of the nato parliamentarians. who  can take up the work which was outlined in the atlantic congress. and implement and carry it through. it was our conviction that this organization must assume jurisdiction as an organization. i think the time has come when the parliamentarians organization should be given some status in the nato hierarchy. i think it is important that that be done. and that it can make a definite contribution. the organization will meet in washington in ember. i hope all of us who have been active in that work will continue our interest. i hope the senator from indiana will interest himself in being a representative to the nato parliamentarians. and that we may implement in the new congress what has been done.
i am very grateful to my colleague for his observations. i am going to conclude on this e in this part of the debate: i think the atlantic congress will be found to have served the same role the hague conference did. a little more than 10 years previously. in sounding the call which gave nato spirit and life and acceptance on both sides of the atlantic. i think the atlantic congress will have been found to have signaled the beginning. in terms of statesmanship. of the atlantic community. with new directions being blazed and partnerships being formed between the united states and canada and our european allies. especially in the ecoic and social fields. europeans themselves are trying brave experiments in cooperation. in which we have in turn cooperated. but we have  yet engaged in partnership activities. i think the time is coming when we will. it is coming if for other reason than the financial demands which the world is imposing on us. anybody who studies the payments being made by the united states ks that we must operate as a part of the atlantic community as we try to make partnerships. but retaining our own sovereignty. for our collective protection in terms of population. resources. and initiative in the world. i believe the atlantic congress will have marked the beginning of a new role in terms of world statesmanship. if the senator from tennessee has other comments to make. i should like to claim the floor in my own right and proceed to aher subject.
. i think it is fair to say of gover rockefellers views on this report as i understand them. first. that he does  expect us to become involved in a nuclear war tomorrow. next week. or next year. however. the possibility of such an attack can be iged. and the proposed plan could save the 4 million lives. plus an additional 4 million injured. which were estimated to have been lost in new york state through radioactive fallout during the last operation alert attack. second. he feels that the message contained in the report is one  of fear but of hope. it makes clear that it is possible for most of us to live through a nuclear attack. if adequate protection measures are taken for us all. and. third. he feels that if our civilian population is properly prepared. this in itself will serve as an important deterrent to war. since any prospective enemy would k he could  kk us out or break our will to resist by a single. massive blow. fourth. he is of the opinion that the proposed plan could help to protect us from any aggressor.
 to secure agreements in all future treaties that the world court or other appropriate international tribunals should adjudicate any disagreements which crop up under them. and second. the senate should erase the incongruity of our present position resulting from the acceptance of the connally reservation. these twin objections can be secured through favorable consideration of the senate resolution i am introducing today for myself and senator humphrey. and of his resolution introduced on march 24. 1959. which i cosponsored. to strike out the connally reservation. we can afford to compromise or jeopardize our prestige in this sensitive foreign policy area. at this very moment. critical negotiations are underway again in geneva where the communists have issued ultimatums and threaten world war over the judicial aspect of the occupation rights of the four powers in berlin. there is in this era of cold war the everpresent danger that eastwest disputes might flare up at any time over legal boundaries or treaty obligations which might provide the communists with an excuse for military aggression. thus it is for our own protectionto strengthen.  weaken. our role in world affairsthat the united states should back to the hilt the drive to utilize the international judicial machinery to settle dangerous disagreements by force of reason and law.  by force of arms. it would be the world courts job to adjudicate future disputes as it did the 400yearold friction between england and france over ownership of the english channel islands. we have everything to gain and hing to lose by standing beside nations like switzerland. japan. the scandinavian countries. and the united kingdom in their support of such tribunals as the world courtthus we could firmly rebut the soviet blocs propaganda barrage to the free and neutralist nations by showing that the united states desires only equal status with other sovereign nations under law before the international bar of justice. i close by stating. advisedly. that if there is any hope for men to have world peace and to avoid world war iii. or some other war which will destroy civilization. it is the rule of law which is sought to be carried out by this resolution.
. i think we can agree that the facts must speak for themselves. on many occasions my colleague and i have pointed out our worries about the apparent ability of california contractors to make off with most of the prime defense contracts. especially in the missile and rocket field. my understanding of the remarks of the senator from maryland is that they did  violate the senate rule. certainly all of us have the highest respect for california.
. i am much pleased to e that the conferees on the department of defense appropriation bill. 1960. have agreed to appropriate $35 million for longleadtime items in connection with proposed construction of a nuclear aircraft carrier. this action is well conceived. and is the result of the leadership of the senate on the recommendation of the senate appropriations committee. in making provision for a nuclearpowered carrier. it takes account of the manifold responsibilities of our country whose policy must be backed up by the necessary military forces. this nuclear carrier underlines the fact that our commitments extend to limited regional security problems as well as to the dread possibility of an allout conflict. furthermore. there is much strategic thinking that in terms of total defense a nuclear carrier with its long staying power at sea and with new types of weapons can have emous deterrent capability. it is  timely to point out that there is better place to build such a carrier than at the "can do" yard. the brooklyn navy yard. the brooklyn navy yard is distinguished by a long career of superior performance in the construction of naval vessels. including particularly aircraft carriers. a case in point is the recently completed independence. which i had the ho of inspecting and of being present at its commissioning. the large force of skilled workers at the brooklyn navy yard. backed by the resources of the greatest city in the world. is ready to take on the job and to carry it through to completion with distinction. the brooklyn navy yard has  been allotted its full and fair share of naval construction work. my colleague the senator from new york and i and the whole congressional delegation from new york have been making that point constantly with our defense authorities. the loyal force of workers at the yard is ready to assume the task of building a nuclear carrier. and i earnestly hope that the job will be awarded to the "can do" brooklyn navy yard.
. the senior senator from alaska and the junior senator from iowa yesterday referred to the fact that maj. gen. john michaelis is leaving washington for a new assignment as commander in chief. u.s. army. alaska. after 3 years service as chief of legislative liaison for the department of the army here in washington. i wish to associate myself with the observations which have been made as to the able and efficient service which general michaelis has performed as chief of legislative liaison. we all recall his career as a combat leader in world war ii and in korea. and we are sure that he will enjoy his new post as line commander of our forces in alaska and will serve there with the distinction which has characterized his combat career. also. and rather especially. as chief chemical officer. and i am a chemical corps reserve officer. i wish to say a special word about his services as chief of legislative liaison. i have the ho to represent a constituency which amounts to almost 10 percent of the entire population of the united states. the number of instances in which i have had occasion to deal with the army and the other armed services in a perfectly proper way on behalf of my constituents is therefore particularly large. i have had special occasion to observe the cooperative. thoughtful. and effective way in which the office of legislative liaison of the army has functioned under the command of general michaelis. i join in commending him on the way in which he has performed his functions. and i wish him the very best of luck in his new assignment.
in the last congress i had the ho to quote the senator when we faced a similar argument on this question. a question which i hope will come up again. namely. of referring the whole measure to the committee on foreign relations. the senator from vermont made very clear the grave repercussions which we would be bound to incur if we proceeded in this way. i should like to read. if the senator from vermont will allow me to remind him. what he said at that time: i am greatly disturbed over the type of discussion which is taking place with regard to the chicago diversion bill. * * * a cold war is being waged everywhere with tension high in foreign countries. even in the western hemisphere. incidentally. how true that is today. this aftern the mutual security bill. which calls for many agreements with foreign countries. was passed. we already have agreements with other countries all over the world. while we are considering these agreements and talking about more agreements. it seems incredible that here on the senate floor. supposedly intelligent members of this body would stand up and deliberately talk about violating a treaty with aher country. perhaps we take canada for granted. but i do  believe canada takes for granted the treaty we made with her 49 years ago.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in my remarks an article entitled "united states plans airlift of emergency aid for army in laos." published in the new york times of today. august 28. 1959. and also an article relating the progress which has been made in laos. written by ernest k. lindley. and published in newsweek for june 1. 1959.
. on behalf of my colleague. the junior senator from new york . and myself. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to assume the states liability for activities of members of the national guard engaged in air defense activities on a tactical site which is under the control of the army or the air force. and for other purposes. i ask unanimous consent that the bill itself. together with an explanation thereof. be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
. in support of the bill. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record together with a study prepared by the legislative reference service on the operations of the steel industry factfinding board of 1949. which suggested amendment of the law to permit recommendations to be made. a legal memorandum prepared by william h. davis. a new york lawyer. former chairman of the national defense mediation board and the war labor board during world war ii. and finally. a list and analysis of the previous seizure statutes prepared by justice felix frankfurter in connection with the steel seizure decision of 1951.
i should like to call the attention of the senate to two items on the ticker this morning which deserve careful reading by every member of the senate. the first deals with chairman khrushchevs speech in moscow. in which he promises to reduce the conventional armed forces of russia. and at the same time makes some very big statements about new atomic and hydrogen weapons which are available to the u.s.s.r. it seems to me that this emphasizes the policy debate and the strategy debate which is  going on in the free world on how we can deal with the continuing eastwest struggle. many people. including myself. are convinced that this struggle is phasing out of its previous basis of strictly military competition. subversion. and various types of aggression. and is  phasing into a new and historic ecoic struggle. especially beamed to the less developed areas of the world. what  of its ecoic committee. and that this idea of integrating further ecoically the free world and doing the job that ought to be done by the industrial countries of the world. including the united states and canada. had its origin in the work of the nato parliamentary conference. and. i say with pardonable pride. in the resolutions of its ecoic committee. it is proof of the fact that parliamentary representatives can have a responsibility for work which results in constructive international statecraft.
. the initiative taken by the nato parliamentarians conference. to which we adhere. and which we help support. is worth manyfold. incalculably more. than all that we have spent in time and effort in supporting that organization. and even if we lump together our contributions to all the parliamentary organizations to which we adhere. i believe the dillon plan is one development by means of which that work has borne extremely fine fruit.
again. if the senator will allow me. i can only suggest what experience shows. the last constitutional amendment took 4 years for approval. other amendments took as little as 11 months. during the civil war they took a matter of days. but everyone recognizes there were then special circumstances. that is why i had made the analysis of the number of states in the socalled deep south and the number of other states that could. in the aggregate. as compared with the total number of states which would have to approve the proposed amendment. frustrate a constitutional amendment.
. i rise in support of the amendment offered by the senator from kentucky and myself. first. let me say that today we are engaged in extremely serious business. the serious business is to make up the educational gap at the same time that we are hearing so much about the missile gap. the missile gap is based upon the educational gap. the fact is that the russians. by massing their educational means upon a narrow target. scored a breakthrough. it is their privilege. because the aggressor always has the initiative. they have put the whole civilization in very grave danger as a result of that breakthrough. civilization can respond scared and frightened. which will bring us to the armageddon which all of us have feared for so long. or civilization can be sane and make up the gap. in our committee hearings presided over by the majority leader the senator from texas . the shortrange basis for trying to make up the gap is being developed. here on the floor of the senate we are debating the longrange basis for making up the gap. it seems to me that both are of equal importance. and that there is higher priority in our country. as we all k. an education starts in the primary school. and. as life goes. very quickly reaches the higher realms of education. ten or 15 years are as but a day. yet what we do about the educational system today will determine what it will be 10 or 15 years hence. if we do  act today. we shall have deferred making up the educational gap. which. i repeat. is the very essence and condition precedent of the missile gap. if we defer today. for a month or a year. or as long as we take to make up the educational gap. we defer making up the missile gap. with all its portents. let us  assume for a minute that the missile gap is a matter of weapons on launching pads alone. i think we should be very much indebted to walter lippmann for a piece which he wrote yesterday morning. while i am at it. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks.
. to words like "legislative lynching." which have been used already in this debate. i may say. parenthetically. that i hope the senate may look with favor upon an antilynching amendment to the pending bill. an amendment which will deal with the subject of lynching. but of a much more lethal kind. we have also been promised a speech on an alleged endeavor to provoke race riots in the south. withstanding the disorders at little rock and the racially inspired bombing of schools. homes. and places of worship. which have already set a pattern of breaches of public orderin short. charges of oppression against one section of the country by other sections. a part of the same pattern. however. respect for the views and opinions of the miity has always been a great tradition in this chamber. and quite properly so. for at one time or aher every one of us is in the miity. accordingly. before the senate begins its roundtheclock debate. before we get into the possibilityand it is a possibilityof invoking cloture. i should like to deal with the merits of civil rights legislation and the need of the cguntry for its enactment. i should like to give. as it were. something of the affirmative side of the debate. because we have been hearing much about the negative side. i hope. too. that other senators who feel as i do will similarly make their contributions in a summary way to the affirmative side of the debate.
i must say. first. that i deeply appreciate the fine things said about me by the senator. because he and i have served for a very long time together and he is a very honest man. i k that he would  say what he did so graciously unless he meant every word of it. and i would like to answer in kind. i respect fully what the senator has said. i should like to state to the senator the two points which motivated me. first. there is such thing as a pure guarantee of the voting right. it is immediately complicated by the need for other law. for example. the whole bombing business is obviously some throwoff. disastrous in its consequences. of the strains which are here created. that is just one example. the fact that voting records should  be destroyed. where that has interfered with administration of the very process which the senator talks about. is aher illustration. if we exclude voting registration for state elections from the law. will we be able to identify every mans vote. a certain segment of the community will get only a federal ballot and others will get only a state ballot. if they are entitled to it. as construed by the state officials. this will induce yet other problems. this is quite apart from any antilynching provision or anything like that. we may argue as to whether these things have any relation to the fundamental state of mind which has perpetuated these injustices for 90 years. so the problem is  a pure thing. we can do one thing alone and even guarantee that very one right the senator is talking about.
. we had exactly the same problem with the navy department. the navy military sea transportation service has just eliminated the utilization of this socalled haifa clause. i call attention to the memorandum on that subject anncing that this provision has been withdrawn by the navy. which was delivered to me by roy a. ga vice admiral. u.s. navy. commander. military sea transportation service. on february 19. i quote from the memorandum: the clause was adopted with intention to give support to any political boycott. it was deemed advantageous to both the government and shipowners. however. msts can accomplish its mission without using the clause. inasmuch as it has been mistakenly construed as providing some solace to the arab boycott imposed on persons trading with israel. the navy will discontinue its use. i ask that the entire memorandum be printed in the record.
. i hope very much that the practices of both these departments will  be coordinated. and that the practice of our whole government will  be conducive to lending any aid. comfort. or sympathy to this boycott which has been branded as illegal in terms of international law. especially in view of the fact that the navy certifies it can accomplish its mission without using the clause. it seems inconceivable that the department of agriculture can similarly accomplish its mission without using this clause. i have great concern for the operation f government departments. mally. would have taken this matter up with the department of agriculture. in the hope that they would have taken action without any public protest of the kind i am making  having to be made. but n view of the fact that the story as published in the public press. i assume  only in the united states but also throughout the world. i believe it is important that there be equally a public protest and equally public correction. it is unfortunate. i would rather the correction came in a much more administrative way. but the fact is that the story broke. therefore. a protest ought to be made in the same order of magnitude. and the correction made. i am  at this time finding fault or making any charges of any kind. i am only expressing. soberly and sincerely. the hope that these two departments of government will coordinate their activities and pursue a similar policy. the policy annced by the navy after consideration. in view of the fact that the navy is well able to perform its mission. that is the right policy and should be pursued by every department of the government.
discharged army veteran. a technical sergeant. is it  a fact that the commission describes this case as follows: one negro army veteran discharged as a technical sergeant. reported that he went to the courthouse and was asked by a female clerk what he wanted. "i want to register." he said. "to register for the army." she asked. when he assured her he wanted to register to vote. she told him she didnt have time because the court was meeting. she did. however. have him write his name and address on a slip of paper. less than half an hour after his return home. two white men came to his door and asked him why he had tried to register. he replied that it was his duty. they told him that he was just trying to stir up trouble and advised him  to go back. he did return a week later. and again was told by the same clerk that she was busy. fearful of reprisals. he stopped trying. is it  a fact that that is the finding of the commission.
. the 139th anniversary of the independence of greece. which was celebrated on march 25. is a day of special significance to americans. it is a time for us to stop. to remember. and to be grateful for the rich contributions of the hellenes to western civilization. we need only to look about us here in the nations capital to see in the architecture of our government buildings the influence of ancient greek culture. the greek love for liberty is the foundation of our representative government. our revered statesman. thomas jefferson. was a scholar of greek history and philosophy. and we can see the influence of the thinking of the age of pericles in our declaration of independence. the greek citystate has served for centuries as a precursor for government "by and for the people." the hellenic civilization has also immeasurably enriched our culture. the sculptures of praxiteles and lysippus have survived to represent the ideal of beauty. the statute of liberty standing in new york harbor to greet all who visit our land is an echo of the great statue of athena which graced ancient athens. it was appropriate. in view of this role of greece in the formulation of our na%tion. that we should in turn inspire greece to gain her independence from the turks in 1821. and that some of our citizens should aid the greeks in that struggle. since their liberty was won. greece has been one of the embattled outposts of freedom in our modern world. greek legions fought the troops of fascist italy during world war ii and were crucial in the mussolini defeat. the diversion of some of hitlers forces from the russian campaign to conquer the defiant greeks is believed by some to be one of the turning points in that war which led ultimately to hitlers defeat. greece also is a symbol of the successful fight against communist subjugation. and she  stands as a bulwark against communist aggression in the eastern mediterranean. we all join in paying tribute at this time to the greek people. and to the more than half a million americans of greek extraction who have given so much to enrich our nation and our world.
i hope it will  be necessary to evict any member of the senate. i should like to make my statement very clearly. the amendment which i was asked to sponsor was a part of the administrations package. just as is the amendment sponsored by my colleague from new york . i did it at the request of the miity leader. the miity leader has every right to recapture the amendment and to offer it himself. it is his amendment. the reason why i did  choose to offer it this aftern myself was that i happen to differ with the fundamental proposition that we must have this kind of rather summary action upon an amendment of this importance. which i consider to be important and entitled to deliberate consideration by the senate. i am reminded of the situation we always had in the army. the army has an expression. "hurry up and wait." it seems to me that every time something has come from the proponents of civil rights. they have had to hurry up. however. every time something comes from the opponents of civil rights. we have to wait.  hours. but days and weeks. so.  of the united states. it has been called the nixon amendment. it has serious implications. which all of us understand. it was my belief that whether or  i offered it this aftern. i should  be in the climactic situation of king that it must be called up and voted down. under those circumstances and let him do with it as he pleases.
. as chairman of the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarians conference. i have been invited to address the council of europe at strasbourg on april 25. 1960. and to consult with a number of the delegations in europe contiguous to that time. accordingly. since it seems to be in the best interests of all the policy in which we are engaged that i accept these invitations. i ask unanimous consent that i may be excused from attendance at the sessions of the senate from friday. april 22. 1960. to and including saturday. april 30. 1960.
 eisenhowers goodwill tour of south america. i had been personally requested by four of these navy widows who are new york constituents of mine to offer legislation. and in fact was preparing a bill similar to that of my colleague. however. i am most happy instead to join forces with senator beall as a cosponsor of this legislation and hope that others representing the states from which the navy bandsmen came will join with us in a partisan effort to win some relief for these 19 unfortunate families of servicemen killed in the line of duty. in the letters written to me by the four new york widows. and in numerous news articles. it appears that due to last minute scheduling. the navy bandsmen did  have an opportunity to provide for their families through the purchase of flight insurance to cover what proved to be the fatal lap of their journey. the four wives wrote me that mally on such journeys their husbands would have bought the maximum amount of insurance in case of mishap. and each widow asks that the congress provide some measure of financial relief for them and their children. i believe that their cause based on the facts as they are kn to us is eminently just. and that the congress should consider this legislation during this session so that there will  be any unnecessary delay in easing the financial burdens faced by the 15 widows. many of whom have young children. following their husbands untimely deaths. to the four new york widows who have contacted me. i am sending the following telegram today: the country and the congress are most sympathetic to your plight and share in your grief over the tragic death of your husbands while on active duty. today. i have joined senator j. glenn beall. of maryland. in cosponsoring legislation to provide financial compensation of $50.000 to you as the maximum amount of flight insurance which could have been purchased by your husband had he had the opportunity prior to his departure. i believe your cause to be just and i shall do my utmost to seek passage of this legislation. sincerely. jacob k. javrts. u.s. senator. the four new york constituents whose husbands died in the tragic accident were margaret k. clark. lockport. n.y.. ene mlicallef. brooklyn. n.y.. beatrice tramentana. new york city. and beverly j. wilklow. perry. n.y.
 eisenhower pointed out on monday in his speech before the committee for international ecoic growth and the committee to strengthen the frontiers of freedom. is becoming increasingly dependent on steady sources of primary commodities and must preserve these sources. and. of course. the united states is a primary commodity producer itself and can directly benefit from steadier markets. the united states and the members of the eec alone account for onehalf of all the exports from the primary commodity producing countriesand this excludes oil exports. the united states and the eec also account for onehalf of the exports of the countries  in the first stages of industrialization. it will therefore be seen that the free world has an emous stake in the problems. as between the less developed areas producing primary commodities and the industrial countries of the free world. on a commodity basis. the united states and the eec take anywhere from between onehalf and fourfifths of the cocoa. coffee. copper. groundnuts. and rubber sold on world markets. between 1956 and 1959 the following sharp fluctuations in the commodity price indices took place: coffee. 35 percent. cocoa 55 percent. tea. 32 percentthis precipitous drop took place in less than 6 months timecopper. 80 percent. rubber. 35 percent down and then a 55percent recovery. and wool. 50 percent. these percentages measure the extremes of the fluctuations and most of them have been in part. recovered. etheless. they reveal a very unstable situationand they also show. within the extremes. a steady downward trend in most of the commodity prices. a mere recital of the commodities involved indicates that they represent the lifeblood of the very countries whose allegiance to freedom will determine whether freedom can win the struggle with communism in the world in the 1960s. they include coffee. the lifeblood of brazil and other countries. cocoa. the lifeblood of ghana and other new african nations. tea. so essential to nations in south and southeast asia and other countries. copper. ruling the ecoies of chile. peru. and other countries in latin america. rubber. the very heart of the ecoy of malaya. and wool. a very important element in the ecoy of australia. the percentages which i have mentioned indicate that it is possible. in an aftern. through a drastic price fall in primary commodities. to eliminate what has been afforded in a year of ecoic aid and technical assistance. i predict that the problem of the stabilization of fundamental commodity prices will prove to be the next great ecoic problem to which the free world industrialized nations must address themselves. the first question that will be raised in connection with the new ecoic organization which i have described. to which the united states is asked to adhere. relates to the role which will remain to the nato powers in respect of ecoic affairs. i am delighted to see present in the chamber my dear friend and colleague from tennessee . who has taken such a very important role in respect to the work of the nato parliamentarians. the parliamentary arm. as it were. of the nato powers themselves. let us never forget that we promised in the nato treaty to engage in ecoic cooperation with our nato allies. fifth. the policy of the new oecd need  necessarily bring about a relinquishment by nato of article ii of the nato treaty which reads as follows:
yes. there is a real interest which i think should be very reassuring to the american peoplein joining with us in an organization of this nature for ecoic consultation. for that is what it really amounts to. that is. the design actually to put up some hard cash in respect to aid to the lessdeveloped areas. that very question was asked and answered in the course of my open discussionbecause it was ope the floor of the assembly in strasbourg. i emphasized that when u.s. opinionwhich was the only thing i could speak of. i was  representing the governmentconsidered aid to the lessdeveloped areas. and about european countries at long last joining in that aid.  that they had achieved their own recovery. we were  thinking about resolutions. we were  thinking about plans. we were  thinking about a good idea. but we were considering hard cash. i must say that the reception to that suggestion was far better than if i had talked in generalities. the europeans quite understand that language. i believe that if our government will have the wisdom to follow throughand i am confident that it will have such wisdomwe shall have a very great opportunity to do what needs to be done. the senator from tennessee has been very gracious about me. i should like to say something about his role in the whole nato operation. i believe political consultation. which has been unusual. is  accepted as a matter of course among the nato powers. and is very heavily attributable to the perfectly magnificent work done by the political committee of the nato parliamentarians. of which the senator from tennessee is the chairman. just as i feel certain that the ecoic initiative came very strongly from our ecoic committee. i should like to congratulate the senator from tennessee. because. as he ksand i believe as everyone else must kan essential preliminary to any hope for doing anything ecoically had to come in the political field. it was only because political relations between the nato countries have been so excellent within the last year or two that the framework for the new ecoic organization which has  come up over the horizon is possible.
i cite to him the comparison. and i do that because i have read the speech very thoroughly. i cite the reiteration of the presidents statement about the entry of the plane over the soviet union. conflicting statements which were made to begin with. the reasons for them with respect to this plane incident. and the comparison between the fact that the russians have been carrying on espionage intensively and for years and we have been carrying on the u2 flights. without in any way trying to beg the question as to violations of international law or anything else. it seems to me the president there laid the facts on the line plainly and clearly and did  try to beg these questions at all. this represents to me the kind of directness which in this situation gives the free world its position as an open world.
. i wish to reiterate my own expression of sympathy. which goes out from all the american people. for the disasters which have struck chile. i hope the people will recognize in this act the symbol of our friendship for all the people of the other american republics. and a symbol of the unity of the americas. i close as i began. with the expression: "hail to the army for operation chile."
. it seems to me that the joint resolution offers us an ideal approach. as a first step in dealing with what must beif we are to succeedthe greater role of the entire nato organization in enabling the entire atlantic community to cooperate more closely. and yet in practicable and completely constitutional ways. so i hope very much the congress will  forgo the opportunity to support this measure given by our colleagues who sponsor it.
 woodrow wilson when he composed his program for world peace. and miss addams worked after the war as well to see that europes food needs were satisfied. jane addams teachings can guide us today. her articulate concern for civil rightsas well as her awareness of the difficulty of their vindicationis clear in these words from her book. "democracy and social ethics": we believe that mans moral idealism is the constructive force of progressbut we are skeptical of the moral idealism of the few and demand the education of the many. * * * we are  content to include all men in our hopes but have become conscious that all men are hoping and are part of the same movement.
although i may approach this matter from a different point of view. and perhaps we may differ upon many individual details. steps. and positions which ought to be taken. i wonder if the senator from arizona would  agree with me in the fundamental thought that we do  want to convey the ideabecause i have reacted in the same way the senator has--that we do  like people to say we are weak and that our prestige is low. because if it is. we will have to admit it and find a way to improve it. however. i think our prestige is  low. our strength is growing. and our prestige is high. we may differ very seriously about how to keep it there. all of us k that this particular defense appropriation bill. whatever little inadequacies it may have. whether it is $1 billion or $2 billionand i voted with the senator from washington . too. just as many other senators didfits into the general context of our military preparation. it bespeaks what our people are ready to do and the degree of sacrifice they are willing to undertake. i agree with the senator that the idea of writing ourselves down and saying that we are  strong. that we are weak. that we do  have prestige. that our prestige has gone out the window. * is hardly calculated to get from the american people that degree of sacrifice and support which i think winning the cold war will require. i wanted to refine the point. because i have little doubt that the senator feels as i do.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the department of new york italianamerican war veterans of the united states. inc.. relating to the acceptance of red china in the united nations. and so forth.
i should like to join my colleague from kentucky. i had in mind making the same point. i should like to point out to my colleague that the marshall plan started in europe in very much the same way. secretary marshall. under a democratic president. said that the time had come to aid through selfhelp and actual cooperation. our european allies. who were heavily damaged by war and threatened by communism. they took up that invitation and the program was. i think. remarkably successful. i should like to join my colleague from kentucky in expressing his interpretation of the administrations proposal that was made this morning that this is what we have in mind with respect to our work with the organization of american states. i should like also to congratulate the senator from kentucky. with whom i have had a very long standing association in the field of foreign affairswe both served on the foreign affairs committee of the house togetherin his perceptiveness and understanding that  what we do in the other american republics must be done together with the other american states as full and equal partners in a joint endeavor.
the senator from new mexico has made. in his usual splendid style. the classic argument for doing what the senator recognizes we should do. i think. also. that we who are considering the matter have a right to look at the actualities. especially in this season. remembering that we are at the tail end of one presidential administration and are about to embark on a very sharply contested. exceedingly important presidential campaign. we are faced by a very unusual set of circumstances which does  happen very often. and does  happen. certainly. in connection with our mal considerations. and we will pass a bill and hope for the best. today. under the circumstances i have described. and which all the world ks. we have to take a pretty careful look at what we are doing in terms of its projection into law. it may prove to be very improbable and extremely prejudicial for us. on far more grounds than are concerned on the bill. to go forward and say. "ok. we will pass this bill. whether it becomes law or . king full well that when we vote for it. it will  become law. and that the chances are very much against its becoming law." i do  think the classic argument on that score is applicable to the existing situation. unless one wishes to wear blinkers. and i do  think the overwhelming majority of the members of this body want to wear blinkers. i believe that all of us realize that regardless of what is done on this floor. this issue will be a major issue in the political campaign and will have large overtones and will be of importance in our history. and even in the history of the world. so i believe that even those who believe that. in addition to working on these major issues. we should concentrate our attention on the issues of war or peace. will agree that this measure and similar ones must be considered to be on the most important level.
. dean rusk. a new yorker. is a friend of mine of many years standing. i have one other bit of testimony which might interest the senate. he has worked very closely with me and with others. especially in the private ecoic center with respect to the work of nato. in which we have participated together as far as the nato parliamentarians are concerned. i believe he has one advantage to commend him to the country which should be ed. we all k that the foreign policy of our nation. especially at a time of such critical danger. is heavily rooted in bipartisanship. i k of few men who are as well equipped as dean rusk to carry on the foreign policy in a spirit of consultation. and in a spirit of getting the best of the ideas and suggestions of all americans. including all of us in the congress. whatever may be our party designation. dean rusk has one other gift. and i have seen him exercise it many times. he ks how to make an amalgam of ideas so it is  merely a potpourri or hash. but is a coordinated policy of drawing freely and judiciously upon the views of men of differing views. i think this is a ination which rises far above party. as indeed it should. in respect of the office which is being discussed. it happens that i have had these personal experiences with dean rusk. i think he will serve our country and the free world superbly well in this critically important job. like my distinguished colleague from vermont i hope the senate will approve the ination without a dissenting vote.
. among those whom the soviet union has deprived of their liberty are the unhappy people of lithuania. almost 3 million are trapped behind the iron curtain. the people of lithuania enjoyed a brief reestablishment of their independence in the wake of world war i. on february 16. 1918. the lithuanian republic was proclaimed. and for 21 years it enjoyed relative freedom. the libertyloving people of lithuania. however. were caught up in the expansionist ambitions of the soviet union. and in 1940. shortly after the outbreak of world war ii. their country was occupied by communist forces. the kremlin deceived one in lithuania with its propaganda and subversive activity designed to smother the countrys freedom with communist ideology and power. the flame of freedom has continued to burn brightly in this oppressed land in spite of harsh restrictions. deportations. imprisonment. and other repressive measures. and the hope of independence is still strong in the hearts of the lithuanian people. our ties with the people of lithuania are  only bonds of sympathy and understanding. many of our citizens trace their origins to this ancient land. and they have helped to keep alive the hope that in the  too distant future. freedom will once more flourish in lithuania. i am in strong sympathy with the hopes of the people of lithuania for independence and freedom from communist tyranny.
. jacob blaustein is one of baltimores distinguished citizens. a great humanitarian and industrialist. i served with mr. blaustein as a member of the board of the u.s. committee for the atlantic congress and as a delegate to that congress of the nato nations. where he brought much wise counsel. the blaustein story is a classic american success story. and demonstrates anew the opportunity which exists in our country for a man of imagination. ability. and initiative to rise to whatever heights to which he might aspire and to serve his country and his fellowman as well. i ask permission to have printed in the record the article by frank henry. entitled "life and times of jacob blaustein." which appeared in the baltimore sun on february 26.
. i wish to commend my colleague. the senator from new jersey . for his recent action in urging the national civil war centennial commission to seek a change in the site of the meeting of the fourth national assembly of civil war centennial commissions from charleston. s.c.. to a site where segregation does  obtain. i also wish to associate myself with his request to the head of the commission. gen. ulysses s. grant iii in that same respect. in so acting. the senator from new jersey was supporting the decision of the new jersey civil war centennial commission to withdraw from the assembly because a member of the new jersey commission is a negro who. while attending the assembly. would be faced with south carolinas segregation laws. in my own state of new york a centennial commission has  been organized. so we are  participating. and i have  been faced with this problem. however. i wish to applaud the senator from new jersey and to support him. i am sure it was difficult for the new jersey commission to decide to forgo participation in the assembly which is timed to coincide with the 100th anniversary of the firing on fort sumter in charleston harbor. for we all k of the tremendous zeal and enthusiasm which civil war buffs bring to their evocation. i regret that the national commission has  made the same difficult decision that the new jersey commission has made. while i recognize the historic significance of fort sumter in commemorating this centennial. i believe that there are broad underlying issues so much concerned with the outbreak of the civil war. which dictate against meeting  under conditions which are in my opinion contrary to the principles of equality and freedom which were established a hundred years ago at the cost of so much blood and sacrifice by the brave men on both sides.
. saturday. march 25. will mark the 140th anniversary of greek independence day. celebrating the successful war of independence against the old ottoman empire. the people of greece have jealously guarded their hardwon freedom which they achieved after 400 years of subjection to a conquerors rule. the influence of greek ideals of freedom. of greek philosophy. literature. and arts helped fashion our early american democracy. and in the epochal struggle for independence that began in 1821 americans stood side by side with the greeks. after world war ii. when communist forces inspired a bloody civil war. the united states supported the legitimate greek government with a program of massive aid. thus providing the decisive factor in the defeat of the communists. american aid has spurred the ecoic recovery of greece and is helping the greek people achieve a substantial measure of ecoic freedom. today greece is a pillar of the nato defense against communism. americas bond with the people of greece is much more than a spirit of sympathy and understanding. millions of our citizens can trace their ancestry back to this ancient land and still maintain blood ties there. other americans are conscious of the bonds of history and tradition as well as the substantial contribution of americans of greek origin to our modern culture and ecoy. there is ample reason. therefore. to congratulate the people of greece on this occasion.
. i am happy to join in the celebration of march 25 marking the 43d anniversary of the independence of the byelorussian democratic republic. the long history of the determination of the byelorussian people to be independent is punctuated by armed uprisings and constant sacrifice. they proclaimed their republic in minsk in 1917 but the period of independence was cut short by the communist armies that swept over the territory and drove the government into exile. during world war ii. the byelorussian people again proclaimed their independence. but the kremlins forces quickly stamped out this spark of liberty. it is especially fitting that we pay tribute to the courage of these enslaved peoples at a time when the free world itself is being challenged by the communist forces. these people of byelorussia as well as all other peoples held captive behind the iron curtain reflect the indomitable spirit of men who are willing to fight and die for the right to be free.
. the overtones of this most historic event reverberate today in connection with the eichmann trial. in israel. it is  an insignificant event in the history of mankind when the very people whom the nazis reduced by onethird of their number during that war should today be sitting in judgment upon one of the arch conspirators who brought about that awful holocaust in their ranks. and it is to be remembered today. as i believe the entire world will ho the heroes in the struggle in the warsaw ghetto for freedom against the nazi might. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record. in connection with my remarks. a proclamation by the gover of new york also commemorating this day.
many of my colleagues will agree with me that there is some featherbedding and the "easy way" is featherbedding in management. the standards for vice presidents in this cold war struggle have to be just as severe as the standards for the mechanic. i would  feel. in good conscience. that i could vote for the bill. as i shall. unless i stated these truths. i hope to have the opportunity. whether it is in my bill. a bill of the senator from arizona or other senators. to vote that way. whatever we may disagree on. we must all agree that it takes productive muscle to win the cold war. the epochal struggle in which we are presently engaged.
. the u.s. commissioner of narcotics. hon. harry j. anslinger. a celebrated public servant. has written an article entitled "were winning the war against dope." which was published in a recent issue of this week magazine. the article comments upon the seriousness of the narcotics problem. although the commissioner of narcotics believes progress is being made. particularly in new york and california. where he reports that more than 60 percent of the 44.906 cases reported to the bureau from all over the united states are to be found. i am happy to say that dr. anslinger. as he is properly called. speaks well of one of the bills being introduced today. namely. the bill providing for hospitalization of the addict. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed at this point in the record.
s request for $500 million to launch the project. plus aher $100 million to help chile recover from last years disastrous earthquake. i have urged that the 18 principal european nations and canada. that are parties to the oecd. which the united states has already joined. should make the alliance for progress its first partnership effort. thereby doubling the available resources to meet the urgent need for ecoic development in latin america. i think they will do thatin view of the way i have seen their interests manifested in connection with the work in the nato parliamentarian it is essential that this initiative be forwarded and that the prospective program be doubled in money and manpower. so that barriers to expansion of latin american exports be lifted in western europe and that the private ecoy in western europe and the united states be effectively tied into the total effort. every expert points out that if communistoriented castroism is to find any important support in the western hemisphere. it will be because of the failure to develop adequately and in time the trade. health. education. water and soil resources. land use and other ecoic potentials of latin america. in addition. the emphasis on selfhelp in the alliance for progress should convince the other american republics that we are a partner.  a patron. for the people of cuba themselves. the alliance for progress is supremely important. they must have aid for adequate ecoic development and ecoic justice. they can get these and we can help emously without the totalitarian regime which they are  suffering. the alliance for progress should certainly be available to them as they throw off the castro dictatorship. the castro regime promises them only lower living standards. deprivation of their liberties and will confine cuba more and more to the low estate in terms of its ecoy and the enjoyment of life by its peopleconditions so typical of a communist satellite. we must make clear that we are opposed to dictatorships of the left as well as to dictatorships of the right. second. we must preserve the opportunity to proceed multilaterally. we must constantly keep before the eyes of the other free nations of the western hemisphere the tyranny of castroism. with the expectation that they will recognize it as the threat it is to their own freedom and security. and will meet their commitments to defend the hemisphere against communist subversion. i believe there is a fair prospect that the other american republics will recognize. first. that the communists will use the doctrine of intervention to mask their subversive purposes. and. second. that the size and weight of the communistfurnished arms makes the castro regime far more of a threat to the security of the other republics in latin america than had been realized. all the american republics must recognize the juridical as well as the moral propriety of invoking the authority of the interamerican treaty of reciprocal assistance of september 2. 1947the rio pact. which. for the western hemisphere. is tantamount to the nato allianceas implemented by the declaration of solidarity adopted at the interamerican conference at caracasthe caracas declaratio march 28. 1954. a role in the informational part of this process may well become a most vital function of the refugees from cuba and may be very significant to the ultimate course of events. i point out again that article 6 of the rio pact speaks precisely of the inviolability and integrity of the "sovereignty or political independence of any american state" being "affected by any fact or situation that might endanger the peace of america." under such circumstances "the organ of consultation shall meet immediately. in order to agree on the measures which should be taken for the common defense and for the maintenance of the peace and security of the continent." the decision may be taken by twothirds of the signatory states that have ratified the treaty. and may result in "recall of chiefs of diplomatic missions. breaking of diplomatic relations. breaking of consular relations. partial or complete interruption of ecoic relations or of rail. sea. air. postal telegraph. and radiotelephonic or radiotelegraphic communications. and use of armed forces." only as to the use of its own armed forces is such a decision  binding on every signatory state. the other sanctions must be applied. if voted under the terms of the treaty. it is a very tight treaty. and only twothirds of the nations participating are needed in order to bring it into operation. this treaty is supplemented by the caracas declaration. which says: the domination or control of the political institutions of any american state by the international communist movement. extending into this hemisphere a political system of an extracontinental power. would constitute a threat to the sovereignty and political independence of the american state. endangering the peace of america. the signatories to the rio pact are all the 21 american republics. those represented at caracas were the same. with reservations only on the part of guatemala. mexico. and peru. we in the united states have a right to expect that. at the proper time. egh of the signatories to the rio pact. recognizing the immediate and present threat posed by castroism to freedom in the hemisphere andand i emphasize thisto their own security. will make the rio pact effective in this instance. in the tradition of a bipartisan foreign policyas sponsored by the late senator arthur vandenbergin circumstances such as these. i urge support for the balanced approach that i have here described. i hope very much that this may also be the view of my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an editorial entitled "a policy on cuba." from the new york times of recent date.
i am very grateful to the senator. first. i join my colleague in thanking the senator for his unfailing courtesy and understanding in regard to these problems. second. i identify myself with the inquiry which my colleague has made so very ably. i should like to ask the senator a specific question. we were in the midst of quite a problem with the air force on the rome air materiel area. which is the part of the air materiel command specifically involvedbecause this would really be a disaster to the particular section of new york. for it would withdraw nearly the main ecoic supportwhen along came the decision on titan. which resulted in the new attitude with respect to what is called roama. the rome air material area. i should like to ask the senator whether. so far as he ks. as he has surveyed what is being done in regard to the item which we discussed especially. that decisions should  first be taken before negotiations and conversations are held with local people as to the ecoic or community soundnessand i k the senator can give guaranteeany decision has been reached in this particular case or whether the question is still under consideration.
i was talking about the desirability of retaining the base in the interests of the ecoy and the security of the country. because in this particular instance a fine case was made for griffiss air force base on those grounds alone.
. yesterday. may 10. was the 80th anniversary of the independence of rumania and it was celebrated as a national holiday during the period of the kingdom. although the communist regime of rumania has suppressed all outward observance of this day. it still lives in the hearts of the people of rumania as a symbol of the freedom and independence which they hope to regain in the future. rumania was freed from turkish rule in 1856 at the conclusion of the crimean war. but it was  until 1881 that prince carol was crowned king of that land. a prosperous country. rich in natural resources. it has been overrun in two world wars by its enemies. and was seized by the soviet union even before the end of world war ii. under the shadow of the kremlins armed might. the people of rumania have nevertheless kept the flame of freedom burning brightly in spite of harsh restrictions and repressive measures. american interest in this balkan country goes back to the 19th century. and in addition to a lively diplomatic history. there are also strong ties of blood between the two countries. many of our citizens can trace their ancestry to this land. and they have helped to keep alive the hope that freedom will once again flourish in rumania. i welcome this opportunity to join in the expresion of that hope and that wish.
. i wish to call to the attention of my colleagues in the senate a very important article which appears in this months organ of the th atlantic treaty organization. nato letter. entitled "parliamenta revolution." it is written by mr. desd donnelly. a member of parliament. who is himself a socialist. it described how the communists infiltrated the czechoslovakian parliament and turned it to their own purposes in order to subvert the czechoslovakian government. this is more evidence of the degree of sophistication which we in the free societies must have if we are to keep adequate pace with our own cause in the struggle for peace. i hope very much that every member of the senate will read the article. because it concerns a body very much like our own. and shows how it was misused. distorted. and destroyed. these are the kind of lessons from which we should leaxn. i ask unanimous consent to have the article printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill which would permit the navy yard boys club of brooklyn to build new permanent quarters on u.s. property in the brooklyn navy yard. the bill. which is also being introduced in the house by representative victor l. anfuso. democrat of brooklyn. would authorize the navy to lease a halfacre of land to the boys club for $1 per year for a period of 99 years. the navy yard boys club over the past 34 years has established an extraordinary record as a stabilizing influence in the community. its work has been applauded by civic. social. and religious leaders. it is imperative that its work be continued and expanded. the boys club is  using a public school building as its quarters on a temporary basis. the need for permanent quarters with modern facilities is emphasized by the fact that the boy population of the area has grown to more than 6.000 as the result of the erection of two lowcost housing projects in the neighborhood. brooklyn navy yard officials have indicated that they have objection to making the land available to the boys club. i am informed that the charles hayden foundation of new york city has made a grant of $225.000 to the club for building new quarters. and the club has undertaken a campaign to raise an equal amount. i ask unanimous consent that the bill and a statement be printed in the record following my remarks.
earlier today the senator from south carolina delivered an address on the birthday today of the u.s. army forces. i intended to be present on the floor of the senate in order to add my congratulations to the statement which he had made. i am a reservist in the national guard. i served in the army. and  attend a good many of the sessions which are held here by way of training every tuesday morning. i wish to congratulate the army on its birthday and also to testify to the extraordinary initiative which is being shown in the army through both administrations in recent times in keeping abreast of the times. in reorganizing divisions. providing for new modes of transportation. and dealing with problems of statecraft which are involved in the army. as well as dealing with problems of tactics and strategy. i believe the army is doing itself proud. the country can be very proud of it. it has measured up to its responsibilities. which have taken it around the world.  only as soldiers but as proconsuls of the united states. i am delighted to join with the senator from south carolina in felicitations to the u.s. army. i am grateful to the distinguished majority leader. the senator from montana
. it seems clear that we can rely on negotiating with the soviet union as the main effort  to ease the tensions of the cold war. let us negotiate when the russians want to do so with egh interest to have an agenda and adequate preliminary arrangements. let us be wary of negotiating when the negotiations represent obvious delaying tactics. such as is  the case in regard to the nuclear test ban talks at geneva. or propaganda exercises. such as the negotiations offered by chairman khrushchev on a german peace treaty. it is for this reason that i urge our government to reject chairman khrushchevs proposal. as made in his recent address to the military academy graduates in the kremlin. for the convocation of a peace conference on germany. such a peace conference under the soviet threat to cut off berlin from the west can be accepted under such auspices. we should. rather. adopt the resolution on berlin which i introduced. making clear that the basis on which we are willing to begin to negotiate. in essence. is the 1959 allied plan. together with any soviet counterproposals. i urge also that if we do reject the khrushchev proposals. the scene of conversations ought to be shifted to the united nations. in this way the channel of communication can be kept open without many of the disadvantages of closed summit negotiations. the free world needs to look into its own problems and resources. it needs a rest from the tension of relying on negotiations to dispel the fear of war. instead let us make our main effort  to integrate the free worldecoically. politically. militarily. and culturallyas the best action we can take  for world peace. let us recognize that there are occasions when  to negotiate is also a technique of diplomacy. we can then return to the negotiations with much more promise. to negotiate. by websters definition. means "to hold intercourse with a view to coming to terms." the past record of negotiations with the soviet union has demonstrated that to negotiate. by communist definition. generally means with a view to coming to communist terms. unless the communists wish to agree as they did on berlin after the airlift. on trieste. on the austrian peace treaty. and korean truce. americans seem frustrated by this situation. they have grown tired of seeing the communists use negotiations. as they have on laos. as a delaying tactic or to lull us into inaction while they took over most of the country. we can gain hing and lose much. from permitting the bargaining table to be used for a communist game of charades. in short. negotiations with the soviet union can succeed so long as chairman khrushchev really does  want them to succeed. the free world is beginning to look for a better coordination of its own means and resources in the cold war. this is the meaning of the stad proposals to strengthen nato. the desire in south and southeast asia for u.s. firmness to stop the communist advance there. the demand of 20 latin american republics for greater attention to their ecoic and social development and the refusal of so many new nations of africa. south of the sahara. to follow the u.s.s.r. and the communist bloc. and the cool response to chairman khrushchevs terms for negotiations on berlin. withstanding his rocket and missile rattling. almost imperceptibly the views of the american people are changing. too. causing our policy to pass from the generally unsuccessful reliance upon negotiations to the more realistic building up of the free world through the development of better international means for cooperation and integration of the free worlds resources. both human and material. integration of the free world is the key right . we must make it more effective and we must enlarge its scope. while respecting the nationhood and selfdetermination of each part. these are the principal elements of free world integration. first. the expansion of twoway free world trade. second. the acceleration of international exchange activities in culture. science. education. sports. and production techniques. third. the acceleration of ecoic development effort in the emerging free world nations. which will break the bondage of poverty  holding over 1 billion people of the free world. fourth. the establishment of more open channels of toplevel communication among free world allies so that we can move together on all political cold war issues. fifth. the mounting of a productivity drive within the united states which can form the rallying point for free world ecoic strength and the basis of free world military and political power. sixth. making the u.n. and regional cooperative organizations more effective. the west has for too long been on the defensive. the communist successes in southeast asia and cuba have given chairman khrushchev far more confidence than is deservedhe mocked great britain and france recently and called the united states a "wort runner." if chairman khrushchev really seeks to increase the personal living conditions of the soviet and satellite peoples. he will have even less reason to be cocky. so great is  the gap with the poeple of the industrialized nations of the free world. the free world has the resources to dispel khrushchevs cockiness and to halt the string of soviet successes. but to do so we must proceed immediatelyon a grand scaleto the better integration of the whole free world.
i wish to address myself to a matter which i think is of very great seriousness to our country. the significance today of the national observance of captive nations week. senators will recall that with others of my colleagues i had the ho to sponsor the original resolution with reference to the designation of captive nations week. together with senator douglas. of illis. the purpose of captive nations week is to keep vibrant and alive the spirit of hope in our nation for the ultimate freedom through selfdetermination of the 100 million people of the baltic countries. estonia. latvia. lithuania. the middle european countries. poland. czechoslovakia. and hungary. and the balkan countries. rumania. bulgaria. and albania. still held captive by the imperialism in the kremlin. it will be recalled that the communist propaganda machinery literally "blew its top" when this resolution was first adopted and captive nations week was inaugurated. this year both the president of the united states and the gover of the state of new york have by proclamation declared captive nations week. why. there is a very important reason. for we face an international issue at this time which is of decisive significance to the peoples of the captive nations. that issue is the will and determination on berlin which our nation has shown and is showing together with its allies. the united kingdom and france. and all the other nations of the th atlantic treaty organization. who are about to give their answer to khrushchev. and i am convinced it will be a decisive " to the request. demand. or invitation that we leave berlin. the hope of the peoples of the captive nations for ultimate freedom is  dim and it is brighter  than before. berlin is the key to hope for the peoples of the captive nations. let me repeat that statement. berlin is the key to hope for the peoples of the captive nations. if we back down on berlin. it will be a signal to them that their hopes shall probably be unrealized for the proximate future. if we stand fast on berlinas we show every prospect of doing it will be a signal of hope to the 100 million captive peoples and the greatest single positive factor since world war ii that they will yet have their freedom. for it will represent the determination of the united states and its allies that the obligations that captive peoples shall have selfdetermination. solemnly assumed by the soviet union at the end of world war ii. and then violated. will yet be redeemed because we will hold the soviet union to its commitments. recently i read in the newspaper that whoever was speaking to certain groups in new york yesterday said that the ultimate hope for their freedom was dim. i do  think so. i think the hope for ultimate freedom is brighter  than ever before. and the reason for it is our stand on berlin. a right of national selfdetermination was incorporated in the agreements arrived at with the soviet union immediately after world war ii and expressly made applicable to these captive european nations. it is a pillar of u.s. foreign policy and a basic principle of international justice. the united states can demonstrate by its attitude on berlin that it can and will  accept the enslavement of the oncefree captive nations of europe. which violates the understandings arrived at with the soviet union. has basis in international law. and is morally repugnant to free men. madam president. it is often said that we have positive policy to pursue on berlin. that we have to find alternatives. whether it be a "free city" or some other "gimmick." madam president. there is a positive policy on berlin. it is incorporated in senate resolution 164. which i had the ho of submitting. which is still pending before the senate committee on foreign relations. there is little we could do to more effectively signalize captive nations week than to make the communists understand that we have some power in the world. too. in terms of what will happen in their areas. as they seem to be exercising power in terms of what happens in the free world. we should act on this resolution with respect to berlin. the resolution calls for fourpower negotiations on the means whereby a free and united germany may be created and within it a free and united berlin. seeks means by which the security of europe. both east and west. may be guaranteed. rejects a unilateral abrogation by the u.s.s.r. of the postworld war ii agreements regarding access to berlin. the rights of its people for reunification of germany. and pledges of the united states to take whatever measures may be required. together with france and the united kingdom. to maintain these agreements. madam president. hing less will impress the communists with our seriousness than concurrence by the congress and the executive in the fact that serious and portentous measures may have to be taken in respect to berlin. and that they are worth taking. we are serious. we look a serious risk in the face. we heard only the other day a rumor that the soviet ambassador. at a party. said he did  think the american people meant what our government was saying in respect to berlin. madam president. the congress has every opportunity to nail that down by acting on the resolution. or on some other resolution. expressing itself in accord with what i deeply feel to be the will of the country and the will of the whole free world. captive nations week is a unique and significant time when this can be done. i repeat. madam president. the hope for ultimate freedom for these people is  dim. it is brighter than it was before. i think it is brighter than ever. so long as we take the position we are taking in respect to berlin. berlin is the key to hope for the peoples of the captive nations. in conclusion i wish to compliment the national captive nations committee. the assembly of captive european nations. and the many other organizations and their leaders who are cooperating in the manifesto which signalizes this observance. i hope very much that the committee on foreign relations will pay the most serious attention to the possibilities which this offers to us to act upon a resolution on berlin . during captive nations week. madam president
i would like to have new york joined in that company. because we. too. are very grateful to general itschner for the many wonderful things which under his leadership were done for our ports and other installations through the corps of army engineers.
. i deeply feel that if we take this line our allies all will be with us. because it will be good for them  only in terms of their security. something they understand. but also in terms of their own prosperity and of the prosperity of the world. rarely in history has a nation fighting for a cause been in the position that the weapon it employedin our case the weapon of ecoics. the weapon of foreign aidcould be as productive and constructive for itself and for the cause for which it was fighting. i thank my colleague.
we k that we have a great weapon. and that is the power of credit. there is such thing in the communist world. they do  k what it means and do  want it. but we have the power of credit. the power of credit can win the cold war if we use it. the whole design of the provision is at long last to mobilize the credit of our country.
i thank the senator from iowa for his eloquent and pertinent remarks. i am delighted to be joined with him in this common view. which i think represents the fundamental purpose of our country. i am delighted that. withstanding the fact that the senator has  been here too long. he is taking an affirmative initiative in respect to the very critical matters being discussed here. khrushchev gives us evidence of a man who must bring victories home every time. or he finds his throne shaking. this is an important problem for the american people to understand. it is one thing to understand the bringing home of new countries. new peoples. and new achievements of which he can be proud. it is aher thing to face the iron realities of the fact that people. in order to be restrained from escaping from the communist paradise. are subjected to the most forceful measures. including the use of the soviet army itself. this salutary lesson must be given every opportunity to sink in. and it will  sink in by itself. we must help it sink in at one and the same time that we engage in all the other measures i have described. the peoples of the free world show up best when they face difficulty and danger. that concept can be utilized in this crisis to the greatest effect. it is true that we bestir ourselves mightily when we face danger. it is all the more reason for senators to indicate to our people and the government the lines along which we may most effectively bestir ourselves in order to avail ourselves of the great morale and high spirit which comes to free peoples when they are faced with grave dangers. as they are at the moment. finally. i deeply believe that the world is in a better position to stand up to this kind of totalitarian threat than it was in hitlers day. i agree with the senator from iowa that there are many similarities between the two situations because we have made very material progress toward integrating and knitting the world more closely together. nato is probably the most outstanding example of that achievement. the survival of the united nations. withstanding the demise of the league of nations. is aher outstanding example. as are our commitments around the world in the southeast asia treaty organization. the rio pact. the central pact. and so on. more than anything else is the new concept by our country that we must work with. fight with. and generally operate with our allies in the closest way. there are those who place a great premium on negotiation. i agree that we must negotiate. but frankly. for the moment i do  think . i -close as i began. we must prepare to move forward on the offensive. as the senator from iowa so properly said. in every fieldmilitary. ecoic. and propaganda. second. we must keep our shirts on and be very cool. third. we must tie the free world together as it has never been tied together before. one can promise the result in the face of such portentous and dangerous events as the closing of the border between east and west berlin. but une thing we are sure of. there is infinitely more promise of the victory of freedom in these policies than in any other. and we can face the future. if  with equanimity. at least with the confidence and calm of men and women who have done everything within their power to protect their own future.
it would. i have said that precisely. that that is what we were doing when we defeated the byrd amendment. we would give the president an opportunityand i realize this is a substantive question about which others can have differing opinionsto go out and make commitments for large sums of money. that appeals to us who opposed the byrd amendment as being an essential weapon for the presiden to have in the cold war. that does  mean that we would back it up with an obligation and expenditure. probably we would. undoubtedly we would. however. we still reserve the power. other than that. i saw very clearly what we were doing in defeating the byrd amendment. and practically everyone else did also.
mt. president. i am pleased to join with my colleague senator keating in proposing an amendment to h.r. 4785. a bill to permit inclusion of army national guard and air national guard technicians in state retirement systems. senator keatings and my amendment removes the 6l/2percent limitation on federal contributions to these retirement funds. as provided in h.r. 4785. efforts to secure retirement benefits for these technicians have been carried on for many years. failure to obtain such benefits to date has made it difficult to secure and even more difficult to retain valuable technical support. if this trend is  reversed. the efficiency of the national guard is bound to suffer. to use this 61/2percent federal contribution to the federal retirement system as the ceiling for contributions to the state retirement systems is  an equitable or accurate yardstick. most states compute their rates for contributions to the state retirement system on an annual basis. based on current experience. on the other hand. the federal rate of 61/2 percent was established by the act of july 31. 1956. although the compensation of federal employees has since been increased. revision of cost factors and rates of contributions to the federal retirement system has been made. i am hopeful that this amendment will be recognized as a sound and equitable measure which is particularly appropriate and significant today as we reevaluate our military preparedness.
i thank my colleague. my colleague and the senator from illis fought a very good fight and won what i regard as an outstanding victory. certainly the fruits of that victory should be preserved and must be preserved. at that time i was in europe. engaged on nato business. prior thereto. my colleague and i fought very hard to have steps taken to end discrimination against american citizens. including those who serve in our armed forces--in particular. those stationed at the dhahran airbase. in saudi arabia. who had been discriminated against because of their religious faith. i join my colleague on this issue. and i compliment him on the statement he just  made and on the valiant fight he made and won. and i also join him in urging the committee to accept the language used by the house of representatives. rather than what i consider to be the rather diluted version the senate committee has included in regard to what was done in 1950 and 1960 in connection with these matters.
. we are behind the russians in this field. for years they have been going out. building the toughest kinds of structures. in siberia and other places. out of sheer patriotism. they have to do it. but. nevertheless. that is the way it comes across to the other countries. some of our hardheaded friends softheaded friendsas balewa of nigeria. ayub of pakistan. and garcia of the philippines. say this is a very good idea. we are behind in it. i have been on this wicket for years. i supported an effort. in 1947. to educate people to go to work in latin america. i urged it on our candidate for the presidency in 1960. i am sorry he did  accept it. the fact that this opponent did does  mean it is a bad idea. it is a very good idea. this is one of the original initiatives coming out of the campaign which inspired american youth and people of other lands. we ought to do it. the second question is. how much shall we put into it. if we were to get $50 or $60 million out of it. then i would say it is  worth spending more than $25 million. but we k that if the program works. we can expect it to be of great help in our effort to succeed in the struggle with the communists. it is hing that can be valuated in terms of money. but it is worth many billions of dollars. therefore. to those who are on the taking end. i ask our friends who say it is  worth $40 million. but is worth only $25 million: shall we give those who oppose us the opportunity to say. "you cut it down so we could  make it work". in short. if the program is worth $25 million. it is worth $40 million. i shall vote against the amendment to cut it. because it either is a worthwhile effort or we should  make it at all. and the $15 million. considering the magnitude of the sums with which we deal. does  make much difference. and we should  set our judgment against the judgment of those who are directly trying to make a good job out of the program. this question goes to the inspiration of the young volunteers who are concerned. and to the tens of thousands of young people in all our american colleges. as to the question of the personnel in the corps. this is a matter which is concerned with the blowing up of the miami incident. i may leave out the words "blowing up." how many of the parents of men who went into the army used to say. "i can wait for the day when they take you into the army and finally make a man of you". what we are talking about is training. if the young man to whom reference has been made made a fool of himself in floridaand he has admitted in the press that he didlet us see what would happen to him. it is a good experience. it might be that his worst critics might think he would be a fine conscript for the peace corps. so i think the effort is worth while. i think we ought to do it. i think it is an initiative which gives morale to our people. for years we have been talking about what we can do to "spark" our own people. this is something to "spark" our young people. so. if this program is worth $25 million. i think it is certainly worth $40 million to do it right.
the draft which the senator has read. which is the printed copy on the senators desk. is somewhat different from the draft which will be presented in respect of the subject to which the senator has referred. and i think we have satisfied that particular point. i will read it slowly: a person or group of persons shall be deemed unable to seek effective legal protection for the right to the equal protection of the laws within the meaning of subsection (a)  only when such person or group of persons is financially unable to bear the expenses of the litigation. but also when there is reason to believe that the institution of such litigation would jeopardize the employment or other ecoic activity of. or might result in physical harm or ecoic damage to. such person or group of persons or their families. it seems to me that we have made an effort to deal with the factual finding on the part of the attorney general in the financial field and also with respect to the coercive aspects we have described. whether or  the motion to table. or whatever other motion is made. succeeds. it goes to the fundamental idea which is involved. if it did . i am sure the senator from iowa would have problems with me. in addition to myself. there are six other sponsors. i do  think. if we had an opportunity to work out details of language essential to call for the support of men of good will like the senator from iowa. we would have great problems in making more precise those matters which i think we have already indicated it is our intention to carry through in the amendment. i am grateful to the senator from iowa for his suggestions. i k they are motivated by his feeling that if the amendment is perfected . it may have a better chance to survive a motion to table. but i really feel. based on our experience. that the motion to table. or whatever motion is made. which tests whether we shall have any opportunity to go into the detailed characteristics of the amendment. will  be dependent upon detailed language to which the senator from iowa has so graciously and astutely referred.
subsequently said: madam president. in connection with the debate earlier today about the jack paar show in berlin. the national broadcasting co. has telephoned to my office a message which i believe should. in all fairness. be inserted in the record. because. as i stated this morning. certainly. judging from the news reports from the associated press and the united press. i thoroughly agree with my colleagues as to the implications and the dangers we see in so sensitive an area as the berlin border. i suggested only that at least we keep the lines open. in order to determine what both the army personnel concerned and jack paar himself had to say about that matter. so the national broadcasting co. has telephoned to my office a statement which. in all fairness. i shall read into the record. in this connection. i ask unanimous consent that these remarks be printed in the record following the debate earlier today in regard to this matter.
for the information of the senator from connecticut. i identified myself this morning with the views expressed by a number of senators. under the general leadership of the majority leader. who expressed himself very strongly on the question. i feel precisely as he does. i made the point. as a lawyer. that we certainly ought to be willing to hear what was to be said on the other side. here is a statement of nbc. we expect. as the defense department has annced. that we will have its report. this matter. as suggested by the senator from minnesota. relates. however. more to the discipline of our troops than to the fact that a commercial performer like jack paar obtained a "scoop." that is a very serious matter. aside from the danger of incidents on the border. my colleague from new york made a statement on that point. i identify myself with those views. this is what nbc has said about it. let us see what the army will say about it. i can say that. after all that has occurred on the floor. this is the last time it is likely to happen. for that we must all be grateful.
. i call the attention of the senate to an editorial published in the new york times of september 25. 1961. entitled "soviet ecoic warfare." it demonstrates how critically important to the world is the capability of the soviet union to engage in ecoic warfare on free world markets. this was brilliantly called to our attention the other day in the speech by the senator from minnesota . which i am proud to say i am going to use in print as a committee document for my own nato parliamentarians ecoic committee. of which i have the ho of being chairman. at its impending sessions in october and ember at paris. the editorial emphasizes the need of the free world to have organized means available for the kind of ecoic warfare the committee of which i am the chairman is dealing with. i think such an organization belongs in nato. it is just as important for the free worlds defense as is military means. i am much fortified by this editorial and by senator humphreys speech. and i will do my best to forward this idea at the nato parliamentarians meetings which will be held in paris shortly. i ask unanimous consent that the editoial be printed in the record at this point.
. the independence of the ukrainian people was proclaimed on january 22. 1918. and i am proud to join in the observance marking the 44th anniversary of that historic day. though that independence quickly succumbed to the might of the soviet armies. the ukrainian people have kept bright the hope of one day regaining their liberty. americas love of freedom and our adherence to the principle of selfdetermination are well kn to the whole world. national selfdetermination is a principle of international justice. and during world war ii it was restated by the leaders of the allied cause. they proclaimed their respect for the right of all peoples to choose the form of government under which they will live. and the wish to see sovereign rights and selfgovernment restored to those who have been forcibly deprived of them. this principle was also included in the draft covenant prepared by the commission on human rights of the united nations. in 1952. and it applies to the ukrainians. as well as to all other peoples who are striving to keep alive the light of liberty and the hope of independence. in the fight against communist imperialism and to help the oppressed peoples behind the iron curtain. all the resources of diplomacy. morality. and our friendly relations with other peoples must be brought to bear in support of this principle and others which have served us and the free world. the ukrainian people have kept fresh and alive their hope for freedom from communist enslavement and for complete independence. that principle is included in the united nations charter. and it applies especially to the ukrainian people. who have been enslaved by the communists and have almost been decimated by the fascists and the nazis. the ukrainian people understand the meaning of freedom better than most people in the world do. and i take great pride in joining in calling attention to their independence day. i deem it a privilege to be able to add by my voice in some small measure to their heroic struggle for national identity.
. one of the great stories of courage and heroism during world war ii was denmarks successful fight to save her jewish citizens from the nazis. how the danes outwitted their nazi conquerers and provided ways for most of the jewish population to escape to safety has special significance in the light of the eichmann trial. but the strength of the democratic spirit in time of great stress which it demonstrates is especially important in these dangerous days. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the article by harold flender. "the magnificent danes." which appeared in the adl bulletin. the publication of the antidefamation league of the bnai brith. october 1961.
. the liberation of bulgaria from the ottoman empire 84 years ago was celebrated on march 3. occupying a key position in the balkans. the people of. bulgaria have paid a high price for their independence. in 1941 during world war ii their country was occupied by the nazis and in 1944 by the soviet union. a communist regime was set up and the country has been held in its grip since then. the bulgarian people. however. have never 1.662 lost their hope to regain freedom and independence. and bulgarian exiles in countries all over the world have helped to maintain this spark of hope. the united states has a natural sympathy with other peoples who are going through hardships and persecution in order to throw off the yoke of an oppressor and win their liberty. it is my hope that the bulgarian people will have made substantial gains toward that goal in the days to come.
i wish to compliment my colleague. who comes up with some very interesting ideas and some very useful ideas very frequently. for this suggestion. we of new york have suffered emous damage along the coast of long island. which i had the opportunity to survey from an army helicopter on saturday. the gover computes the damage to be in excess of $20 million. and a great deal of it has been suffered by people of very modest means. with very modest homes located on the beach. i think the senator has put his finger on something which could be very useful and very helpful to many people. which would cost the united states practically hing. it shows that by using ones head one can often come up with the most important ingredient in doing the right thing. i am delighted the senator has made his suggestion. i hope he pursues it. if such can be done by executive action. it may be done by legislative action. i shall be hoed to join with the senator in that effort.
. the greek nation celebrated the 141st anniversary of its independence on sunday. march 25. on that day tribute was deservedly paid to the brave men who wrested liberty from the ottoman empire in 1921 and the people of greece have remembered again the many crises and hardships they have had to undergo in order to maintain their freedom. this determination to be free is a heritage also of ancient greece which in many ways has become an integral part of western civilization. today greece lives for its future.  its past. and its people are industriously building a nation with strong ecoic roots and a stable political base. the united states has contributed in substantial measure to the ecoic recovery of greece from the ravages of world war ii and the bloody civil war that the communists subsequently waged. and today greece is a firm pillar of support for nato. i am happy to join the greek people in commemorating this 141st anniversary of greek independence and to assure them of continued support for their historic efforts to strengthen the structure of their social and ecoic life.
. i have had the ho of being met and hospitably treated by dr. von brentaand the associates whom he has with him this morning. both in the federal republic of germany at bonn and in their embassy in washington. i join my colleagues in extending a warm welcome to dr. von brentaand his associates. there is more urgent problem in the world than the integration of europe. and in that the german federal republic plays a key and vital role. i join with the distinguished chairman of the senate foreign relations committee in recognizing these negotiations and developments as key conferences to the security of the free world. and as emphasizing the fact that the german federal republic thus far has shown a paneuropean attitude. which is affirmatively reassuring to all of us who have assessed the results and record of world war ii. dr. von brentahas been one of the leaders in that effort. strongly sustained by the german ambassador. and under the fundamental policy guidance and direction of the leader of the german people. dr. adenauer. this represents a most significant development in our relations and is one of the most affirmative steps in the direction of solving the problems we have in the world.
. i am most grateful to the senator from pennsylvania for making so gracious a comment on what i said about berlin. this is a subject in which. as the senator from pennsylvania ks. i have been interested and concerned for many years. in 1949 and 1950. i was a member of a special committee of the other body which investigated the situation. and actually held hearings the length of west germanyfrom hamburg to munichon this and other subjects. and as chairman of the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarians conference. i have also been deeply immersed in these problems. what struck me so forciblyand i am very much pleased that the thinking of the senator from pennsylvania coincides with my ownis the seeming lash on our backs in an attempt to force us to make an agreement on berlin with the russians. this could have very unfortunate repercussions insofar as the german people themselves are concerned. because their fidelity to the effort to make a community of europe is one of the most essential guarantees of the peace of europe and the peace of the world. and if they were to lose confidence in the capability of that movement. and were to feel that they had to take some other road. we would indeed be in trouble. i should like to say to the senator from pennsylvaniaand i should also like to have him express his view of the matter. if he will do sothat. in my opinion. if we ever let khrushchev get any real influence in west germany. germany would be unified so quickly that it would make our heads swim. that is all that khrushchev wantsto unify germany. but on his own terms. therefore. it is most important that we make an agreement. if that is at all possible. to improve the situation there. so as  to be upset constantly by khrushchevs ultimatums. but if we have to pay the price of compromising the fundamental position of west germany. either by recognizing east germany. or by jeopardizing the status of the central european countries  enslaved by the communists. or by accepting some technique which would implicitly recognize east germany or would in any way interfere with access to berlin. based on what the neutral countries do or do  wish to allow. then we would be greatly weakened.
it seems to me the proposal could be very useful. i believe the senator feels very much as i do. so long as we can make too much progress with the russians and communist chinaand we k thatlet us at least make major progress in the integration of the free world. there we can make progress and put ourselves in a more advantageous position to win the cold war decisively.
 i am very grateful to the senator from michigan. as i said in similar vein to the senator from illis . i appreciate the fact that i have been able to work so closely with the senator from michigan on so critical an issue as this. whatever may be our evaluation of the importance of other issues. in my view the moral questions involved. the constitutional vindication. and the relationship which the issue bears to our ability to win the cold war amply justify having taken almost 21/2 weeks and  taking whatever additional time is required in order to see it through. because of the tremendous forces at home and abroad which it has engendered. i am very grateful to the senator from michigan.
first. i appreciate the senators making this statement for our "team" after the vote. this is very sound procedure. since the senator  has the whole picture in front of him. i am delighted that he is doing so. second. i wish to add that  only is the senate operating under a delusion that we can pursue these archaic procedures. to which the senator so properly has referred. but to remind the senate that it is operating under a delusion that the problem will  be here if we do  do anything about enacting legislation. that the negroes will be very happy about the fact that they are disfranchised. that they will stop "sitting in." stop protesting about doing hing about it. and that they will settle down to things as they were in precivil war days.
i shall vote as the senator from kentucky will vote. for the reasons stated. plus the additional reason that tito and yugoslavia. matter how we slice it. are a bone in khrushchevs throat. it may be that that bone right  is  hurting too much. tomorrow it may be a bone which is hurting a lot. we have heard a lot about a "win" policy and about the idea that we are  seeking victory. we have  an opportunity to arm our president with a weapon which may be effective in order to reach behind the moithic communist bloc curtain to countries there situated. it is proposed to deprive the president of that weapon. which i think would be a very unwise act. i shall therefore vote against the amendment.
. in. observance of the 100th anniversary of the promulgation of the emancipation proclamation. gover rockefeller has submitted to the resolutions committee of the govers conference a resolution in which the govers would pledge themselves to seek to translate into fuller reality the basic values upon which the emancipation proclamation is based. in letters to members of the govers conference. gover rockefeller stated: i feel the adoption by the govers conference of this resolution * * * will be both timely and constructive. gover rockefeller called attention to the fact that new york state owns the original draft of the emancipation proclamation in abraham lincolns handwriting. in view of the number of requests for exhibition of this historic document in this centennial year. i am having a facsimile of the original proclamation prepared. and it would be my very great pleasure to send you a copy if you would like to have itgover rockefeller stated. the govers conference will meet at hershey. pa.. july 1 to 4. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record gover rockefellers letter to members of the govers conference and the draft resolution.
the senator from minnesota has raised many important questions. i k he would like to have the senate get on with the pending business. and so would i. first. however. i should like to make a comment. the senator earlier referred to the trade policy of the government. he and i feel strongly about private enterprise winning the cold war. we shall have plenty of opportunity to discuss that subject when the trade bill comes before the senate. but two other items are covered by the bill  under consideration. as often happens in the consideration of a bill. we come up with what we should  have come up with. one of the amendments offered by the junior senator from new york is designed to strengthen the penalties materially. whether that will be so can be argued one way or the other. the point is that we are trying to hold the line with our own exports. and the declaration of policy should buttress that. i hope it will be followed. then there is aher approach. the multilateral approach. for which i was responsible. it deals with the larger phase. especially the exports of the soviet union. and the trading rules of the soviets when they make their exports. the big lack is that there is ecoic warfare mechanism in the free world. the atlantic community. which is one of the important things which needs to be provided. for instance. in the nato parliamentarians conference we have discussed the need for an ecoic warfare board. it is necessary to have a regulation of our interest in respect of our exports to communist china. that is contained in my amendment. we also need a commercial trade policy. when they sell to us. they are  bound by gatt. they can dump anything and write their own prices. they are really in warfare on the ecoic front. the russians are waging such a war. although  too much of one yet. but they are moving toward it particularly in oil. benzene. and flax. they have shown their muscle. their power. this bill is the first thing we have really done.  that we have got it all worked out on both sides of the issue. to try to find a way to begin to come to grips with the problem. we must keep abreast of the problem. at least. we are beginning to see that there are two kinds of activity: toughening up of our own people. to see to it that they do  transgress. and striving for a unified policy with the communist bloc on both exports and imports.
. it is always a great pleasure when a colleague. especially a colleague from my own state. is lauded by one of our great newspapers for a particular achievement in terms of world peace. the security of our own nation. and the security of the free world. senator keating. my colleague from new york. is most favorably spoken of in an editorial published in todays issue of new yorks daily news. the editorial is entitled "russia fights with oil." oil is a very critical element in the cold war. as chairman of the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarians. i can testify from kledge over the years to the very important impact of this problem upon the likelihood of our success in the cold war. senator keating has taken a very important part in that effort. it is properly ed. and he is lauded for it by the new york daily news. i think it would bring satisfaction to our colleagues to read it in the record. i ask unanimous consent to have the editorial printed at this point in my remarks.
. the serious determination of the united states to bring about a disarmament agreement with the soviet union is emphasized by the studies currently being conducted by the u.s. arms control and disarmament agency. these include studies of the ecoic arrangements which would be necessary in a disarmed america. we do  yet have a fullscale research plan of ecoic redevelopment for a peacetime ecoy. but progress is being made in finding answers to this emous problem. the scope of the work undertaken by the ecoic bureau of the agency is described in a letter i received in response to my request for information. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the letter i received from george bunn. general counsel of the u.s. arms control and disarmament agency. dated june 21.
. the celebration of captive nations week expresses our determination to keep alive the hope for freedom in the hearts of the captive peoples of europe. the free world believes that the captive nations shall have the right of selfdetermination which was solemnly assured by the soviet union at the end of world war ii and then violated. we must use all the resources of diplomacy. morality. and world public opinion in a continued effort to free these captive peoples. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the proclamation by gov. nelson a. rockefeller of july 1521 as captive nations week.
 called for additional appropriations for the armed forces. an increase in the armys authorized strength. and an increase in the active duty strength of the navy and air force. and that all of these requests were promptly and fully implemented by the congress. thereby showing the backing of the american people for our berlin policy. the lesson of the berlin wall has  been lost on the united states. it showed the grim seriousness of the soviet fear of free berlin. and the lengths to which the kremlin would go to bottle up the city and suffocate it if possibleand it also showed berlins critical value in the struggle for freedom. the people of west berlin are standing firm in their determination to carry onwe must do the same. accordingly. i think it is proper  when the situation seems less intensely heated. to make clear to the leaders of the kremlin on the part of as many leaders of american opinion as possible. that we are thoroughly committed to remain in berlin as long as it takes to fulfill the solemn assurances of freedom for the people of west berlin. and. that we understand only too well the grave consequences to the western alliance and the free world if we were to weaken in our position. much can be done in hoable accommodation to the existing situation of a divided germany and divided berlin. but one of these things is  withdrawal or the placing in jeopardy of the freedom of west berlin. agreement is better than a bad agreement. there is hing so fatal about having agreement on berlin. much can be done in hoable accommodation to the existing situation of a divided germany and a divided berlin. but one of those things is  withdrawal or the placing in jeopardy of the freedom of the people of west berlin. to whom we have pledged freedoma pledge. in my view. we fully intend to keep at whatever cost. i thank my colleague for his courtesy.
the senator is very kind. really. what the senator is saying is that there is something very deeply wrong with the system which is used. perhaps it would be impossible to try to reform what he has latched on to on todays date in august. with respect to the whole system. it needs very much more opportunity and very much more study. at least. the opportunity is presented for a token effort and improvement. in the judgment of the senator. i deeply believe. however. that the amendment does  necessarilyand i think my colleague from pennsylvania was reaching for the same ideacarry out the excellent thesis which the senator has laid before us. even if the senators amendment were  agreed to. i would dislike to feel that the lesson thereby is to be lost upon the senate and that the senators thesis is to be considered rejected. that will  be so. i do  think that the senators thesis hangs upon this amendment. i say that for the reason that i was at west point. as a member of the board of visitors. that is the reason why i have been bold egh to interrupt the senator. i talked about the bill with commandant of west point. general westmoreland. in great detail. he was deeply concerned. it would be unfair to say he was deeply concerned about having the bill passed. but he was very concerned about dealing with the problem. for he feels it is depriving our country of the full capacity of the academy. the academy has the instructors. the equipment. and the housing available. yet. every once in a while. the academy finds itself deficient as to the number of cadets. of course. we all understand that the navy has very much more flexibility than west point in terms of the cadet corps. the navy cadet corps is substantially greater than the west point cadet corps. it is interesting that the navy is  included in the provisions of the bill. apparently because it has a much better system in regard to dealing with this problem.
let me say that i join my colleagues in registering real alarm because of the fact that the higher education bill has been allowed to die on the vine. after having been passed by both the house and the senate. and then going to conference. where it  is. i am one of the conferees. and so is the senator from texas. i think it is shocking that that bill is still in conference. and that the press confidently predicts it will "go down the drain" and never will become law. so i can understand the senators feeling about the bill  before the senate. when he contemplates these essential needs. which must be fulfilled in the national interest. and when he realizes that the higher education bill is regarded by some as being dead. although it has been passed by both houses and although the president says it is one of his "must" bills. obviously. this situation would drive one to favor alternatives. even if one did  like them so much. but i point out that under the pending bill there is  to be the selectivity that there will be under the higher education bill. in other words. the pending bill deals with an emous mass of veterans who serve a relatively short period of time. whereas during world war ii most of the periods of service were for from 4 to 5 years. both the senator from texas and i served in that war. and although i was a staff officer. and did  serve as a foxhole private. yet that service was  so easy. either. but regardless of whether these young men have talents which are adaptable to service in the national interest. congress would be providing them with training in the educational field. which already is rather crowded. and also would be giving them preference. by providing government help. over the talented ones and meritorious ones whom we were trying to reach by means of the higher education bill. my question is whether we are justified in doing this out of our sense of frustration and disgust because of the apparent failure. so far. of the legislative process in connection with the higher education bill.
i thank the senator from louisiana. all i was trying to do was to include aher type of americanif there is a difference among types of americanswithin the confines of the bill as it is. i was  trying to change the confines of the bill. so to the extent the people the senator talks about would fall within the confines of the billthat is. if we find there are people within the war claims section of the billthen the senator from louisiana is correct. the amendment of the senator from illis and my amendment affects the very people whom the senator is talking about. but when there are dates of loss after the dates of loss specified in the bill. i have  tried to affect them. and i do  believe the senator from illis has tried to affect them.
 of the nato parliamentarians conference. senator pietro micara. of italy. who is among our guests in the chamber. i am happy to report to the senate that i feel our sessions have been very fruitful. especially with respect to an understanding of the problems of our country as they are developing. and our clear understanding of the problems of our european allies
first. . i wish to associate myself with the views expressed by my colleague from new york . the senator from oregon. and the senator from ohio with respect to nato. this is important to all of us. these are difficult days. these are days full of risk. however. i detect a lack of a e of urgency in all this as it relates to the whole cuban situation. our secretary of state is said to be having quiet conversations with our nato allies. we are supposed to sit down informally with the other nations in the organization of american states. it has been suggested. for example. that we ought to have a special meeting of nations in central america which would be directly threatened by anything that might happen and which might emanate in that connection from cuba. it has been suggested that the new nations of the caribbean be called into conference. what seems to be missing in the whole cuban situation. however. except in the minds of the american peoplewho. in my opinion. are far ahead of their government in this respectis a sense of urgency. i believe that this lack of a sense of urgency is manifested by our inability to get anywhere with our nato allies. the world should understand how seriously this affects and is considered by the american people and the u.s. government may. regrettably. have to act unilaterally if one else is willing to act with it in terms of what is becoming a real threat.  only to the security of the united states. but also to the security of the western hemisphere. everyone ks that cuba can overwhelm us militarily. but it can sap confidence from nations in the western hemisphere once it gets the idea that the russians are on the winning side. we certainly hope that we will have. both here and at the white house. a sense of urgency with respect to this situation. which. in my opinion. is very necessary in order to make the people understand that the situation is very serious and that we mean business. and that if we ever need them we need them . just as they needed us in europe in other days. i hope that we shall have a response from them.
. i should like to be associated as a cosponsor of the bill with the distingished senator from minnesota. i think bill foster and his agency are entitled to the gratification and thanks of the country for their extraordinary work in what is probably our most delicate and sensitive field. i join with the senator from minnesota in hailing the first anniversary of the arms control and disarmament agency.
. we are quite used to the war correspondents of the great dailies and wire services traveling to the worlds trouble spots to cover a story. the negro community of new york had the opportunity of receiving such onthespot coverage when one of its own. mr. james l. hicks. executive editor of the new york amsterdam news went to oxford. miss.. to report on the recent unfortunate developments there. subsequent to his return mr. hicks has written a challenging editorial which merits. i feel. general attention. his challenge is constructive. a plea for understanding. and indicative of his mature philosophy that the solution for wrongs is to right them.  to compound them with further acrimony. the editorial is appended hereto.
 kennedy changed that ruling with an executive order. the administration has asked congress for legislation permitting the award of major combat decorations to servicemen engaged in cold war fronts. i believe congress should enact such legislation. in addition. i think it is time we considered extending "hot war" benefits to those serving on the front lines of the cold war. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point two articlesone describing the heroic action of maj. james oneill of huntington station. n.y.. and the other. an excellent article by mr. jules witcover describing the official distinctions drawn by the united states for the men who risk their lives in the cold war.
. during the 87th congress. a measurepublic law 87846was enacted which resolved part of the longoutstanding problem of war claims settlement. in that legislation. congress dealt among other things with the sale of seized properties. such as the general aniline & film corp.. which. as we e from todays newspaper accounts. will also happily be the subject of settlement in the courts as well. this is good news for a number of communities around the nation. but particularly in binghamton. n.y.. where a large ansco plant is located. however. i rise today to emphasize that. despite these longawaited developments. a significant problem in the war claims area remains unresolved. i refer to two classes of claimants who as yet have received measure of recognition for their claims: the first consists of refugees from nazism and other tyrannies who became citizens of the united states after their property was seized. i offered an amendment to last years bill to include such claimants. but the conferees rejected the amendment. at the same time offering hope that if funds remain after payment of other claimants. favorable action might ultimately be taken for these unfortunate citizens. my colleague. the senator from illis . also introduced an amendment to deal with a second group of claimants: prisoners of war and internees who have personal injury claims. when this amendment was also rejected. senator douglas and i introduced s. 3796 to incorporate both provisions and pledged our continued efforts to have these measures enacted. i am  sending to the desk on behalf of my colleagues. the senator from illis . the junior senator from new york . and myself a measure identical to s. 3796. i hope that action will  be delayed on this still unfinished warclaims legislation.
. the independence of estonia was celebrated on february 24. the 45th anniversary of this historic event in the life of the estonian people. they proclaimed their republic in 1918. after two centuries of russian rule. but they enjoyed selfgovernment for only two decades. in 1940. the soviet russian armies swept over the baltic states. and brought the republic to an end. communist repressive measures have ruthlessly put down all manifestations by the estonian people of their hope for freedom and independence. but the flame of liberty still continues to burn high. the united states has steadfastly upheld the principle of selfdetermination. and will continue to press for the recognition of this basic right until all the captive peoples of europe are freed from the oppressive rule of their communist overlords. our voices in commemoration of this anniversary of freedom will help to keep hope alive in the hearts of the estonian people.
. i ask unanimous consent that as additional cosponsors of the bill to amend the war claims act of 1948. as amended. to provide compensation for certain additional losses. the names of the senator from pennsylvania and the senator from michigan be added. and that when the bill is again printed. it may include their names.
i think -that what the senator has said about my colleague will be very much appreciated by him. i gather that the general thrust of the senators feeling is that the remarks of my colleague represent on the whole an exercise of bipartisanship in the development of our policy in cuba in a responsible way. i appreciate what the senator has said about the presidents burden. i have just been through a very intensive campaign in new york. where 10 percent of the nations population live. i k of hing in the foreign policy fieldand though i am  too happy about it. i am almost tempted. because i feel so strongly about the civil rights issue. to say that it is probably the paramount issue. both foreign and domestic. it gives the american people a deep sense of malaise that there is somethingcwiong about what is going on in cuba. americans desire very much to find a course on which they can feel more secure on cuba. they  only feel that the situation in cuba is very dangerous. since that country is so close to our shores. but also in a personal sense. too. they believe that it is a very serious source of infection for the whole western hemisphere. we talked about the marshall plan and nato to deal with the communist threat to europe. i believe the american people were never more cognizant of the fact that the communist threat is right here at home. perhaps every policy. ecoic as well as military. may have to be revised to take care of the cuban situation. it is very understandable to me. therefore. that my colleague has addressed himself in such a thorough way to it. that he was proved right last fall is  a matter of history. therefore. i am glad to e that his words are being listened to with the respect that they deserve. but i emphasize to the senator that those of us who talk about cuba are impressed with the way it appeals to the people we represent and how it appeals to our sense of urgency and concern. it is fair to say that they consider it the  1 security issue before them. as to the constructive aspects. i join with the senator. as does my colleague . in a bipartisan effort to strip this whole discussion of partisan aspects or partisan advantage. i have ed the important points which the senator has made which would represent affirmative american policy. i should like to make two observations to the senator. first. i believe what is disquieting the american people more than anything else is that they do  k accurately what commitments. if any. president kennedy has made to chairman khrushchev. they do  k whether there is any vestige of a commitment with respect to cuba which does tie our hands. i do  believe that there is any. i so much respect the presidents view and appreciate the delicacy of his position that i myself have  uttered words which would force him to disclose precisely whether there are any commitments. in the same way i have said that i support the president in his action regarding cuban refugees at the present moment. i may  feel that way tomorrow if i think the situation has changed. but for the present i feel that he must be supported because he is the man at the gun. and he has the best understanding of the delicacy of his situation. as the senator is commenting on the question. and since he is a man of such authority in respect to the administration. i desire to say that sooner or later the american people. to obtain some integration in their thinking about cuba. need to understand that our hands are really completely untied in every conceivable respect in respect to any action we might feel called upon to take. whether it is a quarantine or anything else. our colleague. the senator from kentucky . who is the present occupant of the chair. desired to be sure that we were free to reimpose the quarantine. i joined with him in his question. the people wish to kand they have a right to kthat we are completely free to take any action on cuba necessary to our national interest. the other subject i should like to place before the senator is a question in relation to a security organization or a mutual defense organization in the caribbean and central america. again recognizing the delicacy of the presidents position. i do  wish to force any suggestion on him. i only point out that here is something critically important that could complement the idea that we keep a check on who goes in and out of cuba. we should give the central american and caribbean countries a sense of strength in respect of resistance either to communist subversion or infiltration from cuba. i k very well the problems of mexico. but i think even mexico would be very much affected by the impressive demonstration of the willingness of central america and the caribbean nations to commit themselves to a mutual defense obligation. those are two of. the points which are  covered in the senators statement which i should like to submit to the senator for his observation.
 of the united states. to the state department. to our colleague. the senator from minnesota . to our colleague. the. senator from arkansas . who is chairman of our delegation to the nato parliamentarian conference. to representative hays in the other body. who is a leading figure in. and our representative on the steering committee of the nato parliamentarian conference. and to all those who have helped bring this situation to its present pass. it is financed. it is staffed. it is an excellent idea to sponsorthe bringing of europe into the developmtnt of latin america. it has every augury for success. as i reported when i returned here from paris in april. i am convinced it can be done. it remains for us to do it. if we can do it. and i believe we can in association with the leaders of america. european. and latin american business. labor. and government. then it can prove to be the difference between magnificent success and perhaps an inadequate success or even a failure in the development of latin america. which is so crucial  only to the freedom of this hemisphere. but to the freedom of the world
 has very heavy responsibilities. he is the man in authority. he is the man who is doing the work. nevertheless. i believe we have made and are making some extremely grave mistakes in respect to our mideast policy. and i believe it is my duty to point out. as well. what i consider to be appropriate solutions for them. i am trying to be true to that duty in the effort which i have described to call the attention of our people to what are the dangersand i believe they are real dangers. as i have described themamounting to a threat of war and. in my judgment. what needs to be done in order to avoid war. in this connection i ask unanimous consent to include with my remarks an editorial entitled "our mideast policy under fire." which appeared in the new york post. may 2. 1963.
after very considerable thought. i joined in the resolution which was submitted by the senator from connecticut. as i have  had an opportunity to talk to the senator personally. it may be just as well to spread what i have to say on the record. this is a step. it may well be a first step. we very much hope that a broader step will be taken. i join in the tribute to the deputy leader on the democratic side for his perserverance and profound understanding of this subject and his constant leadership in that field. if i have any ambition. it is to be. on the other side of the aisle. what he has been on his side of the aisle in terms of arms control and disarmament. i have tried to approach the problem in the way the senator from minnesota has approached it. while i support this limited step. i believe in a broader step. i was concerned by the argument that the limited. or inhibited step. might hinder the broader step. i joined in it to vindicate the position of the senate. because it is my belief the american people can give great latitude to the administration in negotiation so long as they feel the final decision will be made in the senate. and that it will be deliberated upon in the deepest conscience. the country must see and understand that we have a desire to succeed in this effort. i think it is a good thing for this movement to come from the senator. because of the way the senator has been publicized as being against every proposal in this field. it indicates that the senator is  going to indulge in a blocking operation in connection efforts to agree with the soviet union. it shows that the senator is eager to move in the right direction. and will close ranks behind any proposal which may have any promise. regardless of the sourceand the senator ks i do  mean that in an invidious wayand will  refrain from entering into it because the member who has put it forward may have been identified with the avant garde in the field. that is the reason why i reached the conclusion that it was my duty to join in this proposal. i think the senator has picked the right time and the right person to show that the senate is ready to do business in this field if given half a chance.
.. the 45th anniversary of armenian independence day which is being celebrated this year on may 28 commemorates the establishment of the republic of armenia in 1918. after 500 years of servitude and persecution. the armenian people established for the first time in the eastern asia mi region a stable democratic government allied to the west. and it was quickly recognized by the united states and the other western powers. armenian independence from turkey and russia. however. was shortlived. in 1920 the armenian republic became the first victim of soviet military aggression. the red armies quickly overrunning the country in the same manner that they conquered the baltic countries later that year. i feel privileged to be able to join armenian americans throughout the nation who are celebrating this memorable anniversary in order to keep fresh the memory of the heroism of the armenian fighters of world war i. and to help bring hope and comfort to their compatriots today who are keeping alive the flame of liberty in spite of soviet tyranny and harsh restrictions.
 flexible authority to conclude special arrangements dealing with eastwest trade problems between the united states and other nato countries. and finally. we should provide the united states with flexible tools to enable us to take the initiative in eastwest ecoic competition. third. we should encourage closer cooperation between private business and government in meeting the problemi caused by the politically motivated soviet ecoicincluding oiloffensive. in ember 1962. the plenary session of the nato parliamentarians conference adopted the recommendation of its ecoic committee. of which i am the chairman. that the th atlantic council review existing arrangements for the coordination of the policies of the member countries of the alliance on eastwest trade. that member countries should avoid excessive dependence on imports of oil from the communist countries and should diversify their sources of supply. and that member governments should consult together in the nato council to coordinate action within the framework of nato. with regard to eastwest trade in strategic goods. through an amendment which i proposed and which was adopted on june 23. 1962. to the export control act of 1949. congress declared it to be u.s. policy to formulate a unified commercial and trading policy to be observed by free world nations in their dealings with communist blocdominated countries. i am at present awaiting a status report on what has been done by our government to implement this amendment and shall inform the senate when i have received this information. * on may 9. 1963. i introduced a package of bills to further encourage closer cooperation among the western allies in eastwest trade. thus there is an incentive to act. we have a breathing spell due to the internal needs of the communist bloc. and it is urgent that we take some action of the kind i have recommended to the senate.
madam president. the first problem we face is the national guard. i say with the greatest sadness that it is a fact that the national guard is still  desegregated. the letter states as follows: the principal problem remaining is with regard to 10 of the southern states which do  yet have negroes in their national guard units. the letter continuesthe department is seeking to have these states voluntarily drop these restrictions. as has the state of texas recently. the letter points outand again i say this is a very serious situation facing the countryabout 25 percent of the army national guards strength. including important artillery. tank. armored infantry and other combat units. as well as vital reconnaissance. fighter and transport units of the air force are located in southern states. the potential deterioration of these important units is sufficiently serious to cause this department to feel that at this time it is  in the national interest to risk cutting off federal support. that is a pretty sad situation. but there it is. the letter goes on to speak about the reserve components of the defense forces. which subject has had the attention of the deputy secretary of defense. a considerable number of things have been donefor example. the elimination of allnegro units which were actually found to be in existence. withstanding everything we have heard about desegregation of the defense forces since world war ii. the deputy secretary also expressed concern particularly over "the possibility that a disproportionate number of negroes are assigned to pools rather than to drilling units. and he directed that specific measures be undertaken to integrate units as rapidly as is consistent with the military effectiveness." assignment of negroes to pools rather than drilling units shows a complete underutilization of the manpower of our country. by virtue of discrimination in the critically important element of our countrys security. a clear area where the federal government has the power. and says it has the power. and can press forward. on the rotcthe reserve officers training corpsthe report states as follows: it would be possible to cancel contracts with schools having rotc units. with appropriate ice. if it should be determined as a matter of policy that such cancellatidns are desirable as a means of preventing discrimination. the feasibility of such a step is  being reviewed. there is a serious question. however. as to whether such a limited and indirect measure. when considered in the context of the total school problem and the overall expenditures of federal funds for education. would be an effective means of bringing about changes in the admission policies of schools and colleges. there again is an area in which law is considered required. obviously the defense department feels it has the authority. which it is  exploring. and in which progress is possible. we come  to civil defense. the report states that public fallout shelter space is subject to a requirement that all such facilities be available to all members of the general public. however. in respect of civil defense training programs. the report states as follows: though there are at present specific requirements as to the criteria to be used by the states in the selection of students. beginning with the next contract year a discrimination clause will be incorporated. there again is a clear opportunity to make progress which does  require law. then we come to the problem of facilities on and off bases. probably one of the stickiest problems that we face. the report states: the availability of facilities for members of the armed forces and their dependents in the civilian community. particularly with respect to housing. education. transportation. recreational facilities. and community activities. was one of the major areas included in the committees study. that refers to the presidents committee on equal employment opportunity. which has made certain recommendations which are  being reviewed. the report states: a report will be made to the president within 30 days on such additional steps as may be required by the department of defense to secure equal opportunity for all servicemen. madam president. this letter was dated june 26. so we are in the middle of the period when action can be taken. this is critically important. it refers as well to family housing which may be available off the base. it is something which base commanders as well as the defense department can do something about. it does  require any additional law. on the basic question as to whether additional law is required. overall. the letter says as follows: the question as to whether additional statutory authority may be necessary or desirable to resolve some of these problems will be considered in connection with the initial and subsequent reports of the presidents committee on equal opportunity in the armed forces. we have seen egh in this letter to indicate that there are a number of areas in which the department can move. that progress can be made without waiting for additional law. and that progress is urgently needed in a number of these areas. i come  to the letter of the postmaster general. i ask unanimous consent that my request and the reply thereto may be printed in the record at this point.
 nasser continues his aggressive and warlike activities in violation of the express aims and objectives of the foreign assistance act. u.s. policy in the middle east proposes to give a socalled "evenhanded" treatment to the u.a.r. and to israel. which leads us into a position where we treat friends and foes of peace alike. this is an untenable and illadvised posture for our nation. and it is time we abandoned it. an informed analysis of u.s. policy in the middle east which seeks as objectively as possible to present all considerations has been written by claire sterling. a correspondent with considerable experience and background in this region. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record with my remarks the article entitled. "the neverended war of the middle east." which appeared in the reporter magazine. july 18. 1963.
i am grateful to the senator. i ask unanimous consent to include in my remarks certain basic information which has been prepared by the u.s. army engineering district of new york. with respect to the canal and the need for its improvement.
. my colleague from new york has stated the case very well. i associate myself with the policies which both the senator from new hampshire and the senator from new york have enunciated. especially with respect to the brooklyn naval shipyard. which is the particular pride of those of us who come from new york and is in exactly the same position as the portsmouth naval shipyard.
in other words. he did say that it is  only the military officers and the president who have to do with army promotions. but the senate specifically must pass on the confirmation of those inations. too. i believe that statement coming from a senator who stands so very high in the committee on armed services has an implication which even the senator from mississippi would  wish to place on it. one does  understand ones own implications unless they are laid out on the table and stated. so that perhaps on the morrow both the senator from mississippi and i may both have something else to say on the subject. but i did  wish the senator to think i had spoken on a point of the speech that i did  hear. it was only that fact which brought me to my feet. i would  have risen on the general proposition about which the senator from mississippi spoke because. as i have said before. and as the senator from florida ks. we all make speeches on that particular subject based upon our general views. it was that one point that i wished to call to his attention and to the attention of my colleagues and to mark as a special thing. because i think that the statement has special implica* tion.
i wish to express my support of the bill. both in respect of the active personnel duty and in respect of retirees. who have made kn to my office the need of an adjustment of their compensation. like the senator from nevada. i have served long egh without having to depend upon military pay for a living. but for those who are aware of the sensitivity and gentility which are the lot of the officer cadre in the military service. which is generally accompanied by a complete inability to maintain high standards. the situation becomes a little shabby and a little unhappy. i think we have been remiss in bringing our military pay situation up to the real standard of quality living to which officers are entitled. i have been through the command general staff school. and i k the degree of training and skill which would command in private industry two or three times. even. what the increased pay scale will  grant. in the enlisted grades. there is yet aher problem. it is often the problem of helping others to maintain themselves. many young people come from families where earnings are very important. on the whole. i think our troops are extremely solicitous about their family responsibilities. the image of the crapshooting soldier is longer prevalent. there are still some of them. and everyone loves to have a good time. but such an extreme image is out of date and is becoming obsolescent. young people take seriously their responsibilities to their families and their own future. so the problem of the younger group. who represent the enlisted men. is again the problem of retention. for all these reasons. i join with other senators in expressing appreciation for the bill before the senate and for the fine. dedicated work done by the committee. and especially the member of the committee who is in charge of the bill on the floor. i express my support of the bill.
i have  been present in the chamber while the senator delivered his entire address. but i have had the opportunity to read a summary. i should like. with the senators permission. to comment briefly. it seems to me that whether one agrees with every prescription of the senator or --and i happen to agree thoroughly with the one he is making today. which is the exploitation of the psychological arsenalit is a fact that the senator is thoughtfully urging a positive course of affirmative acts by our govrenment in respect to cuba. in that statement. any member of our party. whatever wing of the republican party to which he belongs. can join hands. it is the function of the miity to see that our government does something about cuba to give it the best counsel and guidance that we humanly can do so on that score. the points of pressure which the senator has outlined are undoubtedly sound. they are points of ecoic and diplomatic pressure. for myself. i feel very strongly about collaboration with the other american states. i feel very strongly about the possibility of a mutual defense treaty in the caribbean with the central american countries which are the most threatened. whatever may be my prescriptions. they do  have to agree with those of the senator from utah. for whom i have the utmost respect and personal regard. the fact is that it is the intention of the miity to insist that we need  stand still in this situation merely because one door has been blocked. to wit. the door of forceful action. which may have come as a result of our confrontation in october. but which happily did . though we did  win a whole victory. at least we demonstrated that the temper of the american people in respect to cuba was such that they would even dare atomic war if they felt the danger in cuba had come to the real danger that we discovered in october. the senator is completely right about the psychological arsenal. we are underusing it. pointedly and markedly. with respect to cuba. we are certainly underusing it almost as badly with respect to central europe. we starve our information services. we do  use the ingenuity of either ecoic or psychological warfare with the communists almost anywhere in the world until we get into a hot war. in an atomic war it will be much too late. so i join with the senator from utah in that part of his prescription. the weapon proposed is a great weapon. we are the most skillful publicists in the world when it comes to toothpaste. tires. and automobiles. but we fall flat as a flat tire when it comes to the struggles of the cold war. i am glad to hear the senators distinguished voice raised. because he is a conservative member of my party. and it is good to identify those things in which we can speak together in favor of the united states spending some money and taking some action in the psychological warfare line. the senator from south dakota and i served together in the house. we joined hands many times on issues. though he and i do  see eye to eye on every issue. on the present question we always see eye to eye. as i do  with the senator from utah. the weapon of psychology is a powerful weapon. let us use it.
. i take great pleasure in presenting a resolution of support for the nuclear test ban treaty. adopted by an outstanding u.s. veterans organization. the jewish war veterans of the united states. at its recent national convention in washington. d.c. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution be printed in the record.
i am a cosponsor of the bill which would provide a charter for the jewish war veterans. with my colleague. i feel i can say that if any senator wishes to discuss these charters. which are of such character that one would wish to feel that the heart of the congress is in them. i think that such consideration can be thoroughly justified on the record. the organizations in question have served our nations interest magnificently. i join my colleague in asking for an early hearing. many people have been led to believe that the bills have -passed the senate. i would  object to the right of any senator to discuss the measures if he could  be present at the time the measures were considered.
the senator. as is his wont. has raised a fundamental issue: because the forces which dictate the treaty on both sides are in nice balance. shall we make the treaty something upon which we can agree. and perhaps go on from there with the view that even if we do . something has been accomplished. or shall we try to negotiate the fundamental issues of the cold war based upon the fact that the door has been opened by the treaty. the senator has posed that issue well and properly. i happen to feel that we ought to enter into the treaty. the treaty itself is egh of a landmark to warrant our going into it on its own merits. the senator has a contrary view. and i again say that the senator has raised what should be. and i am sure will be. a fundamental issue which senators will have an opportunity to debate.
. i rise today to speak on the morning after birmingham and to call attention to what is the central issue as contained in the leading editorials in the nation. and call attention to the revealing article written by charles morgan. jr.. of birmingham. white. who bares his soul. so to speak. in the anguish of what has  been done in the birmingham community. birmingham is a modern. industrial american city. it is typical of a situation. a complete anachronism in an area which considers segregation to be a social ordera social order which can longer endure. that is very clear. the question before the nation is. will this vital american city rouse itself to see its responsibility and do its duty.  only under the constitution of the united states but in terms of humanity. appealing to the very essence of the religious feelings of almost every person in that city. because. in spite of the act of madness that has occurred. birmingham is a city where religion is hoed. one can speak. even in so tragic a time. infinitely more in sorrow than in anger. but the lesson is clear: 50 bombings have  been solved. this is the first bombing of a negro church and property. there is a likelihood that it will  be solved. and that. even if solved. it will be tried before a jury made up. at best. mostly of white men. the previous history is that the culprits may be acquitted. matter what the evidence. so it is solely up to birmingham. if birmingham acts as it should. the ho of the city will be redeemed. certainly it will stimulate us to write civil rights legislation sooner. i have doubt of it. this is written in blood. and it will be hoed accordingly. it still can be a challenge to the citizens of that state and city. even they k how much blood was shed during the civil war in order to establish the right that citizens are citizens  only of a state but of the united states. in many areas citizens have had to swallow hard their own feelings and prejudices in order to be citizens of a country from which they get so much. i utter a prayer. without regard to anything else. whatever we do in the congress and in the executive branch and in our own consciences. that the citizens of birmingham will at long last be an object lesson to the south of what is really called for from the south in meaningful and historic civil rights legislation. by joining to find the miscreants and punishing them. that is the first hoable step. and hing less will do.
 and our government. is it  a fact that the minute we open up the cold war issues. such as the withdrawal of troops from cuba. we put the russians in a position that they perhaps will have to take some of the communist chinese positions in respect to things about which the communist chinese have been "beating them over the head" every day. the communist chinese are saying. "you should make a condition that bases be closed in turkey." "you should make a condition that u.s. troops be withdrawn from germany." "you should make a condition that there be a nuclear free zone between western europe and eastern europe." would we  be putting ourselves in the danger that khrushchev. if we did  pick up his bid. might find himself forced into making a stronger alliance with the communist chinese.
i am interested in the question which the senators reservation would seem to imply. does the senator feel that he is asking for the biggest single issue in the cold war to be resolved. namely. the presence of soviet troops and technicians in cuba. in other words. does the senator put a qualitative evaluation upon that as being the prime consideration in the cold war. or is that  the basis for his picking this one.
i have quarrel whatever with the senator in regard to the parliamentary situation or the deep sincerity of the senator in proposing the reservation. indeed. it is his duty to do so in response to the dictates of his conscience. i have question about that whatever. i wish to ask the senator aher question. i am grateful to the senator for his patience and his willingness to debate the subject. something he has always been willing to do. he is very mettlesome. i admire that a great deal. is it  a fact that the senator would consider the breach of faith with respect to poland. czechoslovakia. hungary. and on rumania of the same quality as the russian breach of faith with respect to cubawhich is what the senator in essence charges. in other words. there has been subversion in all of central europe. withstanding the solemn promises made at the conclusion of world war ii.
. i am devoted to the private enterprise idea. as the senator ks. it is a fact that a differential in ecoy exists. it is also true that the navy yard personnel are absolutely indispensable as a standby. they are the support for the whole system in the effort in which we are engaged. my colleague from new york has stated the case with considerable justice. though there is an added cost to a standby operation. it is partly due to the fact that occasionally the navy yards have to do jobs which are "gold plated" of particular delicacy. and. therefore their costs are increased. the way the navy calculates cost of navy yards--which is a big pointis such that if a court of inquiry. as it were. were to investigate it. that differential would be eliminated. however. what the navy yard people are always worried about is  so much that their share is to be increased. but that their share will go down in the choice jobs which keep employment at a stable number. their morale is always being shattered by the rumor that there are to be cuts or that the operation is to close down. therefore. there is a good deal to be said for fixing a percentage of allocation of the work. but what my colleague has given voice to. to which i add. is that the flexibility which has been provided should be a recognition of the function of the navy yard and its essentiality in the maintenance of work skills. which are as essential as the physical equipment. officials in the department should be aware that the committee has in mind an allocation of 65 percent of the work for the public yards as a ceiling. rather than a floor. that is what is inherent and implicit in what we are trying to project on the senate floor todaythe feeling that the 35 percent. having been arrived at as a rough measure of justice. is really a ceiling in the sense that the secretary must worry more over whether those yards are to be given more than 35 percent. rather than less than 35 percent.
i think the problem has been well clarified. i thank the senator again. i appreciate the graciousness with which he has handled the matter. i refer to the memorandum of amendments which is furnished to the committee on appropriations. at the bottom of page 276. a statement was made by representative ford. in the debate in the other body. as follows: as the chairman. the gentleman from texas . indicated. we have the assurances from the secretary of the navy that the navy will live up to the 3565 split. there is mistake about these assurances. representative ford then went on to say that the best thing to do. therefore. was to set the figure at $352 million. because the house had problems of parliamentary procedure about setting the percentage. and that these funds are important. he said: under section 539. as it passed the house. under circumstances can the allocation to private yards exceed $352.752.400. since the item has come to the senate. we have. possibly. an escape clause. the point my colleague from new york and i have tried to make to the senator from georgiaand he has been very helpfulis that. withstanding the fact that perhaps a little flexibility is given to the secretary to take care of grave problems. national emergencies. and so forth. the- fundamental intent remains the same: that the proviso will  be used for the purpose of trying to expand the 35 percent. but that the house feeling as to how this problem ought to be handled remains the feeling in the view of the senate.
 authority to negotiate on credits. it should be made conditional. on the real lessening of tensions in the cold war and should  come about without major political concessions on the part of the soviet union. i believe the issue of credit worthiness of the soviet union. for either longterm private or public u.s. credit. is the real area in which it is possible to negotiate in respect to political problems as for example. cuba and berlin. it may very well be that we shall see great opportunities opening up before us. i have summarized today the techniques by which those opportunities may be availed of with benefit for rather than danger to our national interests.
i would  support a bill for a federal charter for an organization which excluded negroes because they are negroes. or one for a federal charter for an organization which excluded whites because they are whites. because that would be contrary to my own principle and belief of what is and what is  segregation. but if a group of negroamericans wished to organize a veterans organization as an entirely voluntary organization with complete freedom of admission to everyoneand i think both the jewish war veterans and the catholic war veterans have complete freedom of admission to everyone who might wish to join and who feels he has a common purpose in joining. i can see reason why i would object on principle. except. again. i believe we should require proof of service and establishmentas we have in this caseand ability and usefulness in terms of the national interest. which constitute the only reason for granting a federal charter. so i see reason why any group can organize itself for the purpose of performing the functions of a veterans organization. new groups have been organized. and they include the veterans of world war ii. if my memory is correct. that group has a federal charter. it is my recollection that the veterans of world war ii were successful in their attempt to obtain a federal charter. whereas these other organizations were  successful. in any case. the principle of segregation is  violated in a voluntary organization in which there is exclusion. if there is exclusion. i would  lend my approval to it. that is my answer to the question the senator from iowa has asked.
. i shall be only 2 minutes longer. first. i wish to say that amvets. the american veterans of the world war. received their charter on july 23. 1947. so we can take the position that we do  desire to create more federal charters for veterans organizations where the association is voluntary. i should like to narrow the point of difference. because that is sometimes very useful. there is question that i would oppose with the same vigor as the senator from iowahis customary vigor and convictiona veterans organization of bachelors. people who are left handed. and so forth. in a situation in which the qualifications which the great veteran organizations have were lacking. while we are debating the question of whether or  a charter should be granted to the catholic war veterans or the jewish war veterans. we must  forget that they meet every other test. as the senator has quite generously and properly said. they have had national service of longstanding existence. widespread membership. substantial representation in terms of the body politic and. other than the difference which the senator. i. and others have. deserve a charter fully as much as the other great veterans organizations which have received them. narrowing the issue to that point of debate. i am satisfied that i have exposed the point of view of myself and my colleague. i am sure that the senator from iowa. with his usual ability. has expressed his point of view. the decision is up to the senate. i thank the majority leader for calling up the bills.
 that segregation is enforced contrary to the civil rights. under the constitution. of american individuals to access to public facilities which exist in interstate commerce. which can be regulated by the united states. to desegregated education. when the school is supported by public moneys. to participate in a program without segregation when the united states contributes to that program. and to the right to vote. which is a right guaranteed by law. e of us has ever contended that one must have dinner with a negro because he is a nice fellow. or receive him at ones home. or join in association with that particular person. it is up to the individual to make that choice. so it is in this case. i can see the segregation argument because we are  dealing with a situation in which any legal right is involved to have desegregation. and we are  dealing with a civil right or anyone under the constiution. we are  dealing with desegregation. which is a matter of enforcement of any law. on the contrary. we are dealing with people who are associating together. people who have a common interest. finallyand probably this point is more decisive than any of the othersthere is restriction on membership. for example. in the jewish war veterans. there are some members of the organization who are  jewish. i am a member of the jewish war veterans. and i also am a member of the american legion and veterans of foreign wars. and am very proud of it. this question has  been raised for years. my colleague felt it to be his duty and responsibility to raise the question. it has been advanced on the senate floor for a vote. ifeel that the reasons which have been made for voting against it are  valid. with the greatest of respect for my colleague. the senator from iowa. i have made this argument  because i would have brought the matter up in the first place. but the fact is it is here. and therefore it would constitute a disservice to this organization if the matter. having advanced this far. were to be turned down. for to do so would be unthinkable. inasmuch as the question must be voted on. i hope the senate will vote "yea."
the navy has apparently made a decision to assign the construction of a new aircraft carrier to a private shipyard. this is a sad blow to 11.000 skilled brooklyn navy yard workers. many of whom may lose their jobs. this reported decision raised the gravest concern for the brooklyn navy yard. which is seemingly  being treated by the navy as the indispensable arm of the nations security. which it is. the cost comparisons. which the navy has given as a reason for the decision. represent a narrow view. for there is comparability for security. as a result of this discouraging experience. we have a right to demand that the navy spell out a far more concrete. longterm policy for the brooklyn navy yard which will guarantee a reasonable continuity of its workers.
. i shall answer briefly. the united nations does supply such aid under its charter. this is similar to a proposal i have made. with the aid of the american cyanamid co.. panamerican airways. and the lilytulip cup co. all of these programs are in operation. but e of them is of the nature of the two programs referred to. as the senator from ohio has mentioned. there are two schools of thought on this question. i am of the opinion that it is a war. but it is a war that can be fought  merely with blunt weapons. but with armies of which these two programs are important in terms of being able to win the war without dropping an atom bomb.
. because i had to preside over the ecoic committee as chairman on 2 days of its meeting. ember 4 and 5. i was the only member of the senate to attend the ninth annual plenary session of the nato parliamentarians conference held in paris on ember 48. i shall try to give a brief summary of the deliberations which took place. for the information of my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent to have inserted in the record. at this point. the report of the ecoic committee. including its five recommendations which were adopted at the plenary session on ember 8.
in the context of re.evaluation of the political and ecoic impact of trade with the soviet bloca reevaluation which is  proceeding at governmental and private levels in the united states and among most of the nato alliesthe ordered approach advocated by the 1962 recommendation takes on added significance.. furthermore. the rough draft on a possible trade practices code in eastwest trade contained in the report submited to the ecoic committee this year deserves careful study. with respect to the atlantic community development group for latin america. i very much hope that before the end of this session i shall be able to make a further report to the senate on the actions taken to implement this important initiative. undoubtedly. with the difficult situation in certain parts of latin america. our interest in successfully enlisting our nato partners and japan in a program to strengthen the private enterprise and investment sector in latin america takes on great urgency. my inability to be present during the concluding 3 days of the nato parliamentarians conference of necessity limits the scope of my report on the plenary session. however. i am convinced from the proceedings i attended over the first *2 days of the plenary session and subsequent reports that the conference is taking on a growingly important role in the destinies of the great nato alliance. it is most encouraging *that in speaking from own national perspectivesboth in committee and plenary sessionsthe nato parliamentarians maintain a profound awareness of the need for a unified alliance and for themeasures necessary to maintain such unity. i ask for unanimous consent that all recommendations adopted -by the ninth plenary session of the nato parliamentarians conference be inserted in the record.
. anyone who has kn the inee for as long as i have kn him can sit silent at a time like this. i first met mr. nitze during the war. when i was an officer in the army and he was concerned with matters of a military nature. he has always been a strongminded man and a dedicated public servant. one who is disciplined to accord with policy decisions which are taken and which bind a person to carry them out very well. this is a very interesting attitude. which i understand as a lawyer. namely. that a man might disagree with a decision and yet have the ability to carry it through. withstanding his disagreement. it is a very interesting aspect of nitzes abilities. he is certainly a man of emous experience. it is my judgment. as it is that of the senator from massachusetts. that. if he is given this important position of secretary of the navy. he will perform it superbly and faithfully in accordance with the commitments that he has undertaken.
the senator is correct. we are  saying that it is necessary to keep .every installation open. we are saying that the right hand must k what the left hand is doing. we were told yesterday that this was  the departments responsibility. it is a direct confrontation. the department said it did  have to be concerned about anything that happened as a result. that. whatever might be the departmental purposes. if it were felt desirable to move the material command from the griffiss air force base in rome to aher place in the united states. the department would do it. and if other departments or places or appropriations had to bear the burden. or if the community went to pot. that was just too bad. it was the responsibility of somebody else. the department is  a member of the wedding in that regard. it is autoous unto itself. i thoroughly agree with my colleague that there must be congressional determination on this score. the action of a department can be the rule. our government never intended that it -should be. the program is extremely wasteful in terms of absolute dollars. as the senator has so eloquently pointed out. in that what would be saved would  remotely resemble what is claimed would be saved. because it would be necessary to pay far more for other programs. which are that much more expensive. than if the facility. which is .obviously needed at the point where it is were to be continued. i am grateful to the senator for allowing me to make this intercession. because we are always charged with being like senators from other states which lose defense installations: that we want to keep them all alive. that is  what we are arguing. we are arguing for the right to have the department of defense apprised of what every other department of government is doing.
we go through the list of boycottswhich have validity in international law and are hoed more in the breach than in the observanceof american companies and outstanding american entertainers. yet we maintain allegedly cordial diplomatic relations with those countries. and in many cases we give them aid such as we give president nasser. we give hundreds of millions of dollars in the way of food and other aid and comfort to the arab countries. i believe the foreign office of britain. which has often been accused of backing down. this time has given us the lead. the foreign office publicly rebukes the arabs in the case of lord mancroft. it is high time the united states began to take a much harder line than it has heretofore pursued in this situation. the amendment to the foreign assistance act of 1963 which has been adopted shows what the attitude of congress has been since 1956. i hope that. together with president johnson. the administration will listen at long last and that it will enforce the amendment and cut off aid to nasser if he insists on continuing the completely artificial state of war with israel. blockading israeli ships moving through the suez canal. preaching acts of aggression against the yemen and other arab states. and preaching aggression against israel. i believe that would be one salutary lesson. the other lesson would be to make it perfectly clear to the other arab states that we will  tolerate the manner and the treatment of american citizens or american business concerns for reasons which have absolutely basis in fact. in rationale. in history or in international practice with respect to boycotts. for too long. the arab states have been indulging in these fictions. the boycott worked to bring about peace in the middle east we could say that we do  like it. but at least it works. it has worked completely in reverse. the situation is worse  than ever beforeand more dangerous. as is evident by nassers intercession in yemen. in jordan. in syria. and in iraq. therefore. i urge the administration to adopt a much harder line than it has adopted up until . this amendment in the foreign assistance act of 1963 will give it the key and the ability to do so.
. i am pleased to join in paying tribute to the brave people of lithuania on the 46th anniversary of their independence. lithuanias existence as an independent republic was shortlived. covering only 21 years between 1918 and 1940. these years were made very difficult and troubled because of the constant soviet propaganda and subversive activity designed to smother the nations freedom. shortly after the outbreak of world war ii. soviet forces overran the country and destroyed its freedom. over the years the 3 million people of this unhappy state have kept alive the hope of liberty and independence in spite of harsh restrictions. deportations. suppression of religion. and other repressive measures. their friends and relatives here are helping to keep alive this hope that in the  too distant future. lithuania will once again become free and independent. i share in that hope and the historic need to gain for lithuania freedom from communist tyranny.
 yet my only purpose in speaking is that on the one hand we are told chat we should have a completely open mind about this area. that we should consider president de gaulles suggestionsand i assume those of anyone elseand also that we should be searching for new methods. new techniques. and new ways of dealing with the problem. i believe it is also important to reiterate our fortitude and determination to stay in south vietnam and do the job. though it is costly and difficult. we should reiterate our determination to try to find a viable. freely elected government for south vietnam. pursuing very much the same policy that we have pursued. withstanding reverses. in south korea. and for the very same reasons. i merely reiterate that. i believe it is extremely important. i do  think there should be any sapping or lessening of the morale of the american people.  do i believe that the pentagon should be doubtful of the fortitude of the american people. or that there must be a promise that we will  pull out or they will  stick it out. that was the mistake made after world war ii that was so costly to us in terms of the rise of the communist power in europe. it resulted in hing but losses. and we are still licking our wounds today. we do  wish to repeat that experience in southeast asia. it is  necessary to have a repetition of the debate about morale. as we did with general macarthur. it is  necessary for a determination that we must wipe out the thern base for this operation in south vietnam. sufficient unto the day is the work thereof. all that must be reiterated  is that we k what we are doing. we will continue to do it. it is worth doing. one in the pentagon or in the senate need have the "jitters" about it. it is high time that some people understand that the american people are adults. they understand that in order to make an omelet. some eggs must be broken.
with all due respect and credit to the senator from arkansas . i do  wish my statement to be confused by the statement just made. for i am  contesting the findings which were made in the two cases involving the largest amount of money. i stated that myself. and i would be perfectly willing to see the other 52 casesto which i have just referredhandled in precisely the same way. that is. by a consideration of the findings of fact. which might or might  result in the money going back to the claimants. what i object to is that this treaty avoids exactly that process because it would give back the money to the 52 claimants. even though they had been involved in nazi party activities in their own country. either voluntarily or involuntarily and to whatever extent. withstanding. that only if they were charged and convicted of war crimes. would their claims be invalidated. other than that. they are supposed to get their money back. and that is precisely what i object to. i say there is an adequate administrative remedy by which anyone entitled. in the national interest of the united states. to have his claim paid. can and will be paid. i strongly object to the idea that we should be undercutting the national interest of the united states. bobtailing its proceedings provided by law. and out of hand paying these claims to such number of these 52 claimants as could  demonstrate their eligibility to the amount of their claims under existing law. this is  a matter which has gone unchallenged. actually. there is testimony which is printed as part of the committees report. specifically on page 11 of the report. speaking of the case of a particular man named sakrausky. it reads: in this case there is a difference of opinion between the departments of justice and state. this concerns whether this particular claimant according to the testimony was or was  a mi member of the nazi party. i hope that issue is very clearly placed before the senate. there is question that that provision of law would permit a return of his money to any claimant who demonstrated that he was  a member of the nazi party or  an applicant for membership in the nazi party. many millions of dollars have been returned pursuant to the law. in fact. a preponderance of the amounts which are involved in this treaty. what i object to is that the law is being bypassed. it is being undercut. and out of hand. these claims are being paid without a determination of whether or  they ought to be paid to recipients in the interest of the united states. the provision of law to which i have referred is contained in subsection 5. section 32(a). of title 50. appendix. of the united states code. it is a provision of the trading with the enemy act. subsection 5. with respect to returns of this character. provides: that such return is in the interest of the united states. that must be found before there can be such a return administratively. it is very cleari do  believe there is any argument about itthat such finding has been made in these cases. except as the united states has made this treaty with the austrian government. under which returns will be made out of hand. why did the united states do this. the explanation is very clear in the committee report. the united states did it. it is said. because the austrian government. which is  friendly to us. has importuned the united states for a disposition of these cases and for a return of the money. because. says the report. the basic agreement undertaken with the austrian governmentthe socalled austrian state treaty of 1955. which settled the relationships between this country and austria. withstanding the fact that we were at war with austria in world war iiprovides. according to the department of state. that this return should be made. but. according to the department of justice. the provisions of the trading with the enemy act. to which i have referred. with relation to the national interest. have been consistently construed to mean that there shall be return when we are dealing with one who was a member of the nazi party or was an applicant for membership in the nazi party. paragraph 1 of article 27 of the 1955 austrian state treaty states: the allied and associated powers declare their intention to return austrian property. rights. and interests as they  exist in their territories or the proceeds arising out of the liquidation. disposal. or realization of such property. rights. or interests. subject to accrued taxes. expenses of administration. creditor claims. and other like charges. where such property. rights. or interests have been liquidated. disposed of. or otherwise realized. the allied and associated powers will be prepared to conclude agreements with the austrian government for this purpose.
i will come to that point. i intended to argue that question. i have iced with much interest that the report. at the bottom of page 4. states: this agreement is concerned with the return of property rights. and interests of nationals of austria. a friendly foreign country and a victim of enemy aggression. the enemy is  defined. but it is a fact that austria was certainly in such position as was poland or czechoslovakia. or any one of the other countries overrun by the nazis. and whose governments were eliminated. on the contrary. we all k that the anschluss was invited by the thenexisting governiment of austria. that hitler was hailed. when he entered the streets of vienna. as the great deliverer who was going to unite the german people. so that they could conquer the earth. austrias position has been misrepresented. whatever may be our friendship with austria . after all. we  have a real friendship with west germany. too. by the time hitler declared war on the world. there was austria. he had completely chewed it up. when we were at war with germany. we were at war with austria. as well. in terms of its territory and people. so when the department of justice construed the trading with the enemy act as ruling out and disqualifying all members of the nazi party or applicants for membership in the nazi party. it properly included those who were nationals of austria. that is why we are here. and that is why this treaty is before the senate.
it was the same subject. second. i am certainly  one who has felt that the senator from montana has in any way involved the communist chinese among the negotiating parties. perhaps others have. but i certainly have . and i make such assertion . and would  dream of doing so. i was very clear as to the senators position. third. i am sure the senator heard my recommendationand i believe we are arriving at a national consensusthat it would be well to have that policy firmly established through a declaration by the president to the people. especially as we are suffering casualties in south vietnam. the only place in the world where we are. it is really a hot conflict at the moment. the declaration should be supported by a white paper on the part of the state department. giving the whole history of our relationship to this crisis. fourth. the senator and i really do  differ quite so much. as we have gradually narrowed the ground of difference. i am deeply concerned about a repetition of the difficulties we face in cambodia and the pathet lao difficulties in laos and south vietnam. if we give the south vietnamese the feeling that we are anxious to liquidate that situation at the earliest moment. i would rather give them the feeling that we are willing to accept casualties. provided we remain true to the original mission we set for ourselves. there may be a lttle difference of timing. there may be a little difference in emphasis. but as we have gradually narrowed the grounds of difference. i think timing and emphasis are the points that stand out. i fully respect what the senator has said. one hos him more than i for the fact that this subject has been thrust into the forefront of discussion. he and i agree that this could  be otherwise than helpful. finally. one of the major items to appear in the press this morning is the disarray of the nato alliance on this issue. it is reported that there is considerable dissension in nato. which is all the more reason for taking advantage of a developing consensus in our nation and nailing it down as to the fundamental basis of american policy and our willingness to take casualties and difficulties in order to persevere in that policy in south vietnam.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a concurrent resolution adopted by the legislature of the state of new york relating to the incorporation or charter of the italian american war veterans of the united states.
mr. preisdent. i join my colleague in his protest with respect to the rome air materiel area and in the demand that the secretary of defense and the secretary of the air force explain to us what. according to the newspaper report in the utica observer dispatch of april 1. 1964. appears to have been a political decision to move a critically important military installation from an area which is having very grave ecoic difficulties to aher location for reason that we have been able to discover before this small chink of light was cast upon this decision. i asked my colleague to speak first because he has taken a very keen interest in the situation. which urgently deserves it. together with representative pirnie. the congressman from the rome. n.y.. area. we join in a solid determination to get to the bottom of what caused the critically important rome. n.y.. installation to be moved. we do  like what we see about it . and we shall continue to insist on an explanation of how and why this decision came about. we shall insist on an explanation which is reasonable and satisfactory. and does  have the character which seems to be intimated by the newspaper story. the defense department owes us a complete explanation of what this story is all about.
i am sure the senator from south carolina does  believe that it would be possible to defend the united states in war without the assistance of the people of new york. and we in new york do  think the united states could be defended in war without the assistance of the people of south carolina. that necessity existed both in the revolutionary war and in the world wars. which proved that our nation is a united states.  a collection of states.
. i invite the attention of senators to the fact that in association with the senator from minnesota . i have had the great privilegewhich i believe reflects special credit upon the activities of senators who participate in international affairs--as chairman of the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarians conference. a position i have held for 6 years. to initiate the idea of private enterprise help to latin america through a private multinational investment company which would have relationship to the governments of the atlantic community and japan and to the public policies involved.
madam president. i should like to insert in the record at this point an outstanding fine article entitled "the challenge of communism." written by gov. nelson a. rockefeller. persons like myself have said that republicans ought to continue to make contributions to the foreign policy efforts of this country within the context of the bipartisan foreign policy as initiated by arthur vandenberg of michigan. the father of nato and of the united nations. this article by gover rockefeller carries out fully that concept. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record at this point.
. it is with considerable satisfaction that i bring to the attention of the senate a report from the new york times of june 10 indicating that the international finance corporation. an affiliate of the world bank. -has joined in the first venture of the newly established atlantic community -development group for latin americaadela. according to the story adela invested $500.000 in shares of forias de colombia. s.a.. and was joined in this venture by the ifc with an investment of $1 million. the ifc will share in the underwriting of an additional issue of $1 million worth of stock. as my colleagues may recall. senator humphrey and i have been closely involved in the profit preparatory stage of the adela project since ember 1962. when i first presented this idea formally before the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarians conference. the adela project was organized in an effort to mobilize a multinational private effort to assist the latin american private sector to take a leading role in the ecoic development of latin america. and to create a congenial climate for a greatly increased contribution by the private enterprise system in the development of latin america. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks the new york times article of june 10 entitled "two firsts set for world bank."
i wish to address myself to the subject under discussion. i am grateful to the majority leader for remaining while i do so. it is interesting that the report of the task force on the part of the republican party in the house is side by side with the report of ambassador lodge to the people of the united states and to the president. i wish to identify myself with that group which believes. regardless of party. that we must stick it out in vietnam. i do  believe that we ought to pull out. i believe there is too much at stake for us to pull out. also i do  believe that we should overtly extend the war into th vietnam. which has been recommended by some. i feel that while senators. as the senator from kentucky has said. have every right to speak and should be encouraged to speak and have been encouraged to speak their views. i can accept the proposition that any american president would  wish to win a struggle in which american lives and the destiny of freedom are concerned. i do  believe that there should be any implication in their statement. much as they may differ with the policy which is involved. the majority leader has called for constructive suggestions. first. there is question about the fact that a u.n. role in the problem is essential. in my judgment. we should press for a u.n. roleat least some role along the borders which are allegedly being infiltrated. as vietnam is an independent and sovereign country. second. there is a complete inadequacy of cooperation with us by allies who ought to be as deeply interested as we. i do  make that statement in any sense of remonstrance. but it is a direction for activity by the united states. the war is australias war as much as our own. it intimately threatens australias future freedom and security. the war is malaysias war. it is a war of the philippines. it is also a war of taiwan. or the republic of china on taiwan. it also deeply involves japan. those are at least some of the nations. it is next door to taiwan. one of our strongest and firmest allies in that area of the world. an american overture of the most urgent kind is required to obtain cooperation from other nations in asia. third. the success of freedom is involved. therefore. the job of ecoic reconstruction in the country of india. the government of india. and its security against the chinese communist incursionsall of these are critically important. just as is the defeat of the effort to subvert the new government of malasia. it is critically important that we make a success in those struggles because they reflect on the whole position in southeast asia. finally. i have great pride in the bipartisan foreign policy forecast practiced by arthur vandenberg. and followed by eisenhower. nixon. and the other leaders of our party up until today. i am deeply pledged to it. i intend to stand with it in the policy i have outlined which. i believe. with respect to vietnam. i am following in the finest traditions. offered for us and our allies. and which has also been joined in on our other side by the late secretary cordell hull and other leaders. along with the late president kennedy and president johnson.
. we have just heard the historic anncement to the senate that the house has passed finally the civil rights bill. the most momentous piece of legislation. in my judgment. which has come out of the senate since the declaration of war in world war ii. i thank the senator for the opportunity at least to call it markedly to the attention of the senate.
. there is much to be done about it. and i hope in the course of our debate that we will do things that need to be done. let us remember that dealing with the question of poverty has always been considered a local job. and it is a fact that literally billions are being spent on this problem very wisely by private philanthropic agencies as well as agencies at all levels of government. let us also remember that the federal government is engaged in many programs directed toward approximately the same objective. those programs include a wide latitude of statefederal grantsinaid programs involving services for children. welfare. old age. medical assistance for the aged. aid to the blind. aid to dependent children. aid to the totally and permanently disabled. all of which involve billions of dollars of federal moneys. indeed. as shown on pages 76 and 77 of the committees report. there are listed programs totaling $31.811.345.000 which the federal government is expending on antipoverty programs. a good many of them could be discounted and it would still leave many billions of dollars. the importance of this bill is that for the first time it charges the national responsibility and national conscience with a concerted war on poverty. that is all to the good. i believe all americans will have to join in this war. it is a war that will take years to win and will require good organization.
. i send to the desk an amendment to h.r. 10939. the department of defense appropriation bill. the amendment is submitted on behalf of myself. my colleague from new york . and the senators from new hampshire . i ask that the amendment be printed. and that it also be printed in the record. together with a ice of motion for a suspension of the rule. i do so at this time so that other senators whose states have naval shipyards. and who are interested. may join with senators keating. cotton. mcintyre. and me in the submission of the amendment.
. first i wish to emphasize the very important and active role which my colleague from new york has played in the struggle to keep open the naval yards. which are under a real threat. i join him and the senator from pennsylvania. i have. together with senator keating. requested that a comprehensive study of the capabilities of the navy and private yards be undertaken by the preparedness subcommittee and have introduced legislation to that effect. i believe that consideration of these matters by a congressional committee is supremely important. because they deeply affect national defense requirements. we have been convinced all along that the operation of our nations shipyards very clearly involves the preparedness of this country. hence the ideas and views of the senator from mississippi have been most diligently sought by us and will be most importantly received. so far as we are concerned. as bearing on this question. i wish to emphasize the role which my colleague from new york has played in this matter. this pleases me greatly. our role has  been and is  a parochial one. we are fighting this battle because we deeply and sincerely believe in the interest of national defense and the full preparedness of our nation. i hope that the subject of our nations shipyards will be given serious attention by the senate during discussion of the defense appropriation bill for fiscal year 1965. and in connection with an amendment to this bill which i am introducing together with senators keating. cotton. and mcintyre. it is hoped that other interested senators will join in sponsorship.
madam president. i should like to speak with reference to my amendment. those of us who have navy yards in their jurisdictionand there are 11 such installationsare very deeply concerned about what happens with respect to the study which the defense department is presently conducting and to which the senator from georgia referred to in reading the letter. my positionand i believe it is typical of those who have this concernis that we are in way trying to stand in the way of efforts which will be helpful to our national defense. we are in way trying to stand in the way of justified ecoies. where defense funds are needed. we have voted for it. where funds can be saved. we are anxious to save them. what i believe we are deeply concerned with is a decision made within a governmental department. then annced. when the decision becomes crystallized. under such circumstances the prestige of the president is at stake. when that has taken place. we can talk ourselves blue in the face with arguments or cite additional evidence. but the case will be closed. a decision by the defense department on this matter will affect tremendously vital installations in terms of the nations security and tremendously vital installations in terms of the interest of the community in which they are located. it is one thing to say that the community interest shall  predominate over national defense. it is aher thing to say that because the community has such a burning vital interest. the greatest care and deliberation should be taken before an action results which cuts off the community from this indispensible ecoic relationship which it has to each of these navy yards. the amendment before the senate is designed to provide a short period of deliberation and consideration of these vital decisions by the congress in which we servethose of us who carry this heavy responsibility for giving maximum reasoned protection to these installationsa procedure of congressional review. consistent with the national ecoy and consistent with national security. in this very bill some $423 million. in round figures. is provided under the item entitled "operation and maintenance. navy." for industrial and industrial support at shipyards. some $14.145.000 is appropriated under this item for ship repair. other sections of the bill. such as section 539. deal with the question of the relationship between repairs. alteration and conversion at navy shipyards and private shipyards. so it is certainly germane to consider the means which shall be used with respect to maintaining or closing any of these installations. and the providing of a full and careful justification by the department of defense to the congress when one or more of these yards may be subject to closing as a result of the study. all that i seek to do by the amendment. joined in by seven other senators. who i think have pretty much the same feeling about this situation that i have. is to say. "let us pause for a little while before making such a major decision as to the life of a vital military installation and let us allow the appropriate committees of congress to take a hard and serious look at the situation."
i deeply appreciate. as i k all senators appreciate. the concern and desire of the senator from massachusetts to be of help to us. but let me point out in what way the secretary of defense is  of help to us. in the first place. the question of closing installations in many communities has been raised. i am sure that includes communities in the state ofthe senator from massachusetts. as well. when the decision is made and annced. the information goes out and the issue is crystallized. the entire prestige of the department of defense will be at stake. we can remonstrate. we can give our reasons. we have done that to an unbelievable extent. a real. substantive opportunity should be afforded to review and to bring about some change in a decision where that is warranted. i do  believe we seek anything that is  warranted. what the secretary of defense has given in the letter is the mal assurance which he gives anybody-"when*i issue my decision. and if you do . like it. i shall be glad to hear you." according to the average experience which i indicated. that is meager fare. let us remember that in asking for time for deliberation in congress. we are speaking for some 90.000 employees in the installations. most of them in their middle years. in new york. for example. the average age of the naval shipyard worker is 46. the average number of years of service is 16. we are talking about dearly held relationships. it seems to me that when such a major move as the closing of a naval shipyard is contemplated. there should be. at the very least. the period of deliberation and congressional consideration that is sought by my amendment. then we would have some substantive opportunity to make our plans in a forum where the prestige of the secretary of defense is  then at stake. that is the essence of our problem with respect to the letter which the senator has read.
while i appreciate that the senator is staying his hand until we have an opportunity to discuss the question. in some detail. i believe that there is a great difference between shipyards which are longestablished installations and many other military installations which are. built into the community. because of long years of experience and establishment. both in terms of defense and in terms of ecoy. one of the arguments made in their favor is that many navy men have located their families in the vicinity of shipyards long established. because they k that when they come home their ships will be worked upon at a given navy yard and that will be home port.
. i rise only to reply to the statement of the senator from louisiana . during the debate. and mention of the andersen and the ernst reports. we have pointed out the equities. the defense needs. the standby qualities. and the reservoir of skills. i could  allow the record to stand baldly on the fact that private yards save us a lot of money and the navy yards cost more without showing that they are strong considerations in behalf of the navy yards as well. i hope anyone reading the debate will read the statements of the senator from hawaii . my colleague from new york . and the other arguments and exhibits introduced to demonstrate that naval shipyards can more or less carry their own weight on questions of return to the taxpayers.
. mr. jackson was famous as a colleague of harry luce in the establishment and success of the timelife publishing empire. but he was equally famous for the tasks which he undertook for the nation. most ably as a special white house assistant on problems connected with the cold war during the first years of the eisenhower administration. he had a most distinguished record. he was a most outstanding and extremely highly respected new yorker. i ask unanimous consent that a letter from publisher bernard m. auer on the subject of c. d. jackson published in time magazine of september 25. 1964. be printed in the record.
my colleague from new york has worked very hard on this bill. i have. too. in the sense that new york has many veterans who are deeply interested in this subject. because of the circumstances that the majority leader described. the junior senator from new york actually made a speech based on the fact that the bill had been passed. to our dismay. we found that it was  passed. so. first. i thank the senator from louisiana for enabling us to have the bill passed. as we undoubtedly shall. and. second. i appreciate the quality of his concept. however. i will say it does make sense to me. i think it is an additional safeguard for the veteran who is interested and for the many veterans organizations that the bill will go to conference. and that an opportunity will be afforded to take aher look at the proposal within that context before it is finally. adopted. in any case. i am sure every veterans organization will be pleased that the bill has passed the senate and will go to conference and will. in some form. become law at this session.
. how many more people were reached with this rather startling example from "let freedom ring" headquarters which was put on the telephone devices in february 1964: although the u.s. congress has  authorized our disarmament. this is rapidly taking place illegally. our bomber fleet is being junked. our military bases are being closed down at home and abroad. and representative foreman. of texas. reports that 17 of our longrange radar stations have been dismantled and shipped to procommunist india. our military forces are becoming demoralized and resignations by officers were up 100 percent in 1963 as compared to 1962. we are told by a military officer. who must remain unnamed. that our atomic stockpiles are being dumped into the sea on the west coast of the united states. at the university of michigan a plan is being developed for the systematic housetohouse search of the entire united states for arms of any kind. the search is to be made by the u.s. army by blocking off five states at a time. beginning in the western part of the country. the entire civilian population is to be completely disarmed by the end of 1965. from the herald of freedom we quote: "the plans for the takeover of a country by the communists provide for the immobilization of the armed forces. the demoralization of the police. and disarmament of the populace. those who think it cant happen here should remember that every country. including cuba. had an army and a navy and yet they were taken over with difficulty." let freedom ring. i took the trouble to send this scurrilous. dangerous. and perhaps seditious text to the department of defense for comment. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point the defense departments detailed answer to these unbelievably wild charges.
 to request the west german government "to take whatever action it deems necessary in providing for an extension of the statute of limitations affecting nazi war criminals so that there will exist possibility that any war criminals will escape justice through the operation of that statute." i send the concurrent resolution to the desk for the senator from connecticut and myself. and ask that it be appropriately referred. i also ask unanimous consent that it may lie on the desk for 1 week from today. for the addition of cosponsors. and that the text of the resolution may be printed. together with the text of my remarks. at this point in the record.
subsequently said: . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a statement by the senator from pennsylvania with respect to the resolution introduced earlier today by senator ribicoff and me regarding the extension of the statute of limitations affecting the nazi war criminals.
. on behalf of myself and the senator from illis i introduce a bill to include under the war claims act of 1948 and thus provide some measure of justice to two classes of claimants who have  yet received an measure of recognition for the personal and property losses they suffered during world war ii. the first group consists of refugees from nazism and other tyrannies who became citizens of the united states after they had suffered their losses. it is very unwise of us to deny these unfortunate people a measure of justice on the ground that they were  u.s. citizens when their property was seized. they were caught in an international holocaust. and were driven off their lands and despoiled of their property by the most brutal tyranny the world has kn. the second group consists of persons who are  u.s. citizens and who were. during the second world war. servicemen of the united states or her allies who were held as prisoners of war. or united states or allied nationals imprisoned by the enemy in violation of international standards. both are most deserving classes of cases. this bill in part represents a longstanding struggle by the senator from illis and myself to recognize the victims who suffered worst under the nazis. who came here when they lost their property and when they had  yet been naturalized. under the law it is only those who were naturalized when they lost property who get any protection when we negotiate claims settlements with foreign countries or impound their property. this is one of the most unfair provisions on our law books. we should try to eliminate that unfairness. i hope that action will  be delayed on this still unfinished war claims legislation.
. i have already acquainted the senator with what i consider to be an important question in relation to this bill. namely. the possibility of the sale of excess stockpile materials by the executive branch to friendly foreign countries. particularly the nato countries. may i first ask the senator: have there been any significant sales of excess stockpile materials to such countries in recent years.
what i am envisioning is a situation in which certain nato countries which hold large dollar credit balances could be persuaded to return some of these dollars to the united states in exchange for excess materials from our stockpile. to be arbitrary. let us assume that $1 billion could be involved in the purchase of excess materials by a nato country which could serve as the basis of a stockpile within that nato country. it would have the advantage of relieving some of the burden of our international payments and of strategically establishing a stockpile in a friendly nato country. thus decentralizing the implications of the stockpile. and also freezing it in the hands of the country for which it would be a strategic reserve of a material which is surplus to us. but  to that country. under those circumstances. it might very well be that the world market price would be inconsistent with the domestic price of the particular material. the president. under suitable conditions and assuring against return of the material to the united states without approval of the united states. might have to negotiate a price which might be somewhat more than that related to the world price. there is a great amount of interest involved in doing that. if it could be done.
. 47 years ago today. february 24. the people of estonia celebrated the declaration of independence of the republic of estonia. like the other baltic states. estonias enjoyment of selfgovernment was brief. for in 1940 the armies of soviet russia ruthlessly took over the country. in spite of the years of communist oppression. the people of estonia have kept alive their hopes for freedom and eventual independence. the united states can accept the enslavement of these once free peoples. the soviet action has basis in international law and is in violation of understandings given by the soviet union to the allied powers of world war ii. the right of selfdetermination is a principle of international justice and the united states has emphasized over and again that it will never become reconciled to communist domination of the estonian and other russian captive peoples. as we commemorate the anniversary of estonias independence day. we must reaffirm the hopes of the people of estonia for the return of selfdeterminationtheir zeal for independence must be kept alive by our support. we must use all the resources of diplomacy. morality. and world public opinion in a continued effort to free these captive peoples.
 eisenhower pursued this goal. i am very proud of the fact that william foster. who received his original tutelage in that school. still remains in the government. working with the administration of aher party. as the head of the u.s. arms control and disarmament agency. a position he certainly well deserves.
the arms control and disarmament agency. when it was created. was created as a staff agency for this purpose. also. if my memory is clear on this point. the act provided that the agency was to be closely related to the state department. in its technical work. it is doing the job which the senator describes: to equip the president with the greatest possible degree of intelligence in this field. and also to equip the state department to give the president the best advice possible. the purpose for which we established the agency was to demonstrate that we had in this nation a separate agency concerned with the problems of seeking. through disarmament. a way to peace. this was a vital point. it is still a vital point. it seems to me that if we are to have an effective staff agency. we must give security of tenure to good people. one of the things in government which always disturbs me is that we sometimes think we have it all our way. when we go out looking for good men to do big jobs--and i believe the senator has had this experience toowe are constantly met with the argument. "who wants to work for the government. some senator may get mad at you and dences you on the floor. and you are  only out of a job. but you are also disgraced." or we are met with the statement. "congress is always so reluctant about giving us any assurance that we will have a job tomorrow. so that we can move our famflies to washington and buy a house." that. then. is aher reason why we should give this agency 4 years of life: so that it can obtain the caliber of personnel it needs. and so that it will be able to embark on a job that will take.  4 years. but 40 years. at least. those people should be given as much tenure as the situation will afford. senators k that the appropriations committees can cut off funds if they are unhappy about the situation.
i am grateful to the senator from vermont for his contribution. i believe both of us have exposed our points of view rather completely. i always welcome his contribution. and i am always glad when my senior colleague in the senate participates in this kind of debate. let me say. as a direct sequel to what we have discussed. that the report of the committee seems to indicate that the committees action in cutting the authorization of time and the authorization of money may have been attributable to some doubts among members of the committee with respect to contracts for research which were undertaken by this agency. the report actually lists eight of these contracts. and precedes the list with the statement: the subject matter of eight contracts to which one or more of the majority members of the committee took exception are: it seems to me that if there is anything that really reveals why we ought to make the extension 4 years and authorize $55 million. it is a comparison of the subjects of these eight contracts with the last word on the subject by the president of the united states to the leaders of the soviet union. in making this comparison. we find that in the mainand i shall  try to clarify every detail of every *contract. which ody could dowe find that the research activities of the agency are directly related to its task of equipping the president with adequate and effective staff advice to pursue the very objectives which as recently as december 30. 1964. the president had set forth as the basis of the disarmament policy of the united states. i refer in this connection to the agencys fourth annual report to the congress. which contains the following statement: on december 30. the president sent a new years message to the new soviet leaders. in that message he pledged the american people and their government to work for practical agreements in arms control. he urgedi beg senators to e thishe urged limitations on the spread of nuclear weapons. a verified worldwide comprehensive test ban. a cutoff of fissionable material production for weapons. measures to safeguard the peaceful uses of nuclear power. and a verified freeze in existing offensive and defensive strategic nuclear delivery systems. let us  turn to the research items which the committee was to study. i point. for example. to item 5: . techniques for monitoring production of strategic delivery vehicles. that is an exact reference to one of the objectives put forth by the president as a major item of our policy. item  2: verification measures for control of missile testing and space weapons. that. too. is exactly in line with what the president has asked for. some of the others may seem to be unrelated. but they are really related. for example. an effort is being made to determine what internal procedures and techniques for the settlement of disputes are used by the communist states among themselves. i think it is entirely intelligent to see if we can find some clue as to how the deal with them from what they do themselves. an effort is made to consider the questions which arise with respect to indirect aggression and subversion. and how they may relate to the effort to bring about disarmament. this inquiry into how. if we made disarmament agreements. they might be avoided. is also very pertinent. a specialized study of arms control and disarmament concepts in the european military environment for the next 5 years. 1965 to 1970. is called for. certainly we would wish to understand very clearly the impact of anything which we did upon the security of europe. which is the area of the world most important to the united states. it seems to me. then. that the bulk of the studies which are questioned by some of the members of the committee relate directly to the specific objectives laid down by the president of the united states. i feel that that certainly represents a very considerable justification for this work. in addition. i point out to whoever said that research and development in any field. including the field of disarmament. could be zeroed in precisely and specifically on every detailed problem expected to be encountered. that it is only research on generalized subjectssubjects that produce ideas and stimulate thinkingwhich results in creativity in specific applications. i would dislike to have some competent person compare the amount of waste in this research budget with the amount of waste which enters into our defense budget. in that field we spend billions of dollars for research. a great deal of which is wasted because hing comes of it. although it is absolutely essential in order to discount possibilities of which a good deal may come. we have  hesitated to spend $500 million in an abortive effort to produce a military aircraft. and then we junked the whole thing because it would cost $2 or $3 billion in order to pursue it. we have already learned of this expenditure of $500 million which was  worth while. i see reason why a different standard should be applied to the fundamental subject of disarmament and arms control when the orders of magnitude of the amounts requested are so completely disproportionate. considering the amounts that we spend for defense. it seems to me to be false ecoy to be cutting down in the field about which we are speaking while we raise major questions of this character when it comes to spending infinitely more money at the other end of the line in the defense field.  that i object in any way to that. for i have always supported it. but i feel that this. too. must be balanced out with the other needs. and should equally be supported.  what he has asked for. i point out. tooand i think this is highly importantthat the two major questions which face us today are so obscured with difficulty that we ought to welcome every effort to throw light on them. the major question is the proliferation of nuclear weapons and material for nuclear weapons. this ties directly into the second question: can we give the world the blessing of the use of. atomic energy for peace. when we k that every time we finance or give technical assistance for a reactor to make power. we are also contributing to the production of material which can be used for atomic weapons. this is a fabulously complex problem. because we can prohibit forever the transfer of this kind of techogy between country a and country b. but that does  satisfy the need of the world for atomic power in many areas. we face also the great problem of the communist countries themselves. ably communist china. and the tremendous effort that must be made to find a way some time. somehowbecause communist china is going to join the nuclear club. and all too soon for the good of mankindto bring them into efforts to avoid the proliferation of atomic weapons. these are unbelievably complex problems. we ought  to object to giving continuity to an agency which we believe will give us the answers to those problems.
. today also marks the 144th anniversary of the greek independence day. which should have special significance to the united states and to the entire world. because throughout history the greek people have been in the forefront in the struggle for the liberty of the individual. today. greece. a member of the nato alliance. is one of our stanchest allies. she has successfully resisted and repulsed the communists who attempted to infiltrate her after world war ii. to the peoples of the captive nations. greece is. indeed. a symbol of hope for their future independence and freedom. i am. indeed. proud to have this opportunity to pay tribute to a friend and ally on the the 144th anniversary of her independence.
. i invite the attention of the senate to a fine statement made by the senator from illis on march 25. with respect to the relationship between the federal republic of west germany and the republic of israel. including the issue of extension of the statute of limitations in the german federal republic with respect to nazi war crimes. especially geide. the bundestag has since acted. in order to extend the statute of limitations and to make it impossible for war criminals to escape justice. for some years to come. the german federal republic is also showing every evidence of being true to its own view of what is moral and right in foreign policy in respect of its recognition of the state of israel. i express to the miity leader my appreciation for the enunciation of policy which he gave upon the occasion to which i refer. i also point out again how important it is for the united states government to make the german federal government. chancellor erhard. and his colleagues feel that. in these difficult times and in this difficult situation. when they proceed along lines such as those to which i referred. they have the sympathy and support of the united states.
that is why i raised the point. apparently. if the committees deletion stood. continuity of the production line. to the extent that it would be undertaken. would still leave the navy with a period of at least 6 months in which it would either have to drop its force levelsthat is. the number of aircraft availableor push the aircraft which it already has beyond what is considered to be the proper period of service. moreover. there is the additional. cost factor. i should like to ask the senator to look into this matter before the conference takes place. if the conferees were satisfied that what has happened since this subject was considered justified. some other decision. it is conceivable. is it . that this could be reflected. in whole or in part. in conference.
. i submit. for appropriate reference. a concurrent resolution proposing the recognition of the village of whitehall. washington county. n.y.. as the birthplace of the u.s. navy. a similar resolution has already been introduced in the house by representative carleton j. king. of new york. it was at whitehall. n.y.. then called skenesborough that 12 of the 15 warships were built to enable the american forces to engage in the crucial naval battle on lake champlian in october 1776. during the revolutionary war. although the infant american navy was defeated in the 3day battle. the engagement delayed the british redcoats invasion plans for a full year. this was made possible only because the people of whitehall and scores of craftsmen brought to that village from many colonies. were able to turn the oaks of the surrounding forests into fighting ships in just 52 days. the role of the village of whitehall in this historic naval battlethe first after the declaration of independenceis worthy of recognition. the resolution follows: whereas it is generally believed that whitehall. washington county. new york. formerly skenesborough. can well be considered the birthplace of the united states navy. as twelve of the fifteen ships that took part in the battle of valcour in october 1776 were built in its harbor. and whereas this fleet was constructed after the declaration of independence and engaged in the first naval battle after the colonies asserted their unity and independence. and whereas the battle of valcour. though dimmed by the glamour surrounding the battle of saratoga. nevertheless played a very important part in shaping the destinies of the colonies by forestalling early invasion of the colonies from the th. and whereas whitehalls place in history had  heretofore been given the recognition it justly deserves for the contribution made by it in shaping the early destiny of our beloved country: therefore be it resolved by the senate (the house of representatives concurring). that the congress of the united states hereby recognize the village of whitehall. washington county. new york. as being the birthplace of the united states navy.
 to do everything in violation of our consciences and full consent. i expect to be consulted on future steps. if there is to be a ground war in vietnam. or if south vietnam has changed its mind about whether it wants our help. i expect to be consulted
. several factors are apparent in this situation. first. there is the remarkable genuineness of chancellor erhard in anncing that germany and its people. withstanding the fact that this is 25 years after the nazi holocaust reached its greatest intensity. still feel that a public debt is owed to the jewish people. who were decimated by onethird of their number in the nazi terror. germany ks that it is  a matter of merely wiping the slate clean and forgetting about it. they k that it is a matter of remembering what happened and letting the remembrance be useful to the people of the world in the world campaign against geidein which campaign. i am greatly disheartened that we do  join by way of action in the geide treaty. the action of germany in this instance is an important indication of what should be the american policy with respect to the arab states which continue to make war on israel. war is waged when a nation tries to drive the people of aher nation into the sea and endanger their vital water sources illegally. just as much as war is waged when armed forces are sent.
. the new relationship between the german federal republic and israel was negotiated by dr. kurt birrenbach. managing director of the thiessen foundation and one of the enlightened leaders of the business community of the new germany. a member of the bundestag and my longtime associate in the work of the nato conference ecoic committee. i pay herewith a most well deserved tribute to this german businessleader statesman.
it is rather sad to me that this matter should have developed as it did with the elimination of the fixed 6535 percentage on alteration. repair. and conversion built into the authorization at this time. as the senator ks. we in new york are suffering from the proposed closing of the brooklyn navy yard. it is a very valuable and experienced facility. and has served the nation well. we feel that a factor in the decline in work at this yard was the fact that .we had these fixed percentages. i. too. would like to reserve the right to study it in terms of practicality with respect to the elimination of the 6535 ratio. my judgment. with the senator from mississippi. is that we ought to try it out on that basis instead of restricting the authorities within a fixed percentage. had that been the case. there would have been much more flexibility for considering the defense desirability of the brooklyn navy yard. i am glad to see  the facts developedand i would like to ask this in the form of a questionbecause the managers said they  realize that the fixed overhead required by the needs of the country in these fixed installations is a factor which exists. so why  take advantage of it in the matter of repairs. i am  going to argue the question of points of order or anything like that. we will get into that at aher time if necessary. but i am assured by the senator from mississippi. with the distinction he has in this field. that he will take a new look at the picture with perhaps some different concept of the facts. based on the experience of the conference report and contemporaneous requirements.
 eugen gerstenmaier. in setting aside an additional $300 million for a hardship fund to compensate 180.000 jews andothers persecuted by the nazis. who lived until october 1953. in the eastern bloc nations occupied by nazi germany in world war ii. though this fell short of what had been asked for by concerned jewish organizations--which had sought to integrate these victims into the basic indemnification law applying to those persecuted in germany itselfit certainly will help. and is at least a partial recognition of the justified demands of those who were also nazi victims. it is most gratifying that members of the two major political parties in the german federal republicthe cdu under chancellor erhard and the spd under fritz erlersupported this measure.
. i invite the attention of the senate to a new international effort to encourage ecoic cooperation between greece and turkey. while there is great public attention focused on greekturkish tensions over cyprus we must  lose sight of the allimportant area where greece and turkey could cooperate most effectively and profitably with what could be a most healthy effect on the political climate of the whole region. the recent agreement of the greek and turkish foreign ministers at the may meeting of the nato foreign ministers conference in london. to seek a peaceful solution to their differences over cyprus has added an important impetus to this effort. with the support of the delegates of turkey and greece to the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarians conference. of which i was then chairman. the effort to encourage closer ecoic cooperation between the two countries got underway during the spring of 1964. it was dictated by the fact that both these countries were the less developed countries among the 15 nato nations and that nato countries should also help their own. on may 24. 1965. the effort moved into high gear with the organization of a governmental international advisory commission on greekturkish ecoic cooperation. at a breakfast meeting held at the ritz hotel in paris. the meeting was attended by 62 representatives of turkish. greek. united states. and european business. banks and foundations. as well as observers from international organizations and members of the special committee on ecoic development in less developed nato countries. of which i am chairman. which was established in ember 1964 to oversee this project on behalf of the 15nation nato parliamentarians conference. i had the ho to chair the breakfast. assisted by the two vice chairmen of the special committee. alexander sparigas. member of the greek parliament and presently deputy minister of commerce of greece. and kasim gulek. prominent member of the grand national assembly of turkey. the purpose of the meeting was to explain the nature of the effort to the business community of nato countries and to seek their support in implementing it. the reaction to the project was enthusiastic which shows every promise of proceeding along the same lines which made the adela investment company such a great success for latin america. at the conclusion of the breakfast meeting an executive committee of the international advisory commission was established to act on behalf of the commission between meetings. a brief history of the project is as follows: in the spring of 1964 the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarians conference agreed that an effort under its sponsorship to bring about ecoic cooperation between greece and turkey could make a significant contribution to development and peace in the southeastern european anchor of nato. consequently. the committee requested that an extended study be made of specific areas where cooperative ventures between the two countries would be feasible and practical. with the support of the louis g. cowan foundation and the atlantic institute in paris. an american and a european scholar undertook a brief study of the feasibility of such a study under present circumstances. these initial studies. which were completed in september 1964. concluded that cooperation between the two countries was feasible--despite tensions caused by cyprusin such fields as the development of the evrosmaritsariver valleywhich constitutes the borderline between the two countries in thracetourism. the joint marketing of fruits and vegetables in thern europe. and fishing. particularly involving conservation problems. the improvement of fishing methods. other fields may include cultural and educational cooperation. i visited greece and turkey last ember and held extensive conversations with political. business. and academic leaders there. i was assured of their close cooperation. the reaction of leaders of such international organizations as the oecd and nato has also been most favorable. i reported this to the plenary session of the nato parliamentarians conference in paris during the week of ember 16. 1964 which approved the project and created a special committee to implement it. i was elected chairman. alexander sparigas. of greece. and kasim.gulek. of turkey. are vice chairmen. t. e. westerterp of the netherlands is rapporteur. on march 26. 1965. the ford foundation approved a $150.000 grant to finance a major part of the cost of the studies which are  required. $12.000 in contributions have been also received from major american corporations with deep haterest in the ecoic development of greece and turkey. additional funds are being sought from european foundations and business. it is our objective that within a period of  more than 2 years this effort will have resulted in several projects being put into effect by the two governments concerned or by the two governments concerned jointly with the private sectorsmanufacturers. bankers. farmers hoteliers of greece. turkey. and other nato countries. if necessary. recommendations will also be developed to create new institutional mechanisms to implement one or more aspects of this effort. experience in bistate cooperation in the united states. such as that between new york and new jersey in the port of new york authority may very well be applicable in working out cooperative ventures in the development of the maritsaevrosrivers potential for irrigation. land reclamation and electric power. for the further information of my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent that a paper submitted by me to the nato parliamentarians conference last ember describing the background of the greekturkish project. a press release issued in paris on may 24 concerning the organization meeting of the international advisory commission. a list of members of she executive committee of the international advisory commission. a list of the members of the special committee on ecoic development in less developed nato countries of the nato parliamentarians conference. and certain newspaper reports concerning the project may be inserted in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i ask unanimous consent that an editorial entitled "congress and vietnam." which appeared in the new york times of june 7. 1965. together with an article by john w. finney entitled "johnson permits u.s. units to fight if saigon asks aid." and an editorial entitled "ground war in asia." both published in the new york times today. be printed at this point in the record.
let me give the senator from wyoming my best understanding of the situation with respect to the reaction of the communist chinese when we moved our ground troops th of the 38th parallel. the talk of bombing across the yalu was the result of a feeling on the part of general macarthur that we should take on the communist chinese-
but the chinese reaction came as a result of our moving ground troops across the 38th parallel. i do  say that the vietnam situation is so close as to be like a template upon the korean. we may engage in ground action without communist chinese reaction. but history dictates that we must be prepared for any eventuality once we take on a ground war in asia. as i have just said. a big nation can bluff. congress and the president should be joined at this crucial moment in this kind of decision. in order to avoid to the maximum extent any division in our country.
. however. i am also a senator from the state of new york. representing 18 million people. i want to k what is going on. i want my people to k what is going on. i want my vote and the votes of -other senators cast in favor of or against what i call a major. bogdown war in asia. it may be necessary. but i want something to say about it. i am  going to accept any blanketing of the press or the opposition as an excuse for allowing the status quo to continue and for keeping me and others substantially in the dark. there is substitute for king. there is substitute for debate. there is substitute for inquiry. even the famous macarthur hearings were conducted in such a way that the public knew something about them. one could think of anything more sensitive in terms of security than that subject. we can do the same thing. we can respect security and still k what we are doing and have an interest and participate in the decisions.
. june 15 marks the 25th anniversary of soviet aggression against the baltic states. independence for estonia. latvia. and lithuania was short livedthey enjoyed a brief reestablishment of their independence in the wake of world war i. but the libertyloving people of the baltic states were caught up in the expansionist ambitions of the soviet union. and shortly after the outbreak of world war ii. these nations were occupied by communist forces. the kremlin has deceived one with its propaganda designed to smother the freedom of the baltic states with communist ideology and power. it is most fitting for us to pay tribute today to the brave people of the baltic states by adding our voices in commemoration of this 25th anniversary of the illegal occupation of estonia. latvia. and lithuania by the soviet union and to help keep alive the flame of freedom which continues to burn brightly in the hearts of the people despite harsh restrictions. deportation. imprisonment. and other repressive measures. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record a manifesto of the baltic states freedom council declaring the determination of free estonians. latvians. and lithuanians to continue their fight for the freedom of their homeland.
. i express my appreciation to the senator from kansas for allowing me to precede him. although he should have been recognized first. i wish to join other senators who have urged the committee to consider sympathetically section 608 of the house bill. relating to congressional review of the closing of military facilities. when the subject comes before the conference. i think it is well kn that we did  propose an amendment because we felt that the subject would be fully considered in conference. in view of the varying positions expressed in the committees on armed services of the house and senate on this section. although some members felt differently. we believed we were better off in laying the facts before the senate and urging that the matter be considered in conference. the senator from new hampshire and the senator from maine have most eloquently stated the point that while four committees of congress. in the house and the senate. consider authorizations and appropriations for the construction of new facilities for the armed services. e of those committees is expressly empowered to consider the closing of some of the multimilliondollar installations and facilities contributing to the national defense. which review would be expressly permitted by section 608. i believe that the congress is fully justified in taking the same long. hard. and careful look at military facility closings as it does at the construction of new military facilities. it seems difficult to reconcile that four committees of congress as well as the membership of both houses of congress each year scrutinize in detail the justification which the department of defense prepares for the construction of new facilities. but that these committees do  consider in detail the closing of existing multimilliondollar facilities. the department of defense is made to bear the burden of explaining the use of every dollar expended for construction through budget requests. but need  justify the closing of a major military installation. it is literally impossible for secretary of defense mcnamara to review in exhaustive detail the justification for closing every military facility. consequently. decisions to close major facilities are made in the military service departments are frequently never again subjected to detailed review. in contrast. the construction of new facilities receives the most intense review by the secretary of defense. four committees of the congress. and the full membership of both houses. as my colleagues k. my state of new york has been affected by a number of ordered closings. the largest of which has been the brooklyn navy yard. which affects an estimated $300 million installation employing some 10.000 employees. after the new york congressional delegation spent many months seeking a review of this decision. a day of hearings on the closing of this huge installation was held by the house armed services committee. a number of meetings have previously been held by myself. senator kennedy. and the new york delegation with secretary mcnamara both at the pentagon and in new york which included briefings by the secretary and questioning of this information. but a full detailed examination of the facts in the volumis report of the defense departments shipyard policy board providing the basis for the ordered closing was never undertaken until the house armed services committee recently held its day of hearings. i wish to mention aher precedent as to congressional review of military activity in addition to the one having already been referred to by the senator from maine with respect to the committees on armed services consideration of real property transactions under section 2662 of title 10. united states code. i refer to section 125 of title 10. united states code. which requires the very same procedure of congressional review contained in section 608 of the house bill. with respect to consolidation or abolition of any function. power. or duty of the secretary of defense. the procedure set forth in title 10. united states code. section 125. concerning congressional review of a consolidation or abolition of a function. power. or duty vested in the secretary of defense is exactly as is proposed by section 608 of the house bill. i strongly urge acceptance of this precedent upon senators and upon the conferees. i point out the tremendously shattering result of the action of closing facilities in the various communities affected throughout the country. an effect which is just as great as is the boon of construction which is scrutinized carefully by the house and senate. in new york. we have the closing.  in progress. of a number of facilities. including a $300 million installation at the brooklyn navy yard. employing 10.000 workers. the brooklyn navy yard is a military establishment of great experience and ability with a tremendous pool of technical and engineering skills and vast investment of equipment. including seven huge drydocks. it has built the battleships arizona. missouri. iowa. and th carolina. and the aircraft carriers f. d. roosevelt. saratoga. lexington. constellation. bennington. bonhomme richard. and kearsarge. this yard. like other naval yards. contains barracks. messhalls. medical. and training facilities. and. together with its basic shipbuilding alteration and repair capacity. provides a basis for immediate mobilization. its closing would result in the loss of a large investment in available shipbuilding facilities and equipment. in spite of statements to the contrary. the ecoic impact of this shipyard on the community of new york city and the workers at the yard and their families is substantial. according to an impartial study of naval shipyards prepared by the library of congress: payrolls. purchases. supplies. and other expenditures by the yard amount to $250 million annually. which generates annual business at the local level to somewhere in the vicinity of $1.25 billion. the annual payroll for its 9.634 employees is $80 million. the $250 million in total expenditures constitutes about fivetenths of 1 percent (.480) of the countrys past defense budget of $51 billion. the estimated value of the property is somewhere between $300 and $500 million. on that subject. relating to how section 608 was construed in the other house. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a colloquy which the chairman of the committee on armed services of the other body held on that point which appears at page 13246 of the record of june 10. 1965.
always. people like to have practical cases cited. i should like to present a practical case indicating a situation where review would have been desirable. it was the desire of the department of defense to transfer certain functions of the rome air material area at griffiss air force base at rome. n.y. after we dug into the situation thoroughly. we found. according to the general accounting office itself. important differences in estimates of the anticipated savings resulting from the closing. the general accounting office report dated june 25. 1964 which we requested disclosed that of the air force estimated savings of $11.8 million for fiscal years 1965 through 1967 and the anticipated annual savings thereafter of about $9.9 million a year. the gao was able to identify approximately $2 and $2.7 million which respectively did  appear to be savings properly attributable to the transfer. the gao was unable to determine the reasonableness of the air force estimates because in their words "the air force has  provided sufficient detailed support for the most important factor affecting the estimates. that is. the number of personnel spaces that can be eliminated from the logistics commands authorized personnel strength as a result of the transfer." most unfortunately. detailed papers supporting this estimate were destroyed by the air force. the gao also found that the estimated cost of $3.6 million for constructing additional facilities of the air material areas receiving the functions of the rome air material area appeared to be understated by about $1 million. i am  going to draw a broad generalization as the result of this case. the fact is that the general accounting office itself came up with a difference from the air force as to estimated savings of approximately 20 percent to onethird of the estimated savings. withstanding the outstanding record of secretary mcnamaras department. it can. like all human organizations. be in error. aher situation. in which a difference of opinion as to facts and figures has arisen is the case of the naval training devices center. located at sands point. long island. n.y. the naval training devices center is responsible for research and development of training devices for the navy. the army. the marines. and the coast guard. and is frequently utilized by the air force and certain civilian agencies as well. its basic task is development and delivery of training devices which simulate operational equipment. permitting the training of large numbers of men without the emous cost which would be incurred if such largescale training were carried out using actual equipment. the center is the only facility of its kind in the defense department. the navy. which previously planned and obtained funds to transfer the center from sands point to mitchel field. n.y.. has  proposed to move the center to orlando. fla. on the basis of evidence which has been presented to me. both by the proponents and by the opponents of the relocation. i believe there are grave questions as to the soundness of the move.  only would this relocation have serious adverse effects on the ecoy of the state from which the center would be moved and on the 800 employees of the center and their families. but there are also indications that it would be unwise both from the standpoint of the national defense and from the point of view of the american taxpayer. because the centers research and development activities require skilled scientific and technical personnel. as well as research and educational facilities. the location of the center in an area. like new york city. where these skills and facilities are available in great abundance. is of prime importance. aher advantage the center enjoys in its present location is proximity to a number of its major contractors. located in the new york area. the benefits accruing to the center because of its present geographic location and the loss of these benefits which would be incurred by removal of the center to florida. are thus one aspect of the proposed move which raises grave doubts as to its wisdom. aher cause for concern about the proposed transfer is the cost. there are very major differences in the estimated cost of relocation of the center. maintenance of the center at sands point as opposed to orlando. rehabilitation of existing facilities as opposed to rehabilitation and construction at orlando. and other factors. a comparative cost analysis was prepared recently by the engineers and scientists association of the center. based on cost estimates certified by the association to be as accurate as possible considering the associations inability to obtain access to official information concerning the proposed transfer and within the limits of the associations kledge of. and experience and familiarity with. the centers operations. according to this analysis. the following are the estimated figures for the cost of first. keeping the center at sands point. second. moving the center to mitchel field. and third. moving the center to orlando: item sands point mitchel orlando 1. rehabilitation of buildings ------------------------------------- e $1 500 000 $851.000 2. construction of new buildings and laboratories -------------------- $1.200.000 e 2.000.000 3. annual maintenance costs ----------------------------------------- 530. 000 200.000 3.000.000 4. moving costs ----------------------------------------------- e 50.000 1.500.000 5. forced early retirement of employees----------------------------- e e 700. 000 6. abandonment of new laboratory ----------------------------------- e e 40.000 7. additional hiring of outofstate employees -------------------------- e e 1.800.000 8. training of inexperienced engineers and technicians ----------------- e e 2. 187. 500 9. builtin travel and communication costs ---------------------------- e e 500.000 total ----------------------------------------------------------- 1.730.000 1.750.000 12.578.500 the navy. however. estimates the comparative costs as follows: sands point. $6.746.600. mitchel. $3.800.000. orlando. $2.201.000. on the basis of these two sets of figures alone. a thorough and impartial accounting of all comparative cost factors. including hidden factors. appears justified. a further subject of controversy which could adversely affect the efficient operation of the center is the extent to which the present operation would be disrupted during the 2 years over which the move would be carried out. still aher subject of concernwhich some say would actually jeopardize the entire program of the centeris the loss of skilled employees of the center who would prefer to be separated from their present employment than be relocated and would therefore be lost for the operation of the center. a very substantial number of engineers have already resigned. and employee polls and other evidence indicates that the loss of experienced engineering talent to the center might be extremely severe. yet despite the serious and substantial nature of this controversy. we had opportunity for congressional review. members of the new york congressional delegation had a number of meetings with the secretary of defensei believe one in washington and one in new york. following the ordered closing of the new york naval shipyard and brooklyn army terminal as well as other facilities on ember 19. 1964. how much better would it be if the procedures for congressional review under the statute on review of surplus property transactions (10 u.s.c. 2662). or the transferring of defense department functions (10 u.s.c. 125) could have been followed. as the senator from  mississippi ks. the members of the government operations committee have constantly proposed to them for consideration the disposition of surplus property. the questions are decided very quickly. we have express power to immediately stop dispositions of property declared surplus as the general services administration sees fit. yet. the mere fact that the question is put up to us and the department must wait until we respond is a worthwhile and satisfying procedure to members of congress. i join with my colleagues in urging the conferees to adopt a sympathetic attitude to the language in section 608 of the house bill. we should be given a regularized procedure by which major decisions affecting the lives and fortunes of thousands of americans can be reviewed and dealt with in an orderly way.
if congress were to soldier on the people in any such way as some might fear. we could sit on our hands with respect to appropriations. we would  have to declare war. there would be plenty of ways in which to sabotage the united states.
. with reference to section 608 of the bill. the base closure provision. upon which i raised questions during consideration of h.r. 8439. i would have preferred the house language. because it provided useful machinery for review of a basic question. in my judgment. the house provision was prospective in its application. the house language would have affected review of bases at which a closing had been annced. such as in the case of the brooklyn navy yard. i feel that the conference committee provision withstanding the fact that it does  directly meet the problem of annced closings is. etheless. very useful for the congressional scrutiny of policy of the defense department on this subject. it would require what i consider to be very ample ice of a prospective base closing only the ice. but. what is even more important. full justification for closure. abandonment. or substantial reduction. to be made available to the committees of the senate and the house of representatives. indeed. one of our gravest problems in respect of the closing of the brooklyn navy yardthough there were many other closures. but this large installation closing raised the problem in a very vivid waywas the fact that it was extremely difficult to analyze in depth the reasons for the closing. and to be able to scrutinize in detail the justification for the base closing. until after the event. obviously. after the event. even after the event of the anncement. it is pretty late. and the confidence of employees is shaken. as was done in that case. at that time the matter is on its way. matter how members of congress feel about it. or. what is more important. how strong and persuasive may be their arguments. i therefore feel that a measure of progress has been made. which may  be immediately the answer to the troubles we have today in new york. but which i think are good for the country in regard to future action. i hope the feelings of congress will communicate themselves to the department of defense so that they may understand how very seriously we take base closings. and how essential it is that maximum consideration be given to justification in advance. before they get into the area of controversy. and how great is the great responsibility which inheres in the problems of people seeking new jobs and new opportunities. as well as the extremely adverse ecoic impact in many areas of the country which is made by base closings. particularly where they have been in existence a long time. some aid may be provided by legislation to expand pension rights and severance pay to workers which i have proposed. the problem is serious and becomes a critical factor in the ecoy of that particular community. i believe the conferees on the military construction bill were prudent in at least rescuing a review procedure and thereby a method of dealing with the tremendous losses incurred by some of these actions. this procedure can be helpful in future closings of this kind. which have had tragic consequences in many communities. including new york.
 and that he can prevent us from acting once he makes the appointment. we can have any kind of proliferation in government that he desires. i do  believe that it is right. i do  believe that congress can accept this practice. it is for that reason that i have pressed the matter and shall continue to press it.
. but a year has  gone by. and hing has happened. the whole argument comes down to this: are we to have a cult of personality in the united states. the senator from michigan says that sargent shriver is a pheenal young man. i agree. but there are others who are spoken of as pheenal young men. there is mcnamara. secretary of defense. there is udall. secretary of the interior. there is katzenbach. the attorney general. there is freeman. secretary of agriculture. there are many others in the government who are considered pheenal young men. more power to them. but are we  going to proliferate offices in the hands of young men merely because it is felt they have the glamor to enable them to hold more than one job. this is a unique proposal. it seems to me that if the executive department does  wish to give this subject the attention it deserves. congress must. it has been a fundamental principle in our government that positions of cabinet or equivalent rank should  be proliferated in one person. if congress would establish that as a firm principle in respect of the struggle over shriver. it would be striking a strong blow for freedom. the proliferation of offices has never been the fashion in this country until this case came along. i respectfully submit that it would be a great mistake to make this exception. i like sargent shriver. he is a fine public servant. but i like my country more. i do  feel that this precedent ought to be permitted to persist. if congress can do anything about itand i feel we can do something about it with this amendment.
 kennedy in 1961. . during his tenure as secretary we have  always agreed on matters affecting installations in new york. but i respect his dedication to the public service. i applaud his contributions to the growth of the air force and the defense of the nation. and i admire his unquestioned ability and patriotism. the air force will miss his leadership and the federal government his dedicated service. i join senators in wishing him success. health. and happiness in the future.
. during the week of october 4 the nato parliamentarians conference held its 1lth annual session in new york city. the special committee on developing nato countries of the conference of which i am chairman. met on the aftern of monday. october 5. to discuss the progress made in the committees efforts to encourage closer ecoic cooperation between greece and turkey since our last meeting at nato headquarters in paris. our progress has been considerable. the project received $150.000 from the ford foundation and smaller financial contributions from a number of american companies. bankers. and foundations. we  have as a fulltime executive director. seymour rubin. former u.s. representative to the development assistance committeedacof the oecd. and a european director. albert zumbiehi. financial adviser to a prominent french industrial firm. on loan to us for a period of time. discussions held in greece. turkey. the united kingdom.. west germany. and the united states .% ith business leaders and international organizations indicate strong support for our efforts and we have already received invaluable cooperation from these quarters. there is every indication that substantial private assistance may be forthcoming from west german foundations for an important phase of the project. namely. the further development of the irrigation potential of the maritsaevros river valley. which forms the border between greece and turkey. in view of the great importance of the project to the united states. to nato and to peace and stability in southeastern europe. i ask unanimous consent that a paper presented by me to the special committee of the nato parliamentarians conference on october 5 on the present status of the project as well as certain background information on our executive director and european director. be printed in the record at this point.
i am grateful to the senator for that assurance. let me emphasize the positive point that the severancepay provision in section 9 of the bill is a most extraordinarily important one. especially in the closing of any governmental installation. for example. navy yard workers in new york would naturally hope for retroactivity. i believe that retroactivity would have been just. again. i appreciate the need for empirical judgment and the fact that there is a provision for severance pay which involves $50 million. which is itself. withstanding that it falls short of the mark in its effective date. an important point. and i express my gratitude to the committee for it. it will be of substantial assistance to many workers affected by installation closings.
i am very grateful to my friend the senator from oklahoma. he does my soul good. i do  enjoy uttering words which may lead to more struggle. i feel this situation very deeply. i have never been a foxhole hero. although i served in world war ii for a number of years. but i have seen how other men suffer. and it has hurt me just as deeply. i do  take these things lightly. i am very grateful to the senator from oklahoma for his approval. this gives me an opportunity to add one further point. i believe it would be the greatest mistake to assume that if the president. in the interests of military security. did resume the limited bombing in which we have been engaged. that would be the end of the peace offensive. by means. i thoroughly agree with the senator that the peace offensive should be pushed even harder with brilliance of execution everywhere in the world. using the united nations to the full. and any other agency that we can use. i see reason why there should be any difference in our attitude if. because of stem military necessity. we can longer allow th vietnam. with impunity. to move and supply its forces in south vietnam. i appreciate the remarks of the senator from oklahoma.
one is talking about victory. there is one to vanquish. there are only objectives to attain. these objectives are embodied in the fourpart consensus i have just mentioned. let me add one further point. when i returned from vietnamsome 3 weeks ago. -i urged the president to give special attention to the real and underlying cause of war in vietnam-.social and ecoic privation. to meet this basic problem. i urged the president to place a top coordinator in charge of the aid program. - he has done that. he could  have selected a better man than the vice president. . the only action the president need take is to add the fourth pointnamely. congressional actionwhich will show the support of the american people in such a way as to inspire the world.
. it is once again my privilege to mark and ho the declaration of lithuanian independence day. this declaration was made 48 years ago. and the great lithuanian people have never ceased to courageously fight for their freedom. despite these long years of communist rule. the lithuanian people have  lost their strong sense of what liberty means. their struggle still stands as a symbol to other nations yearning to be free. after years of subjugation by russia. and after the german occupation of world war i. the lithuanian people declared the establishment of an independent lithuania on february 16. 1918. russia again moved in by the end of that year. only to discover once again that the lithuanian people would fight. because of this. the soviet union was forced to recognize lithuania as a sovereign state in 1920. but this brief respite was too short lived. in 1940. soviet troops once again occupied the country and annexed it. and history further repeated itself with aher german occupation until 1944. in 1944. soviet troops again crushed lithuanian uprisings. for more than 7 years during and after the war. the lithuanian people fought for their own country. thirty thousand lithuanian people died in this cause. and many more were deported to the soviet union only to die in soviet concentration camps. the lithuanian people should never abandon hope for a truly independent state. we. in the united states. who k what freedom is. commemorate their courage and the principle for which they stand: freedom and selfdetermination.
. i invite the attention of senators to a series of four articles which were published in the washington star. written by richard critchfield. explaining the war for land reform and the problems of pacification. critchfield details the saigon land reform program. its failures. and most importantly its importance for the masses for vietnamese peasants. critchfield also argues convincingly that the key to future reelections in vietnam and the success of democratic institutions hinges upon land reform and the need for a pacification program that educates and cares for the people and gives them a sense of participation as well as protects them. mr. critchfields analyses in these respects confirm my own observations from my recent trip to vietnam. i ask unanimous consent to have mr. critchfields articles printed in the record.
. i wish to address myself to the problem before the senate. the supplemental military appropriations bill. i believe that it is very important for senators to state their position on this matter. because it will have an effect upon the policy of the nation and what happens in the world. inasmuch as i believe that. in terms of the relationship of the executive and legislative arms of the government. we are coming to something of a confrontation on this subject. it seems to be appropriate to speak . there are three aspects of the vietnamese situation which i believe trouble our people greatly. first. we are troubled by irresponsible criticismunjust criticism. to make use of a milder word--of u.s. policy in vietnam. we are troubled by those who assume that the united states is to blame for this piedicament. .by those who ask us to concede all and achieve hing. by those who confuse words with deeds. and posturing with policy. second. we are troubled by the possibility of military overcommitment. the pouring of unlimited numbers of american. troops first into the quicksand of a largely guerrilla waralbeit an aggression by th vietnamthen into a major asian war. by plans that would expand the bombing of th vietnam to punitive and  military targets alone. by those who believe escalation is a cureall and by those who dream of military victory in a nuclear age where such victory courts only disaster for all. third. we are worried about the lack of clarity in our objectives. by the fact that the explanation of our goals is often in phrasemaking and  in specifics. by predictions that have invariably turned out to be overly optimisticall this when clearness. steadiness. and consistency are called for.
i think it is practical with the modern bombing techniques to pinpoint military targets. that does  mean that some civilians in the area of a military target might  be killed. but we can scramble this omelet without breaking some eggs. i can guarantee that kind of immunity in response to the question of the senator. by confining our bombing to military targets we are showing our good faith. that we do  intend to punish the civilian population in th vietnam. that is all i am talking about. it represents a military and  civilian bombardment.
on that theory. we might sell the whole thing out to the communists and forget about asia and the rest of the world. because it is possible to dress up the national role of liberation anywhere one pleases. if the case is as impeccable as the senator from alaska says it is. the communists have found the achilles heel of the whole free world. and we are through. but i do  believe that. i believe people have a right to selfdefense. and if they do  have the means to defend themselves because the other fellow is better prepared and disciplinedas the communists arethey have a right to call on other free people to help to defend them. someone will get hurt in the process. but someone always gets hurt when there is immorality. aggression. and murder in the world. i could  disagree more with the senator from alaska. i am also opposed to a vast buildup of american troops in vietnam. such a buildup would  only entail a general ecoic. military. and civilian mobilization in the united states. it would also have to be at the expense of defending other u.s. interests throughout the world. we must  lose sight of priorities of interest. we must  overcommit our troops where we have other responsibilities to uphold. based upon my own observations in vietnam and upon talks i have had with military commanders there. i believe that the military policy  being pursued in south vietnam is. in general. a policy adaptable to a force with a ceiling of approximately 400.000 men. i invite the attention of senators to page 55 of the hearings of the committee on armed services on the bill which is before us. where the order of magnitude which is contemplated by this appropriation is discussed. the testimony .is that of secretary mcnamara. so far as it can be made public commensurate with the interest of security. secretary mcnamara said: the net increase we are asking above the original 1966 total is 452.843. i should like to read a question asked by the senator from louisiana [. that we are dealing with a troop strength of 450.000. as the policy upon which we are basing this appropriation. we are in the process of building up and consolidating our military positions on the coast up to the 17th parallel. around saigon. and in the mekong delta. and we should continue to focus our pacification and construction efforts within these areas. the enclaves which we  have must be linked up into a stable. contiguous. and democratically run area. this area should then be used as a springboard for the application of powerfor probes in the countryside. to keep the communist forces on the move and to prevent them from consolidating. so our military strategy should always keep our global needs in mind. most importantly. we should never allow battlefield commitments to limit or determine policy choices. the quicksand of a jungle guerrilla war can only be avoided by conscious and determined choices at policy levels. specifying limits within which we propose to proceed and the means which we propose to devote to the attainment of our goals.
. in a carefully argued article. chalmers m. roberts develops three points which i have stressed in my recent vietnam speeches. first. there is a genuine consensus in the united states on the need to stop the expansion by aggression and force of communism. but that the critics of the present policy of the administration in vietnam resist drawing the conclusions which are inherent in their premise. this is. namely. that such expansion must be stopped in asia as well as europe. second. roberts correctly argues that alliances in asia may  be so unlike alliances in europe if historical development is considered. when nato was first created. it was strictly an americanbritish show. only later did the italian and french ecoies and political situation stabilize to allow them to make a contribution. only in 1956 were the west germans permitted to add their troops to the alliance. one can expect more from our asian allies at this stage in their development than could have been expected from our european allies right after world war ii. third. roberts argues that the risk of direct red chinese intervention in asia is more likely than russian intervention in europe so long as their own interests and territory are  directly challenged. specifically he doubts that red china will send troops into vietnam solong as the united states and saigon do  attempt to occupy or overthrow the government of th vietnam. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record the article by chalmers m. roberts which appeared in the washington post on february 27.
i invite the attention of senators to the fact that there is an alternative i state this only for information. let me say to him that this alternative has been made by the senator from west virginia and myself. it is senate joint resolution  134 which we introduced on january 20. by way of discussion. incidentally. i identify myself with my colleagues on this vote. we should vote. if the senator from oregon wishes to undo the resolution of august 1964which i believe would be a mistake. because it would repudiate the president in the eyes of the worldthen let him put it up and let us vote it up or down. the amendment which the senator from alaska states that he intends to offer on draftees. would be a great mistake. in my opinion. i will vote against them both. but let us vote them up or down. i do  believe that i need to apologize for my support of the presidents policy to date. i do believe that the deep disquiet in the country relates to things which we could answer if the president allowed us to consider a resolution that he might propose to us to replace the one of august 1964. i believe that resolution is out of date. that it was a power of attorney given to the president for a certain purpose. to meet.the gulf of tonkin situation. we can always pass a resolution. but i believe the general feeling here would be that in the face of a war situation. if a resolution were passed that the president has  asked for. it would downgrade the presidents control of the foreign policy of our country. which would put us in an embarrassing and difficult position. perhaps. if there had been resolution at all. then we would be arguing about it in a different way. but there was a resolution. the real objection is that that resolution is  out of date. the senator from west virginia and myself wish to concentrate attention on the social and ecoic reconstruction of south vietnam. which the president has already emphasized at houlu. we would give attention to the order of magnitude of the resources which we would be willing to devote to the struggle. under present circumstances. which would have an effectwe can all be armchair generalsbut which would have the effect on the totality of the commitment undertaken. of course. it can be put on this authorization bill. and it could be voted up or down. but. frankly. the senator from west virginia and i. who have been considering such a step. would be reluctant. except in extremis. to do it. we would rather have the president suggest one. i am one of those who has been supporting the president. i think. in view of the fact that the president does have a resolution. many people would like to have this declaration updated in view of events.
republican. of new york. said peace efforts can be unilateral. he also saw hope for peace until our military position is better established in south vietnam. at least with some heavily defended enclaves in key coastal areas. others believe that if the ribicoff proposal is adopted by the administration and we go to geneva. we would be left abandoned like a bride at the altar. ribicorr at least has made an overture in the hope of ending the fighting and the bombing. his proposal is aher suggestion in the right direction. his recommendation that we recognize the vietcong. at least for purposes of deliberation. is aher indication of a change among some in washington toward dealing with the communist national liberation front. as we pursue the war. we must also pursue peace. this course goes hand in hand. until the hand for peace gets stronger the war will go on. [from the stamford (conn.) advocate. feb. 17. 1966]
first. i would like to congratulate the senator from missouri for his excellent presentation and for continuing the debate on vietnam in a constructive manner. i would like to raise one point with the distinguished senator from missouri. whose judgment i find emously enlightening. the point has to do with the role of communist china in vietnam. i think this is what really troubles the american people. perhaps the senator is in position to comment on red china this aftern. it would be unfair to ask him to do it. but i would hope he would direct his talks at some time to that question. i think the american people feel that if the war is confined to vietnam. they are willing to go through with it. they do  want a war with china. in order to both do the job of stabilizing south vietnam and keep the red chinese out. the united states must continue to pursue limited objectives by limited military means. i think this is a basic decision on the part of the american people. i think the declaration of the distinguished chairman of the foreign relations committee about the advisability of arriving at what diplomats call a modus vivendi is pertinent to the subject. senator fulbright has opened up an important point for discussion. and in doing so. he expresses the feelings of americans against expanding the war in vietnam to china.
it is necessary to find a way to live with the communist chinese. preventive war is  the answer to the problem of finding a way to live with red china. i think it is possible over a period of time to find other ways to live with them. but i think that the essential ingredient in finding these other ways is the vietnamese struggle and the purpose of it. we must show peiping that we mean business and can be bullied. and that it is wiser for them to settle their differences with usand many of these differences are imaginary on their partby negotiations. i believe so much in these exchanges with the senator from missouri and others. and the senator from california. i think that one of the issues in vietnam. which has  been fully brought out. is whose ideas will prevail in the communist world if we are pushed out of vietnam. and the idea of counterinsurgency of the war. and the idea of the country and the cities. as the chinese minister put it in his article. with which the senator from missouri is familiar. will be the predominant idea in the world. if our limited purposes victoryprevail in vietnam. we have a good chance for peaceful coexistence and for the more moderate russian way to prevail. then. the russians can go back to a higher priority than vietnamaccommodation with the west and the united states. it will longer be necessary for them to talk tough in order to maintain the leadership of the communist world. in order to compete with red china. this will be one of the most decisive effects of the war in vietnam.
 de gaulle has raised the call to nationalism in an age of internationalism and multilateralism. i have confidence that the french nation will find a way to get along with the other 14 nations in nato and that the 14 other members of nato will  be lured by the call.
. hedley doan. the editor in chief. of time. inc.. has written a vital editorial in the february 25. 1966. issue of life magazine. mr. doan makes a convincing case on two counts: first. that our military task is a feasible one in vietnam and shows likelihood of success. and. second. that our cause there is a just one and is worth pursuing. many myths have grown up around the struggle in vietnam. about the invincibility of wars of national liberation. about our objectives in the area. and about the meaning of the war in general. mr. doans careful attention to the facts of the military situation should go a long way to dispel these myths. he points out that pacification is only the first step and must be a prelude to the next and longer phase of the ecoic. political. social. and psychological construction of the country. he concludesand i am in full agreement with him on thisthat the real meaning of the conflict in vietnam is the future of asia. i ask unanimous consent to have mr. doans editorial printed in the record.
. i join with the senator from mississippi in support of the thesis which the senator just uttered. i consider senator jacksons statement to be very important. i made my own response on yesterday along virtually the same lines. i am very pleased that both of us should. without consultation. feel as we do. i think that the senators speech is of critical importance. he occupies a key position in matters of this character through his committee post and his own reputation and prestige. even though there is a hot war in vietnam. we still can let this situation so intrude upon our national conscience that we do  realize that the base of all action in the free world. without which we could never dream of being in vietnam. remains in the atlantic community. the senator reminds us again. as he properly should. putting it in a phrase which is so understandable to so many people. that the atlantic community represents one thousand billion dollars of productive power. that is almost unbelievable in world history. it is so much more than the rest of the world can muster. the center of power is here in the west. and we had better keep that intact. i thoroughly agree with the senator on his remarks about charles de gaulle. who is pursuing a policy of nationalism in an age of internationalism and regionalism. such nationalism is a very dangerous form of reaction in international terms. it will tend to fractionalize.  unify the basis of strength of the free world. nato. the senator prescribes againand i would endorse his recommendation with my votethat we work together with the other 13 member countries matter what de gaulle does. it is estimated that the cost of a nato without france will be as much as a billion dollars. this is what it will cost to move shape and the communications networks and other installations from france to the low countries or to britain. it is trueand we might as well face facts. as i am sure the senator ksthat france has one of the best pieces of real estate in europe. and shape and its headquarters are located very much in the proper place. nevertheless. it is still worth a billion dollars to keep the organization even without france. i appreciate the implication of the senator. which i think is very clear. that we should  lose hope on france. withstanding de gaulle. i can conceive that the french people would be so hasty as to deny themselves the strength and the support of the free world. it has been said. as the senator has heard and i have heard. that de gaulle believes that we will give him the nuclear umbrella matter what he does. he believes he can receive nato protection without sharing in nato burdens and responsibilities as well. that may or may  be so. but even if it is soand it probably is. in terms of elementary survivali can conceive of the french people. with their pride and their sophistication. trying for a free ride. i agree with what i think is clearly implied in the senators speech. that we must continue our efforts to keep the french in the alliance. but that we must go on without them. if necessary. perhaps some bilateral bridge can be created between the fourteen and france to carry us through this tough period when de gaulles views are in the ascendancy. i have confidence that the french nation. in the long run. will want to remain a part of nato.
 of the brooklyn metal trades council. who led the fight to save the navy yard and later to obtain the maximum in fair treatment for the workers. i ask unanimous consent that these articles be printed at this point in the record.
. today. i wish to commemorate the hungarian revolution of 1848 and of 1956. both of these uprisings for freedom and independence were brutally suppressed. both still stand. nevertheless. as symbols of the hungarian spirit and quest. the first revolution against hapsburg rule. led by the hungarian patriot louis kossuth. was crushed. but recognizing the deep sense of freedom which motivated the hungarians. the austrian monarchy deemed it wise to establish hungarian action. the hungarian people were  so fortunate in 1956. soviet tanks reimposed communist rule in hungary. killing many and causing over 200.000 to flee their native land. the fact that russia had to bring her armies back into hungary in order to bolster a totally unwanted communist government is testimony to the determination and courage of the hungarians who fought for their freedom and independence. the revolution of 1956. although unsuccessful. did irreparable damage to the soviet cause. the bloody suppression led to a widespread revulsion against soviet communist domination and a disillusionment with communism. the revolt also smashed the myth of the invincibility of communist totalitarian systems. by demonstrating the elemental truth that an aroused people has strength well beyond their numbers and means. there is pending  before the senate a resolution to erect a memorial statue to the freedom fighters of the 1956 revolution. i support this resolution and believe that such a memorial would serve as a constant reminder of how really important and meaningful are freedom and independence.
. in 1962. the congress enacted public law 87846 authorizing the distribution of $500.000 resulting from the sale of world war ii vested enemy alien property to settle claims to heirless property of victims of nazi persecution. these funds have been distributed to both jewish and jewish organizations in accordance with the law. i have the last report of the jewish restitution successor organization dealing with the distribution of $500.000 allocated to itunder public law 87846. and i ask unanimous consent that the report be made a part of my remarks.
s policy of limited means and limited purposes asexpressed by johnson. rusk. and everybody else that is concernedis to show some resolution. you can tie your hands behind your back and give a feeling of resolution to the men who are dying there. i am  for bombing ha and i am  for bombing or mining haiphong. and we are  doing any such thing. but we are bombing the supply lines. because it is indispensable to the security of our forces to bomb those supply lines. so let us  inhibit that effort by showing irresolution on that score. the second thing that is so important is that we have to keep our eye on the ball. we are there because we are trying to help the south vietnamese people to decide freely for themselves. and we are trying to help them realize the aspirations for which they ousted the french in 1954a government of their own choosing. let us all remember that is what we are there for. i agree with the senator about chu hoi and about the cadres which are training young south vietnamese people. it is a very inspiring project. let us have our boys share that inspiration.. we are  doing that yet. we are  adequately organized. we are  well consolidated. we are  well coordinated in terms of the realization of these social and ecoic goals. . resolution is also needed in these socioecoic areas. let me raise aher subject. we are in vietnam because the people of that country want us there. and because they are ready to carry the primary burden of the struggle. i think we have to make it clear. in connection these august elections. that if they do  want us there because their elected government says  or they do  wish to carry the burden of the struggle because their elected government says  that we must conform to those decisions. doing so at their request will  be a disaster. it would be. in a sense. a form of success. because they will have. at least. decided what they want. it may  be what we think is good for them. but it is implicit in the fact that we are there because we want them to decide what they want. that even if they vote thus. we will have abided by it. but again. i wish to tell the senator that i support his resolution. however. we may disagree on a particular complexion or detail. he has shown a sense of resolution. and that. to me. stands above everything else. and i am delighted by it and compliment him upon it.
i do  believe. . that we ought to pull out. the point i expressed to senator mcg z is that if we are asked to pull out by a duly constituted. freely elected government. then i think we will have to do it. i certainly do  think we should pull out otherwise. i think we ought to persist in our present course. and i think it is going to be successful. and. it can be successful. without bombing heavy population centers.
 even tighter. this has been very unwise for american policy. i have been in the soviet union on a mission for one of the congressional committees. we looked into the question of eastwest trade. it was immediately apparent to us that our friends and allies were selling hundreds of millions of dollars worth of goods to the soviet union. these goods consisted of strategic items. we were  making these sales because we could  make the proper trade with them. the russians would say to us: "there is use in your engaging in this minuet. france. germany. and britain are selling to us." i think that west germany sells approximately $1 billion worth of goods a year to the communist bloc. and the terms on which they sell these goodswithstanding the berne agreement. which limits western credit terms to 5 yearsare  from 5 to 10 years. and sometimes longer. there is great competition for this business. we do  begrudge our allies these sales. it makes for a very poor picture and posture on the part of the united states to have this illusory policy which prohibits trade for all practical purposes. as the senior senator from washington has stated. while all of our allies are selling freely to a russian shopping list. it is necessary that we trade with the central european bloc for the good of the free world. especially at a time when we hope. by virtue of our sacrifices in vietnam and elsewhere. that the russians may reverse their priority and stop trying to dominate the communist world by competing with china in an effort to subvert south vietnam. we should . however. have trade with the central european bloc except on a reciprocal basis. this bill would prvoide for that reciprocity. in order to do that effectively. one of the top priorities of the nation is to harmonize our policy with the policy of the nato allies.
. i say that the things i have mentioned flag this as one of the most important bills before us. i have asked the senator from washington if i could join as a sponsor of this bill. second. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a code of fair practices which were first developed by the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarians conference when i was its chairman. which will show exactly what this bill can and should accomplish. both in stimulating trade and. what is even more important. in making for greater unity between nato countries and the united states and its allies.
i thank the senator from rhode island for his gracious intervention. i repeat that i shall do my utmost to unearth and to produce for the senate the consecutive factual story. including our declarations at geneva on this subject. i hope that that will be of some service. there seems to be general agreement on two propositions. the first is that we do  have to prove our good faith by joining com.munist china in every propaganda balloon that it sends upto wit. "we will make a paper agreement with you on disarmament. or irststrike use." the united states does have to jump at that. the character of the reports in the european press was that some senatorsthe junior senator from new york and otherscomplained that when the communist chinese made an offer to us to issue a joint declaration against firststrike use. we refused to accept the offer. so what. we should have refused it. but. from what i heard today senator kennedy stated the opening should have been exploited and that. of course. is a very different matter and deserves a followup. so.  and indicating to moscow that we are ready to go forward on this matter. peaceful coexistence and proliferation are the priorities of millions upon millions of people throughout the world. for the reasons i have just expressed. i consider the resolution to be of supreme importance. i sincerely hope that the senate may soon adopt it without a dissenting vote.
s. decision to request authority from congress to accord mostfayorednation treatment to the goods of european communist nations. like that accorded to members of gatt. is exceedingly important as a step toward expanding this trade on the basis of a common western policy. eighth. finally. faith in the nato remains strong. there is doubt that nato is still the linchpin of free world strength and unity of purpose. the french people are in favor of that. they are in favor of pulling out of an integrated command. i think there is doubt that they are in favor of that. but they have idea of pulling out of the alliance. which has provided strength and unity. and which should continue to do so.
. the special committee on less developed nato countries of the nato parliamentarians conference. of which i am chairman. held a series of meetings from wednesday. may 11 through friday. may 13. to discuss the progress that has been made in the committees efforts to encourage closer ecoic cooperation between greece and turkey. while there is great public attention focused on greekturkish tensions over cyprus. we must keep in sight the allimportant area where greece and turkey cooperate most effectively and profitably with what could be a most healthy effect on the political climate of the whole region. the fact that greece and turkey have annced the forthcoming meeting of their foreign ministers to negotiate a "peaceful and agreed settlement" on cyprus has added an important impetus to this project. progress on the project for greekturkish ecoic cooperation has been most encouraging. with substantial progress being made both in the general development of the project and in its organizational arrangements. and on specific aspects of the project. developments with respect to the individual feasibility studies undertaken pursuant to the project give promise of tangible attainments in the areas under study: the maritzaevros river basin. tourism. agriculture. and fisheries. it is similar to our tva. additionally. and importantly. the working arrangements which have been established. the contacts and consultations which have taken place. and the meetings both on the specific and more general aspects of the project indicate a spirit of cooperation and of desire to work toward the objective of ecoic cooperation and development in both greece and turkey. which is. for those of us who have been deeply engaged in this work. a source of great satisfaction. in view of the great importance of this project to the united states. to nato. and to peace and stability in southeastern europe. i ask unanimous consent that a report i presented to the special committee on less developed nato countries on may 12 on the status of the greekturkish project. be printed in the record at this point.
 de gaulles policy and to a number of problems presently facing nato. my theme was that nato must develop a political identity. going beyond a military alliance. in order to successfully survive the complexities and challenges of modern diplomacy. i ask unanimous consent to have inserted in the record a copy of my remarks.
. an article of vital importance by charles mohr appeared in the june 27 edition of the new york times. mr. mohrs appraisal of the present vietnam situation encompassed two themestwo themes of facts to clear up two fictions about the course of the conflict in vietnam. first. massive u.s. firepower is beginning to produce positive military results. and in the opinion of most observers. there is little danger of our meeting the same fate as the french. second. there can be victory in vietnam by military means alone or even primarily by military means. the essence of the struggle. as mr. mohr describes. is "in the subtle battle to gain the allegience of hostile or indifferent parts of the rural population." as mr. mohr indicates. our government has tried to prove too much by battle statistics and too little by fullscale efforts for socioecoic and political reform statistics can be very misleading. third. the morale of the u.s. soldier is high and he believes that with continued support here in the united states he can perform his task successfully in vietnam. i ask unanimous consent to have mr. mohrs article inserted in the record.
. the geneva disarmament conference has been deadlocked ever since the signing of the nuclear partial test ban treaty. there is. however. a positive side for a breakthrough. as indicated in a story by john finney in the new york times of reporting on the results of a private conference on arms control in canada. mr. finney reports that both soviet and american representatives to this conference seem to support a new proposal. the proposal is to extend the partial test ban to underground tests for a limited trial period. during which a system of "verification by challenge or invitation" would be tried out by the nations concerned. the trial nature of the approach would be a sensible way to break the present deadlock and to establish the good faith necessary to a future formal agreement. i urge the governments concerned to give serious consideration to this proposal. i ask unanimous consent to have mr. finneys report inserted in the record.
. in a poem published july 7 in a moscow literary newspaper. yevgeny yevtushenko chided pulitzer and el prizewinning author john steinbeck for his silence on vietnam and urged him to deplore the recent bombing raids. mr. steinbeck. who has a son in vietnam. turned the tables on yevtushenko. he said that he does  "k a single american who is for (the war in vietnam). but. my beloved friend. you ask me to dence half a war. our half." steinbeck called the war chineseinspired and insisted that the united states would  be there in the first place were it  for the fact that others began the conflict. instead. steinbeck called on yevtushenko to use his influence in the soviet union to get the moscow government to "stop sending the murderous merchandise through th vietnamto be used against the south." i ask unanimous consent to have the full text of john steinbecks letter printed in the record.
. i do  wish to be pictured as being violently opposed to the proposed legislation. i have expressed my views. as pointed out before. but. on balance. i thought that my views were against it rather than for it. i stated before. and i state again.  that my distinguished and beloved friend. the senator from oregon. is here. that i believe the bill infinitely improved. and especially in that phase which deals with injunctions. both pendente lite and permanent. i am still deeply concerned about the two points which i have mentionedthe proliferation of suits and the belief that the bill is unnecessary at this time. the senator from th carolina. one of the most distinguished and gifted lawyers in the senate. says that law suits cost money. it also costs money to defend one. especially for a voluntary organization with a small grant. this can become pretty harrying. second. the senator points out that the states allow taxpayer suits. i realize that one of the virtues of concentrating all of this litigation in the district of columbia is to somewhat discourage it. but also it does mean the filing of a suit in a jurisdiction which can be extremely remote from the jurisdiction where the particular parties are located. it has that disadvantage as against the fact that the taxpayers suits are located in the states. in many cases where there is a local opportunity to deliberate and decide. as i have said before. and on balance at this time. considering the fact that it has been possible to review so much federal legislation in the supreme court. i do  believe this legislation is needed. therefore. i shall vote "" i do  wish in any way to make the argument against this measure that i made against the original bills. there the blocking of the operation of these programs was really a serious matter. and i think an important reason why the amendments which were sought to be added to the education bills and other bills. were opposed so strongly and  accepted by the senate. whatever may be the form of the vote. and i shall  seek a rollcall vote because i do  see any great support in the senate for this position. i shall vote ""
. for the past 2 years. i have devoted a good deal of my time and attention to the situation in vietnam. i am  engaged in a threespeech review of this situation. covering first. the overall problem and a number of suggestions as to what u.s. policy ought to be. second. elections. and third. social and ecoic reform. on august 8. i delivered the first of these speeches. "the dilemma of vietnam." in new york before the convention of the disabled american veterans. the theme of this address was that the united states has taken its eyes off the real challenge in vietnam. off the essence of guerrilla war. that these wars begin and end in the hearts and minds of the people themselves and they are nurtured in uncorrected injustices. like guerrilla wars of the past. we should  count on this conflict ending either by means of a negotiated settlement or a military victory. forces. of course. are needed in order to pacify the country. in order to provide a shield of confidence behind which free elections and social and ecoic reform can take place. but it is what goes on behind this shield that will determine ultimate success or failure. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the text of my speech before the convention of the disabled american war veterans.
. while the senator from rhode island is still in the chamber. i. too. would like to pay a word of tribute to the order of ahepa. the great organization of men and women of greek extraction who will be meeting in washington next week. and also to pay my tribute to the spirit of freedom in greece today. which in the greekturkish aid program of 1948. when i served in the other body. i had a small hand in helping. i should like to tell my good friend from rhode island. however. that we have also modernized our interest in greece. i have the ho to be the chairman of a committee of the nato parliamentarians conference for greekturkish ecoic cooperation. i also have the ho to inform my colleague that this committee is adequately financed by a contribution from the ford foundation and from american business in the amount of $300.000. and that it is working extremely effectively in cooperative projects. such as the one in mauritius in thern thrace which is underway. i have every hope that if the situation in cyprus does  prevent us. we will be able to bring about a really historic institutionalization of ecoic cooperation between these two countries. in the great spirit of the venizelosataturk accord which. for over 30 years. until the problem of cyprus came along. maintained an extraordinary condition of peace and friendship between greece and turkey. as the senator from rhode island ks. new york state and new york city have a large community of greek extraction. the order of ahepa is an area in which they take the greatest pride. a very distinguished representative of the greek community. spyros skouras. of new york. serves on the advisory board which has been put together to deal with this matter. i thought. in the spirit of the occasion. with the fine leadership of my beloved friend the senator from rhode island. he might be interested in these facts.
. in an article which was published in the new york times on august 24. tom wicker makes an important contribution to shedding light on some of the unpleasant. but nevertheless very real facts about vietnam. mr. wickers article takes almost precisely the position and analysis on vietnam which i myself have been making for over a month. there is little likelihood of a vietnam settlement in the foreseeable future by either a peace conference or a series of decisive military victories. even when our military force becomes predominant in south vietnam. when the communists discover that it is  militarily feasible for them to operate in large units. it is likely that they will revert to stage one. or the guerrilla stage of mao tsetungs theory of guerrilla war. this. in turn. points up the real challenges of its insurgency warfare. the real limitations of force as the only solution to defeating guerrillas. the main role of force should be to provide a shield of confidence behind which the equally real war against social and ecoic deprivation can go forward. it is at the ballot box. through the process of legitimizing government. and through the worth of the daily lives of the people that a guerrilla war is won or lost. i ask unanimous consent to have mr. wickers article printed in the record.
. i join with those who sponsor this resolution in the hope that a real reduction of our nato forces will soon be feasible. but. it must be done in consultation with our nato allies. it must be the result of some kind of european settlement so that we will k which way the soviet union is going. it must be done in connection with the greater european integration rather than the pulling apartwhich is  evident from the withdrawal of francethe integration process of europe. what appalls me about this situation is that there are quid pro quo terms. is the soviet union going to withdraw anyone from anywhere. is this going to assure us of any help from our nato allies in the area in which they have been most derelictto wit. in vietnam. or. do we give up completely our trading position and give them ice that we are giving heavy priority to asia. i think it is an illadvised time in which to do what we are talking about here. it is unwise for congress to pass this resolution and to serve such ice to our nato partners without alliance consultations. i hope that congress will  pass this resolution.
 will present these paintings to dr. erhard while he is in this country on a state visit this week and that this presentation is of importance to germanamerican relations at this time. particularly in light of circumstances within the nato alliance. because the department was persuasive in arguing for the passage of this bill for these reasons. i removed my objections and support passage at this time.
. i do  want to see the united states go the way of france. this is  an atlantic community. and it is  up to europe alone. i agree with the senator that we should reduce troop strength in every way that we can. but i think that the other things are vital. i am  in agreement with the senator on germany. i think that 20 years is  too long after what germany has done to the world since 1870. germany is  yet out of the woods. the united states has a responsibility in this matter. and i am one senator who will stand as long as i have life and voice and attempt to see that germany does  go off the road.
. i ask unanimous consent that a resolution. a recommendation. and the report of the special committee on developing nato countries of the nato parliamentarians conference. 12th annual session. be printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks.
. first. permit me to confirm every word that the senator from kentucky has uttered. a revolt is  taking place. this is strictly an extrapolation of our beloved friends of the press. and there is reason whatever for any such concern. on the contraryi state this as a factthe first person to whom i delivered a copy of the draft of the resolution on which i have been working was our own miity leader. indeed. i delivered a copy  only to him. but also to the ranking republican member of the committee on foreign relations. the senator from iowa [mr. hickenlooperi as was proper. i join with the senator from kentucky in these assurances. i have the greatest desire that the leaders of our party in the senate may join in this effort. i hope that it will  be considered presumptuous for me to say that i think it would be completely creditable to them and entirely consistent with the history of senator dirksen in the house. i served in the house. too. at precisely the same time that senator morton served. there. i witnessed the leadership of everett dirksen in respect to the marshall plan. which was. at that time. hailed as a very considerable change in his own policy. inasmuch as prior to that time he. like senator vandenberg. had had very grave doubts about the extent of international involvement in which the united states should engage. with respect to the substance of the matter. we will submit the resolution within a day or two. i am very hopeful that the resolution may be considered in the great tradition of senator vandenberg. the name properly invoked by senator morton. as an alternative proposition. to be debated and considered by congress. without regard to party. although apparently it will be advanced primarily from this side of the aisle. it is  inconsistent that some 12 members of the miity are cosponsors of the mansfield resolution. i see hing inconsistent in their being cosponsors of this resolution. as well. what the senator from kentucky and i are pledging ourselves to is a consideration of the matter in depth. and the difference in approach which has  been widely discussed in the press is whether the united states should proceed unilaterally and pull out troops or whether the troop pullout must be an element in a much larger deliberation. negotiation. and consideration. and if so. what it shall be. i shall address myself to that matter in connection with the resolution. and senator mortonhe is especially gifted in this fieldand other senators will address themselves to it. as well. the world ks that without solid support--at least on my side of the aislethis whole effort is relatively meaningless. it would just be an effort by one senator. which has been made before and will be made again. but it would  have an impact such as i have in mind upon national or world policy. i k that the senator from kentucky joins me in hoping that other senators may join with us. in addition to those who have already agreed to do so. and that hope includes senator dirksen and senator hickenlooper. and other senators. the senator from kentucky has rendered a most significant and historic service in joining with me in this matter. i believe that his sponsorship and mine provide a balance to this effort and a sense of security with respect to it. in the eyes of many senators and of many americans. i am grateful to the senator. quite apart from our personal friendship. this is a historic contribution and may lead to very historic consequences. because we all k that europe has been sort of put on the back burner instead of being the matter of pressing interest that it should be. this resolution. juxtaposed to the mansfield resolution. may very well be the catalyst which will enable us to crystallize united stateseuropean policy in a much more effective way. i thank the senator.
. that. is solely the purpose. of. the senator -from kentucky and myself. to render a service. we hope that this legislation will be found acceptable on the republican side. i tell the senator very frankly that in our eyes there. is particular inconsistency in a senator sponsoring both:.resolutions.- i hope that the senator will look at it from that point of view. ."):we think it is..a -question of doing something thatris the very best thing to -do for our nation and- for -the world. we feel that themoment is timely and that .such action is needed.. we felt it necessary to offer an alternative because we think the world generally regards the thrust of the mansfield resolution. in effect. as being too naked in -terms of relationship to. our nato allies .and to an .eastwest detente. - we have trired t0 supply that element. i .am delighted that the senator feels our- effort. is constructive. th distinguished senator from montana made a statement this.morning in which he said much the same thing. - we look forward to the.opening of this debate before the joint subcommittee. .
i thank the senator. . is that a koreantype settlement in this sense seems likely to be the most in order. second. the united states should declare an unconditional cessation of our bombing in th vietnam. stating in this declaration that it expects the cessation of bombing will  be used as a cover for continued infiltration of men and supplies from th vietnam to south vietnam. this is  "permanent" cessation but it is "unconditional." in the alternative. we should consider restricting our bombing in the th solely to access routes. a cessation in our bombing or a deescalation of it seems to me a fair way to test the representations of the other side that they are interested in a peaceful settlement. we should be ready to take such risks for peace as we are for war. if the other side is simply using the bombing issue as a ploy to weaken international and domestic support for our commitment. or to infiltrate more men and supplies into south vietnam. we will soon find that out. and then the american people will have done what they can for peace. if the other side is serious. we must take the necessary steps to explore that possibility.
i thank my colleague and i thoroughly agree with him. the next thing i would like to ask him bears on this question: it is said that russia is up to its armpits in vietnam. they are. i have been challenged on the floor by the distinguished chairman of the committee on foreign relations on this fact. but i still maintain that the overwhelming supply of sophisticated and large materiel of war going to th vietnam is being sent there by the soviet union.
aher point i should like to ask my distinguished colleague is on the question of a detente with the soviet union. does the senator. in view of the history of this consular treaty. the length of time it has been negotiated. and the fact that we have this treaty on the "front burner." aher one on the "back burner"-to wit. control of outer space with respect to weaponry. and yet a third one being readied on a proliferation treatyand. i hope. many more being negotiated--does  the senator feel that if we put the brake on  and stop on this one. we would be jeopardizing all the other things which might conceivably be done to bring some peace to this aching world. that the russians would take it that the position of the united states had hardened against them. and so would europe. because europe is all for a detente and. therefore. that the united states might as well be counted out.
. i e that in foreign affairs quarterly for april 1967 there appears an article by a distingmshed writer. mr. j. i. coffey. on the antiballistic missile debate. the very thing we have been talking about. as i think it will add to the kledge of our colleagues. i ask unanimous consent to include it in the record as a part of my remarks. by way of description. mr. coffey. is a former army officer. who served in the state and defense departments and on the white house staff. and is currently chief of the offce of national security studies. bendix aerospace systems divisions.
. it has come to my attention that 51 acres of underwater lands in the times beach section of buffalo. n.y.. have inadvertently become vested in the united states due to a title irregularity which occurred in 1904. the city of buffalo and the u.s. corps of engineers both  agree that the passing of timesome 63 yearshas satisfied the local rule of law that title to property can be disputed if it remains on record undisturbed for 60 years. if the land  is to come into the hands of the city of buffalo. as was intended. so that the entire area may be developed for recreation. then the congress must pass legislation to effectuate this purpose. my bill would convey this underwater land which the secretary of the army has approved as excess to the needs of the army on january 31. 1967. i hope it receives prompt attention so that the city of buffalo may get on with its recreational development project. i ask unanimous consent that the bill may be printed in the record.
finally. i wish to say that i do  want the united states to have to get into the middle east. neither does anyone else. i really do  want us to get into that situation. the whole purpose of my speech has beenand i hope the senator from iowa. who is a very senior member of the committee on foreign relations. will be able to helpto get the foreign relations committee to put the state departments feet to the fire. as it were. and take the diplomatic initiative so that the situation will  embroil us in a war in the near east.
. eligibility for home and small business loans to veterans of world war ii will expire on july 25 of this year. in effect. this termination will deprive 4.683.000 world war ii veterans of opportunities provided by such loans. although the number of veterans taking advantage of these loans has decreased in recent years. last year 166.000 persons did utilize the program. and already this year 37.500 persons have participated. this certainly is  an insubstantial number. i feel that as long as a reasonably large number of veterans are taking advantage of this loan program. the program should be available for their benefit. i point out that similar benefits for veterans of the korean war have been extended recently by the congress until 197525 years after their inception. the bill i introduce today would extend the termination date for world war ii veterans for home and small business loans from july 25. 1967. to july 25. 197025 years after their inception. i hope to obtain speedy approval of this measure before the present program expires this july.
i have two subjects i should like to discuss with the chairman of the committee. one is a very needling one. to me and i think to all americans. that is the implication that there is a certain amount of demagoguery going on in the country in connection with the fact that allegedly more negroes than others serve in vietnam. and in more dangerous positions. and there is always an implication in such statements that somehow or other the draft board setup tends to be free of the integration efforts which otherwise prevail in this country. i k the senators view on that subject. and i k he is fair egh. because i have had long experience with him. to address himself to this responsibility without any overcast. in his thinking. of his basic views upon the subject. which we have been through many times. so i speak to the senator very frankly.
. as follows: the middle east is rapidly heating up to the explosion point. as recent reports plainly indicate. the armies of syria and egypt. equipped with modern soviet weaponry. are massed on israels borders. on the one hand. the leaders of those nations threaten to exterminate israel and on the other they threaten their brother arab nations. especially saudi arabia and jordan. israel. on its part. has begun to mobilize and continues to protest to the international community the steppedup killandrun raids across its borders by arab terrorists. the soviets have asked the united states to withdraw the 6th fleet from the eastern mediterranean. the united states. of course. will  comply. which only builds the situation up to one of even more intense heat. this past weekend. in the arabian peninsula. sovietbuilt egyptian aircraft bombed two towns inside saudi arabia. killing civilians and destroying homes. in south arabia and aden. guerrillas. armed. financed. and provoked by the egyptians. have stepped up their terrorism against the british and those arabs who favor a course of independence they believe inimical to egyptian interests. and in nearby yemen. where the civil war between royalist and republican forces continues in its fifth year. relations between the united states and the yemeni republican government are near the breaking point as the antiamerican campaign there has mounted in intensity. as if that were  egh. across the red sea. in east africa. bolstered by soviet and egyptian arms aid. somalia has stepped up its 3/2yearold frontier battle against britishbacked kenya to a degree that. according to recent reports. might well involve the major powers. and. at the head of the persian gulf. iraq has renewed its pressures against oilrich kuwait over disputed land claims.
. to use a popular expression. there is use whatever in "tipping our hand" to nasser or the russians as to what we will do to protect the interests of all mankind and the near east. that is our business. we do  have to give them ice about it. this nation is big egh. strong egh. and determined egh in terms of protecting world peace so that it will find a way. there is necessity for including or excluding any means. whether it be a naval force. multilateral action. united nations action. or the actions of one or more powers. whatever it may be. i am confident that we will find a way. the leaders in the kremlin and mr. nasser would be extremely ill advised if they believe that they have moved at a -moment when the united states is paralyzedbecause it is by the situation in vietnam. this could be a fatal mistake equal to the miscalculation the russian leaders made in cuba at the time of the 1962 missile crisis. when they thought we would  react. the russians were quite wrong then and they will be quite wrong .
. eligibility for home and small business loans to veterans of world war ii will expire on july 25 of this year. in effect. this termination will deprive 4.683.000 world war ii veterans of opportunities provided by such loans. although the number of veterans taking advantage of these loans has decreased in recent years. last year 166.000 persons did utilize the program. and already this year 37.500 persons have participated. this certainly is  an insubstantial number. i feel that as long as a reasonably large number of veterans are taking advantage of this loan program. the program should be available for their benefit. i would point out that similar benefits for veterans of the korean war have been extended by the congress until 197525 years after their inception. the amendment which i propose today would extend the termination date for world war ii veterans for home and small business loans from july 25. 1967. to july 25. 197025 years after the end of world war ii. it should be ed that the fha veterans loan program has termination dates--any veteran is eligible at any time. insofar as defaults are concerned. the veterans home and small business loan program boasts of only a 3percent default figure over a 20year period. this represents almost 7 million loans amounting to $66 billion as of march 31.
 nasser himself. he declared that he was at war with israel and determined to obliterate its existence. i think we have a right to ask. in this situation. when the world will learn to listen to these dictators and take what they say at face value. instead of putting fancy interpretations on their statements to avoid their evil intent. three points must be made clear. one. the repeated warnings that war was imminent are warnings longer. war is here. united states policy must  be crystallized-
. we just will  go through everything we have gone through this week and last week. and then accept a continuation of the situation which immediately preceded the present crisis9. situation of a frustration. hatred. belligerence. of denial of the free use of international waters. of threats and intimidation. of guerrilla raids. boycotts. and blockades. i say. there must be an end to it. the valor of the israel army has given us an opening. let us  be in any rush to decide this matter. for all we k. if a really good job is done in the near eastand the russians k itit may have a profound effect upon what is happening in vietnam as well. but we can have any "package deal." let the united states stand resolute in meeting this challenge at long last. and strike a real blow for peace. this is where it can be done. this is where we have an ally that ks how to look after itself. this is the time to capitalize on the positive elements in the situation in the interests of world peace.
. yesterday i spoke of the tragic death of my friend of many yearsted yates. today i speak of aher of the tragic losses in the near east conflictthe death of paul schutzer. veteran life magazine photographer. mr. schutzer was a native new yorker. and his wife bernice and their two young children presently live in new rochelle. mr. schutzer was traveling with an armored column across the gaza strip when the halftrack he was on suffered a direct hit. he had  only volunteered to go to israel. but insisted he would go anyway if life did  assign him. during the more than 10 years he had been with life magazine. he covered the leba crisis. the building of the berlin wall. the algerian war. and the iran earthquake. and spent 24 hours in a cuban jail in 1961 and 2 months in vietnam in 1965. his death is a tragic loss to his family. his many friends. his profession. and to the public it serves. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article relating to the deaths of ted yates and paul schutzer. published in the new york times of june 7.1967:
we really should straighten out this draft board business. it is a fact that discrimination based on sex is specified in the conference report and that the language in the statute is unclear. for the legislative record. do the words in the statute which deal with the interpretation of the draft law. in the judgment of the senator from georgia. refer to the selection of members of those draft boards.
. on behalf of my distinguished colleague from new york and myself. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a joint resolution designating july 25 of each year as "puerto rican day in the united states of america." it is fitting that on this. the birth date of the commonwealth achieved on july 25. 1952. the congress recognize the strong ties that exist between the peoples of the mainland united states and puerto rico. and ackledge the contributions of this caribbean democracy to our whole nation. our ties with puerto rico are crucial in providing a link between the mainland united states and our latin neighbors. puerto ricos common cultural and linguistic background with latin and central america allows this "showcase of democracy" to provide a bridge between the hopes and accomplishments of two continents and enhance intrahemisphere understanding. the achievements of the island commonwealth are numerous both in the caribbean and on the mainland united states. its rapidly growing ecoy attests to the viability of a system of freedom in an area where castros cuba threatens to exert substantial political influence. puerto rican industry continues its strong progress. as private and public programs for the benefit of the people continue to be expanded and improved. programs such as operation serenity have created governmentsupported cultural and educational opportunities for the islanders. in addition to puerto rican accomplishments at home and its impact on u.s. foreign policy in the hemisphere. we can overlook the contributions of the well over 750.000 of puerto rican origin living on the mainland united states. new york city alone houses over 700.000 of puerto rican origin who earn almost $1 billion a year and contribute meaningfully to the ecoic and social life of the city. as barriers of language. culture those of puerto rican origin wu1 continue to contribute to our society on an everincreasing scale. today. americans of puerto rican origin of e such as metropolitan opera star. justidiaz. vice chief of naval operations. adm. horacio rivero. and former administrator of the ecoic development administration. teodoro moscoso. have already won international acclaim. i therefore hope my colleagues in the senate will see fit to commemorate this date by hoing our puerto rican citizens and enacting this joint resolution. i ask unanimous consent that the joint resolution be printed in the record.
. on behalf of the senator from wyoming . i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senator from arizona be added as a cosponsor of the bill to provide compensation for civilian american citizens and prisoners of war captured during the vietnam conflict.
i thank all senators for their intercession. i am grateful to the senator from kentucky . whose judgment i value as much as that of any other member of the senate. i may say to the senator from pennsylvania that i do  consider this speech or my position as putting me in with the "nervous nellies" or the doves. we shall be fighting in vietnam for a time. but let us be fighting on the right side and for the right things. if the war is to be won. it is up to the south vietnamese to make something of themselves. and it is important that we give them ice on that score. i am grateful to my colleague from new york for abstaining for the 5 minutes that were needed for the discussion.
s own words in his statement yesterday: we fight in vietnam to free that peoples will from the grip of communist terror. we fight so that the people may choose. undaunted. those whom they wish to lead them. we fight to make electioninstead of submission--possible. our commitment is limited to providing an opportunity for selfdetermination and conditional upon effective efforts by the south vietnamese government to win the political allegiance of their own people and to carry the main share of the burden of selfdefense. these elections must produce a government that can perform on both of these counts. it is clear in my mind that we have reached a decisive watershed in vietnam. essentially there are three things that can happely one which is  fraught with grave consequences. the struggle in vietnam. in my view. is  stalemated at a very high level of intensity and cost. the emergence as a result of these elections of an effective south vietnamese government endowed with legitimacy and roots in the countryside could break the stalemate by meaningful pacification efforts which would dry up the water in which the guerrilla fishes swimto use an aphorism of mao tsetungand by revamping the arvn into an effective fighting force. this is what we all pray will happen. if this does  happen and the present stalemate continues. the dynamics of the situation will leave us with only two choices. both of which are highly unsatisfactory. one choice. favored by the momentum of past events and the recent remarks of some of our high military officials. would be to take over the war as our own and to widen and escalate it militarily. according to press reports. some of our responsible military officials have already suggested that we take over the job of pacification and that the present political restraints be lifted so that they can carry the ground war into th vietnam. let us be blunt about itthis would be pure and simple colonialism. and it would be much more certain to lead to the much wider asian land war with communist china that we have been seeking to prevent by our limited involvement of the past 13 years. this is a course which. with many others. i oppose by every means at my command. i invite any skeptics to recall the irony of the history of our involvement in the philippines where admiral dewey attacked the spanish fleet to assist the filipi to win their freedom and where we soon had 126.000 american troops pacifying any american colony. in the absence of an effective electoral process. and the consequent continuation of a stalemate. the other choice we will have will be to cut our losses and seek a facesaving exit on the best terms we can find. let us also be blunt about this--it would be a failure of an effort in which we have invested much blood and treasure. but public dissatisfaction with the war in vietnam is such that this could beand i would deprecate it greatlythe resulting unthinkable thoughtas stated by one of our distinguished members.
. i can agree with the senator at all that this necessarily demonstrates that saigon is a puppet. i think that marshal ky has demonstrated a consummate ability to put us in a role in which we have options. which is hardly the role of a puppet. beyond that. the senator was  present in the chamber at the time i started my speech. i spoke first of the great cofraternity of parliamentarians. we are parliamentarians. those in the provisional assembly of south vietnam are parliamentarians. i pointed out that it is they who have the power. and that i spoke only as one parliamentarian to other parliamentarians. members of the same fraternity. it is the same thing that we do in the* parliamentarians conferences between mexico and the united states. canada and the united states. the nato parliamentarians. the interparliamentarian union. and many other bodies when we discuss these matters. we certainly have a burning interest in the views of other parliamentarians. i am glad to make this explanation again. i am grateful to the senator for giving me the opportunity.
at least we have gotten something out of it in terms of the air force and what looks like promising progress there. i share the disappointment of the senator from arkansas in connection with the navy matter. i am so gratified that with his usual fairness. the senator spoke of grumman. which is in my state. which came forward with ideas and suggestions and the feeling it was  right. and that a good deal had to be done about it. these outfits all value their procurement. i have  heard from grumman on this matter. it bears out what the senator indicated about the character of the company. they are content. apparently. with what the senator is doing. i wish to make a further point that i wish to make it clear. in fairness to all of us who sat on the committee in connection with the tfx investigation. i think i gave more time to that matter than to any other investigation in the senate. the differences which developed were  on the merits. everyone was objective about this matter. for instance. the senator from washington had a disappointed contractor in his state who had a right to be disappointed because they lost an emous contract. the differences develop on the bona fideness. good faith. and intent of the individual. i would like to affirm the fact that all of those who appeared before usand i shall  mention names withstanding the fact that a good deal of sharp criticism was made of them. i never heard a complaint that an unfair effort was made to evaluate what occurred. ody was picked on. and the fault was sought to be assessed on substantive grounds. i think that is a great tribute to the senator.
. i am pleased that the conference report on s. 16. the cold war gi bill. contains my amendment to extend the eligibility for home and small business loans to veterans of world war ii which had expired on july 25. had this loan privilege been allowed to terminate. some 4.683.000 world war ii veterans would have been deprived of the opportunity of which almost 7 million veterans from the korean war and world war ii have already been able to avail themselves. although the number of veterans taking advantage of these loans has decreased in recent years. last year 166.000 did utilize the program. already. this year. some 38.000 have participated. this certainly is  an insubstantial number and as long as a reasonably large number of veterans are taking advantage of this loan program. it should be available for their benefit. the current issue of the vfw magazine publishes a eworthy article on gi home loan benefits. and i ask unanimous consent to have it printed in the record.
. i point out that i am deeply gratefuland this is my amendmentthat the amendment is included in the bill. it will affect some 4.683.000 world war ii veterans who would have been deprived of an opportunity which almost 7 million veterans of both the korean war and world war ii have already availed themselves. although the number diminished somewhat in recent years. only 166.000 utilized the program last year. already this year. some 38.000 have participated. i express my appreciation to the senator from louisiana. as chairman of the senate conferees. for having brought back the conference report with this kind of provision in it
the reason that we regain these options is because our commitment has been to give the people help in establishing an opportunity for selfdetermination. they  have it and we  have a chance to reclaim option. if we avail ourselves of it. in that famous letter of president eisenhower. he said that the u.s. assistance was explicitly conditioned upon the government of vietnams assurances as to the standards of performance it would be able to maintain. president eisenhower also described the kind of government we expected to see in vietnam as a result of our assistance. he used these words: such a government would. i hope. be so responsive to the nationalist aspirations of its people. so enlightened in purpose and effective in performance. that it will be respected at home and abroad and discourage any who might wish to impose a foreign ideology on your people. for the vietnamese people this election represents the opportunity to legitimatize their government and then to exercise their national option as to whether or  to admit the dissident elements in the country. including the nlf. on a negotiated basis to end the war and set a new course for the future. it represents their opportunity to shake up their civilian administration. to implement land reform in the country. and to satisfy other demands of their people. it represents also the opportunity to shake up the army. to make it a real fighting force. capable of effective action in pacification and in combat with the enemy regular forces. this latter burden has fallen too heavily on our shoulders. for these reasons i have called these electionsand i repeat the phrase--"the beginning of an end in vietnam." potentially. they represent the opportunity through which the present stalemate can begin to be broken. after these elections. the united states will have open to it three paths: first. a political settlement based on a strong saigon government. which i hope. pray. and urge will be the result. second. allout war. and that certainly will put us in the position of a colonial power in asia. and i am against it and i believe most of the country is. third. seeking the best terms we can negotiate for our disengagementthat would certainly be a deplorable and unhappy prospect for us. . which path we will take will be the most portentous national decision since our own elections in .1952. which brought an end of the korean war. our choice may well determine the position of the united states in the world for a generation. yet it will be heavily based upon how the government which is elected on september 3 operates. that is what i believe needs to be impressed upon the vietnamese people. so that they understand the historic seriousness of the election. and it certainly needs to be impressed upon the american people. so that they understand the options that they have at that time. so that they determine that they will have them and will exercise them. so that we may truly mark a beginning of the end of our venture in south vietnam.
selfdetermination also enables people to choose a communist form of government. if that is what they think is best for them. they can use that freedom of choice to enslave themselves. if they choose. i do  think the vietnamese people will choose communism but they must make their choice. and show their determination to make it work. that is why what the senator has said. and what others. and i have said. is so critical. may i point out. finally. that few acts in history have elated mankind at a time of grave discouragement as did the victory of israel in the war with the arab states. which demonstratedas almost a criterion for all small nationswhat it means when a nation really believes that what it is doing is so good that it is worth dying for. i refuse to believe that this could  be done in vietnam. if the people were given the same objective. i can see messrs. ky and thieu leading the nation along that line. unless there is some very radical change in their outlook and in what they plan. we hope and pray that is so. if they become the winners in the election. it is from that point of view that i welcome and congratulate the senator from new jersey upon speaking when he has and as forcefully as he has.
. i invite the attention of the senate to the fact that john charles daly. of new york. is being sworn in as assistant director of usia in charge of the voice of america. mr. daly. who was so aptly described by the new york times as a man of talent. with the experience of a 30year career. and one of the nations hardest working and most aggressive newsmen. succeeds an equally talented director of voa. mr. john chancellor. who has returned to his work as a reporter with the national broadcasting co. john charles dalys assignments as a newsman have included war reporting from london. algiers. italy. the middle east. the nuremberg trials. and the berlin airlift. mr. daly has promised to utilize in his vital function as director of voa what he describes as three basic weapons: "integrity. skill. and imagination." mr. leonard h. marks. director of the u.s. information agency. commented at the time of anncing mr. dalys appointment that the people of the united states were indeed fortunate to obtain the services of outstanding professionals in their field such as john charles daly and john chancellor. the professional skills of mr. daly were given due recognition by his contemporaries of american journalism at the time of his appointment as is shown by the following editorials and comments from representative newspapers throughout the united states. which i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record.
. for all .. those reasons. and with special reference to permitting the encouragement of private enterprise activity in this field. i think in essence the bill is right. though i do  foreclose myself from supporting an amendment or two. in essence. the bill is right. the war on poverty is an oeo activity and it should continue to head it. i am against dismembering oeo. if we did. we would definitely end the hope for winning the war on poverty. and this would be a disastrous blow to the aspirations. destiny. and hopes of our nation and i am grateful to the senator from new mexico for indulging me a few extra minutes.
i do  think the case is that open and shut. that is why i speak of the limitation of our commitment and why we must find a way of phasing it out. i will tell the senator why. i agree with the senators factual development. but it is also a fact that we saw a vacuum of power being created. if ho chi minh succeeded. with the natural alliance of ho chi minh with the communist chinese. we felt at that time that vacuum of power would engulf  only vietnam. cambodia. and laos. but also might engulf malaysia. burma. and thailand. that is why the president. on a very close question. made the decision he did. i think we must. as we debate the matteras lawyers dogive ourselves the worst of the facts in order to see whether. testing it on that score. we are doing the right thing. i submit that perhaps the senator places a burden on himself which is too great. the american people are  with him on thatthat we merely intervened in a civil war and hing else was at stake. it was a close decision. i do  k that i would have interpreted it that way. but the president felt that intervention was called for. but. having so decided and having put 500.000 men there. i do  think the american people are saying that we will make this an allout commitment. win all the way. that is why we have taken the position we are in there. to help the south vietnamese. but if they will  help themselves. then what power on earth can do it for them.
i  pass.  implies there is alternative to the present policythe united states will have to reconcile itself to a protracted war of attrition of uncertain outcome. i do  believe that is our only course. and that is why i am seeking to chart a new one.
may i say to the senator that one more devoutly wished for free elections than i. and credit must be given to our administration for some success in bringing it about. i believe it had much to do with bringing about the elections. it was  satisfactory in many ways. but still it was done. i hope the south vietnamese will  build on it. i agree thoroughly with the senator that these serious questions are in the minds of all of us. messrs. thieu and ky can say to us. "look. fellows. we just became legitimate. youve got to give us a chance." that is why i said what i didthat there should be some concept of time limitation as well as commitment limitation in terms of aggregate resources. otherwise. we are fighting the war in a way that general will ever do. general will ever go in unless he sees a way out. if he does otherwise. he should be cashiered. yet. that is the situation we are told we are in. whether it is my idea. the idea of the senator from arkansas. any other senators idea. or the idea of any other person in this country. we must find a way to restore to ourselves the option which general and country could do withouta way to get out. yet. that is the situation we are in in south vietnam.
i agree with the senator that it is inconceivable that we can muster nine votes or raise hob about it in the u.n. constantly. our representatives should become indignant about it. how is it that the u.n. would  deal with an open and flaring war because in the backroom they will  give us assurance that if we bring it up. we will  be successful. i agree with the senatoralthough he does  use such strong wordsthat we should be aggressive and do something about it and keep eternally at it. because that is a good place to fight it.
i call especial attention to this matter because it is aher evidence of involvement of the private sector in the war on poverty. and it is something which i wish very much to encourage. one of the things from which we suffer in this country is a failure to exchange information on this subject as to what is being done in place a so that place b may profit. it is for that reason that i have taken this opportunity to convey information to the senate on this admirable development.
 and has had the backing of the nato countries. the work has gone very well and is most promising for both countries. it is a distinct setback to the hopes of the peoples of both countries whenever this work is interrupted. . following the political unsettlement in greece. there is a threat of war between greece and turkey over cyprus. i have made it an article of faith in my relations with both governments to confine my activities to the ecoic participation to which i have referred. however. war would be such a disaster for all concerned as well as for the hopes for this project. that i must speak out . nato simply can permit a conflict between greece and turkey over cyprus. it would shred the very fabric of nato. gravely imperil its southern flank. and undermine the security of all western europe. in addition. it would dash the hopes. built so greatly upon the tradition of the venezelosataturk accord consummated 40 years ago. for the ecoic cooperation project which i have described from my contacts with the governments concernedwith premier demirel. foreign minister caglayangil of turkey and with their predecessors as well as with the successive prime ministers of greece under parliamentary governmentone recognizes better than i the profundity of the issues involved over cyprus. deep and sincere feelings have been aroused. there has been bloodshed and peril. it is my profound conviction that the course being pursued to attain the peace is the right one. that is. an effort to lessen the tension created by the presence of armed forces by phasing them out to bring about a period of tranquillity. in such a period conditions may be restored fo. a new national determination as to the future constitutional status of cyprus and its turkish miity. while at the same time obeying democratic principles by relying upon the ultimate mandate of the people as to the future of cyprus as a democracy. tranquillity. and citizens participation under conditions of tranquillity are the best answer. always remembering that in any free society basic inalienable rights as in the u.s. constitutions bill of rights are guaranteed to all citizens as individuals and as members of a group. as i believe the efforts of the secretary general of nato. manlio brozio. the representative of u.n. secretary general u thant. mr. rolzbennett. and the representative of the united states. cyrus vance. are being directed toward these objectives. i rise today to express the hope as the respective governments proceed to a peaceful solution that they will have support and respect in their mission and the confidence in their good faith from the people of turkey and greece. which they deserve and which those whom they represent deserve. to the ancient and proud peoples of both greece and turkey. i speak in the name of my friendship and respect for them and my service in their interest. that reason prevail over passion and that the courage of forbearance be greater than the courage of the battlefield. all will gain from the success of the peaceful negotiations and from a withdrawal of contending forces. leaving the main peacekeeping role to the u.n. security force. all will lose by recourse to violence. i ask of both peoples of greece and turkey. from their friendand i am their friend. as they well kas they have done in the past. to their eternal credit. to stand back of peace.
i was saying that i joined with the senator from oregon in the congressional compromise which gives aid directly to the pupils studying academic subjects. it does  subserve religion or violate the first amendment. i stood by that at the recent controversy in new york about a new constitution. i intend to stand by it hereafter. as i have a deep conviction there. so long as there is interference with the power of the united states to deal with loans and grants until when. as. and if the courts act. either by injunction or otherwise. and the procedure is intelligent and appropriate. i see reason why we should  liberalize the federal rule relating to suits. if there be a proliferation of suits. i think we have to endure it. the consolidation factor. the single jurisdiction factor. and the fact that it costs money to sue are. i think. builtin inhibitions to prevent this from being abused. for those reasons i shall join the senator from oregon in supporting the amendment.
. i am deeply concerned with the problems of greece and turkey and whether any specificity is needed so that the amendment may be properly understood. to define the term "acts of warfare" against any country. this worries me. in view of the fact that there was "warfare" at the community level between the national guard there which has important greek forces. and the turkish community which allegedly is supported by some form of turkish forces. i do  k whether the words "acts of warfare" should . at least for the legislative record. be somewhat spelled out as representing war which involves the governments in both countries in some appreciable and major waywhatever the senator thinks would be suitable.
the senator does agree that it would be his duty. as a key member of the senate who is able to afford us this information. to have a rather short rein on the question of the time involved. i think that such matters as whether they ified other naval vessels. why other naval vessels were  there. and whether the intelligence material was destroyed. are troublesome.
. many will ask how can we afford to participate in so great a venture considering our own troubles with the international balance of payments. to those i would say we can afford to fail to participate. for the consequences would be infinitely more costly in the prospects for peace and world stability as well as in moneyand that we will find the way. let us never forget winston churchills example. when in 1940. in britains darkest hour he sent one of the best british armored divisions to th africa. a decision which kept open an option to be used when the united states entered the struggle. the absence of that optionwhich represented such an emous risk for britain in 1943could very well have materially extended the war and perhaps jeopardized the victory. what i am suggesting on the part of the united states and the rest of the industrialized nations of the world is an act of courage of much less magnitude. and it is only a part of what we in the world owe as an opportunity to the british people. call it an international marshall plan for britain if you willthe british people have earned the opportunity to do something with it. britain needs it and the rest of the free world needs a strong britain.
. they are there as soldiers and we are here as senators. they and we expect that some day. somehow. in some way. we are going to bring the war to an end. that is the task of statesmen which we try to be and that is why we are here in the senate and  or the battleline. i have voted to support our men in every way. and i will continue to do so. i am  counseling any pullout. but intelligent. creative statesmanship tells us. when we see the message written so large on the wall. that it is time to begin to find the beginning of the end. that is the reason why i have made my statement today. and why i have spoken before. and why many of my colleagues feel as i do. whose patriotism and dedication could never be challenged. we feel this is a role we must playthe role of statesmanship which has  been played effectively up to .
 on my own time. i have 3 minutes. i would like to ask one question. first. i certainly concur in what my colleagues have said. second.  only is the perimeter of the war expanding. but also its americanization. this deeply concerns the american people. it is more and more our war. i would like to ask the senator. with respect to the cessation of bombings as a basis for beginning negotiations. i think we "missed the boat" in january 1967. when the pope. joined by u thant. and many others. asked that the bombing be stopped. i would like to ask the senator. who is very kledgeable in this field. in addition to being majority leader. if he does  believe it would be a challenge to american diplomacy. on which this government ought to concentrate. to recreate the diplomatic conditions of february 1967. in the postwar world. we have seen that it takes the two super powers working together to get anything done of this nature. if the soviet union joined the call for a bombing cessation as a basis for beginning negotiations. along the lines of our san antonio formula. that would represent a situation in which the soviet unions prestige is on the line just as much as ours. it seems to me that this is a key challenge facing the administration. this is the basic idea on which i would like to get the opinion of the majority leader.
. february 24 marked the 50th anniversary of estonian itdependence. however. indepiendence for*estonians was short lived. they enjoyed a brief period of independence following world war i. but the libertyloving people of estonia were soon caught up in the expansionism of the soviet union. shortly after the outbreak of world war ii. estonia was occupied by soviet forces. it is most fitting that we pay tribute today to the brave people of estonia by adding our voices in commemoration of the 50th anniversary of their independence and to help keep alive the flame of freedom which continues to burn brightly in the hearts of the people despite harsh restrictions. deportations. imprisonment and other repressive measures.
. the one thought i wish to make in speaking today. as we may be on the eve of negotiations perhaps through the intermediation of ambassador jarring. is to make clear that this time we in the united states will sweat it out. tooas israel must sweat it outon the proposition that there is to be a firm and final hard peace which will secure the boundaries. parenthetically. i might interject at this point that i have read with great interest ambassador yosts recent article in foreign affairs. entitled "how the arabisraeli war began." in his generally balanced account. ambassador yost cites as one of the factors which triggered the war. israeli actions which were mistakenly interpreted by damascus. cairo. and moscow as threats to the continued existence of the syrian regime. however. one needs only to look at the other side of the coin to discover the real cause of war and instability. israels arab neighbors did  unintentionally act in a way which was mistakenly interpreted as a possible threat to the continuance of the eschol government. they openly vowed to destroy israel as a nation and to annihilate its population. syrian propagandists continue to blare forth this line. with an occasional supporting chorus from cairo. in his interview with life magazine. mr. kosygin attempted to assume on the middle east a high moral positiondespite the u.s.s.r.s culpability in the bloodshed of last june. he entered a strong plea for the united states to pressure israel into an unconditional withdrawal from the territories it occupied in the war. this tactic is clearly part of the soviet strategy to keep the middle east pot boiling and return it to the twilight zone of a continuingeven if often inactivestate of "belligerency" such as prevailed in the earlier periods when the u.s.s.r. first bought entry into the arab world as the backer of arab radicalism and bellicosity. we must make it clear to the soviet union that we will  stand aside and let it have its way in the middle east. it is this lead. this signal of resoluteness. which our friends among the arab moderates. and israel. seek most fervently. israel itself recognizes that soviet power in the middle east is a new factor beyond its own capacity to handle. it is taking a new look at its arab neighbors. and is prepared to make distinctions among arab nations. althoughas shown in the 6day warthe arabs showed distinctions among themselves toward israel. tangible evidence of this dimension of israeli thinking is the recent public endorsement by defense minister moshe dayan of the u.s. resumption of arms supply to jordan. the new soviet power positions in the middle east. and its alliance with arab radicalism. poses a threat to all the moderate and friendly governments of the region. arab and arab alike. it is this fact which constitutes the challenge and the opportunity to our diplomacy. in addition to its continuing efforts and achievements in the field of strategic nuclear weapons. missiles. and antimissiles. the u.s.s.r. has been engaged in most significant expansion of its military capabilities in aher direction. this is the creation of a mobile deepsea naval striking forcea wholly new category of military capability for the soviets. the first big contingent of this new force has been deployed in the eastern mediterranean. the coincidence in time frame of the british withdrawal "east of suez"-particularly from the persian gulfand the development of the new soviet naval capability. strongly suggest the future thrust of soviet power. with the unraveling of the local pax britannica. the oilrich persian gulf sheikdoms will provide an inviting target for soviet penetration. using egypt as its base. the soviets can be expected to attempt to penetrate down the red sea. with yemen and aden as intermediate targets. and then up into the vacuum in the persian gulf. the establishment of a soviet position of dominance in the persian gulf could have farreaching impact on the balance of power in the world. it would give the soviets new leverage over western europes vital sources of oil. iran and turkey would be exposed to new soviet pressures from the south to complement those which the u.s.s.r. has mounted directly from the th. in addition. dominance in the red sea and the persian gulf would give the soviets a capability to establish dominance in the indian ocean and strengthen its position in the indiapakistan subcontinent. i do  think the soviet union will achieve all of these objectives. there are many barriers of local resistance in addition to whatever counter actions we initiate. moreover. i do  think that the soviets are without a measure of prudence and restraint in their actions. but these are capabilities we must consider. etheless. i am greatly concerned by the dangers inherent in the situation. it is an area where the united states and u.s.s.r.  find themselves in direct confrontation with cushion or buffersa situation which does  exist even in southeast asia. the middle east is an area which is as volatile and unstable politically as any in the world. and it is an area where growing soviet capabilities are greatly abetted by the existence of a power vacuum created by british withdrawal. ironically. it is possible that pressures for the reopening and orderly functioning of the suez canal may come eventually from the soviet union. if one project present trends into the future. one can see the dayperhaps  far offwhen the u.s.s.r. will have the greatest dependence of any of the major countries of the world on access through suez. to the red sea. the persian gulf. the indian ocean. and points east. i hope that this realization will induce the u.s.s.r. to play a constructive -role in helping to achieve a .reopening of suez. which is in the interest of so many countries in europe and asia. those hardest hurt by the closure of the canal. in addition to the european maritime powers. are egypt and the arab oilproducing states and india. an agreement to limit the outside supply of arms remains. of course. the major test of soviet statesmanship and responsibility in the middle east. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at the conclusion of my remarks an article entitled "influence of russia is penetrating into the life of egypt." published in the washington post on february 25. 1968.
i am satisfied that there is lack of expertise on these matters in our state department. the dangers and complexities of the situation are recognized by the career officials who deal with them in the first instance. however. the problems of the middle east. like the problems of europe and latin america. have been relegated to the second and third echelons of responsibility in the administrationwhile our highest officials preoccupy themselves with vietnam and asia. being handled as they are. by career officials down the line who are precluded from suggesting courses of action which require the investment of significant resources or conflict with established priorities. the problems of the middle east are  positioned within the administration in a way that they can be dealt with creatively at the highest policy levels. the british withdrawal from "east of suez." by dramatizing the loneliness of our position outside of europe. emphasizes the need for us to find new modes of assistance with the burdens of peacekeeping. the final withdrawal of britain. and the earlier withdrawal of other european powers from colonialbased positions. demonstrates that e of our close allies has the capacity or the willingness to play a world power role as an individual nationstate. perhaps a new collective role is possible. despite a strong reluctance to extend the area of commitment. the nato powers have finally given evidence of their awareness of the need to respond collectively to the new soviet challenge in the mediterranean. given the direct and immediate stakes which western europe has in the mediterranean and in the oil of the middle east there is every inducement for nato to concert the actions and policies of its members in the middle east. i urge that we press diligently within nato councils for discussions which can lead to just such a policy of middle east "concert." if commercial rivalries are permitted to supersede the bonds of common interest. if individual energies counteract and dissipate one aher. if the potential strength of collective action is lost. each member of nato will be the poorer in an overall sense. i wish. finally. to close with a brief word about the refugee problem. in one important aspect there is  a new situation with respect to the arab refugees as a result of the 6day war. for the first .time in 20 years. virtually all of the refugees are  in territories controlled by just two countriesjordan and israel. it is essential. in my view. that this new circumstance be explored fully and creatively to see if there is  a new opportunity to effect. on an international basis. some resolutionperhaps "dissolution" is a more apposite wordfor the individual who is a subject of this great human and political problem.
i agree. this must be a "firm" peace. second. certainly we should serve ice on the soviet union that we are  abandoning the middle east. that they face aconfrontation with us there. and that the mediterranean must be kept open as a lifeline between the atlantic and asia. we can relinquish supremacy in the mediterranean to the u.s.s.r. it is too vital to our security. and to the security of all nato members.
third. i believe we must demonstrate that we mean business by taking up within the councils of the alliance the need for a concerted response to the soviet challenge in the mediterranean and the middle east. ultimately. it should be a nato responsibility to assure the security of the mediterranean just a u.s. responsibility.
i do  want to be diverted into the vietnam war and beyond this question. i understand. too. that there is a proposal to build a fence. and some of it has already been built. and that it involves an expenditure of the order of magnitude the senator has mentioned. i am accepting the fact that the vietnam war is a drain financially. a war in which a tax surcharge is required. to go back to the senators analogy of show business. i do say our performance is what the world is looking at. but our performance is  that we are going to hold out for a package deal from the administration. that would be a performance that would make the world turn away. our performance is that. withstanding the fact that we may be wrong in a package deal. affirmative action is better than action at all. therefore. we are taking the first action that is available to us. to wit. this action. we will press for other action. but we will take this action. so we will be worth the continued attention of the "customers." the senator has pointed out exactly what i was trying to say. in a colloquial way. which makes it even more understandable.
. one of the most difficult problems for those uninitiated in the mysteries of federal grantinaid programs has been the sometimes confusing proliferation and duplication of programs in the area of manpower training for the hardcore unemployed. the situation is still deteriorating in this regard. although the national manpower act introduced by me and 14 republicans in the senate and by 63 republicans in the house has as two of its goals the consolidation of overlapping programs and the provision of technical assistance to private groups interested in king about the field. a number of programs have been inaugurated recently dealing in particular with the area of job training in private industry. within the last year we have seen the emergence of major programs with the veryhelpful titles of "mai." "ma2." and "ma3." if the business community is to become involved in manpower training activities for the hardcore unemployed. it must  be forced to confront a confusing array of programs and government agencies. the u.s. chamber of commerce is making a major contribution in the effort to present brief and readable descriptions of federal manpower programs to the business community. as part of its "forward america" program. the chamber has put out several brief pamphlets providing useful information on these programs. i would like at this time to insert the text of one of the chambers publications. entitled "summary of federal programs for hardcore unemployed." which gives the best single summary i k of the group of new businessoriented manpower programs. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this pamphlet appear at this point in the record.
 nasserit could prove to be the best course. i suggest that the united states adopt the following fivepoint policy: first. new security council resolution. second. middle east arms control agreement. third. initiative in nato. fourth. new international initiative on arab refugees. fifth. new middle east cooperative grouping.
very definitely. because we have a new threat. in other words. when nato was formed. roughly 20 years ago. the threat from the east. from the soviet union. was essentially a land threat. it was a threat of incursion  only into western europe but also into the. thern borders of turkey. and greece.  we have a new situationto wit. the deployment of a major russian fleet in the mediterranean and the acquisition of a major political and military position by the soviet union in the eastern mediterranean and the middle eastan atea of the world whichit was  in a substantial way before. we already had the presence there. in heavy concentration. of u.s. forces. in the form of the 6th fleet. therefore. it is only recognizing reality for the united states to go to the nato council and say that the former threat is. by . phased out into the newer threat. it is the same threat to the same peopleto wit. a threat to the whole soft underbelly of europe. as churchill called it. the same threat to italy. greece. and turkey. except it is from the south instead of from the east and th. therefore. nato should be deployed to meet it. the "matchmaker" force. to which the senator from virginia referred. may well provide the model for a new nato naval force in the mediterranean. i am. in fact.  studying this very concept in my capacity as chairman of the political committee of the th atlantic assembly. let me emphasize. again. as we are in almost every field. including the field of money. that we are running into the situation that one nation is big egh to take on all these awesome responsibilities alone. yet. that is our position . it is  fair. it is  necessary. it is  advisable. that is why i urge that we initiate within the nato council the idea of taking into account our new situation and making the security of the mediterranean a nato responsibility.
subsequently said: . i should like to make these remarks concerning the agencys efforts. first. i wish to commend mr. foster. and his deputy mr. fisher. for their outstanding performances in negotiating the draft proliferation treaty. their labors in geneva in this regard have been hing less than heroic. they deserve the nations tribute and gratitude for the skill. the patience. the persistence and the farsighted vision so amply displayedin circumstances that were often as difficult as any of this sort can be. in my judgment. it is  egh to praise the outstanding performance of messrs. foster and fisher. it is critically important to the highest national interests of this country to strengthen the arms control and disarmament agency as an institution of our government. the truth is that acda represents. in an institutional sense. the voice of arms restraint. of control of the engines and artifacts of warmaking. within the highest councils of government. this voice must be a strong. steady. competent and selfconfident voice. if the system of competing institutional advocacywhich is the basis of decisionmaking in this nationis to work in a balanced and optimum manner. the perspective. the viewpoint and the reasoning of those charged with the statutory responsibilities which congress has given to acda ought  to be overbalancedi might even say overawedin an institutional sense. by the agencies which represent other viewpoints within the structure and councils of our government. certainlyand as is most proper and desirablethe viewpoint and interests and considerations represented by the joint chiefs of staff. for instance. is and must continue to be given ample budgetary support and institutional status and prestige. but a sense of balance in the two aspects of our national effort is critically important. it is for that reason that i voted to increase the authorization for the appropriation to provide for more activity and research according to the amendments proposed by the senator from pennsylvania .
. it is significant that the senate is today adopting house concurrent resolution 655of which i am the senate cosponsor together with my colleague from new york [mr. kenndyifor on this date 25 years ago the world was electrified by the news of the beleaguered and practically unarmed jews of the warsaw ghetto fighting the whole nazi war machine. this measure  before us expresses the sense of congress "to recognize and ackledge the world significance of the warsaw ghetto uprising as a reaffirmation of the ineradicable determination to fight for freedom from oppression" and joins congress in commemorating the 25th anniversary of the uprising. yet. as we mark this occasion. we feel moved also to protest a new wave of antisemitism in poland. of the once thriving jewish community of 3.500.000 who lived in poland before world war ii. only a pitiful remnant of some 25.000 soulsless than onetenth of 1 percent of polands population of 33 millionremain to be buffeted by what appears to be governmentencouraged antisemitism. fortunately. to its great credit the catholic church. which retains considerable influence with many poles. has opposed the new antisemitic campaign. and individual poles of good conscience are  lending themselves to the polish governments efforts to squeeze out of its national life its jewish citizens.  i believe it is essential for the united states to express its deep concern to the polish government regarding mounting incidents of antisemitism in that country and their dangerous implications for the future. our nation must register its protest according to our tradition and our history. we who live in security and freedom must long remember and be inspired by. those brave men and women of the warsaw ghetto who. under such hopeless circumstances. died for freedom and dignity. their resistance will remain forever a monument of light in a dark era of mans history. i express my deep appreciation to the leadership of the house and of the senate for allowing the concurrent resolution to be brought up today. the very day of the anniversary.
. may i just add to what the distinguished senator from hawaii has said that. having served in hawaii during world war ii. i can testify to the valor. patriotism. dedication. and sacrifice of the people of hawaii. and especially of those who served in our armed forces.
i answer my colleague by saying that the ceasefires to which he refers were those for holidays such as tet. and so forth. they were  ceasefires as a result of set negotiations. face to face negotiations between parties with respect to a termination of hostilities and looking toward a negotiated settlement. thus. i do  think they are analogous. in addition. it is a classic factwe all understand itthat if there is a breach of that ceasefire which in the view of either one of the parties is serious egh. it is free to resume hostilities. the way in which this is handled. however. is that so long as the negotiations continueand that was true in panmunjomthe parties will come to the negotiating table and generally deal with the alleged violations of the ceasefire as an element in such negotiation. i should like to say to my colleague that certainly i can. he can. one can. ever guarantee that a ceasefire will continue. the history of war is that once they are negotiated as an element of a continuing peace negotiation. they generally do continue. although there are violations. the parties generally can deal with those violations in the process of negotiation.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the text of the program for this conference. summaries of the opening speeches. and recent articles which deal with the issue of the returning miity group veteran and with those programs which. like "operation transition." have been established to assist them.
the apparent failure of president nasser and his military commanders to extract any significant new military aid from moscow suggests the same thing. it must be demonstrated to arab militants that the world will longer accept a false peace in the middle east. in that connection.  is fine. but we need to do more to attain these objectives. for the unresolved arabisraeli conflict also serves as a hot spark that could at any time enflame relations between the united states and the soviet union. in 1 day all that we are doing to arrive at a general understanding with the soviet union could be undone by a renewal of war in the middle east. i suggest that the united states adopt the following fivepoint policy:
. i have long been concerned about the increasing food needs of the worlds population. if any war need be escalated. it is the war on hunger. it is up to the developed countries to take forceful action and to give the necessary impetus to the developing countries to develop selfhelp measures to improve agricultural production. we must take steps to export the techniques for developing new techogy. progress has been made in certain areas and the striking example of the development in jalisco. mexico. gives evidence and hope that a solution to the problem is possible. i should like to commend to senators a speech by nyle c. brady. director of research. new york state college of agriculture and home ecoics. cornell university. an ackledged expert in this field. his remarks. published in illis research. winter 1968. are a succinct and concise statement of the problem. i ask unanimous consent that they be printed in the record.
. in an overall sense. vital u.s. interests in the middle east are in greater jeopardy than they have been at any time since world war ii. the dangers of the situation there. as well as our willingness to act effectively. were thrust upon the worlds attention last may and june. fortunately. israels smashing victory in the 6day war has gained us a respite in time. but the political influence and the military power of the soviet union in the middle east continue to grow. the lead article in the current issue of the readers digest makes kn to the general public for the first time some of the dramatic details regarding united statessoviet confrontation at the time of the 6day war in the middle east last year. the article. which is today still timely. merits reading. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. an item of particular significance to my state has been cut by the senate appropriations committee and i would like to express my regret and my hope that it can be funded in a supplemental bill. i refer to a proposed electronic research laboratory to be constructed at grlffis air force base in rome. new york. this building was only recently authorized but is badly needed if a new $7 million computer leased by the air force is to be housed in the proper conditions. this bill reflects cuts in many states. but i am particularly disturbed that the rome area will  get this new facility without delay. only the tight budget situation makes these cuts necessary. but i have every confidence that the griffis laboratory will be funded in a supplemental. or next year at the latest.
. for some time i have been engaged in discussion with the department of the navy concerning the ship repair policy followed by the navy. under present regulations. naval ships are generally repaired in their home ports. the purpose of that policy. as i understand it. is to allow the crews of the vessels to be together with their families during the time the vessel is being repaired. that part of the policy is quite understandable and hing in the amendment i have introduced today would require any change in it. however. present regulations also provide that when for some reason a naval vessel can be repaired in its home port. it must be repaired at a facility located in the same naval district that the home port is located in. this policy has rational justification in terms of the convenience of crew members. because of the way the naval district lines are drawn geographically. it is possible. under existing regulations for a vessel home ported in baltimore. md.. to be repaired in folk. va.. 200 miles away. but  in new york or philadelphia. both of which are closer to baltimore. moreover. recently the navy has ordered ships home ported in narragansett. r.i.. to be repaired in baltimore. md.. without even giving repair yards in new york a chance to bid for the work. to make matters worse very few ships are home ported in the third naval district. in which new york is located. hence this policy has resulted in the ship repair facilities in new york obtaining a minute portion of the total naval ship repair work done on the east coast. because of this wholly arbitrary. irrational policy followed under existing navy regulations. the private shipyards in the port of new york are threatened with extinction even though their combined drydock capacity still available exceeds 168.000 tons. which is greater than the combined capacity of any other port in the united states. the problem which faces the port of new york is set forth in detail in the statement of arthur j. grymes before the second annual port of new york congressional breakfast in washington. d.c.. on march 28. 1968. and i ask unanimous consent that mr. grymes statement be printed in the record at this point.
. last may. the entire new york congressional delegation met with adm. edward j. fahy. commander of the naval ship systems command. and assistant secretary of the navy barry j. shillito to discuss this problem. unfortunately. at that meeting admiral fahy and assistant secretary shillito were adamant that existing naval policy could  be changed. this attitude has persisted throughout an exchange of correspondence which i have had with admiral fahy and assistant secretary shillito. i ask unanimous consent that my correspondence with these gentlemen be printed at this point in my remarks.
surely because it refers to a section of the code which excludes such an emergency from the competitive bidding factor. in other words. the navy is permitted to exempt itself from competitive bidding in any such situation. my amendment does  change that.
. i might say to the senator. in answer to that proposition. that there is question about the fact that where you deal with an emergency. or where you have practical problems in regard to naval districts. i well understand that the conferees might have to work out some modifications to fit the situation the fact is that the navy has plenty of room for deliberation about when and where it repairs the ships. if it chooses to repair them at their home ports. it thinks hing of sending them 700 miles. for example. within the naval districts. but it has applied this arbitrary rule. which has worked to make the whole world lopsided: those who had the business have lost it. and those who did  have the business have gained it.  because of competition or price. but simply because the navy has interpreted the regulation this way.
. to conclude. the debate has been very interesting. i again wish to emphasize that we are  dealing with repairs at home ports and we are  dealing with navy shipyards or other government installations. we are only dealing with construction. with these private agencies. and that is what caused the difference in the figures submitted by the senator from mississippi. and me. we have tried to correct this matter with the navy for a long time. we have run into a brick wall. and that is why we are here that is the purpose of our amendment
. the article mentions the fact that the krupp co..  publicly owned because the last krupp died and the ownership is distributed.  wishes to get in the arms distribution business although the last krupp survivor pledged that he would never produce arms again. the one thing the central european nations always are ready to respond to is when the soviet union dangles before them the specter of german rearmament. revolutionism. the germany of hitlers time and a nationalistic germany. i hope very much that germany will be very cognizant of that. germany has distinguished herself. i have been very friendly to the german democracy. as they will testify. she has distinguished herself in the postwar period by fidelity to the paneuropean concept. it is most regrettable that she is allowing herself  to be influenced by france to oppose the entry of britain into the common market. which is contrary to the paneuropean concept. i hope every german. as he reads this krupp article. will say to himself. "what.  again." i hope they will make a new resolution that whatever germanys place may be in the world. it will never put her alone. but that she will always be a part of an integrated europe. which includes england. and that she will continue as she has distinguished herself for the last 23 years. so that she will have a part and realize her greatness through the greatness of all of europe. i hope this headline will scare germans as much as it will scare others who have  forgotten the past. through nato we have provided for a military force. we hope that what she produces will be of service to her people and to the world. and contribute to a unified and integrated europe which has been to her credit. since the end of world war ii.
 eisenhower. promises made at the time were  fulfilled and they were breachedto israels severe disadvantage. subsequently the united states was placed in a most embarrassing and difficult situation especially 10 years later when war erupted again because of a breakdown in the agreements and arrangements which the united states had unwritten in 1957.
 nasser unless we are sure he is  preparing for war against israel or other nations in the middle east. senators such as the senator from oregon who is present. my colleague from new york and other senators have joined in that request.. there is the possibility of action in the u.n.. which should  wait until there is armed attack. when the whole world could be put into flames. because we have  taken ice of the warning. therefore. i urge the state department to give attention to the middle east in terms of the warning that the arab states are set on a collision course. they may very well be. we hope . but certainly power like this country should do anything but take this warning to heart and act on the basis of it. i ask unanimous consent to have the editorial to which i have referred printed in my remarks.
 to consider ordering a halt to all further actions directly connected with the sentinel deployment decision based on his own review of the decision to deploy the sentinel abm system pending the outcome of a thorough review of the entire issue by the national security council. i have specifically limited my call for a suspension of further activity with respect to the sentinel system to actions directly connected with deployment. i believe that research and development activities in the abm field should be vigorously pursued. to parallel a review of the whole complex of issues surrounding the abm question by the national security council. i believe that the senate also should conduct a thorough public investigation and review of the entire question. while the technical justifications in favor of the deployment of the sentinel. from the viewpoint of the joint chiefs of staff. has been well probed in hearings held by the armed services committee and its preparedness investigating subcommittee. i do  think that the broad political and diplomatic ramifications of this whole issue have been investigated as they need to be. major political and diplomatic questions involved in the abm question are: the whole complex of our relationships with the soviet union. with communist china. with our nato allies in europe. with japan and our other asian allies. with canada. and with our latin neighbors to the south. in addition. the relationship of the abm question to the nuclear proliferation treaty. has . in my judgment. been satisfactorily explored. finally. and by means least. i believe it is essential for the senate to take a systematic and thorough look at the whole question of projected costs for nuclear weapons systems in the next decade. the figures that have been projected in this regard by various. informed official sources truly boggle the mind. if these projections have validity. it is clear that the united states is going to have to make some of the most excruciating decisions on resources allocation in the years just ahead. at stake. ultimately. are the basic questions of just what kind of society we wish to become in the last third of the 20th century. it is clear in my mind that we just will  be able to finance all of the weapons systems which our military establishment feels it should have and still be able to meet even the minimum needs of our urban population in the explosive decade ahead. very hard choices are going to have to be made. the quality of life in america is the basic underlying issue and this must be borne in mind as we face the 1970s. we can either stagger and lurch from one ad hoe decision to aher. or we can take a coherent look at the whole mix of competing demands and make our decisions calmly and judiciously. above all. we must make our decisions affecting the future with an eye toward the nature and possibilities of the future rather than upon backwardlooking decisions based wholly on our experiences of the 1940s and 1950s. the question of cost and resources allocation. of course. is  merely one of "defense spending" versus domestic civilian needs. at issue is our posture in the worldthe effectiveness of our interaction with 3 billion americanswho will share this planet with us in the next decades. are we to be the sparta of the 1970s and 1980s. is there  a higher role for america.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. two bills to amend the war claims act of 1948. the first of these bills would benefit two classes of claimants who have  yet received recognition of their claims. these are. first. refugees from nazism and other tyrannies who became citizens of the united states after their property was seized. and. second. prisoners of war and internees who have personal injury claims. both these groups of citizens suffered at the hands of our enemies and are entitled. in my judgment. to share in the war claims fund being distributed to these victims.
. one bit of information which i should like to suggest. because i think it bears exactly on what both senators have been saying. in the hearings yesterday. before the committee on foreign relations on the proliferation treaty. the issue arose whether article 6 of that treaty imposed an obligation on us to try to negotiate first in good faith with the soviet union for disarmament. which everyone admitted. including the secretary of state included the abm system. before we went ahead with it in any way. it is a pertinent and a real question. and  just tautological. but what the senator is saying. and the senator from arizona as well. puts me in mind of the following: that what we need very quicklyand both senators agreeis some appraisal by the defense department. and before our committees. as to the timing of this which the security of our country requires. in other words. even for the opponents and the proponents. if we all k that 30. 60. 90. or 120 days are  going to make a basic material difference. i think we would be much more reassured in fighting for and sustaining the respective positions. whatever they may be. the idea that. "well.ody ks. we do  k. maybe it is too late . maybe we have to decide tomorrow." is a very nagging consideration. so. as a part of this recordand i agree that what both senators have said is splendidat the very least we ought to k. from very authoritative sources. what maneuverable time we have to discuss the matter. or does anybody claim we are immediately being prejudiced so we can talk about it.
. february 24 marked the 51st anniversary of estonian independence day. like the other baltic states. estonias enjoyment of selfgovernment was brief. for in 1940 the armies of soviet russia ruthlessly took over the country. in spite of the years of oppression by the soviet union. the people of estonia have kept alive their hopes for freedom and eventual independence. the united states can accept forever the enslavement of these once free peoples. the soviet action has basis in international law and is in violation of understandings given by the soviet union to the allied powers of world war ii. the right of selfdetermination is a principle of international justice and the united states has emphasized over and over again that it will never become reconciled to permanent communist domination of the estonian and other russian captive people. as we commemorate the anniversary of estonias independence day. we must reaffirm the hopes of the people of estonia for the return of selfdeterminationtheir zeal for independence must be kept alive by our support. we must use all the resources of diplomacy. morality. and world public opinion in a continued effort to free these captive peoples.
. i agree thoroughly with the senator. i take great pride in what has been done and i certainly will join with the senator in every effort to get it continued and expanded. one small problem is coming up. and i do  k whether the senator dealt with this matter in his address or . but i would welcome his views. apparently there is an emous proliferation of lawsuits with respect to men who receive partial deferments who are in the second year of graduate study. they receive deferments only for this semester rather than the whole year. the law is unclear. there is an emous proliferation of lawsuits. and thousands more of lawsuits. because so far the department of justice has  allowed one generic case to settle on. first. has the senator had his attention called to that matter. second. would the senator agree with me that it would be extremely desirable to save the emous cost and the burden on the courts. that we do the best we can to get one case decided. and then act for everyone. they are all in the same boat.
. i submit. for appropriate reference. for myself and senator goodell. of new york. a concurrent resolution expressing the sense of the senate in recognizing the significance to the world of the uprising in the warsaw ghetto 26 years ago. at the same time that we are submitting this concurrent resolution in the senate. representative emanuel celler. of new york. dean of the new york delegation and chairman of the house judiciary committee. is submitting it in the house of representatives. i wish to e that the jewish nazi victims organization of america was instrumental in the preparation of this resolution. it was 26 years ago in april that the world was electrified by the news of the heroic resistance against the mighty nazi war machine by the outnumbered and beleaguered jews of the warsaw ghetto. we who live in security and freedom must long remember and be inspired by those who. under such hopeless circumstances. died for freedom and dignity. their resistance will remain forever a monument of light in a dark era of mans history.
 johnson in the exercise of his power as the chief negotiator on the part of the united states entered into. reaffirms the inherent right of selfdefense. we have adopted the constructionit has  been challengedwhich is incorporated in the documents before us. that if there is a new federated european state. then the nuclear status of one of its components. namely. the united kingjoin. would extend to that federated state. thus. within the purview of this a reaty. nato countries could still acquire nuclear status through political union. t conversely. it seems to me that the main problem with the reservation is that it would mean killing the treaty. i am against that because i think the treaty is desirable. aher drawback of the reservation is that if we give nuclear weapons techogy to a regional security group. and that group breaks up. each of those powers would then have nuclear weapons status. we would then be running exactly contrary to the desire to confine the possession of nuclear weapons. which is the purpose of the treaty. i can hardly conceive of this being conducive to our objective with respect to the treaty. it would work exactly in reverse of the fundamental policy of the united states as it pertains to the treaty.
i understand. however. the point is that the inducement to enter into the treaty is also an inducement to enter into a regional or collective security arrangement. that is the point i make. remember that any regional organizations would come after the treaty and  before. hence. as we stand . we have a great inducement to do this. if we adopt the reservation of the senator. it would only relate back to nato ani other security arrangements which  exist. that would expost us to the risk of proliferation of nuclear weaponry and nuclear techogy to all of those member powers.
of course. this is the essence of the senators whole reservation. i gather that. however. i ice with very great interest that he uses the concept of defensive weapons. which is a classic way to get to the point. however. i believe the stultifying effect. as the senator refers to it. is to be preferred over the more liberating concept which would come by way of this reservation. in my judgment. our cause will be proroted by taking it as it is rather than dding this reservation. i think if we were to add the reservaion. we would go along a new track which i do  think is as desirable and which obviously is  in accord with the )olicy which induced us to go into this matter in the first place. to wit. the proliferation of nuclear weapons. on the general matter of the proliferation treaty  being considered by the senate. the one thing i would like to emphasize very strongly and sharply is the fact that this treaty is a platform which is absolutely essential to put us on the road to further progress toward nuclear arms control. particularly in the antiballistic missile field which is the next step up. the proliferation treaty  before the senate for ratification is important in its own right. but its full significance can be judged only in context of the larger issue at stake. whether we like it or . we are engaged in a hectic race to our nuclear destiny. that destiny can be an atomic armageddon ending in the extinction of the human race. or a world rule of law in which the bounties of nuclear and other techogy can eliminate the ageold causes of human misery and deprivation. there is room for complacency with regard to the earnestness and the relentlessness of this race or of the alternatives. the proliferation treaty is a step on the path toward a better chance for a more peaceful world. and gives momentum to our movement toward further arms control and disarmament agreements. and renewed momentum is sorely needed because our progress thus far has been desultory and intermittent. meanwhile. the advance of techogy has brought us to the brink of a major new escalation of the arms race. as a whole new generation of nuclear weapons systems has reached maturity in the research and development stage. we must consider this treaty  so much based on the lessons of the past as from the perspective of the requirements of the future. in this light. it is  an end in itself but a significant step forward in a long and urgent journey. we are by means free to set a leisurely pace for ourselves. as dr. york pointed out so eloquently in his testimony yesterday before the disarmament subcommittee of the foreign relations committee. the deployment of the sentinel abm system could move us into a new era in which the decision to fire nuclear weapons would be surrendered from human control to that of preprogramed. highspeed computers. once we cross that thresholdin which the highest functions of leadership and decisionmaking are usurped by machineswe may find ourselves beyond the point of return on the road to an eventual atomic armageddon. primarily for this reason. i consider article vi of the proliferation treaty to be its potentially most important clause. article vi commits the present nuclear powers. primarily the united states and the u.s.s.r. "to pursue negotiations in good faith on effective measures relating to cessation of nuclear arms. race at an early date." this article would. if the treaty is ratified. be the takeoff point for arms limitations negotiations on the abm and other offensive and defensive nuclear weapons. the proliferation treaty seeks to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons to nations   possessing them. this is an important objective which can have a direct bearing on the prospects for world peace in the last third of the 20th century. but we should make mistake about it. the gravest threat to mankinds survival today lies  so much in the dangers of "horizontal" proliferation of nuclear weapons to possessor states as it does in the dangers of "vertical" proliferation of nuclear weapons systems in the possession mainly of the two super powers. article vi  only points the way but it places upon us an inescapable responsibility. the provisions of article vi are consistent in every way with the expressed policy of our government. and with our own urgent national interest. it is precisely because negotiations with the soviet union for limitations on the deployment of strategic offensive and defensive nuclear weapons systems are so urgently in our own national interest that senators have sought so earnestly to delay deployment of the sentinel abm system to give the senate a chance to act on the treaty and to allow the broader arms limitations discussions to start. we are very anxious that the prospects for negotiations with the u.s.s.r. in accordance with article vi  be prejudiced in advance. as a decision to plunge ahead with sentinel and other new weapons systems could do. i am confident that president nixon appreciates the full dimensions of the issue before us. his decisions with respect to the sentinel abm system and with respect to negotiations with the u.s.s.r. are. when coupled with the end of the vietnam war. apt to be viewed by history as the most portentous of his administration. negotiations for the control of nuclear weapons carry us onto new and uncharted seas. the very elty of this course inevitably produces a certain sense of uneasiness. for we are by nature a habitloving species. but the great test which challenges us  is our capacity to adjust to an accelerating pace of change. just as the weapons systems of today and tomorrow require the inventors to "think the unthinkable" in terms of destruction. we who are charged with responsibilities of preserving peace must condition our minds to "think the unthinkable" in terms of new agreements and cooperative arrangements even with our deadliest adversaries.
 has had to admit that. he himself turned from the sentinel to safeguard. in other words. from protecting or alleging that he could protect cities. to protecting missile sites. the russians. in their deployment. to the extent that it proceeded as something called galosh. they. too. had the same concept that they want to protect cities. that unless we do get somewhere on the abm. they will undoubtly do the same thing and follow us with regard to safeguard. that represents a totally new strategic concept. -a different strategic concept than the one that has been the balance of terror for the last 20 years. the balance of terror has been the mutual offensive capability of the united states and the soviet union. though we may be ahead of themand. indeed. i think we arethe extent of the overkill is so great that it hardly matters. we all recognize that. what concerns me with the new idea which our friends. our allies. our supporters. senators case and brooke. are introducing into the suggestion is whether or  it is desirable to  go back from this new platform. which we are all agreed on we have to fight from at all costs. that is here by authorization. we do  have to pass a sense resolution on that as to whether we are for or against. the question iswhether it is desirable to take specific objectives like mirv and retrace on disarmament negotiations from the platform of the struggle led by the senator from kentucky and others. he certainly has been preeminent in it. we have been fighting for the proposal that we stop safeguard and then go back from that to salt negotiations only mirv. but the minutemen in their silos. to every kind of nuclear weapon. as far back as we can. to halt the unbelievable consumption of the nuclear arms race. i am  satisfied that mirv is the place where we should stop. i want to go back further. if we can. i do  k what a salt negotiation will produce. i am  quite sold on what a salt negotiation will produce and that if they stop producing mirv. a great advance has been made. i want to see a halt on testing underground. i want to see nuclear arms reduced to hing. and then go on to traditional and conventional weapons. i am  satisfied to stop only at mirv. i do  think that is a great big success. everybody in the world could be killed. anyway. even if we stopped mirv. if some insane man took control in one country or aher.
 annced that the withdrawal of 25.000 american troops from vietnam would begin within 30 days. and held out the hope of further reductions in the 540.000man american force. even without this reduction in the troop level. over 1 million gis will be returning to civilian life this year. at a rate of approximately 90.000 a month. the time has come for congress to take a close look at the welcome which our country will be giving the men returning home. and at the veterans benefits which will be available to them. since world war ii. our country has maintained a commitment to these young men who have devoted years of their lives to their country and have risked their lives in its service. in order to continue to ho this commitment to its fullest. we must make sure that the gi bill of today is in keeping with the needs of the veterans of today. and that the results it achieves are in the best interests both of the individual veterans and of our nation. the veteran of today deserves benefits which are comparable to those that the veterans of the second world war and of the korean war were offered. the veteran returning from vietnam took leave of his home. his friends and his family. and often interrupted his education or delayed his career plans. in order to join our armed forces overseas. we must  allow the division over our role in vietnam to keep us from uniting in an effort to provide the veteran with the full range of benefits he deserves. in order to insure that our country meets its obligation to todays veterans. i have concerned myself with three pieces of legislation which would improve gi benefits in the areas of housing. employment and education. i am introducing today a bill which would increase the availability of gi home loans by expanding the authority of the veterans administration to make direct loans. in february i introduced the "veterans employment and relocation assistance act of 1969." which would help veterans to find meaningful employment anywhere in the country. and in january i cosponsored a bill introduced by the senator from texas
. it seems to me that we must do our utmost to correct that situation. also. i have introduced a veterans administration relocation assistance act of 1969 to help veterans find jobs. which i cosponsored with the senator from texas . also an increase in the education benefits available to returning veterans. which is in a series of bills  being considered under the chairmanship of the senator from california . i wish to point out the essentiality of seeing all of these three matters. so far as veterans are concerned. jobs. housing. and education. the veteran is entitled to the social and ecoic benefits which he has been denied by virtue of withdrawing from ongoing activities and giving his life as well as his time to the armed forces of the united states. we should get back. in return. greater national stability. if we do the right thing by our returning veterans.
. too few of the brave young americans who have been killed in the vietnam war have had a chance to make a lasting impact outside the sphere of close friends and relatives. but one young man. william j. * hillard ii of randolph. n.y.. did make an impact during his civilian service with the peace corps in india before entering military service in vietnam. mr. hillards mother has written to the peace corps forwarding copies of letters she has received from india concerning her sons personal impact upon the people he met there. the tributes he has received posthumously are all the more poignant in light of mrs. hillards ation that her son had felt that he "accomplished very little" in his peace corps work in india. i ask unanimous consent that mrs. hillards letter. together with the enclosed letters from the patil family and s. s. salunkhe. be printed in the record.
 of the american law institute from 1947 to 1961. and chairman of the american law institute and american bar associations program on continuing legal education. one of the great revelations of the federal governments war on poverty. instituted in the 1960s was the need of the poor for legal services and the poors appreciation of such aid in terms of dignity and satisfaction. since i have always believed most strongly in providing legal assistance to the poor on a regular basis. mr. tweeds contribution to this most vital need commanded my great respect. he was director of the national legal aid association and author of "legal aid societynew york 18761951." he was a leading force in the new york city legal aid society and of the various bar associations. it is  just the passing of a friend and fellow lawyer which touches me. but it is the realization that a symbol of what a highminded member of the bar and a fine community servant is gone. i hope that harrison tweeds example will pass on to many new lawyers and public spirited people.
. international attention has again been focused on the incendiary situation in the mideast by u.n. secretary general u thants report of july 7 to the security council. in describing the situation along the suez canal ceasefire line as "a virtual state of active war. the secretary general reports that "heavy weapons fire was initiated almost daily. especially from the westegyptian--side of the canal." the report goes on to state that the u.n. ceasefire observers have sent violation messages "almost daily to the authorities in the united arab republic. and occasionally. as necessary to israel." and. "in the month of june alone there were 21 reported incidents of firing by united arab republic forces and five by israel forces on united nations personnel or installations." according to the reports of his own observers. the secretary general draws the conclusion that "open warfare has been resumed." and he warns that the present situation "could even be the overture to more general and intensive hostilities in the middle east." while his own report makes it unmistakably clear that cairo is largely responsible for the sharp increase in ceasefire violations. the secretary general proceeds to a passionate appeal "to all parties in the middle east" to observe the ceasefire. he even says explicitly that he makes his appeal "without passing any judgment on any party. and without prejudice to the positions and policies of any one of them." in my judgment. secretary general u thants report would have been of much more value and would have carried more conviction if he had told it as it is. and reported to the world that the united arab republicfor reasons of its ownis initiating almost daily artillery barrages and also generally land and air hostilities up and down and across the suez canal ceasefire line. a report of this nature could have done something to restore confidence in the impartiality of the u.n. security council by counterbalancing to some extent the several quick and harsh security council "condemnations" of israels "survival" retaliatory measures in the past. which aroused great opposition in this country. also. it would have given israel some measure of confidence in the u.n.s intentions. rather than to encourage israel to rely for its security so heavily on its own arms. it is well kn that one aspect of united arab republic and soviet tactics in the middle east is to create a propaganda image of the imminent danger of open war and thereby try to get the united states to lend its support to some dictated peace. by constantly arousing such international fears. cairo and the kremlin hope that they can steamroller the great powers into "imposing" a peace which forces israel to withdraw in return for a new arrangement of the type which proved so unreliable and culminated in the mayjune 1967 hostilities. i believe that the secretary general could have shown more realism in framing his report and its conclusions and recommendations. and thereby  unwittingly contributing to this bigwar scare tactic. while it is certainly true that cairo. in pursuance of its recent proclamations about repudiating the suez ceasefire line and adopting an active defense posture. is engaging in liveammunition war games with its new soviet equipment against israeli forces in sinaiyet there does  seem to be any real danger of a renewal of "allout" war in the near future. the united arab republic lacks the military capability and israel lacks the motive. it is especially important that the great powers keep their cool at tense moments like the present. there is certainly cause for concern. but in my judgment there ought to be more concern over the weakening of the peace negotiating channels and the deterioration of the already strained and limited ceasefire. the momentum seems to have been drained from the jarring mission. and the big four and big two negotiations. which began with such fanfare. seem to be close to a dead end. certainly. one conclusion is clear: withstanding the serious and dangerous shooting going on and the resultant terrorism and instabilityit is still the time to insist on a permanent peace. this is the moment when the great powers. without seeking to dictate the terms--which could be fatalcan insist that there be more complacency based on truces or ceasefires. and that the world must run the risks that are involved to insist that the next basic moveeven if it takes monthsmust be a permanent peace. my own skepticism concerning the big four and big two negotiations on mideast peace is a matter of public record. however. i wish to reiterate that my criticisms of the big two approach concern the role and agenda which moscow and washington have adopted for themselves. it was a mistake. in my view-. for the two superpowers to attempt to negotiate subjects which can only be negotiated in a meaningful way by the two parties themselves. etheless. i have long advocated u.s.-u.s.s.r.--or fourpower negotiations concerning those problems in the mideast which they can effectively deal with. some key questions can be decided by them. and all of this can and should be accomplished without usurping the prerogatives of the local parties to the dispute. moreover. if the big two could reach agreement on the matters which primarily concern them. this would transform the atmosphere and contribute in a major way to the prospects for a final and lasting settlement between the local parties themselves. in this spirit. the powers must insist that the next basic development must be a permanent negotiated peace. in my judgment the following subjects should be taken up for consideration at the resumption of the united statessoviet mideast talks in moscow next week. first. this is the moment when the great powers. without seeking to dictate the terms by which it could be settled. can insist on a permanent peace. there can be more complacency or wishful thinking based on hodgepodge truces and ceasefires. we must run the risk of insisting that the next basic move--even it takes months of danger and shooting like thiswe must persist to get a permanent peace. if the big two could come to an agreement that only a genuine. permanent peacewhich deals with causes and  just symptomscan serve the cause of world peace. and their own interests. then we would be a good way further along on the road to that indispensable goal. second. international agreement on the limitation of arms shipments into the middle east from outside sources. while moscow may  be able to control the political decision in cairo to escalate military action along the suez. moscow can help to control egypts military capability to put such policies into effect. without soviet equipment. guns. and ammunitionsupplied in the worth of billions of dollars since june 1967the egyptians could  have created the image of. to use the words of u thants report. "a virtual state of active war." and it should be stressed that resupply is constantwhile israel is finding it very difficult to maintain arms balance. even considering its superior training and skill. the u.s.s.r. has a real interest. since its arab clients could well lose aher war if they recklessly undertook one. third. the big two can reach an understanding with respect to the mutual disposition of their respective. nucleararmed naval forces in the eastern mediterraneanespecially as regards hypothetical circumstances in which hostilities between the radical arab states and israel might escalate further or the real military danger of the mideast situation lies in the possibility of arab irresponsibility getting the superpowers involved with each other. the various possible military developments and equations in the mideast are fairly predictable. and it is only commonsense that the united states and u.s.s.r. work out  in the calm deliberation of diplomatic negotiations certain ground rules as to what each might or might  do without risking a confrontation. it is essential that this sort of arrangement  be left to the chances and confusions of hurried hotline negotiations in the heat of some precipitate arab military escalation. fourth. the arab refugee question is a matter of international concern and responsibility. a new effort must be made to seek a solution to this tragic humanitarian problem. the refugees must be freed from the manaclesof the political hostages--in which arab leaders have kept them for 20 years. the unrwa approach of the past suffered from the basic defect that it has kept the refugees in refugee status for 20 years and is  producing a second generation of refugees. a new international program should be of a selfterminating character designed to end the status of refugees as refugees by integrating and resettling them into proper. mal civilian circumstances. even though the u.s.s.r. does  make contributions for the refugeesand the united states contributes the mostthe u.s.s.r. has a vital interest. too. since the unrwa is a u.n. relief agency. fifth. an additional proper subject for bigpower negotiations concerns the rules for usage of the international waterways of the mideastespecially the suez. the gulf of aqaba. and the straits of tiran. these waterways have long been recognized and accepted as international passages. they do  belong to individual arab states. and we can accept arab claims to govern their use in any way they see fit. after all. the soviet union would never accept turkish claims to control the dardanelles in an way turkey saw fit. perhaps there is a real key to a mideast settlement in an international determination to reopen the suez canal. and the other international waterways concerned. to world shipping on discriminatory terms. under big four or u.n. security council" leadership. sixth. and finally. i consider it to be an urgent priority for the united states and u.s.s.r. to consider jointly at next weeks moscow mideast meeting ways in which the jarring mission can be strengthened and revitalized. there is doubt. in my judgment. but that this mandate to promote negotiations and an agreement between israel and the arab states. following the ember 22. 1967. u.n. resolution. must be dramatically strengthened and reaffirmed in the security council. with unanimous bigpower support. i once again urge consideration of the successful precedent of the isle of rhodes negotiations between the same parties of 194849. also. the breach of the ceasefire initiated by the united arab republic. jordan. and  syria is the most direct breach of a u.n. resolution and should be promptly protested by the u.n. and also should be dealt with by ambassador jarring under a new and strengthened u.n. mandate. i thank the senator.
i respectfully submit that we certainly can assume in negotiations with the russians that they have a fine. highminded view of our motives. while our view of their motives is that they are trying to subvert the world. and prepare for a preemptive war attack capability on us.
i think that is what the senate has to decide. whether it will or will  make more likely a disarmament agreement. i would like to ask the converse of that question. if the deployment of the abm will cause the russians to increase the number of their ss9s is it  likely they would be less willing to agree to arms control if we gave them the impetus for increasing that number by deploying the abm.
i came in at the end of this discussion. but heard both arguments. i believe it is important to emphasizeand i should like to check with the senator from illis. who i k has made a very fine and thoroughgoing speech in defense of our positionthat there are two separate ideas here. both very valid. i like very much senator percys concept that if you do  trust the russians. then make agreements with them at all. and you do  have to trust them to make an agreement. we just have to look at the history of previous agreements to which they have agreed to see whether they have stuck by them. they horse around in a big way and will take us any time they can when there is agreement. but the disarmament agreements. like the nuclear proliferation and the testing in the atmosphere. have been observed. as have others. there is aher thought in what the senator from tennessee has said. which i would like to confirm. and that is the question of risk. i spoke on that yesterday. i debated it with the senator from texas . the question is. which is the greater risk. we are  saying that there is risk in  deploying. but we say the greater risk is in deployment. rather than in deployment. because we are so far committed without a commensurate benefit that we lose on the exchange and the hope of freezing the nuclear arms race at this point. the question i should like to ask the senator is this: the argument made against that point. which both senators made and which i made yesterday. is that suppose the people who argue that way may be correct. it may very well be that there is a great difference in risk between the two. but the russians say that they do  care if we deploy or . therefore. they are  going to be inhibited by a consideration of whether we deploy or . therefore. the situation will be in the same position if we do  deploy. i wish to ask this question. is  the difficulty with that argument. "sure. the russians are being very conservative. they are operating the same way. they have their hands in the same cookie jar. their leaders are doing exactly what we are doing." somebody has to have the enterprise to lift this whole operation above that mundane grocery store levelwithout any disrespect to grocery storesbut everybody is thinking the same thing: arms under the sea bed. i wonder if the senator would care to comment.
 i k the senator from arkansas wants to be heard on this one point of the democratic versus republican tugof -war here. i would like to suggest to the senator from vermont . the senator from delaware . and our leader. that the war of nerves has to end because if it does  there will be hing to fight about. we must end this war of nerves. i understand the situation well. we k much about political infighting. however. in my judgmentand in this statement i do  bind the senator from delaware in any waywhether the time is to be 5 months or 1 year the senate had better express itself and do it quickly because this is a situation that is deteriorating very quickly. whatever any senator may say about my coming from the financial communityfor which i do  apologize and never willthat is where the ear is to the ground. the situation is bad. and it is my position that the situation is  going to get better if we "horse around" with this matter. i hope this war ends in a matter of daysand  weeks or monthsbecause the ecoy of the entire country is seriously in jeopardy.
. there was presented to me today by representative reid. of westchester county. n.y.. and by representative bingham. of bronx county. n.y.. a petition signed by 10.000 individuals throughout the state of new york. expressing from the depths of their being their conviction on the deployment of the antiballisticmissile system. it is so spontaneous a movement. so individual in its character and so profound in its conviction. that i wish to call it to the attention of the senate. the petition. which is signed by these thousands of individuals. reads as follows: we the undersigned citizens. protest the administrations recent decision to deploy an antiballistic missile system for the following reasons: 1. such deployment would waste many billions of dollars of the taxpayers money. 2. the abm system is of unproven effectiveness. most scientific testimony indicates that it probably would  work. 3. deployment of the abm would accelerate the nuclear arms race. 4. deployment of the abm would seriously endanger nuclear disarmament talks between the united states and russia. we urge the congress to take appropriate measures to insure that this unfortunate decision is  implemented. the petition. signed with the names and addresses of 10.000 persons from all over the state of new york. was gathered by a highly responsible committee. any senator is invited to examine the petition.
therefore. it is  a sterile but a very real question to ask if the two superpowers are running themselves into the ground by the nuclear arms race. and in our case by the vietnam war as well. if we are about to come to grips in terms of seeking an arms agreement. is it  best to leave openwithout any real jeopardy to the national securitythe greatest. most fertile field for agreement. the greatest consumer of resources that might  be conserved. when the two countries are coming together for the purpose of seeking agreement. does the senator feel there is the remotest likelihood that in the next 6 months. because the president says he is going to deploy the abm at two sites in the thwestern part of the united states. that is going to represent such material change to the russians that they are going to make agreements which they never would have made before. and that we would have won a game of "nuclear blackmail" because the president is going to deploy this system at these two missile sites.
i was taken by the remark the senator just made. i have been voting pretty consistently for these amendments. with some exceptions. as on the carrier where i voted the other way. i take to heart very seriously what the senator said. it has worried me that a tide can sweep over the military people. sweep away their morale. and so forth. i think it would be an error if they came to that conclusion. and i hope the senator will rethink his own point of view. for this reason: i think we were derelict for a long time in considering their judgment sacrosanct. they are  being challenged. we are accustomed to being challenged. and i believe that high officers in the army. the navy. and the air force need to become accustomed to the same thing. i state affirmatively that i have the highest admiration for these dedicated men. i have worked with them. and have served in the military service on the highest level. i have great respect for their expertise. their professional skill. and their patriotism. and i think they believe in the american system as much as we do. i hope they do and i rise only for this purposeassume that we are denigrating them. that we are against everything they stand for. and so on. i hope. on the contrary. that they will accept this as a challenge. and will be smarter. wiser. more able. and more concerned about advising us and taking us. as it were. into their confidence. then perhaps the balance will be better adjusted. i love my colleague from colorado. as he ks. i do  believe we should permit to stand unchallenged the idea that those of us voting for these amendments--at least i do  feel that wayhave any desire to denigrate the military people. or serve ice that we are  going to have confidence in them hereafter. or anything of the sort. i affirm precisely the contrary. i think our action should put them to the proof. and that. i think. represents a righting of the balance. but i shall do by utmost to cooperate with my colleague from colorado to see that the tide does  go too far the other way.
. i think the time has come for general hershey to consider retiring. because. rightly or wrongly. general hershey has come to symbolize much of what is wrong with the present draft system. in view of general hersheys record of rigid resistance to any meaningful draft reform. his efforts to use the draft as punishment against young people who have engaged in protest activities. and his recent attempt to dominate the national selective service appeals board. if this administration is sincerely interested in reforming the draft and convincing the publicparticularly the youth who are subject to the draft--of its sincerity in doing so. a successor to general hershey should be found as soon as possible.
 a virtual free hand for the use of u.s. troops in southeast asia. it is becoming increasingly apparent that there is conceivable settlement to the vietnam war which is worth the cost in lives and treasure to the united states of continuing the war to attain it. the vietnam war has been extravagantly costly in these terms. and aher great cost has been in terms of the things it has prevented us from doing at home and abroadand in the wounds it has opened in the body politic of our nation. it is inconceivable to me that the government of the united states can continue to be more solicitous of the views and interests of the saigon generals than of the young people of our own country. who- feel the burden and the agony of this war most acutely. they are the ones most anxious and determined to get on with the unfinished business of our societyto make a reality of the ideals of dignity and worthy for all our citizens. the unresponsiveness of the johnson administration to the burning and anguished idealism of the student generation gave birth to the passions of radicalism which have  previously been a part of the american tradition. radicalism and polarization of our society will find deeper roots in this country if the nixon administration should fall into the errors of the johnson administration and continue to place a higher priority upon continuity of vietnam policy than upon fulfilling its mandate to achieve an early end to the war. that mandate must be met so that the vital task of restoring domestic tranquillity and national unity can begin in earnest.
i am a lawyer. and i am well aware that the rights of the defendant already facing court martial charges. as well as of potential defendants. must be safeguarded. and i am well aware of the feelings for our troops involved in such an awful combination of guerrilla and conventional war. with so much controversy as to whether we ought to be there. but neither condition precludes the congress from making a fullscale inquiry into the 18month delay by the army in ackledging the details of the incident and in its own investigation.  should the protection of the rights of the defendants be considered as in any way inconsistent with our need to ascertain how those in authority could remain silent despite having kledge of the alleged massacre. the statement yesterday by representative gerald ford. as reported in the press. that "top army officials knew about it. i k" is most disturbing in its implications and surely mandates a full inquiry by the congress. as well as by the department of defense. one thing should be made clear at the outset. there is question of the patriotism or the gallantry of the thousands of american fighting men who have risked and given their lives with ho in vietnam by seeking out alleged brutality and criminal acts wherever they exist and whoever be the defendants. the dignity of the u.s. armed services is at stake. as is the moral standing of our nation throughout the world. we must prosecute alleged war crimes of dur own soldiers with the same objectivity that was used in seeking out the war criminals of our enemies at the end of world war ii. our countrys standards of equal justice under law will tolerate  less.
 of the united states to lead the nation clearly. quickly. and unequivocably out of vietnam. and in this the u.s. military establishment also has a new responsibility. here. too. is a test of the military establishment and its amenability to civilian control in the highest american tradition. in my judgment. it is  essential that the u.s. military establishment itself accept the responsibility for preparing the quickest and most orderly withdrawal from vietnam. it must assess to the satisfaction of civilian control the pattern of u.s. withdrawal. consistent with battlefield security. and leaving the most favorable position which can be attained under the circumstances to the south vietnamese forces. i believe that it is essential that the u.s. military establishment undertake this task for two reasons. first. because it is its duty under orders to devise an orderly and effective withdrawal. and second. because the ho of our military forces demands it. our forces have fought the war with great bravery and skill under most difficult circumstances. the same bravery and the same skill are  called upon to extricate our nation from an impossible war situation. our armed forces are capable of both.
i do  k whether i was on the floor of the senate or . i hope the senator will  be upset with me. i am trying to help the senator to accomplish what he desires. in a way in which the senate can legislate with dignity. i am  trying to cross him at all. i am trying to be helpful. this must be done here. it can be done in public. [deleted.] he merely wishes to inhibit two things. as i understand: first. the use of american combat troops. second. the support of local troops other than in respect to logistics and training. that can be accomplished with words. retaining intact the right to bomb from thailand and from south vietnam. and to inhibit the use of american combat troops in laos. but i respectfully submit that these wordswhether i was on the floor of the senate then or was awake or asleepdo  do that. they do  have anything to do with combat troops. but deal only with the use of these funds for the support of local forces and how they shall be managed. second. this is a real constitutional test. this is the first time we are trying to match the power of the senate with the power of the executive. we have got to make both work. because we will  retain our power unless we make them work. the commitments resolution says that we may act either by a declaration of war or by a concurrent resolution. as to southeast asia. we have acted by a joint resolutionthe gulf of tonkin resolution. that resolution is ample egh in its words to quality under the commitments resolution. it lets us do everything we want to do in laos and thailand as well as in south vietnam.  what we are trying to do is to limit that resolution to some extent. which i think. as i understand. is right and important to do in an appropriation bill. unless we want to repeal the gulf of tonkin resolution altogether. therefore. if the opportunity presents itselfand i hope very much that the senator from wyoming will  press his motion to tablei shall seek to modify. with all respect to the senator from montana and the senator from kentucky
. that is the case. the present navy policy is an inequity and it does  meet standards of best bidding for the united states. it is strictly a contrived arrangement that is very costly to certain ports. it does  stand up to the best prices and services. it is  attributable to any convenience of travel. once we get out of the home port we can confine the distance question to the naval district. it may be further from the naval district than if the ship was repaired within the 350 miles. that is often the case. for all these reasons. to correct the inequity based on navy regulations. which apparently is locked in so that we can move in. we have interposed this amendment so that the senate. at long last. as the house has recognized. will see the injustice involved and will help us to correct it.
 they are similar. there is only one technical difference. that is in the words "private facility." we used the word "facility" before. we  use "private facility." this is a matter that applies only when private work is involved and does  involve naval shipyards.
there have been hearings. of course i can control that. the house of representatives were satisfied. apparently. without hearings. i might tell the senator that we have been trying to get updated figures from the navy as closely as we can. but  for 1968 or 1969. but we have been unsuccessful. i do  understand that. however one feels about the amendment. i do  understand the navys conduct on this issue.
i understand at least $20 million a year is involved in work of this character. i would assume opening the work up for competition would get a better price. it has that element of actual savings and the element of decency and principle. . here is a very blatant case where the navy has dug in its heels. it is hard to k for what reason. they have given reason.  has a reason been advanced on the floor of the senate. if we do  correct things that have reason for being artificial. something is wrong somewhere. i may  find out what it is. but obviously it is  right.
i did  want to interrupt the senator. i wanted him to make his argument but. really. it has relevance to this situation. it does  affect home ports at all. it does  affect the problem of the navy yards. it affects only private work. so it does  affect home ports. it does  affect the problem of navy yards. as to flexibility. this would give more.  less. flexibility. flexibility is restricted  by the naval districts. this would open up new places within 350 miles of the home port. or in or outside of naval districts. the navy will get low bids in the naval district or anywhere within 350 miles. i repeat. i appreciate that it is hard to understand this in the arguments. but it has been brought up. so let us look at it. what are the reasons against it. this would give flexibility. it does  affect the problems of the naval shipyards. it applies only to private work. it does  affect the home ports. what else is there. so. it kks down every other argument there is against it. so. what is the reason. what is the navy doing except digging in its heels and  moving. are we going to give courtesy votes here. if we want the confidence of the country. if this is the best argument that can be made against this amendment. then. senators. vote your consciences on this amendment. there is reason justifying present practice except the navy has dug in. its heels.
i think as long as the senate is interested in the details of this matter. it is very important to point them out. for work and training programs. job corps. school in summer. comprehensive employment. special impact. work experience. and foster grandparents. the authorized amount is $871 million. for the community action programs. which includes headstart. legal service. and other programs. $1.078 billion. for the other miscellaneous programs. like migrant workers. rural areas. vista. and administration of the program. it generally comes to about $100 million. that is the anatomy of what is being requested in this appropriation. it seems to me that the argument of the senator from wisconsin upon that is conclusive. there are new programs involved. it has been an ongoing program. with the parliamentary situation that the ceiling will be whatever the senate appropriates. we must go to this higher figure. the juxtaposition between what we are doing in war and war preparation and many other things is certainly a fair appeal to conscience in terms of the clients of this program . ask for the yeas and nays on the amendment.
. and certainly much slower than i believe to be essential for broader u.s. interests. significantly. japanese concern over the pace of u.s. withdrawal as expressed to me. had a major. positive new dimension. this new dimension is the expressed willingness in japan for it to assume a significant new responsibility in the ecoic field. perhaps in the context of a "master plan" for the reconstruction and development of vietnam. i saw indications that japans efforts in this regard need  await a formal or juridical end of the vietnam war. it is widely recognized that japans new role in asian security can be in the military field. or even in the field of political leadership under present conditions. but a major ecoic development role. even beyond vietnam and southeast asia. is being contemplated. with respect to vietnam. an expanded japanese ecoic role would probably be presented in terms of an offer to assist in the development and reconstruction of both south vietnam. andif it acceptsth vietnam. too. japanese business leaders also expressed concern about vietnam and a certain willingness to increase private business activities there. provided better security assurances could be obtained. i believe that there is much the japanese government could do. through investment guarantees and other programs. to bring japanese private enterprise into vietnams ecoic development in a significant way. in terms of broader asian ecoic development. i found a readiness on japans part to play a major role within some kind of consortium arrangement in which the united states would also be a major participant. the japanese seem to be aware of the residue of distrust and fear of japanese ecoic and political domination which still persists in asia. this awareness undoubtedly contributes to the japanese readiness to act essentially in a multilateral way in cooperation with the united states. and also such other asian governments as those of thailand. malaysia. the philippines. indonesia. taiwan. republic of china. and south korea. japan seems ready to act in a significant wayboth governmentally and in the private sectorto accelerate ecoic development efforts in asia. in this regard. japan has already pledged $100 million to the "soft loan"-special fundwindow of the asian development bank. the u.s. pledge to make available an equal amount has  yet been acted upon by congress. in my judgment. it is critical that the united states come through on its own pledge which is so necessary to give momentum to ecoic development in asia as the vietnam war winds down. and which is needed to supplement the japanese contribution. in addition to these broad. asian security themes. my discussions in japan focused on the major problems which have arisen to threaten the very foundations of united statesjapan trade and ecoic relations. i made a public presentation of these issues as i see them in my speech before the japanamerican society in tokyo. the full text of this speech. is appended to my report. and i ask unanimous consent to have it printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
that is our thought. i wish to emphasize that to my very dear friendsand in this case it happens to be literally truethe senators from new jersey . we are  trying to get the secretary to decide or to have a war between the states. we believe that this is a technique which could perhaps facilitate agreement. let the senate choose. if there is any other alternatives that my colleagues have to suggest. i hope they will be as openminded as we will be under these circumstances.
it will just take a minute. . i hope very much that this will lend point to the desire which i have. and i think many share. to repeal the gulf of tonkin resolution. which may be claimed to provide some generalized authorization for our activities in the war in laos. despite the contrary effect and intent of the national commitments resolution and the recent amendment to the defense appropriations bill prohibiting introduction of u.s. ground combat troops in laos. participation in a war. without disclosing to the congress or the american people that we are participating in such a war. and without receiving the authorization of cogress to conduct such activities. is  a constitutional course of action under our system of government. we in the senate have a special responsibility for vigilance in this matter. we must  permit a new vietnam to develop. that is a real danger with respect to the situation in laos. i thank my colleague for his extraordinarily fine leadership in this as in so many other matters.
s statement that we are flying armed reconnaissance missions on requestis that the plaine des jarres involvement is related to the interdiction of the ho chi minh trail. one must always have a balance in these matters. one can expect to get all profits. there are some losses. i gather the senator to feel. and i wish to join him in this. that although it may have some effect on efforts to interdict the ho chi minh trail. it is  sufficient to justify running the risk of aher war in that part of the world by involving ourselves even from the air in the plaine des jarres actions.
do i understand the senators feeling to be that what he considers to be within the authority of the presidentto wit. interdiction of the ho chi minh trailmay also be stretched to mean invasion of the air space of laos because the ho chi minh trail goes through laos. so that we understand each other on that score. we are  arguing the niceties or subtleties. we are arguing the involvement of the united states in the danger of aher war in laos. or a full extension of the vietnam war to laotian territory.
we also have to think about the degree to which these new weapons on our side and on their side is likely to trap us into an escalation of the atomic arms race. abm and mirv are the next generation of weapons systems that salt is seeking to contain. they are. in effect. what salt is all about. if it is to be significant and effective. i believe that this resolution reflects the feeling that they have  given sufficient importance to the time lag in coming to an agreement on the salt talks as compared with the. perhaps. irrevocable posture with regard to the next generation of strategic nuclear weapons if we both go ahead with abm and mirv. in the test ban treaty and the proliferation treaty. we have already both accepted fair equality in terms of detection. one has challenged that during the years the test ban treaty has been in effect. i think that is extremely important because of the tremendous expense of billions of dollars and the deprivation it would mean to both peoples if the deployment of the new generation weapons is  stopped. the sheer fact is that they may back us off the edge of the precipice so that we can. any longer. come to an agreement because it will go out of our hands. this makes this resolution and the idea which it proposes critically important. finally. i think again it should be emphasized that the idea of unilateral disarmament. the idea that we will be the "patsies" and come forward with a fine and beneficent proposal which is going to disadvantage us. is strictly exorcised by this resolution. it has been developed completely  by the senator from new jersey . the senator from iowa . the senator from massachusetts . the senator from kentucky . the senator from florida . but it needs to be emphasized. one is talking about unilateral disarmament. one is talking about anything but a mutual freeze. so that any discussion about the fact that it may cause us to relax our guard. that the next step will be that someone will suggest. "do it yourself and they will follow." and all that. we exclude that expressly and we say so in so many words. we will make the proposal. if this resolution passes. if the president adopts what we urge in this resolution as the judgment of the senate. but we will  stop our national security efforts. our vigilance and preparation. we will  delay. we will  be mawkish about it. we will propose it and push it. it must be mutual.  just out of courtesy. or in thought. but in fact. we are  in any way proposing opening up the united states to be disadvantaged in this deadly competition. for all these reasons. 
. as he stated so movingly. has deep responsibility for the security of our troops. he also has deep responsibility for the domestic peace and tranquillity of the nation at home. and for the orderly functioning of duly constituted processes respecting the wishes and needs of the nation. our system is based on a division of powersa sharing of powersand a system of checks and balances. all these considerations must be weighed and reconciled. they can be iged on grounds that troop security is the only question.
. i have received this morning a most significant petition from the citizens of ithaca. n.y. as senators well k. ithaca. is the seat of cornell university. one of the largest universities in my state. and the locus of considerable student dissent against our military involvement in indochina. we often hear that. while students protest. the solid citizens in the surrounding community are much less concerned with the war which drags on in vietnam and has  extended itself to cambodia. this petition. i believe. brands that supposition as erroneous. for it is signed by the business leaders. the local political leaders. the community leaders of the town as a whole. and the people who collected these names state that fully threequarters of those who were approached signed the petition. calling upon our government to reverse the expansion of the vietnam war into cambodia. and to promote every genuine effort for a rapid and total withdrawal from southeast asia. i ask unanimous consent that the covering letter explaining the petition. and the petition itself. be printed in the reco.d.
. near east report. a biweekly journal which comments on developments in that troubled portion of the world. recently ran an article which i feel provides great insight into israels increasingly desperate situation at the hands of its radical arab enemies and the u.s.s.r. the article. "may 1967may 1970" points up the tragic similarity between the soviet menace  and as it existed at the outbreak of the 6day war 3 years ago this month. the only difference  is that the soviet presence in the middle east today is felt  simply in terms of soviet arms provided without cost to the radical arabs. but in terms of mensoviet fighting men.  "technicians." above all. this article focuses on israels growing deplorable sense of isolation in a world community that offers treaties or alliances. assistance except in the form of occasional sales of arms. hearing of its grievances except the counsel of the united nations. this article makes a brief but eloquent case for the united states to provide israel with the jet fighters it needs for survival. and as such. i wish to call it to the attention of my colleagues. i. therefore. ask unanimous consent that the portion of the article i have just described be printed into the record.
s power as commander in chief in respect of the ongoing vietnam war is through the appropriations power. everybody agreeswe agree. i agree. certainlythat this is an undesirable method. because you always could be up against the hard rock of denying support to the troops in the field by order of the nation if you do it through an appropriations cutoff.
this is a real problem. and we are trying to deal with it. all the more reason for legislation of this character. as the capstone of the edifice we are seeking  to erect. which will house the warmaking powers of the president and congress and make them consistent. i would like to advance the view that. to me. one of the most desirable things that could result from our debates on the vietnam war is a joint sharing by congress and the president of the responsibility for its termination. once we get out of vietnam. events there may be of a character as to make us want to have a shared responsibility. rather than the president or we alonealthough we hope and pray that will  happenin terms of the national feeling of the people of the united states. i am grateful to my colleague for his intercession. and i pay my tribute to the comprehensive analysis he made on .
. i have introduced a bill. s. 3964. which i feel offers a good solution to the broader question of the division of the war powers. i hope the senate will have an opportunity to consider the whole historic constitutional issue in connection with s. 3964 and any other bills which might be introduced on this subject. it is too important a matter to be disposed of through any controversial language which imperils. by definition. the division. and balance of the warmaking powers.
to declare war and to regulate the armed forces of the united states. we are all. in this matter. servants of the senate. i feel it my duty to submit the question. we will debate it. let us see what the senate wants to do. but in the meantime. i should like senators to feel that they can have a look at it and especially the senator from west virginia .
i will tell the senator my fundamental purpose: i think this power to put us into war and to wage war is so awesome that we must share it. that is what i am saying. and that is what the constitution says. in its deep wisdom. we have  abdicated our power specified in the constitution.
 in vietnam by the power of the purse. the power to declare war and make rules for the government and regulation of the armed forces. i think that we have those constitutional powers. however. the cooperchurch amendment does  try to do that. it uses only the power of the purse. the socalled mcgovern amendment does  do that. but i believe we do continue to have the war powers reserved to congress in article i. section 8. of the constitution. as well. and that we can. and must. learn to use those powers in the contemporary context.
. i join my colleagues in congratulations to the senator from maryland for introducing. with the support and help of the majority leader. the resolution he did last december. i say this withstanding the fact that i myself perceived. even before then. the critical aspect of terminating the gulf of tonkin resolution in the eventuation of u.s. policy with respect to ending war in vietnam. indeed. several months before the senator from maryand submitted his comprehensive resolutinin october of 1969i joined with the senator from rhode island
 and congress hereafterand i emphasize that wordin respect of making war. in view of the speed with which modern emergencies break. and of the fact that it seems highly unlikely that we will. at least in cold blood. utilize the declaration of war power. because of its invidious aspects. as raised in international law and embargoes. such a new clarification is required. i have endeavored to deal with this final step myself by the introduction of a bill s. 3964. i hope very much other senators will deal with it. or use their minds and ideas in respect to it. i introduced my bill. s. 3964. on june 15.
there is question about the fact that the powers of the commander in chief. as interpreted by us currently and as interpreted. i think. by the highest constitutional experts. currently reserve in the president the full authority to deal with the repulse of any attack or even grave endangerment of the united states or of the security of our forces. wherever deployed. provided this does  imply committing ourselves by the same channel in which we were committed to a war in vietnam. all it amounts to is an accommodation between the president and congress that. where the exigencies of the security of the country really require. in substantive fact. a rapid response or an automatic response by the president. he has complete authorityindeed. the dutyto make it.
 johnson had the right if there was an attack on u.s. naval forces to act to prevent further attack or to punish those who had attacked. by reason of his power as commander in chief. that is all he had the right to do.
he can. under the circumstances to the extent required to bring the war to a conclusion and to disengage our troops with the maximum security to them. that is my definition. in other words. when tonkin gulf is cleared from the books the president has the authority to bring this war to a conclusion and withdraw our troops consistent with their security. as commander in chief that is the power he has.
consistent with the security of american troops. the reason is that this was has  gone long beyond the point of replying to an attack. it is a question solely of. shall we be at war. that decision. without a declaration of war. is  in the hands of the president alone. he has authority in concluding the war but he can. in effect. make a war.
it will if the president concurs with the view that i have expressed. that considering the length of the war and the history involved. his power as commander in chief leaves him only that alternative: to end the war and withdraw our troops in an appropriate way consistent with their security. should the president construe his powers differently than i do. then the congress will have to act. if it does  like his timetable or if it does  like his conditions. but i express the hope. as an american. that it would be in the highest interest of the country if one of two things were possible. if the president made clear to us that he does accept this constitutional view and would give some satisfaction as to the timetable that he has in mind. so that we can rely on it. this would be best. second best would be if he said. "ok. if you do  like my timetable. give me yours." this could be done in such a way that he would have the privilege of signing or  signing. and we could override. in the great hope we could share with him the timetable. the third eventuality is the approach of being completely dissatisfied in terms of the national interest of our nation. the first alternative is best. the second alternative is second best. and the third alternative would be some version of the mcgovernhatfleld measure where we would be exercising our own judgment. he still has to sign that. too. as it is on a bill for authorizations. i regard this the least acceptable of the three. i do  like to see in the american system the president ordering us or congress ordering the president.
i thank the senator. because i have design to wish anything on the senate whatever. i gave my personal view that. considering the history of what power a president has to react as commander in chief. it would seem to me. after all these years. in the absence of a clear congressional direction. that the president has power to end the war and withdraw our troops with maximum security to them. the senator asks. what about our treaty commitments. does the president also have the power to live up to our treaty commitments. i would answer as follows: in my judgmentagain. this is only my opiniona president might have to react in fulfilling a treaty commitment or carrying out a treaty commitment. when it comes up in such a way and such a context that the interest and security of the country do  permit him to invoke those "constitutional processes" which require congress to act legislativelythrough declaration of war. tonkin gulf resolution. or whatever it may be. i would accept that. and i take specific account of it in the bill i have introduced. but. the seato treaty does  really commit us to fighting in south vietnam at all. and. where so much time has gone by. and where we longer can say there is a problem of immediate reaction. there i would say the president does  have any such power alone. and i do  want to entrust to the president alone. at this stage. the power to make war in the carrying out of a treaty commitment. if president nixon feels that he needs the power to carry out a treaty commitment. then. in my judgment. if we terminate gulf of tonkin. he should turn to us and say. "my friends. i agree with you about taking the blank check off the books. but i need a check for $100. and this is why." he would give us the specifics on a resolution that he wanted. he would say. "i need it immediately." or "i need it within 10 days." or "i need it within 2 days." that is perfectly all right. it would be our duty. in my judgment. to strain to meet his timetable in deciding whether we do or do  wish to give him what he wants. there is also a doctrine in the law with respect to the continuance of a given situation and the fact that implications may be drawn from that unless they are cut off by congress. and that might apply in some alleviation of the doctrine i have stated as to what the presidents continuing power is. but i have stated it in its basic sense. and i hope very much that it will never be necessary for congress to order the president. any more than it will be for the president to order congress. i point out to the senator that this interpretation is my own. it is completely consistent with the history of the u.s. treaty commitments since the war. in every case we have conditioned the action which we were ready to takethat goes for nato and all of themas being subject to our constitutional processes. that means whatever power the constitution gives the president and whatever the constitution gives the congress.
. in brussels on july 23. i chaired the spring meeting of the political committee of the th atlantic assemblythe organization of the parliamentarians of the 15 nato nations. i also met with nato secretary general brosio. thereafter. during a visit to four western european countries in the period july 38. i discussed the key issues in u.s.-european relations with a wide spectrum of european leaders. in rome. i met with gov. guido carli. of the bank of italy and a leading figure in international monetary and financial matters. in london. i spoke with home secretary maudling of the new conservative government. as well as with opposition leader harold wilson and other members of the labor and conservative parties. in bonn. i had extensive discussions with defense minister schmidt. foreign minister scheele. minister of the chancellors office emkhe. and former chancellor and opposition leader dr. kiesinger. there are four key issues  under active negotiation which will. in my judgment. determine the basis for u.s. relations with western europe in the decades ahead. the issues of overriding importance are: first. chancellor brandts ostpolitik and the search for eastwest detente in europe. second. the challenge to western security from the soviet unions expansionist moves in the mediterranean and mideast. third. the united states military deployment in europe. especially as this involves u.s. troop levels in west germany and includes the problem of balanceof -payments offsets. and fourth. the expansion of the european ecoic community to include britain and the other applicant nations and the relationship of an expanded eec to the united states. chancellor brandts ostpolitikor. eastern policyis a diplomatic initiative of potentially farreaching consequences which seeks a malization of west germanys relations with its east european neighbors and the soviet union. through a series of four simultaneous negotiationsbetween bonn and moscow. bonn and prague. bonn and waxsaw. bonn and east germany. and including also four power negotiations over berlin in which the u.s. is engagedostpolitik. in essence. seeks to achieve a comprehensive. postwar "german settlement" through means other than a german peace treaty which has been stalled and refused by the soviet union. there appears to be broad support for the concept of ostpolitik. as explained by the council of ministers of nato. throughout western europe. and the desire for "detente" is widespread. strong criticism of ostpolitik. contained in a draft rapporteurs report considered by the political committee meeting. was rejected overwhelmingly by the committee in favor of the nato ministers formulation endorsing ostpolitik. and this is reflected by the attached resolution of the political committee. within the federal republic of germany itself. i found opinion to be more closely divided on the question of ostpolitik. the opposition cdu/csu is mounting a forceful challenge to certain important aspects of ostpolitik. which its leaders charge could compromise basic german and western interests in berlin and the gdr. the proponents of ostpolitik on the other hand. believe that the fruits of "malization." if achieved through the ostpolltik. would be of major. longterm benefit to western interest and to the evolution of eastern europe out of its present soviet "satellite" posture. the issues are subtle but of vast importance. whether a malizatio legitimization--of the present division of europebetween the frg. the gdr. poland and czechoslovakiawould redound to the greater advantage of the communist or the communist worlds is a matter which is debatable. i believe that the ingenuity and determination of the free people of western europe. in partnership with th america. are sufficient to protect and enhance western interests in the new form of competition with the soviet system which could ensue from malization based on the ostpolitik initiative. it is neither vital  necessary. that the right peacefully to bring east and west germany together ultimately be sacrificed. for the cost in german irridentism could be high indeed. the issue still lies in the balance. however. for it is apparent to me that western europe has yet to find its bearings. despite its emous ecoic growth over the past two decades. western europe continues to be psychologically and politically unable to find its place. it has  yet psychologically "grown into" the great political and ecoic power potentiality of an expanded eec and a politically united western europe. the leadership of western europe still thinks and feels "small." it has yet to grasp the potentiality of its own strength in geopolitical and ecoic terms. this psychological reality is of direct importance to u.s. security interests which are closely tied to the question of u.s. troops in germany. our nato allies. particularly west germany. are haunted by a fear of a u.s. troop pullout which they believe would leave them naked before the coercive power of the soviet union. there is a strong current of opinion in high positions in western europe which believes there would be swift and silent unravelling of nato if the united states made significant substantive cuts in the level of troops it maintains in west germany. the next stage. according to this view. would be the imposition of a finnishtype relationship by the u.s.s.r. on western europe. this is a situation which may  be congenial to the desires of the united states. but i am convinced that it is a reality which must be accepted in considering u.s. policy. its implications. in the bluntest terms. mean that the maintenance of substantially current u.s. troop levels in europe is necessary to protect u.s. security interests in europe. the united states could deal itself out of a major role in shaping a comprehensive european settlement by a premature draw down of our troops. the threat to our security interests in europe today are  that of direct military attack. rather. they are rooted in the psychology and history of western europe. while i can fully understand the reasoningas seen from the american vantage pointbehind the resolution pending. which calls for substantial reductions in u.s. troops in europe. i deeply believe that such a move at this time could gravely compromise vital u.s. security interests. by precipitating a disintegration of nato. the effect of substantial u.s. troop reductions at this time would be determined by the current psychological realities of western europe. which are characterized by a pervasive sense of weakness in relation to the u.s.s.r. whether this psychological reality is justified from an objective american perspective. is  the question. in my judgment. we must base our policy on the political and psychological realities as we find them. rather than as we might wish them to be. i could see greater irony than for the united states to prejudice its vital security interests in europe through an impatient withdrawal from europe . especially as our withdrawal from the peripheral fringes of the asian mainland continues to be slow. so divisive. and so indecisive. our security interests in europe are paramount. they demand first priority. it is a price we must be prepared to continue to pay. this. of course. does  mean that the united states should  insist on a more equitable distribution of the burden sharing as respects the military posture of nato and the cost of maintaining over 300.000 troops in europe. i believe that the united states must continue to take a firm line in negotiations on this question of offsets and i wish to commend the able work done by my colleague senator percy in focusing attention in europe on many facets of this important issue. i am guardedly optimistic that a new arrangement will emerge. which is much more satisfactory to the united states. the new concept of budget support payments--as distinct from purchase and loansas a means of ameliorating balanceofpayments costs to the united states appears to be gaining acceptance in europe. it probably must be multilateral to be acceptable to bonn but i believe that at least token participation by other nato members is possible and should be persistently sought by the united states through negotiation. in my judgment. the stage has  been reached when overt pressures on west germany could be counterproductive. i would like to suggest a senate moratorium on this matter. while the united states and the frg wrestle with the issue through appropriate diplomatic channels. the third issue preoccupying the attention of europeand which directly affects u.s. interestsis the negotiations to expand the eec to include britain. denmark. way. and ireland. in discussions with european leaders i expressed my view that the interest of the united states continues to be strongly in favor of an expanded eec but that the ultimate attitude of the united states would be molded by the implications of terms offered to britain. and by the kind of trade. monetary and fiscal posture. visavis the united states of a larger eec. in my judgment. the balance between cupidity and statesmanship. as regards the terms set for british entry into the eec. has  yet been decided. . in my judgment. has europe yet reached the moment of truth within its own councils as to its trade posture. if the eec expands. and chooses to pursue a protectionist course. it could set in motion a major and debilitating trade war which could weaken europe and th america. such a development undoubtedly would also stimulate protectionist tendencies in the united states and. with respect to the issue of u.s. troop levels. it could be a major factor in bringing about what europeans profess to fear the mosta rapid u.s. withdrawal from western europe which would leave the soviet union in a dominant psychological and geopolitical position. i am etheless optimistic that statesmanship will prevail. my conversations in europe indicated a new sense of realism and determinationas well as optimismon the fundamental issues of eec expansion and renewed progress toward european political unity. as europe grows psychologically into the full dimensions of its new potentiality i believe that a more statesmanlike attitude will prevail on the broad issues of political and ecoic partnership and interdependence. the fourth key issue which will shape united stateseuropean relations in the coming decadeand which is closely interrelated with the other issues including u.s. troop strength in europeis the challenge of soviet expansion in the mideast and the eastern mediterranean. i found acceptancethough in given cases. grudging---of the fact that soviet activities in the mideast. and especially recent omis assumption of a combat role by soviet military personnel in egypt. represents a direct challenge to western europes security. there is an awareness that nato could be effectively outflanked by the consolidation of soviet power in the eastern and southern mediterranean littoral areas. there is also an awareness of european industrial dependence upon mideast oil. my suggestion that the mideast ought to be an important agenda item of any european security conference also was received with general agreement. however. western europes awareness of the stakes in the middle east appear to be of a -theoretical nature.  actively involving western europein its viewin any of the diplomatic and security measures  required to protect western interests. there seems to be a widespread feeling that there is little europe can or needs to do. and that the fate of the mideast will be decided by the soviet union and the united states and western europe can really do little about it. during my discussions in western europe i expressed the strong view that u.s. attitudes on other issues of great interest to europetroop levels. trade and monetary questions--will be deeply influenced by western europes policy and attitude with respect to the mideast. if the united states is accorded the same conspicuous lack of aid and comfort in the mideastwhere it is confronting the soviet union in an area of vital and direct ecoic and security interest to europe--that has been accorded to u.s. policy in vietnam. there must inevitably be a psychological backlash in the united states against western europe. western europe simply can stand aloof from the mideast. in concluding. i wish to emphasize that issues of the highest importance to the united states are  being negotiated in europe. the issues  under negotiation are of transcendent importance as they could determine the fate of europe for the remainder of the century. the massive ice pack which has frozen western and eastern european affairs for the past 25 years is cracking and a glacial flow has commenced. in my judgment. it is essential that the united states be alert to the possibilities as well as the dangers inherent in the present situation of flux and that we be prepared to invest the energy. attention and resources necessary to enable us to join effectively in the shape of the future of europe  beginning to emerge. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a communique issued by the political committee.
. during this week commemorating the captive european nations. i wish to pay tribute to the courage and determination of the peoples of the captive nations for their continuing efforts to achieve their personal freedoms. in this same month of july. we americans celebrate our own declaration of independence and freedom. at the same time. we do . and can. forget the tragic plight of those east european peoples whose fundamental human rights are still denied them. it has been 25 years since military hostilities in europe were concluded and nazi tyranny finally put to an end. yet. today. half of europe stills suffers under tyranny. an entire generation of east europeans has grown up king hing of individual liberty. those who fought and sacrificed so much during world war ii for their freedom have been deeply disappointed in their hopes and expectations. even the hopes of the brave czechoslovakian youths of 1968 have been cruelly suppressed as have the earlier movements in poland. hungary and east oermany. that these peoples still hope and work so fervently for release from their bondage is truly an inspiration which commands our sympathy and support. recent talk of some sort of european security conference. along with negotiations  proceeding between west germany and the soviet union. poland. czechoslovakia. and east germany. makes it especially important that the united states reaffirm its objective of ultimately seeing freedom restored to eastern europe. "malization" of relations between east and west in europe must  be allowed to mean acquiescence in the perpetual denial of human freedom in one half of an artifically divided europe. the brezhnev doctrine of limited sovereignty for eastern europe enunciated in 1968 after the soviet invasion of czechoslovakia. is  acceptable to free men. the united states needs to continue its resolve to use all the resources of diplomacy. morality. and world public opinion so that freedom is ultimately restored to the peoples of the captive nations.
i think the senator is correct. but i do think the senator could answer me. i do  think i asked the same question that has already been asked. and i think the senator could answer. i shall rephrase my question. we are perfectly willing to appropriate money for what we k. there are many things the administration says we can k. i say if they give us a good reason why we should  k. then we should appropriate the money. but we have the right to judge if that reason is valid. therefore. the only weapon available to us is to say if they do  disclose to us or give us a good reason.
 and the war powers of congress. i perhaps a new technique would be that if we should have only the advise and consent- role. without the treaty. it is  egh for us and the foreign relations committee to be consulted. perhaps it may be necessary to invoke-
. over the course of the last several months. the plight of the residents of a tiny american island in the caribbeanculebrahas come increasingly to public attention. i culebra is partof the commonwealth of puerto rico. and its citizens. are american citizens. yet- much of the island - has for years been owned by the navy. and it is  used for practice firing of naval ordnance to the increasing dismay of the culebrans. . as a senator from new york. which has many residents of puerto rican extraction. and as a former member of the commission on the status of puerto rico. i have taken an interest in this matter. and i am .pleased to say that others. including some of my colleagues here in the senate. the gover of my state. and members of the press. have likewise taken an interest. gover rockefeller recently released the following letter to the secretary of defense: . i
. i have little doubt that. if this kind of navy target practice took place in close proximity to inhabited portions of a state represented in this senate. the senator from that state would insistand rightly sothat. if there were any alternative. the practice be terminated and that the navy find an uninhabited place to test its weapons. but puerto rico has senator. and yet it has the whole senate. whose responsibility it is to protect the rights. tranquillity. the safety of every american citizen. because of that responsibility. i have written to the secretary of the navy about this matter. and i have also urged the chairman of the appropriate senate subcommittee to investigate it and to see if this intrusion on the lives of. and danger to. the americans living on culebra is really unavoidable. or if the navy can and should find alternative sites for the use of the navy. i hope very much that the navy will likewise seek to adjust its practices. voluntarily. to the legitimate needs and aspirations of the people of culebra.
. that in the event we are unable to achieve true draft reform in the near future. i shall certainly reassess my position on the issue before us today. i have by means concluded that the draft. in the inefficient and discriminatory manner it operates today. is any better than a volunteer army would be. for all its problems.
that was my motive in selecting the language which i did. i must pay tribute here to my colleagues who are sponsoring the amendment for their willingness to amend their language. once convinced. and without being rigid adherents to their own draftsmanship. i would like to make clear that the president remains commander in chief. but the power of commander in chief. and this is a constitutional question. does  include the power to declare war or to make war of a kind which can only result from a declaration of war. that is what we have here.
one of my concerns was the proliferation of units. the administration is  very happy with the council of social advisers for that reason. of course. it did  really have anything especially to say about the office of goals and priorities research since it is an office for congress itself. but the administration was  happy with the idea of aher council of social advisers. we have tried to deal with that subject by  setting it up in the same way as we did the ecoic report. requiring a special report of a congressional committee on it. and by making the time element such that the president could. if he chose. include it with the ecoic report so they would  be different. i went along with the senator from minnesota . finally. after consulting with people in the executive department. who disagree even . because i believe when one reads. as i have for so many years. having served with the senator from wisconsin on the joint ecoic committee. the efforts of the council of ecoic advisers to assess social needsthey try but it is always so limited and so obviously a fifth wheel to the things they are really interested init only highlights the essentiality. especially in this day and age. of a specialized appraisal of those priorities. second. i was motivated by the fact that i had thought the initiative during the eisenhower administration. which was very close to the heart of president eisenhower himselfin having a special commission to deal with national prioritieswas a very gifted initiative. of course. those were heavily in the social field. i actually tried for a long time to bringabout a national commission which would deal with priorities both in the social and ecoic fields. failing that. i think this is. for practical purposes. the same approach. and therefore i supported the senator from minnesota in it. though. naturally. being the ranking miity cxvi- 1963part 23 member. it is my duty to do everything i could to go with the president of my own party. i was reluctant to. but finally came to the conclusion that it was the only way to handle the matter. i think the office which has been established. which gives the congress a counterpart of the new presidential office. headed by former secretary of labor shultz. achieves a very desirable balance in the bill. i might say to my colleagues. especially on this side of the aisle. that again i sought to avoid a proliferation of agencies and inquiry was made to the comptroller general as to whether it would be advisable for the comptroller general to extend his office to deal with the same problem. i have a letter from the comptroller general. which is dated february 17. 1970. and is incorporated in the hearing record at page 259. although it might be unnecessary to place it in the record since it appears in the record of hearings. i think perhaps it had better be complete the record. i ask unanimous consent to make the comptroller generals letter a part of these proceedings.
. i should like to have the attention of the senator from washington. i do  k whether an amendment is going to be necessary. but i should like at least to ask some questions for the record. i f the senator will direct his attention to section 103. at page 56. he will e that the bill provides the following: the secretary of the army may establish or develop army installations and facilities by. proceeding. with constructions made necessary by changes in army missions and responsibilities-
i think senators will find that what i am about to ask is important. it could involve ultimately vast sums of money and matters of vast significance by the united states. this is  a light matter. it concerns the strategic arms race which has occasioned months of debate in this chamber. and may again. i hope senators will give me their close attention. the section reads: the secretary of the army may establish or develop army installations and facilities by proceeding with constructions. made necessary by. changes in army missions and .responsibilities which have been. occasioned by: (a) unforeseen security considerations. then follow other specifications. including new weapons development. the one. i am focusing onis -"unforeseen security considerations." . these words are broad egh to justify the acquisition of new abm sites. if. for example. the united states should enter into some form of salt agreement with the soviet union and should adopt what has been widely speculated upon asthe "national command authority" formulathat is. an abm installation of great magnitude around washington and one around moscowi see hing in this language which would prevent the secretary of defense from going right ahead to do it without any further congressional authorization. he would have the difficulty probably of requiring appropriations as this section does  carry any real money. it carries $10 million. but. etheless. he would have authority. and perhaps could use money for missiles and other hardware already authorized or appropriated for use at other sites. i have questioned the senator from washington about this. and i charge secret motive of any kind by the committee. he tells meand i take his word for itthat this has been the kind of provision which has been carried on for a long time to take care of contingencies which might occur under ordinary circumstances. within the framework of this emous struggle over the abm. within the framework of negotiations which are  going on with the soviet unionin other words. within the present circumstancesit would seem at first reading that this does represent an emous grant of discretionary authority which could be used to fit the kind of situation that i have described. moreover. taken literally the language of this section would allow the secretary of the army to move ahead with abm sites aimed at "area defense." despite senator jacksons.own fine work to prevent this. i think it is very essential. before any of us decide whether an amendment is deserved. that this matter be resolved. an amendment would be very simple. it would just confine the meaning of this to whatever has been authorized by law. but this is a new law. .so i think it is essential that we have the views of the bill.
. i would like to identify myself with the arguments made about culebra. i. too. have been in- many housesenate conferences. i k how obstinate our colleagues in the other body can be. perhaps i should use the word "obdurate" which is a more kindly word. thus. i k what the senator from washington was up against. however. i feel that. considering his great power as subcommittee chairman. and what he has said about holding the navy responsible in this situation. together with the -handle he has that is written into the law. namely. the report. can be very effective. i must say that. king the senator from washington as. i do. and having heard the commitments which he has made on the floor. i am sure he will~see to its that the people. of culebra really get an honest break. i would like to say that quite -publicly and also say how deeply i have felt about the matter as has my junior colleague from new york. senator goodell. who sponsored the original amendment to stop the shelling of culebra. this is a matter that disturbs our. whole puerto rican -community of new york which today numbers about 1 million souls. very deep feelings are involved in this matter. i. too. would like to adopt the position stated by the sehator from arkansas
. the reason for dropping this amendment and the reverse implications which may occur from dropping it are important because of the way in which i read section 103which is a complete carryover section. as the senator explained. from previous laws. .one really worried about it. it was limited to a $10 million authorization with respect to unforeseen considerations which caused changes in army missions. it did permit within the authorization "land acquisition" and "site preparation."  these concepts tie right in to the abm situation. where really only $10 million was first asked for the "area defense" oriented site acquisitions. i am a lawyer and have worked with lawyers for the executive departments for years. they always hunt around to find something that will cover the situation that their bosses want covered. i was concerned that a good defense department lawyerand there are lots of themwould find this section and say. "we can have a new abm site. here is the authority. we have $10 million. we can get our foot in the door." that was the reason. the senator was very gracious. he said .he would take the amendment to conference. which he did. however. i think that  the reverse implication of dropping it needs to be explained clearly for the record.
. since the distinguished majority leader is  present. i would like to say a word to him about his famous and much discussed resolution about u.s. troop withdrawals from europe. i k there is a deep feeling on this question. i think he has shown extraordinary statesmanship and an attitude of willingness to listen and to be guided  only by what he thought but also by what others whom he respects thought to be in the best interests of our nation. and  try. as he could as majority leader. for immediate consideration of the resolution. he. of course. has the privilege to do that at any time. i would like to report to him the esteem in which he is held. and which has increased. in europe from an understanding of the motivation of the highest character which has dictated his staying his own hand in reference to a matter in which he has deep convictions. i think it is only fair that the distinguished majority leader should k of the feeling on the part of so many european statesmen and parliamentarians with whom i had the opportunity to speak.
yes. it is a fact that it is an order of magnitude. if we had forces here in being. ready to be transported. we would have to ascertain what that means in terms of money. perhaps it would  mean $14 billion. but the present u.s. nato posture does represent that magnitude of resource commitment. including manpower commitment. that we must deal more effectively with it than we have is something that will be accepted on both sides of the atlantic. but i do believe that vital national interests of the united states are involved in what is at stake in terms of the future of western europe.
i would say. to make clear what i was trying to reportand it is a report on what i have evaluated and observed of what has gone on thereis that the justification for maintaining any establishment there is the avoidance of world war iii. that question must constantly be tested in that crucible. that is what i was trying to analyze in my speech. i see grave dangers in a europe which turns inward both ecoically and politically. instead of recognizing its problems. which are just as worldwide as ours. and that unless it shares those problems. we are  avoiding the problem. on the contrary. we are blundering right into it.
. while the senate has much to be gratified about in this bill. i think it also underscores the basic problem. there is. in my view. a grave danger thatby concentrating only upon its general power over appropriationsthe senate may unwittingly be contributing to the further erosion of its other. more specific war powers specified in article i. section 9 of the constitution. if the senate is forced to rely solely on its power over appropriations to effect its checkandbalance role with respect of warmaking. then the senate will be contending itself with an afterthefact role. our recent experiences have shown how difficult it is to play our proper role when we are reduced only to ex post facto appropriations cuts and prohibitions. in my judgment. the senate will  live up to its full constitutional responsibilities until it finds an effective way to reassert its other war powers. as envisaged and specified in the constitution. i hope very much that the senate will give proper attention to this aspect of the problem early in the next session. the foreign relations committee plans to hold hearings on this broad issue. i hope that the distinguished members of the appropriations committee and of the armed services committee will take an active and sympathetic interest in those hearings.
i thank my colleague. as i have said. i enlist myself with him. we are already at work to save this beautiful lake. returning to the amendment i have pending on new york harbor. i might say that we have written into the amendment a provision that any disposal of the materials in carrying out the project will -be in accordance with federal and state laws respecting the control of air and water pollution. so we are very cognizant of what happens even with the materials which are to be taken out of the seriously congested waters. also. as i said when i presented the amendment. if the managers of the bill feel it is necessary. withstanding plans and recommendations for local cooperationthat it be subject to the approval of the secretary of the army and the president. i am prepared to add the additional proviso which the senator from west virginia . has insisted in other amendmentsnamely. provided. that construction shall  be initiated until approved by the president.
the nationalistic feelings and the concept of the hegemony of the arab peoples are so critical a fact. i would think it would be most unfortunate to introduce this new concept of u.s. troops--even by negationinto the equation. it could upset the fragile situation there. which may be moving toward peace talks. i think the amendment would be roundly defeated. but i think it would be most unfortunate if the senate were put in the position of negativing the fact that we do  expect any ground troops or any other military forces to be put into israel. because the converse. which would be widely advertised immediately in every arab country. is that having voted the amendment down. there is a possibility that we do it lateror that the administration might be contemplating the idea. i think this would be very harmful to what i consider to be one of the dearest objectives of our country and myself. and i think most other senators. that is to attain peace in the middle east. i do  think all of uscertainly  iare nearly as concerned about the detailed terms as that the parties shall make peace. because i deeply feel that this would only be used as a propaganda weapon in a highly sensitive situation. i am very gratified that senator church. who was the author. with senator cooper. of the basic cambodia amendment. will move to table. because of the conations which could be placed on any action we take on the merits. it is a justifiable remedy.
. i have heard with the greatest of interest the views of my colleagues. and i am  obdurate or difficult at all. as to the gentle irony of the senator from connecticut. i respect and admire him greatly but it is  unusual to put the screws on a member who has the temerity to stand up against other members who want to do something they want to do. the senator from connecticut may  have the same feeling i do about the trade title. which i think could be disastrous to our country. i believe that i. cost the aged hingindeed. i get them something. because. instead of being tied up in a whole package which is bound to have a disastrous effect. they ultimately will be extracted from it and will have their social security. and i hope very much that we will have that and the family assistance plan for the poor of the country considered. as they should be. alone and on their merits. without being used as a judas goat for the trade bill. i understand the feeling of every senator. and he has an absolute right to say what he does and to make it as tough for me as possible. but every senator has to obey his conscience as to what he considers to be the highest interests of the people in his state and of the nation. and i think i have done so in this. as to the statement made by my friend. the senator from delaware. as to the state of confusion. this is war. war is always confused. yet. somehow or other. great captains have emerged. somehow or other. when the confusion is over. something decisive has happened. i have deep confidence that something decisive is going to happen here. but there will be a little confusion to start with. so. with all respect. i am  at all dismayed by these pleas and entreaties. i k that the senators k they do  have to make them to me. it does  make any difference. anyway. but i should like to explain my own position. because i think that is owed to the senate and is important. in the first place. i do  stand alone. and i knew hing about this until this minute. except by rumor. therefore. the very leastand it is always the most profitable way one could do it--would be to tell a member such as myself: "we are going to ask for this. we think it is good for you. call a meeting of your supporters and find out whether or  they agree with you. and come to the floor with a position which is reflective of the view of your side." this was  done. i am caught flatfooted. as it were. i have to object or  object. or the cow is out of the barn. second. this is a lameduck congress. a new congress has been elected. which will come into office on january 3. yet. the attempt is being made to decide massive questions of national policy within a few days. and that is all we have in a lame duck congress. the meeting of which itself is highly questionable---certainly on such profound issues as those we face . it is one thing to complete our business. we have appropriation bills or other bills on which we have been working a long time. which were voted by the house and the senate and on which the judgment has been made. and we are trying to reconcile differences. and so forth. but these are brand new things. emous things. of greatest consequence to the future history of our country and. in the case of the trade bill. perhaps the world. yet. we are  under great pressure. otherwise. we would be unkind to the poor. who have to live in this world. too. unless we go right along  and vote these things out under limitation of debate of hours or by arrangements such as the senator suggests. without even an opportunity to consult ones colleagues who are similarly minded. i would most respectfully suggest that. instead of putting senators such as myself on the spot. which is  fair. but i will objecti am telling the senate  that i will object. i think it is very unwise and unfair. and i think that senators such as myself should have an opportunity to get together with their fellows and come in tomorrow and say whether we agree or disagree and why. in some kind of coordinated way. instead of being faced with this on the floor. and then there are entreaties and the fact that i. too. am devoted to the fap. and so forth "yes." i am terrible sorry. but my people did  send me here to have that kind of brain or that kind of will.
 pledged his administration to fund. this year. an additional $100 million for such an attack on cancer. i really believe that this effort is likely to be promising. and could work. i recall. when i served in the army in world war ii. my colleague was the former head of the sloankettering institute. dr. c. p. rhodes. then a colonel in the u.s. chemical warfare service. and he predicted this would be the way we would solve ultimately the main riddle of cancer.
 should be obliged to seek a resolution from congress to endorse all of the policies or actions he initiatesonly those which move toward the exercise of the war powers. i ask unanimous consent that the text of my bill be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
 as "commander in chief" in article ii. section 2. thus. the "legislative history" of the constitutional concept of a commander in chief was the relationship of george washington as colonial commander in chief to the continental congress. that relationship is clearly defined in the commission as commander in chief which was given to washington on june 19. 1775. and which was formally returned by him to the continental congress on december 23. 1783. i would like to quote the final clause of this commander in chiefs commission. because it establishes the relationship of the congress to the commander in chief in unmistakable terms: and you are to regulate your conduct in every respect by the rules and discipline of war (as herewith given you) and punctually to observe and follow such orders and directions from time to time as you shall receive from this or a future congress of the said united colonies or a committee of congress for that purpose appointed. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the commission. together with the rules specified by congress. be printed at the conclusion of my remarks:
. today marks the 53d year since the lithuanian nation declared its independence. i believe it appropriate that we pause to pay tribute to the brave spirit and striving for freedom which has characterized the history of the lithuanian people. lithuanias love of liberty is rooted in traditions of humanism that go back to the middle ages. as one eminent scholar. clarence manning. ed. lithuania "protected europe against the mongols and the tatars. they furnished a power and a government behind which the eastern slavs could live in peace and safety with a freedom that was unkn in moscovite russia. they blessed their subjects with more human freedoms than in the neighboring countries. they encouraged education and toleration. and they played their part in the general development of european civilization." it is  surprising that a country rooted in such traditions should resist encroachments upon her freedom. in 1795 lithuania was annexed by czarist russia. and from that moment until 1915. when she was overrun by german armies the lithuanians made numerous attempts to throw off the imperial russian yoke. what they were  able to accomplish by force in those they did achieve by sheer determination. for despite their subjugation. the lithuanians successfully resisted russian attempts to expunge their language and culture and replace it with that of their oppressors. the spirit of independence has never deserted the lithuanian people: the reality of independence was achieved in 1918. that after two decades of freedom this brave people should have fallen once again under russian dominance is tragic. that the united states has never recognized the soviet incorporation of lithuania is only an appropriate testimony to the indomitable love of freedom which still animates that brave nation.
. today a distinguished record of achievement in serving americas wartime disabled is being celebrated. this is a most fitting exercise to pay tribute to the disabled american veterans for its dedicated work on behalf of those who bear the marks of service on behalf of our country. since its inception in 1920. the dav has played a leading role in assisting the disabled veterans of world war i. world war ii. korea. and presently vietnam in matters of medical care. job training. education. rehabilitation. and other areas of ecoic and social welfare. the dav was congressionally chartered in 1932 to work toward these goals and  with over 150 trained and accredited national service officers. the dav has the largest free service program for disabled veterans in the country. these national service officers are fully paid by the dav and are stationed in regional offices of the veterans administration. during the history of the dav these service officers have handled over 8 million cases and have obtained over $1.6 billion in benefits for the disabled veteran and his dependents. presently. american servicemen continue to be committed to combat. and although troop withdrawal from vietnam may result in a lessening of combat fatalities and wounds. unfortunately. casualties continue to occur in sobering numbers. the apparently infinite capacity of man to contrive superior methods in war of injuring. maiming. and killing has been paralleled by advances in techniques of battlefield evacuation and combat medicine. so that the percentages of crippled surviving veterans are  even greater than in previous conflicts. the dav meets these challenges with warm and understanding service and i am certain that all of our people together with the dav will continue to assist newly disabled veterans in adjusting to civilian life and to aid the communities and the nation in fitting these returned men into the mal life which they seek. it is an ho to join in the tributes being paid to this fine organization. and i commend the senator from kansas
subsequently said: . at the time of the vote i was on my way to washington from the funeral of whitney m. young. jr.. in an air force plane which was delayed by a head wind. and though my vote was  needed. i wish to state that i favor it very strongly. and am so recorded on this measure. having voted on the original bill when it left the senate. i think it is an earnest of our good faith that we have acted so promptly. after our inability to act at the end of the last session of congress because of the embroilment in trade matters and other measures with which i was deeply concerned. i am delighted to see we have made good on our promise to the older people of america that they would  suffer because of the differences which developed in this chamber on other matters of national interest.
. if all other members of the senate have completed their statements. i would just like to make a statement for the record that i issued on the conviction of lieutenant calley. which apparently has developed a considerable amount of questioning here on the floor. i wish  to have my own statement just issued. but. if the debate is going to take place here on the subject. to have my views on record. the courtmartial conviction of lieutenant calley for the events of mylal raises even broader questions. first. it is tragic. indeed. that our effort in vietnamwhich began in such highmindednessshould be marred in the worlds consciousness by the barbarism which occurred at mylai. second. the conviction of lieutenant calley can be regarded as a condemnation of the conduct of our fighting men in vietnam. rather. it should be regarded as a declaration of the national conscience that brutality against unarmed civilians by any u.s. troops will  be permitted. regardless of provocation. it is certainly incumbent upon the army to bring to trial all those who share in any responsibility for what the jury found to be so horrendous a crime. the best way to avoid further brutalization of our soldiers. which seems to be associated with guerrilla wars like vietnam. is to end that war and thus to end what it is doing to our young fighting men like lieutenant calley. i do wish to express. at the same time. the fact that the army itself has taken a historic position in going forward with the trial and in the nature of the jury. i believe it is typical in our country that. having proceeded according to law. justice will ultimately be done. i appreciate the feelings of many of my colleagues. but i make this statement only because i think we ought to raise our sights. in the final analysis. i do  think it will be found that any injustice has been done to lieutenant calley in the way it finally works out. i do believe we need to learn from it that we simply have got to get out of vietnam and. second. that this is a historic break with the past. rather than hurt the morale of american troops. my feeling is we are helping them immeasurably in the kledge that. regardless of where they serve. our army and the u.s. government are capable of this kind of selfexamination and selfdetermination.
. i want to make some observations on the calley case. in view of the fact that interest in this case has burgeoned very considerably. in the first place. so that the law may be clear. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a memorandum which i have had prepared for me. detailing the legal steps in the case from where it stands . under the articles of war and the uniform code of military justice. up to and including the review by the commander in chief. which he has annced he will make personally.
that was my motive in selecting the language which i did. i must pay tribute here to my colleagues who are sponsoring the amendment for their willingness to amend their language. once convinced. and without being rigid adherents to their own draftsmanship. i would like to make clear that the president remains commander in chief. but the power of commander in chief. and this is a constitutional question. does  include the power to declare war or to make war of a kind which can only result from a declaration of war. that is what we have here. mr. mcgovern. or to provide money for the war. mr. javrrs. that is exactly right. mr. mcgovusr i just want to take a moment to express the appreciation that i k every cosponsor of the amendment feels. the senior senator from new york was a principal draftsman in improving the language of the amendment.. he has worked very closely. patiently. and helpfully with the cosponsors of the amendment from the very beginning. and has given us generously of his legal and constitutional kledge and his experience as a member of the committee on foreign relations. i k i speak for many members of the senate in expressing the appreciation we feel for the leadership he has provided. mr. javrrs. i am grateful to my colleague for his very kind remarks.
i thank the senator. . i agree with the senator. i voted against the previous amendment because i believe our ecoy is still in grave trouble. and i believe we are at war and. therefore. we should have the machinery on the books which is compatible with war so long as we stay at war.. i think the element of unsettlementpaying out some. line and then pulling it back inwhich is represented by .the short date. isa disadvantage in the bill. i am glad the ranking miity member has filed the amendment and i shall support it.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to amend the war claims act so as to make later nationals eligible for benefits. this is a measure which i first offered many years ago. under the present provisions of the war claims act only persons who were citizens of the united states at the time of their loss can apply for benefits. all those who came to this country as refugees. but who did  actually receive final citizenship papers until after their loss are ineligible to file claims. i stress in reintroducing this bill which must be for the last timebecause the entire fund will have been distributed by the time the 93d congress convenesthat there is very little likelihood that there will be sufficient funds available even to pay all american citizens their full claims. and until that is done. it is doubtful that congress will pass a bill such as this. expanding the class of claimants. i offer the measure only in the hope that funds  in litigation will eventually accrue to the fund. and that with these additional funds available. congressional attitudes toward later nationals will change. last year. certain unscrupulous agencies. advertising in the foreign language press and radio offered. for a fee. to prepare claims for later nationals. asserting that this bill was about to become law. i would like to stress to all those who would be beneficiaries first. that it is unlikely this bill will pass unless sufficient funds become available and second. even if this bill were to become law. there would be need to pay any agent or private individual to prepare a claim since government forms and assistance would be readily available. by mr. church:
. this is a historic moment. i k the senator from mississippi. i k his philosophy. and i k how profound are his convictions. i say we are witnessing a miracle. it is both a miracle of the human personality and a miracle of this chamber. what is so hard for the onlooker to understand is that men in this chamber can differ deeply. based on the convictions of a lifetime. on subject a. and come together on subject b. and that it is a completely rational. understandable. acceptable. and honest fact. that is exactly what has happened here today. to me. all my life. the proudest words in the language have been the words "i am persuaded." when i first broached this subject last year. the senator from mississippi electrified me by expressing an interest. he has pursued that interest diligently and carefully. and he has  come up with his own prescription. based. surely. upon the fundamental framework which i introducedbut his own prescription. responding to his own ideas and his own vast experience in the defense field as well as in public affairs. the significance of senator stennis action today derives from his exceptional kledge and experience with regard to military affairs. and the great prestige and influence he commands in the senate with respect to these matters. as chairman of the senate armed services committee he has dealt for years with the great decisions and issues respecting our nations capacity to make war. he is in a somewhat unique position to judge the issues regarding the exercise of the basic war powersthe life and death decisions that must be made whether or  our nation shall make war in a given situation. i e that senator stennis has also adopted in his measure some of the suggestions contained in a bill introduced by senator eagleton. senator eagletons bill also follows closely the conceptual and procedural framework contained in the bill i first introduced last year. and reintroduced again this year on february 10. i welcomed senator eagletons bill as a useful and thoughtful contribution which adds to and modifies certain of the provisions of my bill. senator stennis introductory statement is one which commands great attention and reveals the depth and earnestness of his consideration of the great national and constitutional issues which are involved in basic warpowers legislation. i am confident that senator stennis decision to sponsor basic war powers legislation will have an important impact on the thinking of the nation andi hopeof the administration. secretary rogers -is scheduled to testify before the foreign relations committee on friday. may 14. respecting my biil and the other measures before the committee. with senator stennis  joining those of us who feel that it is essential to our nation that the congress reassert its constitutional powers respecting war there can be doubt left as to the seriousness and earnestness of the senate sponsors in this respect. it would be demeaning of what i consider to be a historic moment as between two senators of such widely divergent views and background. and of this chamber. if i  tried to analyze differences. or individual points. or anything else. and i would  dream of doing it. we will have plenty of time for that. suffice it. for the moment. to express one of the deepest satisfactions i have ever felt. either in or out of this chamber. in having come to a basic agreement on principle with so distinguished and patriotic an american on a matter which i believe will turn the course of history for our people from a course which has led us into far more wars than we should have had that we could have avoided them all. by any meansinto a course which will give the people the deep assurance that. so far as human contrivance and human mrachinery can provide. we will avoid future wars wherever possible.
. i am planning to speak about the monetary crisis which is affecting the world. and this follows a precedent of 2 years ago when i. on this floor. suggested the idea of a twotier gold system which removed the official u.s. gold stock from the need to back up private speculation in gold. i believe  that we must begin thinking in very broad terms about the future of the monetary system of the world which is built around the dollar. i must say i am  particularly happy about the fact that the united states so far does  seem to have reacted positively to the monetary crisis abroad and almost appears to have the attitude that "this is  our crisis. it is theirs." unfortunately. it is  theirs alone. it is also ours. and in a very big way. this will become evident when we buy from foreign sources. the products which are essential for the operation of the american ecoy. in addition. our whole stance in the world has been made on the basis of an open trading world. with free exchange of goods. capital. and ideas. and the present crisis is hardly compatible with that. finally. and very importantly. it has a very grave impact on the foreign relations and security policies of the united states. we are  facing. right in this chamber. a move to very materially revise the relationships of the united states with the other nato countries in terms of u.s. troops on the rhinea move which is precisely related to the balanceofpayments position of the united states. so we are very. very deeply involved. and we have to begin to think about what this crisis means to us. because. in an important sense. it is a vote of "confidence" in the ecoic and financial leadership of the united states. my own opinion is that the europeans have jumped at that conclusion much too fast. but there is egh to their judgement to require very. very thoughtful consideration on our part. and so today. to get that consideration underway. and only to get it underway. without any feeling that this is by any means the last word. i am going to make a few suggestions. and i am also going to submit a concurrent resolution on behalf of myself. the senator from illis
 to put more pressure on our nato partners to increase their troop commitments and do more in burden sharing. the german federal republic says it is paying 80 percent of the cost. perhaps they shculd pay 90 percent. 95 percent. or 98 percent. there is law about it. that would be a more immediate way to get action than with.the mansfield proposal. in relieving pressure on the dollar. if we signal to europe that we are going to pull out. it may have to seek the best terms it can get from moscow. then. our bill would  be $14 billion. we would be lucky if it is  $42 billior or double. that is the stake here. and whethei the senate. which wants its share ir shaping the foreign policy of our country and establishing our foreign policy position. and sharing in the war policies. has the statesmanship. the longsightedness. and the understanding of the american situation to be entrusted with this power. we are going to k  whether we are longsighted or shortsighted in this particular vote. it is for those reasons that i oppose the mansfield amendment. and  because i do  want to put the arm on europe tb do more in the alliance. the mansfield amendment is  the best way to accomplish the result we need to accomplish. all the mansfield amendment will do will be to dismantle the entire nato structure and change the entire security situation in the world. for what. for a theoretical savings of $1 billion in our balance of payments. which would be so long deferred we could get it by a new bretton woods or a revision of the gold situation. or 20 other ways. without running the perils that this measure would compel us to run. the senator from montana was right the first time when he sought a sense of the senate resolution respecting this matter. but  that his provision is one of mandatory fund cutoff. i think it would be inimical to our country.
i do  share that view. for this reason. there is a big chasm between introducing a sense of the senate resolution. and getting it passed. the important thing is that the senator never got his resolution passed. he is a very distinguished senator and a peer among peers. but he is still an equal to the rest of us and he still has to have his resolution voted on and have it carried. as much as i respect him. but it did  carry. in this matter we are talking about what we pass and  what we introduce. if we are talking about some directive from the senate to the president i would take a very different attitude. i would want to work on the terms. but i would take a different attitude. however. we are  talking about that . we are talking about a mandatory provision of law. the senator from montana is  only giving us a quickdeath proposition but he is naming the figure. l however. what would any of these european countries do if the senate decides to pull out onehalf of our troops in eul rope. i have been there. the logical outcome would be they would say. "the linchpin of nato is gone. let us find a european solution." the european solution the last time was something called a western european pact. which failed because the europeans. without american glue. could  agree among themselves. i think that is likely to be the next gambit. and it will fail again. what is left. the specter haunting europeparticularly germanyis one of being left prematurely naked. in a military sense. before the awesome military might of the soviet union as a result of the swift and deep u.s. troop withdrawals. the fear is that in such an event there would be a swift unraveling of nato. and that into this power vacuum the soviet union would move in the crude sense of military attack and occupationbut of intervening in the negotiations  going on regarding europes future shape and relationship with the united states. it is feared that the soviet union would use suspicion. threats. pressures. and inducements to divide the nations of europe before their own new institutions have taken effective shape and by stages to impose a finlandtype of dependent neutrality on western europe. i believe that the fears i have just described in europe are justified and present an equal danger to the security and future of the united states. and i believe that these very concerns areor should beshared at the highest levels of the administrationthe white house. the state department. and the pentagon. perhaps they are too little understood and considered in the country. but this is understandable too. for we have heard the cry of "wolf" too many times before to respond automatically. while i feel there must be a greater american understanding of legitimate european concerns on the question of troop levels there and security. i feel strongly that a greater european understanding of american misgivings and concerns is needed also.
if the senator will let me flnishi have been very patientneither of those points is my argument at all. so. as far as i am concerned. the senator has kked down something that i have  argued. my argument isand if the senator wishes to answer this. that is aher matterif we adopt a resolution cutting our forces in half by unilateral action. without consultation with the europeans. we are giving them word which. in my judgment. will induce them to believe that the united states is longer going to be the force in europe which it has been for 25 years. but that. on the contrary. the united states is pulling out as the backup .for the security of the atlantic alliance. and that they will have to look elsewhere. in my judgment. if they looked elsewhere--and in my judgment. it would be necessary for them to look elsewherethey would have to look to the east. i see this written large on the wall. that is why. for myself. i could  support this. particular amendment. - i am  arguing that 150.000 or. 118.000 is the tipping point. or whether the germans would put .in 150.000 troops._ oi putin 400.000 troops. for that matter..tc replace our.troops if we withdrew them i am. arguing that. i am arguing that based on my very considerable experience in europe. it will be ice to europe that the united states is relinquishing its position in europe. and we could certainly expect that europe would then have less concern for u.s. trade investments and monetary interests. it means there will longer exist the balance. precisely because the nato alliance. which has allowed the peace which has enabled everybody to draw a secure breath and be prosperous. will be set aside. if it is going to be set aside. the balance of power will be with the soviet union. it is this that i fear for the future of the united states. the senator talks about solvency. but if we begin to think of the costs of garrisoning this country and what the defense cost for the security of this country will then b . even if it is defective and deficient. the cost will be greatly multiplied. that is what the issue is all about. surely. it is a matter of judgment. but when the senator from alaska says he does  think any such thing will hap.pen. that is his judgment. i do  agree with him. based on my experience. conscience. and expertise. i believe that is precisely what would happen. so we differ.
there is question about that. i point out. as i have pointed out before. that europe could begin to lean in the russian direction. and obviously. if it began to lean in the russian direction. what hope is there for the satellites that have shown a little bit of independence. they are gone geese. that is the only possible thing in the world that they have to hope for. is that the pull of western europe. backed by the united states. represents some assurance to them that the russians can go too far. in that connection. aher idea appeals to me which i think we should discuss in the senate. many of our young peoplei have young childrensay. "what about all this tommyrot the oldsters talk about in regard to the communist threat. whats so terrible about it. suppose people live in a communist society. thats all right. as long as they live in peace and dont try to tell you. dad. the way you ought to run your show or the way we ought to live." well. that is true. but what is omitted in that argument is that we are  permitted to live in peace. look at the example of czechoslovakia. when they dared to so much as pick up their heads a little. were they permitted to live in peace. or did they get cracked by the russian army. so what will be expected of the 200 million people of the united states if the warsaw pact extends to the shores of britain and the shores of france. are we going to assume that we will be permitted to live as we choose to live. whatever that may be. of course . there is a great deal more at stake in what we are discussing than cutting troop strength to 150.000. if that is all there is to it. i would be with senator mansfield. but it is  all. it is the whole structure of security which the west has so painstakingly erected. which at this moment is in danger of collapsing around our ears.
 and the congress acting together. we are  very likely to make progress. they are enforced in that view by the division in this country over vietnam. to answer the senators question as to why vietnam is different and why i thoroughly agree with one senator on ending the vietnam war and thoroughly agree with aher senator in adhering to our commitment in europe. the answer is that we have brains egh to see that the balance of power is in europe. whatever would happen to the world could happen there. it happened in 1937. europe can just as easily align itself with the soviet union as with the united states. so this is a political decision. it does  make any difference whether the number is 380.000 or 300.000 troops. the political decision is that we are setting up for europe exactly how the united states is going to conduct itself with this new vietnam policy. considering the complexity of the numerous negotiations going onmutual and balanced force reductions or withdrawals. brezhnev and kosygin making their statements. the salt negotiations. admitting great britain to the european ecoic community. ostpolitik. what is to be done about berlin. to which the .united states is a party. the monetary crisis. mideast tensionsit would be a great mistake in this particular situation to make europe feel the united states is changing its basic position. but we should put the pressure on them to see that they have to take a new position. newly integrated as to them. which is absolutely essential. the only way we can be participants. and  onlookers. is to take the position that we are backing the policy. but we want to k how it works so that we have. for the first time. our hands on the controls. that it is a piece of the whole coming into the focus of the congress. that it will longer take things blindly. that it will longer say "ja". that it wants to k what it is doing. but the fact that it wants to k what it is doing does  mean that it is going to be irresponsible. so we have proposed a very carefully drafted substitute. and i am glad to have joined with the senator from maryland
. members of the senate. and indeed our whole nation. are deeply concerned over the extent of the u.s. involvement in war in indochina. new facts keep coming to light. on situations which could further involve the united states though we feel we are pursuing a national policy of disengagement from the indochina war. my colleague. the senior senator from new jersey has taken the initiative in probing a question of considerable concernfinancing by the united states of thai troops fighting in laos. senator cases initiativereflecting his very alert and informed attention to this matterhas been the subject of a number of recent articles in the press. i believe that it would be useful to have a selection of the those articles. laying out the story for all to read. printed in the record. accordingly. i ask unanimous consent that eight press articles on the issue be printed in the record.
. while i am a cosponsor of the schweiker amendmentand believe it should be agreed toto reduce the term of the draft to 1 year. i want. at the same time. to express my recognition of some very important reforms which have been written into the bill in committee. under the leadership of the distinguished senator from mississippi
i would like to refer to the senators points. which he has rightly emphasized. one point is the money. the second point is the fulbright amendment. the third point is what the senator from missouri. who has served us so well here. calls the long undeclared and secret war. if the senator would be kind egh to refer to the letter which senator kennedy has put on every senators desk. he will see the explanation of the administration reflected in  said in his address to the nation on october 7. 1970. the war in indochina "can be cured by treating only one of its areas of outbreak." if the th vietnamese were to conquer all of laos they could divert thousands of their forces  engaged in th laos to the war against south vietnam. and greatly enhance their position in those areas of laos bordering south vietnam from which they launch attacks on united states and allied forces. my questions then. to the senator from missouri are. one. does what he has just described as our crowding the chinese border represent. in his opinion. a risk in order to protect us. forces. and. two. is there a separate war in thern laos which does  have a relation to the protection of our troops in south vietnam. and. if so. does the senator k of any valid support for the contention that it is to protect our forces in south vietnam.
 nixon and his successors will reach an accommodation with congress in terms of sharing the war powers and foreignpolicy decisions of our nation. at this point. there can be a new synthesis and a new era of close harmonywith the two branches working in tandem for the good of our nation and for the peace and prosperity of the world. the united states is a world power. it must and will remain one. i certainly do  advocate any american retreat from its legitimate world responsibility. it must continue to utilize its vast power for the maintenance of world peace and the establishment of the rule of law in place of the rule of force.
. as always i listened to the senator from maine  only with respect but with the dedication to read her remarks again and again and to let them persuade me. if it is at all possible. i think so much of mrs. smith of maine. i wish to e that i just made a report regarding my own visit to vietnam. in which i said i would support money appropriations in the amount of $2 billion to $3 billion a year. that is a lot of money. but i realize this is a nation at war and if it is to be maintained in the position of fighting for its own freedom. i think we have that responsibility. i e what the senator aid about the possible inconsistency of voting for the mcgovernhatfield measurewhich is what i said i would doand that kind of support. i wish to state that the mcgovernhatfield amendment. and this is very much at my request and some others who are cosponsors. provides on page 2. lines 13 to 15: to provide assistance to the nations of indochina. in amounts approved by the congress. consistent with the objectives of this section. i gather that the point the senator raises is consistent with this section in making the point about inconsistency or possible inability under mcgovernhatfield to do what i said i would do. i just wish to assure the senator from maine that. if mcgovernhatfield should be approved. then i would join with other senators in any amendment required to make it crystal clear that we are free to and will give ecoic support to enable these people to sustain themselves. with all the resources we have already shed. if the ecoic support will help them continue that. i shall certainly stand for it. i wanted the senator to have my view.
. if i might explain to the senator. i believe we are entitled to a precise answer on the question of legislative intent. at least that much. i appreciate the public policy implications which are involved. and i have stated them very frankly myself and have stated my grave concern about deciding whether to press for a vote. however. i think. with all my respect and affection for the senator from mississippi. that we are entitled to a flat answer to the question whether there is anything in this act which shall be deemed to constitute an authorization for the conduct of military hostilities in southeast asia pursuant to the war powers of congress and pursuant to the decision of the courts which draw such implications from the passage of a selective service act. if the answer of the senator from mississippi to that categoric inquiry would be  then at least we would have the answer of the manager of the bill on record to the effect that this measure when passed should  be taken by implication to give such authority. i appeal to the senator on that question and would -be glad to phrase the question with -him. i think the question is important.  that any of us brought it up or imported it. if i had written this opinion as a lawyer. i think i would have rejected that concept. i agree with the senator from mississippi. i think the courts were wrong. they are very distinguished judges. their record is superb. however. i do  think we can stretch the doctrine of implication that broadly. i would submit to the senator. in the common interest. a bill which does  take us beyond the point which we believe it takes us. it is at least necessary to have a categoric answer that the legislative intent of this bill can be stretched to that point by implication. that is why i phrased the question as i did.
. i asked the senator from mississippi. as the manager of the bill: is there anything in this act which could be deemed to constitute an authorization by the congress for the conduct of military hostilities in southeast asia pursuant to the war powers of congress as specified in article i. section 8. of the constitution.
. we are all indebted to the senator from kentucky for phrasing this matter in legislative terms and giving us an opportunity to deal at long last with the intelligence and information side of the cia. i have offered a bill in the senate and legislation will be offered in the other body to reassert congress war powers with respect to the initiation of undeclared war and which is the only way in which war is likely to be waged -in the foreseeable future. if we settle these two issues. we will assure that the senate will be able to act intelligently in events such as that in vietnam which has resulted in the expenditure of such a mountain of treasure and so much blood of americans and so much dissension in our own country. by mr. mathias:
. on july 4 the washington post published an article on the war powers debate. written by irving brant. the distinguished famous biographer of james madison and a recognized authority on constitutional questions. mr. brants article essentially is in the form of comment on and rebuttal of the testimony of secretary of state rogers before the foreign relations committee on may 14. the war powers question is perhaps the most profound issue  before the senate. mr. brant has made a most important contribution to the national debate and i feel that senators will benefit from familiarity with the article. accordingly. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
one point the senator has made i think is very strong. and i am going to interrupt the senator to make it myself. that is this question of a possible war between india and pakistan. such a war could conceivably be based on ecoic factors. due to a weakening of indias position as a result of the refugee problem. the views of the senator from arkansas are very strong in that regard. and i think we have to listen to them very carefully. would the senator consider cranking into his amendmenthe can do it  or latersome requirement that the president of the united states endeavor to put together a consortium of nations for relief. having wide discretion in the utilization of these resources. to fit the united states into a pattern of relief which would be multinational in character. he can withhold funds. he does  have to ask for appropriations. he has very wide discretion. anyway. but it seems to me that. by cranking that into the amendment. the senator might go far to answer the argument that it is an uncertain situation. it is openended. perhaps we are going beyond where we ought to go in prudence. which i think is the strong point senator fulbright has made.
i thank the senator. i appreciate his support. s remarks recutting foreign aid by 10 percent we had better make some kind of decent cut. or we would be hit with much worse on the floor.  here we are. hit with the worst. to wit. the cut down to $160 million. which is 50 percent of what the committee allowed after cutting it 20 percent. so overall. it is a 60percent reduction from what the administration asked forit is also a $240 million cut from the house approved figure. a good share of it goes to india. we just gave india $250 million for pakistani relief. because we are so worried about her ecoic condition as the democratic linchpin of the east against communist china. they are the people who are going to be hit the hardest by this cut and will any one deny that the ecoic condition of india is a most important factor in determining whether there will be war between india and pakistan. and a war is threatening. after that. let us see what other bloated aristocrats are going to share in this money. after india comes pakistan. which is a very poor nation. after having terrible trouble. which we are  anxious to see driven to the wall. lest we have an even more barbaric foreign situation.
. i shall vote in favor of amendment  631. introduced by senator stennis. for two reasons. first. i believe that to carry out and implement withdrawal from indochina and the nixon doctrine. map and supporting assistance are necessary and proper instruments of u.s. international security policy. these twin policy instruments are likely to be of increasing significance in the years just ahead. as the new strategy and security posture of our nation. based upon the nixon doctrine. is developed and. i believe that the basic concepts of the nixon doctrine. involving a significantly reduced u.s. military presence in asia. commands very broad support in the senate. but this doctrine implies clear financial support of selfhelp security efforts as an essential ingredient. t believe that voting for the restoration of some of the funds which have been cut already is supportive of the basic reform contained in the nixon doctrine. this reform is directed toward the disengagemeit of u.s. personnel. in place of u.s. personnel money is needed in support of selfhelp and selfdefense efforts. next year this basic reform must be made in a thoroughgoing and unmistakable way. second. in my judgment. the reductions in the funding levels for map and supporting assistance contained in the bill before. s. 2819. are too drastic. cuts of this magnitude can be mademidyearwithout posing the danger of disruption in our relations with allies with whom we have been cooperating very closely in the security field. rightly or wrongly. these countries have made their calculations and constructed their defense postures on certain important assumptions regarding u.s. assistance. if we look at the map. we can see where these heavy cuts are likely to fall in great measurekorea. turkey. taiwan. we all k that the administration will  take these cuts out of the indochina programs. where i and many in the senate would like to see them made. rather. they are likely to fall on programs outside indochina. i do  think this is the proper moment for abrupt and drastic cuts in our military assistance programs on taiwanso soon after the u.n. vote. or in koreawhere we are reducing u.s. forces. where tensions are high. and where there are some faint signs of a possible thaw following the improvement in simerican relations. moreover. i feel that it would  be in the u.s. interest to force an abrupt contraction of the u.s. program of military assistance to turkey. given the dangerous situation in the eastern mediterranean. the already existing stresses in united statesturkish relations. and the real effort by turkeys government to cooperate in the control of narcotics traffic. having expressed the reasons why i will support the stennis amendment. i also wish to make clear my own view that a thorough overhaul is warranted in our military assistance programs. and in some of the basic concepts underlying the present programs. which are clearly obsolete today. i do  want the united states to be viewed in the world as a nation which relies excessively on military measures. such a view is widespread today. as anyone who has had experience up at the united nations can testify. i think the united states has been entirely too "cozy" with military dictatorships over the past decade. many of our military assistance programs continue to be based on a misplaced cold war zeal. which certainly has lost much of whatever/validity it might once have had. the basic thinking behind much of the present foreign military assistance in the pentagon is part of the same thinking which set in motion the forces which got this nation into the disastrous and improvident vietnam war. thinking which could head us into a repetition of many of the vietnam mistakes in cambodia. i have fought in the senate. with many of my colleagues. to attain a reordering of our national priorities in the world and at home. especially. we must get the dog of war back on the leash by reestablishing congressional controls so that war can be unleashed again without the full and deliberate concurrence of the congress. a very necessary step in this direction is the overhaul of existing policies and procedures respecting military assistance programs. particularly those dealing with nations in asia. i shall work unsparingly in this regard. basic revisions and reforms are necessary. they are necessary in next years program. but i do  believe that it is in the national interest to attempt to force an abrupt reduction in existing programs in the middle of the current fiscal year. because other nations having made their plans on the basis of assurance given them by representatives of the executive branch can be asked to abruptly to phase into a new situation. the reductions which are sustained even after senator stennis amendment are sufficient. in my judgment. to inform the executive branch. and all foreign governments that commitments of the public funds of the united states can constitutionally be made unless and until the congress has authorized and appropriated such funds. we should give such ice but should  use the cutoff as ice. we must e that this is a bill authorizing only until june 30. 19727 months. the old habit of unilateral commitments undertaken by representatives of the executive branch with foreign governmentsa practice which the congress hitherto has contributed by its passivitythose days are over. this is a good thing for our nation and for the world.
. the size and the nature of the u.s. presence in europe in the 1970s is an issue of vital importance on both sides of the atlantic. for the first time in 25 years basic assumptions regarding the u.s. presencein all its manifestationsare being questioned and reconsidered. in the field of military security. the nato treaty has completed the 20year period specified in article 13 and adherence to the treaty is  subject to denunciation by any of its members on 1 years ice. at the december 1969 meeting of the nato ministerial council. the nixon administration pledged to maintain the current u.s. troop levels in europe at least through mid1971. the level and the nature of the u.s. military presence in europe beyond that date is yet to be determined. it will be influenced in an important way by developments relating to other aspects of the u.s. presence in europe. including trade between the united states and the eec and aid to the developing world. also. the progress of chancellor brandts ostpolitik. and the prospects for a european security conference. undoubtedly will influence the decision regarding future u.s. troop levels in germany and europe as a whole. the success or failure of the strategic arms limitation talksthe salt negotiations--between the united states and the soviet union could have a profound influence on the nature the western deterrent.  only in global terms but in terms of the conventionaland tactical nucleardefense of western europe. in my judgment. however. the most important factor determining the military security relationship between the united states and western europe in the years just ahead will be. first. the unfolding of the mideast crisis  reaching the climactic stage. second. trade and financial relations. and third. negotiations between the soviet union and the peoples republic of china. in the mideast. europe and nato are living on a powder keg. in trade and financial relations the united states and europe are on the verge of a trade war. as we have discussed today. the stakes in the mideast for the united states are very high for it is an area of vital security interest to the united statesas it is to europe. the mideastrather than vietnamis an area in which the kremlin has chosen to test u.s. power and resolve. and the te of its political leadership of the west. while the mideast is an area of high importance to the united states. it is an area of direct. critical importance to western europe. the mideast commands europes land. sea. and air routes to asia and africa. fifty percent of europes industrial energy resources--and 80 percent of its oilare obtained from the mideast. the mediterranean is the point of attack on europes soft underbelly. because of the importance of the mideast to european and u.s. interests. and because of the nature of the soviet challenge there. the role which europe plays in the developing mideast crisis is likely to have a major effect on the nature of united stateseuropean security ties during the 1970s. the u.s. presence in europe has. of course. other major facets besides the military. the u.s. ecoic presence in europe is a matter of prime importance on both sides of the atlantic. american investment in european industry continues to elicit controversy. within the international monetary community. questions concerning u.s. balanceofpayments policy and the future role of the dollar are subjects of highest concern. all of these questions are directly related to the cost and contribution of security expenditures and will bear heavily on decisions regarding the level of u.s. troops maintained in europe over the next decade. i wish to emphasize that issues of the highest importance to the united states are  being negotiated in europe. the issues  under negotiation are of transcendent importance as they could determine the fate of europe for the remainder of the century. the massive freeze in western and eastern european affairs for the past 25 years is cracking and a glacial flow has commenced. in my judgment. it is essential that the united states be alert to the possibilities as well as the dangers inherent in the present situation of flux and that we be prepared to invest the energy. attention. and resources necessary to enable us to join effectively in the shaping of the future of europe  beginning to emerge. the critical point has  yet been reached on mutual balanced force reductions. we can forego this opportunity. if we risk the situation by giving the signal for withdrawal  by pulling out 60.000 troops we put both the negotiations with the soviet and europe in jeopardy. if we leave a vacuum by giving this signal europe will either move toward the soviet union. or west germany will have to fill this vacuum. if the former. negotiations so promising for peace are over. if the latter the soviet union with its deepseated fear of german nationalism will even more deeply divide europe. and further jeopardize peace.
yes. i shall be happy to explain. the percy amendment is a passive inducement. to wit. it says that if an increase is to be given for productivity gains of a worker. that increase shall  come under the inhibitions of the law. that is a passive thing. the company decides to give it to him. my amendment is an activist operation. it seeks to get authority of the commission. appointed by the president. to actually back and set up local councils composed of members from labor. management. and the public. at the plant level. to deal with such problems as efficiency. absenteeism. alcoholism. and so on. if this were a new concept. i would understand why they would fuss about it. but it was something we did in world war ii with great success. if senators will take a look at arthur bums letter. they will see what it is based on. the letter says this worked in world war ii. we are certainly in a tight squeeze on productivity. the commission has been in existence for over a year. and i expect that most senators do  k it is alive.
. i have long believed that we must utilize every weapon at our disposal to fight the drug abuse problem. i am pleased that recording companies have  begun to work with recording artists in helping fight drug abuse. most recently the recording industry association of america created. in connection with the national institute of mental health. a fine recording entitled. "some things you always wanted to k about drug abuse." the record has been distributed free of cost to the government and to every radio station in the country. as one who represents the state in which so many recordings are produced. i am proud of the recording industry for this meaningful contribution to the war against drug abuse. i ask unanimous consent that an article discussing the situation and published in the albany times union of october 23. 1971. be printed in the record.
i am grateful to my colleague. he has done what needs to be done. the reason for the urgency in both is. first. that the subscription to the interamerican development bank. if it had  been made before the 31st of december. would have involved the possibility of adverse action by many other nations. as to israel. i think this action is necessary for this beleaguered nation because of the threat of the renewal of war. which we all deprecate. this does  mean peace on either sides terms. but the threat of war by the end of the year. so clearly voiced. and  underwritten by the soviet union in behalf of the united arab republic. is so worrisome that this action is necessary as an indication that -the intention to work for peace and ecoic help for either side is highly desirable and this is a high policy question. so i think what the committee has decided is very intelligent in the interim. and i thank my colleage.
 of pakistan believed it would have been. that it would have worked out. democracies have a way of doing that. hing in a democracy is ever quite as hot as it is cooked. and in a dictatorship it is likely to be hotter than it is cooked. in other words. a lot more happens than meets the eye. in addition. pakistan has much to gain from a westeriented feeling in the world as to peace and security and democracy and development as against the dictatorships which took sides in this thing. both mainland china and the soviet union. the chinese are  looking for aher chance to have their inning. which promises good for either pakistan or india. so i think that our best role. as has been developed by both colleagues. is to stick to substantial social and ecoic welfare. the succor of the refugees. and repairing the wounds of war with constructive development in both countries ecoically. including the constructive development of pakistan in a democratic direction. in case should we get militarily involved.
. i have today submitted to the secretary of the navy my ination of miss barbara jo brimmer of new york for the class of midshipmen entering the u.s. naval academy at annapolis in june 1972. i believe this is the first ination of a woman to a service academyin this instance the naval academy. because that was the one for which miss brimmer applied. i have called this press conference to introduce her and to explain my reasons for making this ination.
and each one of those forces is a tripwire which could. under any construction. even under the war powers act. which has been reported to the floor. engender a reaction which could put american forces into hostilities. that is an extremely important matter. and yet it could happen under any one of these multilateral agreements.
s trip to china was an inspired act of statesmanship which has opened the possibility for many creative developments in asia and the world. there is reason to believe that beneficial consequences of the china initiative. if properly followed through. can do much to offset the emous damage inflicted on the u.s. role and prestige in the world by the tragically improvident and miscalculated war in vietnam. (the remarks mr. javits made at this point on the submission of senate concurrent resolution 69 are printed in the record under submission of a concurrent resolution.)
s powers is to say that we name a time and then say that the continuance of the use of our forces for those purposes ceases to be an action fully within his own exclusive constitutional power and becomes one which is maturing and of a more definitive character. that is where we have to come in and say it is okay. because we have very important war powers under the constitution. also. on the first of those four cases i have mentioned. there is question in this bill about the deployment of troops in the absence of hostilities or the imminent danger of hostilities. then there are the three cases where we ourselves confirm the implied constitutional power of the commander in chief. then. of course. we interpose ourselves as a congress and say that when in our judgment a period of time has elapsed that is so long that it has ceased to be an emergency act which we have confirmed and then we hold that it becomes a war question which brings into play our own constitutional war powers. those powers are  "implied" powers. as the commander in chiefs powers are. they are specifically enumerated powers listed in article i. section 8.
under the necessary and proper clause we define the length of time which we say is a reasonable time to consider his action an emergency action. which we agree he is empowered to take under the constitution. at the end of that time. we say it ceases to be within his constitutional power alone. we make that definition based upon a time span. we make it based on our authority under the "necessary and proper" clause. and in the exercise of our own war powers which i called attention to at the outset of my prepared remarks.
he has that many in our judgment and more when he is exercising the implied emergency powers of the commander in chief. but if he has more. we do  take them away. one of them that he haswhich i myself confirmed. and which is  mentioned here because it need  be because effort is made to interfere with itis the deployment of united states forces within the united states and around the world in peace situations. he has that authority and exercises it. and we do  challenge it. introducing the troops into war gets into aher area where congress has its own powers. which are certainly equal in a constitutional sense.
 the constitutional theory of all the amendments which have been offered with respect to the vietnam war that i am aware of was. encompassed in the mcgovernhatfield and cooperchurch type. they have related to the appropriations process. we have found a serious imperfection in that process. and that imperfection is the natural reluctance of the congressin which i have joinedto cut all supplies of materials. transportation. and so forth. to troops in the field. in addition. rarely would there be the approach of a vehicle which could be so expertly designed for only that unique purpose. for example. we have overall appropriations for all troop activities of the united states. and it is extremely difficult to relate what pertains to vietnam and what does . so those of us who have asserted this side of the issue have found that it is a blunderbuss approach by congress. and congress is reluctant to do so. our contention is that it is  necessary to have such a blunderbuss type of approach. that we can design a special means. a special methodology. for the congress to use in accordance with its constitutional war powers. as a matter of fact. the senator used very good words in his question when he said it is a power which the president claims to havehe may  haveand that is to stay in vietnam. or that he does  even need the gulf of tonkin resolution for what this administration has done. and even more strongly for what the johnson administration did. if the senator will indulge me. since i think it is important that an elucidation be given. i should like to read president lyndon johnsons words on this very subject-
in the absence of a congressional resolution. or. of course a declaration of war. in other words. congress could. by resolution. give him whatever authority congress wished to give him to carry on. that is expressly provided for in subsection (4) of this document. at page 8. line 24. of the bill: pursuant to specific statutory auhorization ... then we go on to make the various exceptions. so we accept the factand i think the senator from wyoming said that very wellthat it is highly unlikely in this modern day that we are going to have a declaration of war. indeed. it is  just recent. we have had very few declarations of war in our national history. so we envisage a legislative approach which is  a declaration of war but which will vest power in the president. because we contend in this bill that we snare that power. once the president is free to take emergency action. but at a given point. emergency action changes into a state of war. and at that point we assert our authority.
i do . i feel. on the contraryand this perhaps goes somewhat to the argument of the senator from wyomingthat we will be on a firmer basis than ever. because one of the things that troubled many in the administration. and has troubled many other senators. many other legislators. and millions of americans. was the fact that the divisiveness in our country over the vietnam war became so evident as to trouble those with whom we were allied. it was that which created the uncertainty in the minds and hearts of many people with whom we were closely allied. and that divisiveness derived from the fact that vietnam is a presidential war.  a war of national commitment. i am making. and those who are joining with me are making. an effort to give a sense of reassurance that. having  codified the alinement of relationships between congress and the chief executive. when the u.s. commits itself it will stand as a unit. and  be subjected to the doubts and challenges to authority which characterize vietnam. i would like to point out to the senator the importance of our continuing the three area resolutions. that is. the formosa resolution. the middle east resolution. and the cuban resolution. the reason that we continued them. withstanding the statement of the administration that they do  need them. is. we said. "sure. you do  need them. perhaps. in your construction of the powers that you think you have. but you certainly do need them if we pass this bill. and we at least want to give you the option of continuing them or telling us that you do  want them for policy reasons." the minute we say that. we also include the likelihood of additional resolutions. for example. the administration may decide that it wants to do something in the way of advance authority about the arabisraeli impasse. and the merits. i beg senators who were here. for example. at the time of the gulf of tonkin resolutioni was. and i participated in it and take full responsibilityto think of the difference in our own thinking. in our own conscience and responsibility. between the president coming in here and saying. "i have acted. and i just want you to back me up." and in two days the thing would whip through hereand the fact that i would k for all practical purposes that i am voting for what is tantamount to a declaration of war. because i would k that it is  just a matter of backing the president when he has already done it. but that i can stop him by refraining from action. it would have taken a lot more soul searching than many of us took at that particular time. and though it is  an excuse. we should have undertaken more soul searching in respect to the gulf of tonkin resolution. though we did . because that was  the frame of reference in which we were acting. i submit to the senator from alabama that we will have the weight on our shoulders. just as the president has it on his shoulders. and in response to those who say. "maybe you will  act as quickly. as wisely. or as well." i can only say that in the bloody history of mankind. a lot less of it has been shed when the responsibility is shared than when one man has the complete authority in his own bands.
i do  think so. any more than our potential enemies could anticipate the will and resolution of the american people. which they always have to decide. after all. suppose our potential enemies decided that because we had the power to cut off money. we suddenly would  appropriate money for a given thing. and they pressed us on that ground. suppose they thought we were  going to put up any further money for troops in europe. why should they engage in mutual balanced force reduction. suppose they did  think we were going to put up any further money for an abm. why should they worry about whether we have an abm or . the only thing this law does. in my judgment. i do  see that it gives us any disadvantage with them. but i think it gives us a vast advantage with our friends. and that our friends would k absolutely and confidently what they could count on as far as we are concerned. second. i think it gives us a big advantage with our own people. and that our own people would feel that our judgment as to war and peace is more likely to be more provident. under this kind of methodology. than. based on the vietnam experience. it is likely to be without the methodology. those are the real issues. and i can tell the senator that some fool in some chancellery will  draw a deduction from this which he should  draw. neither can i tell the senator that if we cut $5 billion off the defense appropriationindeed. the armed services committee itself did that. it made a material cut--sme fool in some chancellery will  come to a similar conclusion. i just do  k. it makes him less a fool if he does. aher thing i would like to point out to the senator is that our bill accommodates any resolution that the president would wish to bring us. for example. if the president feels there is any doubt about any particular activity he wishes to engage in of a generic kind. there is reason why we can give him that authority in advance. that is one of the things that is good about this bill. and it does  wait until there is a crisis to act. that is the significance of the fact that we ourselves have escalated in importance the three area resolutions. the president says he does  need them. we say. "you may need them. and we are giving you a chance to treat them as law." and we give ourselves the same opportunity. because in that area. at least. these are resolutions which we have already undertaken. and which are binding on us with respect to this legislation. similarly with respect to some other area resolution of some other type of resolution which the president might wish to have in order to give himself the necessary freedom to act. but the difference between that type of situation and the present situation is that he would k he has to get it from us. so we would join in the decision. and it simply would  be unilateral on his part.
. i think there are two questions wrapped up in this issue. one is the question as to the power of the foreign relations committee. and the other is as to the substantive provisions of this bill. i should like to answer each separately. as to the foreign relations committee. the provision here regarding its authority does  in any way create any new authority under the constitution or even under law. it says that insofar as we have before us measures dealing with intervention abroad and declarations of war. they will go to the committee on foreign relations. that is all i contended. i did  contend that this measure gave any powerit could to the foreign relations committee to do something which was permitted by law outside of this assignment of authority. any more than the assignment of authority to the committee on the judiciary over constitutional amendments gives it the power to make or unmake a constitutional amendment. of course it does . so i lay that question aside. as to the substantive question. i think the issue is very clear between the senator and myself. it is my view. as sponsor of this measure. and that of others who are interested. that after 30 days a reaction by the commander in chief has become a war. and there can be war without congress intercession. so it becomes the duty of the commander in chief to bring the troops backwith the greatest concern for their preservation and protectionand to effect the process of withdrawal if the congress has  authorized a continuation. that is what we are talking about. as to treaties. the senator raised the question of the nato and other treaties. under all the treaties we can move to war or to hostilities only pursuant to our constitutional processes. the state department.  once but on many occasions reiterated that it does  construe section 5 of the nato treaty as exempting the authority of the united states to engage in hostilities to be free from constitutional processes. that is. it must be according to our constitutional processes. that is their own construction. i ask unanimous consent that the construction of the state department in that particular matter. as most recently supplied. be printed in the record at this point.
again we are considering spelling out the applicability of the legislation to anything that happens on the high seas. though it is the very clear intention of the legislation that this be covered. is there any barrier whatever to any presidents deploying our naval forces anywhere in international waters.
i thank the senator very much. . on march 30. 1972. senator mcgee and senator dominick circulated a letter to all senators which leveled seven specific criticisms of the war powers act. i believe that those criticisms are  warranted. i have prepared a written response to each of these seven charges and. although we have actually covered most of this already in colloquy. i ask unanimous consent that the text of a rebuttal memorandum which i have prepared be printed in the record. s0 as to be available to all senators.
. there are 26 cosponsors of the war powers bill. in view of the limitations on time. to make a list of all of the sponsors of these amendments available for the record. i ask unanimous consent that a list of the sponsors of the bill in alphabetical order be printed at this point in the record. under a separate heading reading "list of sponsors of the war powers bill."
. in response may i say the sponsors of the amendment believe that that situation is very adequately covered. we can have it both ways. in other words. if they are international waters. then the high seas amendment which we are  proposing certainly covers it in so many words. i1f they are claimed to be territorial waters or straits within the confines n a particular foreign country. then they are provided for by the rest of paragraph (3) of section 3. which deal with such countries. if it is a u.s. ship. then it is u.s. soil. if it is an element of the armed force. to wit. a naval ship. then we have the power under section 3(2). i just said a minute ago that we do  condition these powers upon where our forces are. where our ships may be. so long as any element of our forces is ou side the united states. whether in international waters or in a strait or in the territorial waters of aher country. we believewe really have doubts about thisthat it would be covered by the various paragraphs to which i have referred. so we think that the network is complete respecting this coverage.
 from using any weapon of the united states which he feels he must use in order to perform the functions which we have confirmed to him by this bill. that is a generic answer. it is the best i can do.
 has to "repel a sudden attack." at a point that action becomes "war" and requires the action of congress. our colleagues believe. therefore. that we are seeking to make a fundamental change in the constitution. that this is tantamount to a constitutional amendment. that is the issue. that is the issue the senate is going to decide. surely. this is  a procedural motion. this is a substantive motion. so the senate is going to decide on this motion a substantive question. is the war powers act. in effect. a constitutional amendment. i was put in mind of it by the excellent analysis made by senator stennis. the substantive proposition will be that they think this is a change in the constitution. if the senate decides that it is  a change in the constitution. there is reason for reference. this is the substantive question. and i hope very much that we will make the senate aware of that. because it is a very critical point. aher thing interests me greatly. my office came into possession of what were the state departments "talking points" against this bill. one part of it is so interesting that i think it deserves to go into the recoad today. so that senators may have a chance to read about it and think about it.
 when war is involved an incident or a repelling of sudden attack. but war on a massive scale we are talking about. shown by the experience we have just gone through. so i hope members of the senate will consider the record. it is very important. my own opinion is that tomorrows vote is the decisive vote on the whole issue of whether we will or will  have congressional action in this field. and i hope very much the motion will be rejected.
. the senator from virginia has stated the situation very accurately. with the greatest of respect for the senator from alaska. and his intentions in this matter. and the next amendment. and my own actions. votes. and advocacy with respect to the vietnam war should leave question on that score. i have been deeply convinced we must deal with the policy of the united states in respect of the war prospectively if we hope to obtain the passage of this measure. therefore. i oppose this amendment and i will similiarly oppose the next amendment because i believe they would be counterproductive and defeat the entire measure.
. this is a declaration of war. and it seems to us that it is so much a matter apart from any consideration which goes to this bill that it really would be most unfair to compel senators to vote "aye" or "nay" on this proposition in the context of the senates consideration of this bill. i feel that my credentials in respect of opposition to the vietnam war are certainly adequate. the senator from alaska. himself. says that he is going to vote "nay" on his own amendment. so senator spong and i have decided that it will be our duty to move to table this matter. i have  made the motion. and i will  make the motion until senator gravel has debated the matter to the full extent that he wishes to. in order to expose to the senate his reasons for offering the amendment. i simply serve that ice at this time. on behalf of senator spong and myself. for the information of the senate and for the information of the senator from alaska. so that senator gravel may be guided accordingly.
. this is the time to act. i must recall a speech made by the senator from connecticut . in which he said: there is a time when the senate will devote itself to this question. the calendar is readily available for debate at this time. the debate has itself been a liberal education. i hope this debate will be separately printed. i shall do my best to see if we can work that out. i think it is really a magnificent development of the american constitutional system. so. with the greatest respect for the good faith and the deep interest of the senator from maryland. really feel that this is the timeand the placeto deal with the war power question. it is for that reason. rather than as any challenge to the idea of going into any gravely important matter as deeply as we humanly can. that i hope that the senate will reject this alternative amendment.
if the senator will allow me to finish. i will allow the senator to finish. as i understand the senators question. the president could have the right to forestall that attack in any way he deemed advisable. including letting the vessel continue to cruise. that is his judgment. but if. at the end of 30 days. congress does  back him. and he has certified to congress that he had this threat. it is  just a question of the cruising of the ship. there is imminent danger of hostilities. and then congress has a right to say. " we do  want to get into war over this one." that is what the bill says.
the senator is exactly correct. there is one additional fact. that in all the time. with any of these situations. the nato command. of which we are a part. continues to function. we have expressly made that clear in the bill.
. i take this time only to deal with the question of the watkins reservation. if senators will refer to the record of the other day they will find on april 4. 1972. page 11481. a reference. and this is in the state department memorandum. to the report of the committee on foreign relations on the nato treaty. the foreign relations committee report of the time states: "the committee wishes to emphasize the fact that the protective clause in accordance with their respective constitutional proceases was placed in article 11 in order to leave doubt that it applies  only to article 5. for example. but to every provision in the treaty. this safeguard is thus allinclusive. obviously the watkins reservation was rejected. we k the watkins reservation might have required the renegotiation of the treaty. the committee made clear the power remained in congress. we are locking that in at a time when we are setting a legislative framework in which this whole operation of going into an undeclared waractions on the united states and its armed forcesshall be set. we say this should  be left open as the dominick amendment would leave the matter open. the nato treaty is  automatic. i hope the amendment is rejected.
i wish to pursue the point the senator made. which i think is the whole answer to this situation. what the senator from new york. my colleague. is worried about is that when congress gives authorization for the troop strength to be made available for security council uses. congress "having lost sight of this other language"might have overlooked that. therefore he is going to pick it up again by the provision which he wants to write into this bill. it is inconceivable to me. under our procedures here. that congress would overlook the war powers act if. as. and when hereafter it gave authorization for the assignment of troop strength for united nations council uses. agreement heretofore has been negotiated or approved. one could say. "well. its surplus. so what does it matter. you may be stating something that is  necessary."
. the reason that the sponsors of the bill oppose the amendment is that it is unnecessary. it is unnecessary because the armed forces can only be committed to united nations military sanctions under an agreement with the security council which shall be subject to the approval of congress by appropriate act or joint resolution. there is such agreement in existence. therefore. if anything. it would have to be perspective. if it is perspective. that is. if we pass one. it comes under the terms of the war powers act pending before the senate which says that under any perspective law. authority to use the armed forces in hostilities can be inferred separate from this bill unless there is a specific exemption by the congress from the war powers bill.
. before the senator leaves the floor. i want to tell him that if we have done something worthwhile. i think it is absolutely attributable to the indispensable cooperation of the senator from mississippi who. in this matter as always. has shown a patriotism of the high order which has distinguished his whole career. and which is inspiring to me as a senator. though i have had a wide experience. i express the deepest feeling of appreciation in the names of millions upon millions of americans for what he has done on this bill to my colleague the senator from virginia . with whom it has been a pleasure to work as a comrade in arms on the floor and in the committee. and who has rendered a great and le service to the country. as has the senator from missouri . who has worked so closely with us as the fourth member of the team. as well as senator bentsen and senator taft who submitted similar war powers legislation and joined in cosponsorship of this legislation. they. too. are entitled to the gratitude of us all and. i feel. to the gratitude of all americans. a special commendation must go to the staffs who worked with each of us on the floor to bring about this end result. my own foreign policy assistant peter lakeland. senator spongs assistant. carolyn fuller. senator stennis had the fine assistance of jim woolsey. general counsel of the armed services committee. and senator eagletons aide. brian atwood.
 johnson to involve our nation so disastrously and so ineffectually in vietnam in 196465. heaven help us. if we are in 1972 back to thinking that the 25year struggle of the vietnamese communists to reunite vietnam under their hegemony is an instrument of the international communist conspiracy directed by moscow which it is our national interest to prevent at any cost to us. second. some aspects of the u.s. military response to the current th vietnamese offensive suggest that we may be falling into a new ensnarement which could be even more costly and dangerous than the snare we got caught in with the massive ground intervention in 1965. in a sense we are  in grave danger of becoming the victims of the success of the vietnamization program. and of all those years in which u.s. foot soldiers fought a war of attrition and search and destroy. ha is  apparently convinced that it can any longer win a military victory through guerrilla tactics. accordingly. it has shifted to new. conventional war tactics. and. it clearly has persuaded the soviet union to provide it with the equipment necessary to pursue a conventionalstyle war. but as this is a new war. and the new danger is again what it was in 196465 of the saigon forces being overrun. it is absolutely essential that an irrevocable decision is made  that the united states will  involve itself in fighting this new war: that the fighting is going to have to be done by the south vietnamese on their own. and that we wish them all the luck in the world and will give them generous material support so long as they have the will to fight. but we have to decide right  that we are  going to fight the new war for them. that is the principal thrust of what i have to say this morning. that may be a bigger and more difficult decision than people  realize. we could be heading for a new battlefield situation in vietnam reminiscent of koreain a way that the vietnam war heretofore has never resembled korea. secretary laird said in the foreign relations committee hearing on tuesday that the administration is making its plans in vietnam on the assumption of the success of the vietnamization program. he declined to concede even the existence of any contingency planning based on the premise of a failure of the vietnamization program. clearly. there is a deep reluctance to face up to the necessity of choice in vietnam. maybe everything will come up roses. and the arvn and the thieu government will succeed decisively in putting down the communists. allowing the united states to continue and complete its unilaterally paced withdrawal by the end of 1972and to leave and ultimately pull out and "insurance" forceall without having to swallow any more bitter pillsbeyond the hemlock we have already drunk at home in terms of the savage damage to our own internal body politic. but the united states has got to have a better policy than just one of hoping for the best. we have got to have an irrevocable national decision to get out of vietnam completely by a date certain this year. and we have to make that national decision . the time has passed when the senate can be content with wringing its hands over this question. i think the war powers debate. and the overwhelming senate vote for the war powers act. clarified the basic issues respecting congressional authority and congressional responsibility in this field. the time has come for the senate to set a date certain for complete u.s. withdrawal from vietnam. it is my firm conviction that there should be preconditions attached to the complete withdrawal of u.s. forces from vietnam. we can accept the success of vietnamization as a precondition for complete u.s. withdrawal.  can we insist on has agreement to our negotiation terms at the peace table as a precondition to our complete withdrawal. the likelihood of getting out the prisoners is on precedent much greater on this basis. all the lessons of warfare throughout history counsel and teach us with reference to prisoners of war. that it is the only way in which they are eventually released. and we had the same experience in this respect even with the crew of the pueblo held in th korea. the task therefore is to establish a national decision to withdraw our forces completely from vietnamwithout preconditionsand without allowing ourselves to get trapped into fighting a new war in vietnam such as the latest fighting in vietnam presages and i hope the senate will enact legislation to this end. i repeat. we have  armed. supplied. and manned the south vietnamese in a way in which. if they want an independent country. they should be able to resist and overcome the communist offensivethis one or the ones that followand if they do  want such a country. power on earth can get it for them. including the united states of america. i thank the senator
. i ask unanimous consent that the text of my prepared remarks before the oakbrook world affairs series. entitled "vietnam and the war powers issue." delivered in oak brook. ill.. on may 1. 1972. be printed in the record.
. in the spirit of the war powers bill which we have already passed here. and in the face of the crisis which he and the country might face respecting the soviet union or the peoples republic of china. to repair to congress in order to justify his action. to get our thinking. to ascertain if we had anything to urge that we thought was more desirable. and to cause congress to participate and concur in any final decision. in so grave a crisis.
i thank the senator. . i believe that this is part and parcel of the same position of the senate and congress in asserting itself in respect of the awesome power to make war or to get into conditions which can create war on the part of the united states. for all those reasons. i hope very much that the senate will defeat this amendment.
we are advised. i will say to the chairman of the committee. that new york will go even the 5050 route. but suppose the secretary of the army should hold. with new york. that 7030 is the proper formula. if that is the case then i understand there will  be adequate resources in order to meet the 7030 division on the part of the corps. however. i have great confidence in the senator from mississippi. if the senator accepts the representation of the corps that it is prepared to go forward with this project and put up its share if the secretary of the army should determine on a 7030 basis. i will withdraw the amendment. if that is the understanding of the senator from mississippi and the reason as to why he can accept the amendment. i k he will help me set it right if it proves to be incorrect.
the senator is satisfied that it is almost egh. i hope the senator understands me. i am willing to withdraw the amendment if the senators understanding of their assertion is that they are willing to pay it on a 7030 basis if the secretary of the army says they can.
. you either want to win the vietnam war and stop giving illusory conditions that it can be ended on conditions. or you do . i k what my decision is. but i do  quarrel with any senator who thinks the other way. i hope he is right. i think we are facing the moment of truth and the greater responsibility of the united states is to get out of vietnam. i believe that serves everybodythe prisoners of war. their families. and our country.
as i read the amendment. the cutoff of funds reads. in 13(a) -anq the proviso is tacked on to the funds cutoffthat is. provided that there has been a release of all american prisoners of war held by the government of th vietnam or any government allied with them. that becomes a proviso to the funds cutoff and the mandatory termination of our involvement.  only in vietnam but also in laos and cambodia. that is  13(a).
. "second to e" which is what the administration believes in essentially means sufficiency. and that is essentially what we have before us. it is essential for the treaty and the agreement to meet the test. this is  going to remain static. because both parties have the right to improve and to modernize the existing weaponry in the offensive and defensive fields at one and the same time that the agreements are in effect. indeed. we have the possibility of greatly expanding the capability of our offensive weapons through the mirv techogy. that is. adding to the number of effective warheads in each individual missile. as the freeze is on the number of individual missile launchers. this is a critically important point because rather than being considered a disadvantage this is considered one of the great advantages by the united states under the agreement because. as again dr. kissinger explains: the current arms race compounds numbers by techogy. the soviet union has proved that it can best compete in sheer numbers. this is the area which is limited by the agreement. thus the agreement confines the competition with the soviets to the area of techogy. and. heretofore. we have had a significant advantage. there is reason whatever why we should approve the agreement if we fear we are deficient. and that is what these amendments suggest in the future outlook respecting techogy. i do  think we are facing such a future. all evidence suggests we are . it seems a very reasonable risk we are taking with the great likelihood that the advantage is very materially with us. in terms of competition under the term of the agreement. this question of unilateral declaration which is  coming to the floor. proposed by the senator from new york
. the senate should k that this bill which has just gone to conference is the war powers bill which we debated here at length. and which was well considered in. i think. an extremely highlevel way. the house of representatives chose to take that bill from the calendar and substitute a bill which the house had theretofore passed directed to the same subject. which was very different from the senate bill. and our chairman quite properly. as a matter of comity with the house of representatives. has had conferees appointed. and i thoroughly agree with that. it is our duty to do so. but i think it would be deceptive if i did  state. having been so importantly concerned with the bill for myself and the major cosponsors. senator spong of our committee. senator stennis. the chairman of the armed services committee. and senator eagleton. that the house version is very. very different. of a totally different order of construction. and different in every conceivable way from what the senate passed. and therefore i would  wish the bill to be referred to conference without emphasizing that point. that the two proceed on completely diverse principles. every senator should k that. and we should  have some impression that this is just a bill that can be taken to conference and somehow reconciled in the mal way between the two houses. deep questions of principle as to the powers of congress are involved. we have to do our best to wrestle with them. but i thought it was appropriate to spread this well on the record.
. you either want to win the vietnam war and stop giving illusory conditions that it can be ended on conditions. or you do . i k what my decision is. but i do  quarrel with any senacor who thinks the other way. i hope he is right. i think we are facing the moment of truth and the greater responsibility of the united states is to get out of vietnam. i believe that serves everybodythe prisoners of war. their families. and our country.
. one other observation: the committee made an increase to $840 million basic in the appropriation for various titles of oeo for the war on poverty. as i requested. and thus accommodated the items that i had testified to relating to an increase for community ecoic development. for legal services. the administration requested $760 million for these items and that was the house allowance. within the $840 million. i requested totals of $69.750.000 for community ecoic development. an amount $39.05 million above the $40.7 million requested by the administration. this was made on behalf of myself and senator kennedy. and $94.346 million for legal services. an amount $22.846 million above the $71.5 million requested by the administration. this was made on behalf of myself. senator case. senator mondale. and senator
. authorizing the transfer of the navy vessel called the twin fallsu.s. navy ship twin fallsby the secretary of commerce to the board of education of the city of new york for educational purposes with very elaborate provisions for return when it is  required for those purposes. et cetera. and unless the leadership has some objection to it. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on commerce be discharged and that the senate proceed to the immediate consideration of the bill.
. i respect the action of the armed services committee in bringing in this bill. which as i understand is exactly the house bill. and at this stage of the session would make effort to put in any amendment. but it does give me indication to ask the senator about a bill which we in new york have been very much interested in. which would make officers who are graduates from the merchant marine academy eligible for the naval reserve. i hope very much the chairman might be able to give me some encouragement as to early consideration of that measure by the committee.
. i would like to join the senator from wisconsin in the remarks he just made about the arms control agency. i will join him in that effort. i consider it my duty as a member of the foreign relations committee to do just that.
. i submit for appropriate reference. for myself and the senior senator from connecticut . a joint resolution to mark april 29 in commemoration of the 30th anniversary of the uprising against the nazi occupation forces by the beleaguered and outnumbered jews of the warsaw ghetto who. by their heroic struggle. reaffirmed the ineradicable determination of mankind to fight for freedom from oppression and symbolized the indestructible spirit of liberty. it was 30 years ago in april that the world was electrified by the news of the heroic resistance against the mighty nazi war machine by the outnumbered and beleaguered jews of the warsaw ghetto. we who live in security and freedom must long remember and be inspired by those who. under such hopeless circumstances. died for freedom and dignity. their resistance will remain forever a monument of light in a dark era of mans history.
. i ask unanimous consent that at the conclusion of my remarks the statements on the bill prepared to be made by senators eagleton. muskie. and chiles may be printed in the record. senator eagleton has made a major contribution to the war powers act and is a principal cosponsor. he intended to participate in a colloquy. but is unable to be here. i am etheless pleased to place his statement in the record. for his views on this issue are eworthy. senator stennis had also intended to speak today on the reintroduction of the war powers act. but due to the extreme press of other business. he has had to postpone his statement until next week. we all look forward to hearing his statement.
 in this age of instantaneous communications and of intercontinental ballistic missiles with the urgent necessity for congress to exercise its constitutional mandate and duty with respect to the great questions of war and peace. a detailed. sectionbysection explanation of the entire bill is contained in my speech of march 29. 1972. which initiated the senate debate on the war powers act. i ask unanimous consent that the text of that speech. along with the text of the war powers act. be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. i ask unanimous consent that the report of the foreign relations committee on the war powers act. dated february 9. 1972. also be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
our experience of the last 5 years or more has demonstrated how much harder it is to get out of an undeclared war than it is to get into one. in dealing with this situation. congress has been forced back onto relying solely on its power over appropriations. we have seen how difficult and unsatisfactory it is for congress to try to get a meaningful hold on the vietnam war through the funds cutoff route. yet there are a group of pundits. historians. and commentators who would have us fly directly in the fact of this tortuous experience and confine ourselves to the funds cutoff route. those who would so advise us are either too timid. or to conservative to try insi tional reform. they would have us the presidential war power so often as a fine tuned. subtle. and decisive strument with a clumsy. blunt. obsolescent tool. the fund cutoff res is there  and will be there when war powers bill becomes law. it cant be an excellent sanction. but it is a substitute. the obvious lesson for congress devise ways to bring to bear its exten policy powers respecting war at the set. so that it is  left to fumble in an afterthefact attempt to us appropriations power. this is what war powers act seeks to do. if james madison had pressed his r on september 7. 1787. during the de in the constitutional convention. might  be faced with our current nizing dilemma. madison proposed* that twothirds of the senate be thorized to make treaties of peace v out the concurrence of the presi the president he said: would neces derive so much power and importance a state of war that he might be tern if authorized. to impede a treaty of p however. madison withdrew his posal without putting it to a vote. it is  clear whether madison speaking seriously or facetiously. clear. however. that presidents tended to see their role. as comma in chief conducting a war. as the cisive power of the presidency. presi nixon articulated this view very cisely. when he said last april: each of us in his way tries to leave presidency) with as much respect and as much strength in the world as he sibly canthat is his responsibilitya do it the best way that he possibly can but if the united states at this time 1 vietnam and allows a communist take the office of president of the united s will lose respect and i am  going t that happen. the effort embodied in the war ers act is the fulcrum. in my judgr of the broader attempt of the con to redress the dangerous constituti imbalance which has developed in relationship between the president the congress. unless congress succ in reasserting its war powers i do think it can succeed in reassertin powers of the purse which have grov weak in comparison with the execi branch. the publicists and the lawyers of presidency have been busy for years in advancing a new constitutional trine. according to this el doc the president has inherent power. his role as commander in chief. to o ride any other powers conferred where else in the constitution. we have reached a point where ponents of the presidency seem t claiming that the power of the c mander in chief is what he himself fines it to be in any given circumst this is the challenge that must be by the congress. if this challenge is met successfully by the congress.  see how it can prevent the fur erosion of its powers and jeopa freedom itself. titu- most senators are already familiar assure congressional involvement at the face with the war powers act. it was the sub- outset of all wars. our constitutional sysused ject of extensive. and indeed historic. tern requires a confidence that the conin- hearings before the foreign relations gress will act as responsibly as any presiand committee in 1971. the printed record dent in the national interest. even more sedy of those hearings constitutes the most significantly. it assumes that the national the comprehensive inquiry into this vital con- interest can best be defined and acted then stitutional issue in our nations history. upon when both the president and the  the bill was subjected to further intense congress are required to come to an unscrutiny in a major senate debate which derstanding as to what is the national is to lasted from march 29 to april 13. 1972. interest. sive. when the senate voted 68 to 16 to adopt the war powers act embodies practiout- the legislation. cal and wellconceived procedures to imlater in view of the action of the senate in plement the constitutional war powers of e its 1972. and the number of cosponsors who congress in a manner which fully meets the have joined in reintroducing the war the requirements of national security in powers act today. i am hopeful that the the modem world. oint senate will again pass this historic  nixon might never have had the conduct of the vietnam war thrust upon him. because the united states might  have committed troops to combat in that war. i should also like to reaffirm that this bill is a bipartisan. ideological attempt by many members of this body to delineate the executivelegislative relationship. it is  a liberal initiative. and it is  a conservative initiative. the distinguished senior senator from new york has correctly characterized the bill as landmark legislation. on the occasion of the resubmission of the war powers act. i would like to commend the senator from new york
. as we all remember. just 28 years ago u.s. relations with japan were in a state of total war and were characterized by distrust and enmity. today. japan is a close ally. our second biggest trading partner. and a thriving democracy. through intelligent diplomacy. mutual selfinterest. and reciprocal respect. the relationship of 28 years ago has been transformed into a cooperative and mutually beneficial friendship that is unprecedented in eastwest relations. perhaps. the most significant symbol of this new united statesjapan relationship is the okinawa reversion agreement. approved by the senate on ember 10. 1971. by a vote of 84 to 6. this unique relationship grows out of the experiences of the past 20 years and is the foundation for plans and aspirations in asia for the next 20 years. i believe it must be perpetuated. clearly an example of cooperation. mutual respect. understanding. and trust between equals. this agreement effected the return of okinawa to japanese administration. the agreement also provides that japan pay $320 million to the united states. over a period of 5 years. as repayment of the cost to the united states for public utilities and other facilities on the island and  turned over to japanese administration plus some costs in connection with relocation of american facilities and employment of indiges labor. therefore. today i reintroduce for myself and senators abourezk. brock.
. first i wish to ackledge the indispensable efforts of the senator from missouri . it is a fact that i introduced the first bill. but it is also a fact that the final product as it emerged from me and then from the committee on foreign relations was heavily influenced by the considerations in the bill of the senator from missouri . especially was this true of the protective clauses respecting previous treaties and the effect of previous legislation. this was a critically important subject. in delimiting the war powers legislation. i can ackledge egh the great contribution in that and in every other phase of the bill of the senator from missouri . also. it is characteristic of him that his thoughtfulness and foresight have brought about this colloquy today. it is a fact that the ceasefire in vietnam has created a new situation from that which prevailed last year when under the war powers bill. we expressly excluded the ongoing hostilities in indochina. we all felt and the senator from mississippi
. there is absolutely question. our committee handled manpower training. we are deeply concerned with the paucity of manpower training opportunities afforded to older and middleaged citizens. we recognize the deep connection between getting employment and upgrading skills. which is compelled by modern techogy and modern demand in terms of job training. and we are convinced. as i think senator beall himself is. that some specific measure is necessary in that regard in order to increase materially the training slots for older people. as to the ongoing mainstream program and the effort to expand that. i can think of finer concept than "keeping them walking." as the saying is in respect to older people. and keeping them interested and employed. in short. this measure will pay such huge dividends to the country that mainstream. like headstart. has probably been as attractive a program as we have pioneered under the war on poverty. for all those reasons. and with greatest sympathy for the position taken by senator beall. i shall be compelled to vote against his motion. several senators addressed the chair.
i wish to pose a rhetorical question to the senator. there is hing in the war powers act to prevent the president from asking immediately and getting action on the part of congress immediately. there is requirement. under the war powers act or whatever the methodology may be. he can ask immediately and get action immediately. is that  true.
. if we do provide aid. congress. therefore. must make it clear that it must be a party to that decision. that is the historic constitutional struggle we are engaged in. we did it yesterday on impoundments. i hope we will do it tomorrow on war powers. and we must do it today on this very vexing question of aid to th vietnam. the matter of interpretation of this amendment is very important. though senator tower feels it will  get anywhere. perhaps it may  in this bill. but once the senate expresses its will it has a good chance of getting somewhere. and in the proximate future. because it is badly needed as an injunction to the administration that whatever may have been its past promises. either overt or covert in negotiations. they can only be hoed by congressional action through the power of the purse. therefore. i ask the author of the amendment this question: as i read the amendment. it is both retrospective and prospective in its application. because it says: funds made available by the congress to any department or agency of the government may be obligated or expended. that is the past. it would also include the future. because our right to act is the future. so the question is. first. will we allow appropriations or authority already given to be used for this purpose by our future actions. or will we give that authority in future actions. in either case. it is  going to be by implication. it is going to be only by express and specific enactment of congress. is that correct.
. mr. stones letter. inserted in the congressional record on april 9. 1973. by hon. clement j. zablocki. of wisconsin. author of the house bill on the subject of war powers. is answered by senator eagleton in the following letter:
the senator is exactly correct. however. such a document does  give power that the president does  have. and we emphasize that he does  have that power. . may i emphasize the critical importance of this. the american people were devastated by the vietnam war. they may find themselves devastated by a war in cambodia or some other war. until this question of power is laid to rest. the country is in too much peril. we can overemphasize the importance of such decision to the future of our nation.
. i am deeply interested that almost contemporaneously with this statement of mine and without any concert whatever. the senator from arizona addressed himself substantially to the same idea in a statement issued today. this is the effect watergate may be having on our nation and on broader issues of vital concern to our nation. the fact that our political institutions are being tested with respect to watergate does  mean that our political institutions are  basically strong and will  survive. in fact. perhaps our institutions may be even greatly improved by this catharsis. for example. the congress may at long last. after some decades of second class citizenship. be ready to come into its own again as an equal partner in government in matters of war and peace as in matters of domestic revenue. expenditures. and prices and wages. thereby giving to the united states an even greater stability. in any case. and despite the testing of our political institutions. there is evidence whatever justifying a vote of confidence in our ecoic institutions which remain the strongest national aggregation of production and techogy on earth. we can affect what foreigners may think of our government or our money. but we certainly can affect what americans think of both. and this is both our duty and our responsibility. there is reason for pressing the panic button on account of watergate. our institutions are capable of dealing with even such a national scandal. and they are indeed in the process of dealing with this scandal in a way probably unparallelel in its directness and comprehensiveness than is possible in any other country in the world. americans have every reason to assert their confidence in the countrys ecoywhich is actually flourishing withstanding many productivity. efficiency. and morale problems still to be solved. yet it does seem that we are facing a vote of confidence by the world in the u.s. political and ecoic institutions. i am convinced that those who are speculating on adversity will live to regret it. but additional steps need to be taken. it is required that the united states take effective action to insulate watergate from the rest of the operations of our government by the speedy appointment of a special prosecutor with adequate and autoous and independent power. that can be done as a matter of law. second. it is imperative that additional ecoic actions be taken with respect to the inflationary boom we are facing and my proposals in this regard follow.
 and the congress jointly. we  have a process of trying to find a way. a methodology. by which. if we do have to make the awful decision of war again. at least we will havewith always a few exceptionsa truly united country. a united people determined that such a war will be worth the sacrifices. which they never felt with regard to vietnam.
. i extend my congratulations to lieutenant pelosi. i commend his extraordinary perseverance and the great strength of character which enabled him to survive the impact of so severe a punishment. he is a great credit to the army and to the academy. . an article in the new york times of june 7. and an editorial in the washington post of june 10. entitled "ho comes in a codeand in a man." chronicle the case of lieutenant pelosi. i ask unanimous consent that the text of these materials be printed in the record.
i am ready to vote. based upon my experience with the nato organization. i think the amendment has been drafted correctly this time. because this is really the test: what is the international commitment to free institutions of greece. i will say that under the existing conditions. it probably will take some timei do  like to estimate it in days. months. or whateverto phase in a system which is a parliamentary system. but. as the chairman of the committee of 9. for the review of nato. and so forth. this is a very real bone in natos throat. the way the amendment has been drafted. i think it will accommodate the parameters of the decision i have described. so i intend to vote "aye" on the amendment.
 he gives in his letter a couple of instances of the use of black powder in respect of bombing. he does  give a detailed figure for new york city. however. i respectfully submit that the very figures the senator from indiana used is reason to dispute this. there is indictment egh in the very fact that black powder is a useful explosive for bombing and is actually used in a sufficient number of cases. he cites these figures himself.
i was seeking to protect anyone who may wish to speak to the bill. finally. do i correctly understand that the pending bill succeeding the minimum wage bill will be the war powers bill. and that at least opening statements on the war powers bill may be looked forward to on thursday. after the final vote on the minimum wage.
. this week marks the 15th annual observance of captive nations week. it is tragic. indeed. that our expressions of concern and solidarity for the unfulfilled aspirations of the people of eastern europe for fundamental human rights and national independence remain as unfulfilled today as they were upon the original passage of the captive nations resolutionpublic law 8690--of which i had the ho to cosponsor. in fact. there is evidence to support the contention that in order to insulate themselves from the increased contact and communication with the west resulting from ongoing detente and "ostpolitik" that the soviet union and eastern european regimes are actually increasing their suppression of individual thought and expression: one need only point to the persecution of intellectuals and artists. the grave problems of soviet jewry. and the suppression of the "samizdat"-the russian underground chronicle of current events. and also the evidence of a similar tightening of the screws in eastern europe. if the d6tente between east and west.  focused on the initial stages of the conference on security and cooperation in europe in helsinki. in bfr. salt. and eastwest trade is to have any real meaning. a unified west will have to make it very clear that if the countries of the warsaw pact are to get the western techogy. agricultural products. and political. and diplomatic concessions they so much need and seem to want. there will have to be a concomitant recognition on their part of some of the basic principals of western european tradition. such as the free flow of ideas and freedom of movement of people. this is  an effort to revive cold war propaganda. as some would like to characterize it. but is to enable the people of both east and west to participate in detente and to develop a true and meaningful mutual understanding. we must  fail the peoples of eastern europe by muting our expressions of concern and solidarity with their unfulfilled aspirations for freedom as elements of any overall "bargain of convenience" with the soviet union and eastern europe. to do so would be a betrayal of ourselves and the freedom for which men and women have fought and sacrificed for centuries and which is the base of our own freedom.
the senator issued a challenge that we answer 25 points referring to the war powers bill. i have done that and will make available the answers to the senator from arizona. and i offer them for the record at this time. on july 18. 1973. during the war powers debate. senator goldwater made the following statement: i recall the debate last time and the fact that we did  have much time. i am just as disappointed as is the senator from colorado in the fact that the committee on foreign relations did  seemingly allow any opposition witnesses. i requested to be heard before the committee. but i was  given a chance to be heard. so i have to be heard on the floor. here are the facts: 1. in 1972 the senate debated the war powers act for a total of 11 days. there was effort made to limit or cut off opposition debate and the bill passed overwhelmingly. 68 to 16. 2. with respect to goldwaters view that "the committee on foreign relations did  seemingly allow any opposition witnesses" in its hearings this year. the fact is. as stated in the hearings: charles m. bower. acting legal adviser of the state department. testified on behalf of the administration in opposition of the bill. as did david maxwell. a former president of the aba and member of the state department advisory panel on international law. moreover. as indicated on page 53 of the hearing record. the following persons who had indicated opposition to the bill were specifically and personally invited to testify but declined or were unable to do so: secretary of state rogers. deputy secretary rush. prof. eugene rostow. prof. arthur schlesinger. jr. former secretary of state dean rusk. former aba president eberhard deutsch. former aba president charles rhyne. prof. francis wormuth. all of those above were  only personally and individually invited. but each was requested to submit a statement for the record if he were  able to testify in person. senator dominck submitted a statement for the record. which appears on page 250 of the hearings. senator goldwater was invited to testify but was necessarily absent in arizona for the week during which the 2day hearings took place. at the request of senator goldwaters office. you personally placed his statement in the record. the statement of senator goldwater occupies 40 pages of the hearingsfrom page 116 to page 156. in addition. it is pertinent to point out that during the course of the foreign relations committee hearings. both in 1971 and 1973. six witnesses appeared in opposition to the war powers bill: senator goldwater. prof. john ton moore. secretary of state rogers. former under secretary of state george ball. acting legal adviser charles m. bower and  and the congress can fashion any degree of flexibility. discretion and judgment which they jointly think necessary and proper in defense of our nations security. 24. "s. 440 will incite one of the gravest constitutional crises in american history without a means of resolution. because the supreme court treats the use of troops as a political question  subject to judicial decision." comment: our nation already is in the midst of a grave constitutional crisis with respect to the exercise of our nations war powers. s. 440 in fact provides a wholly responsible way out of the constitutional crisis which already exists. 25. "s. 440 iges the true purpose of the founding fathers to prevent a recurrence of the interference with military operations which washington experienced with the continental congress." comment: as almost all constitutional historians have pointed out the principal purpose of the founding fathers in drafting the war powers provisions of the constitution was to prevent a concentration of "monarchial" powers over war in the hands of the executive. many quotations in this regard have been cited during the senate debate. and are contained in the hearings and referred to in the committee report.
then. we agree. that does  denigrate from the fact that we say there is a real danger of a veto. i say this as the author of this bill. with the great aid of senator eagleton. senator stewrs. and other senators in the fashioning which was done in the committee on foreign relations. the purpose and intent i had was to arrive at a proedure on the major question of war and i thought if we could accomplish that. we would have leashed what the founding fathers called the dogs of war. i thought that was what i was doing. the causes of war are many. if we are going to tr7 to follow all those things. we will be chasing lots of rabbit taacks. i agree as to the cia. but i think that if we try to crank it into this situation. the fundamental thrust of the bill. its fundamental impact. could be lost. one thing on which i should like to take issue with my esteemed chairman. with whom i work so closely. is that this is a critically important bill without the cia amendment. it is an historic break with the past. at long last. we will say how this must be done. ali i say is that . today. there is hing the president has to look at which tells him what to do. he has freedom of action. unless we stop him. and we have to. find a way to stop him that is agreeable to. a majority of the members of congress or to twothirds of the members.
i need just 4 minutes.  does  give you due ice. then when we pass the concurrent resolution. we are breaking the secrecy. i do  say that is impossible. we can live with that. too. maybe we. too. have to function in some things in secrecy. and be tough egh to discipline a member who breaks the secrecy. which is something we have never done. but that takes a good deal more thought and refinement than we can put into this bill with an hours debate. on the question of constitutionality. i would like to say that while i believe congress does have power to legislate respecting peacetime deployment. the constitutional interplay between congress and the commander in chief is somewhat different. the respective authorities are different. and perhaps the commander in chiefs authority is stronger visavis congress with respect to the details of the locus of peacetime deployment of the forces under his command. this is an issue which should be explored and clarified in hearings such as we did with respect to the war powers.
it would prevent a vietnam situation because the troops who went there to defend that air force base--even assuming that those facts are correctbut let us assume that for the sake of the answer. although i think there is more to it than thatbecause president johnson had decided onthe senator may remember the highlevel. meetings he held with the president of vietnam. i think it was either at manila or hawaii. in which it was decided that the vietnamese forces would undertake essentially garrison duties and u.s. forces would fight the war. but even if the senator is rightand it is a hypothetical questionif we sent troops into hostilities. and there were hostilities in vietnam. then this act would immediately apply. certainly president. even if there were an actual shooting that day. could deny that there. was imminent danger of hostilities which. according to this. would apply. so it is an a priori situationto wit. troops wvqre there at all. .whether to guard an air force base. which made this applicable and  the exemption contained in the section regarding presidential powers.
 come to congress and said. "i need authority to stop those ships." we would have stopped those ships. that was risky business for hundred of millions of people around the world. with nuclear war in the offing. to leave it to one man in the white houseone manto decide yea or nay. fortunately we got out of it through diplomacy.
the senator has answered the question exactly as i would. and i wish to add one other point. one denies for a minute that you still depend to a great extent upon the presidency. as to all the loose talk aboutcredibility. and so forth. we all can appreciate and understand that. but you can run a country that way. you can operate. you can pass laws on that theory. we must assume that. having written it out. the president will obey the law in reasonable good faith. in any case. we will have something to repair to. . i believe that the answer to the cubn missile crisis is that. given any time at all. the president would have seen his clear duty under this bill to come to us. what gives him the prescience and patriotism that is denied to us. i do  understand it. he is human and mortal. as we are. if you had any doubt about it yesterday. you should  have it today. what is the basis for the assumption that he is infallible and can make a mistake and that only we are capable of mistakes. so much for the cuban missile crisis. as to the relief of the berlin garrison. there was imminent threat of war. the senator. himself. said that. we just defeated an amendment by the senator from arkansas which would have inhibited the deployment of our forces. so the president is perfectly free to deploy the forces of the united states. that covers the berlin garrison problem. as to the situation of the troops to leba. there. again. the president should have come to us. and. in fact. he did. he got a resolution which in the terms of that time was valid: if they are attacked by communist forces or communistbacked forces. that was his cover for asking for the resolution. on the ground that the revolt in leba was fomented by the soviet union or forces acting at the dictates of their international communist apparatus. but precisely this law would apply and should apply in that kind of situation. that could have led to an emous conflagration in the middle east exactly like that in vietnam. we are mighty lucky that we got out of it with a whole skin. certainly. we want this to apply to that kind of situation. and it should. ... finally. as to the deployment of the 6th fleet in the 6day war. the answer is precisely the same as that respecting the deployment in respect of the berlin garrison. the president moved our ships forward in a situation which represented the mal deployment for naval forces of the united states. there was imminent danger. ody was threatening to attack. they were  involved in hostilities. and the president had complete authority to do that. had he moved them within the war zone. with a design of taking some part or relieving one or the other of the parties. then he would be subject to this law. and i maintain that he should be. that is why we are doing it. i understand the views of the senator from michigan. and these are appropriate questions to raise and to be debated. but i really feel that the plan of the bill meets the appropriate exigencies. where we ought to have power. we are given power. and where the president ought to have power. he is given power. i thought these views should be juxtaposed to those of the senator from michigan. and i thank the senator from maine.
the amendment which relates to the veterans outreachas we understand that amendment. as explained to the senator from wisconsin and myselfwould simply qualify aher type of public service employmentto wit. the employment of veterans who would be engaged in finding other veterans to whom the program is necessary. what we want to be sure about in that regard is that the work which is authorized for veterans outreach includes  only finding a veteran who will get public service employment but also seeing that veteran is brought the aspects of the bill which we consider importantto wit its transitional nature. so we would expect the veteran authorized to be employed for veterans outreach will  only get the veteran what is called a pep job but will also see that veterans out of that job. if that is possible. and into regular employment or manpower training or whatever would be the transition which he should make logically in order to carry out the intent of the bill.
 that the allocation of power. as it has been developed in recent decadesand certainly since world war iiis neither satisfactory to the united states  to congress. it is considering that in respect of impoundment. it is considering that in respect of congressional machinery to deal with priorities and objectives which have been so largely taken for granted in the executive budget. it seems to me. therefore. that this effort to concentrate consideration across the board on the social aspects of our governmental operationwhich although in the executive hands would have its relation to the congressfits precisely within that pattern. i am a member of the committee on government operations. and have the ho to serve under the senator from th carolina . i wish to assure the senator from minnesota that insofar as i can i will favor consideration of this matter in a very sympathetic way. i have an idea that the way this matter ultimately will come out is that we will have a more complete framework than we have today and that the arch will have segments and i think hopefully this can be a segment of that arch. i chose to strike title ii of which i was the author from the bill because i saw so much under consideration by our committee. i would  for a moment counsel the senator from minnesota. but i think that although this will turn out perhaps  the optimum way to get this particular bill passed. it is the best way to have the idea made meaningful. and king the senator from minnesota as i do i feel that is what he wants primarily. so i am pleased to see the resolution of the problem and i will do my utmost to cooperate.
. i was advised this item would  be included in fiscal year 1974 military construction appropriation authorization. however. i do  at this time have an amendment to the military conmr. resden. iwan tocomend the struction billl because i am assured funds red persident iommittee or infor construction of a new 15th air force armed services committee for including headquarters at march air force base in this provision in the bill. today is an im- riverside. california. will be a part of the portant day for the people of culebra and fy 75 milcon authorization request. the people of the united states. the 15th air force is an integral part of
. the british journal. the ecoist. recently published an editorial in its issue of august 25. 1973. on the present weaknesses of the united states and europe. this magazine consistently publishes some of the most incisive and perceptive articles on world affairs and the united states that may be found anywhere. the article emphasizes many of the concerns i have shared with my colleagues on the committee of nine. which was charged by the th atlantic assembly to chart the future of nato for the next 10 years. the final report of the committee of nine is  ready to be presented at the 19th annual session of the th atlantic assembly in ankara. turkey. in late october 1973. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed in the recoad.
it is my feeling that those senators who may be voting for this because they k we have to cut down on troop strength and who might think this is an effective way to do it because it affects forces overseas. i appeal to them to think three or four times with respect to what i consider to be the ultimate consequences of this highly dangerous and very prejudicial move
 and the congress acting together. that does  mean unanimously but it does mean the necessary majorities in both senate and house. on april 13. 1972 the senate passed the war powers act for the first time by a vote of 68 to 16. on july 20. the senate again passed the war powers act by a vote of 72 to 18. and. because of the extensive consideration which was given to the war powers act. most senators are familiar with the provisions and mechanisms of the senate bill. moreover. the report of the foreign relations committee accompanying s. 440. the war powers act. contained an extensive explanation of the bills provisions. inasmuch as the conference report represents a blend of the senat6. and house measures. and consequently differs in some material respects from the senate text. i believe it would be useful to explain the provisions of the conference bill in somewhat greater detail than is contained in the joint statement of managers contained in the conference report.
. i wanted to say that the distinguished senator cxix2115---part 26 from texas is the author of one of the original war powers bills which was tremendously helpful and very constructive in this whole effort we have been making here. and i want to pay my tribute to him.
i think the mal practice which has grown up on that is that it does  involve such a utilization of the forces of the united states as to represent a use of forces. appreciably. in hostilities so as to constitute an exercise of the war power or to constitute a commitment of the nation to war. the constitutional convention spoke only of "repelling sudden attacks."
it may have been so predicated. but i do  think it was justified. any president. so long as the army. navy. and air force will obey him. can seek to assert authority which may  be justified under constitutional law. we could  help that even if we passed the senate bill as the conference report. he would still do the same thing.
i appreciate the attitude of senator magnuson and senator cotton on this score. . we are carrying improperly an item for the office of ecoic opportunitythat is. the continuing war on povertyand i wish to make it very clear in that regard. because it has been questioned so much. that community action organizations throughout the country are still functioning and rendering yeoman service. including service in programs extremely popular with congress. such as headstart and programs for the aged. in a very great measure. we have squeezed the water out of many of those agencies. they are justifying themselves. standing on their own. the two injunctions that i have constantly given them are being taken into consideration. one of those injunctions is that staffing should represent but a very modest part of their costs.
general dayan did  say that in reference to the arabs. he was making a rhetorical speech to raise money for israel. was he going to tell them that it was going under. we are all human beings. and we are relying on our own authorities. who give us this appraisal. we believe that if they are denied this figure. they will be put in a very seriously jeopardized condition in this negotiation. it is the old story: we are stronger than ever. compared to whom. as to the arab armies. we only think about the 3d army. sitting on the east bank of the suez. the one that is surrounded. in danger of being surrounded. they have two more armies th of that. which are  surrounded. and which are part of the ceasefire. and the israelis have armies facing those and an army in egypt. e of us wants that fire to start all over again.
. i appointed the first girl to the naval academy. the naval academy successfully frustrated that appointment up to . which has been about 2 years ago. i am delighted that the senator from maine has acted. i congratulate him. and am glad to be a cosponsor of his amendment.
. i am about to appointi have already interviewed heraher girl and will try aher test of strength with the naval academy. i have had extensive correspondence with the naval academy on what they claim was a proper legal basis for rejecting my inee. a conclusion with which i thoroughly disagree. we are  trying to make girls line officers. but simply to give them the right to be admitted for duty with the navy for which they are completely capable.
 of the bundestag of the federal republic of germany. served as advisers to the committee. the committee submitted its final report to the th atlantic assembly in its 18th annual session in ankara. turkey on october 27. after being reviewed by the political. ecoic and military committees of the th atlantic assembly. the final report was received and accepted by the full assembly which referred the report to the various nato parliaments and the heads of numerous intergovernmental organizations in europe. favorable comments respecting the committee of nines final report have been issued by secretary of state kissinger. secretarygeneral of nato joseph luns. foreign minister scheel of the german federal republic. the foreign minister van der stoel of the netherlands. and others. to provide information to all senators respecting this effort. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record extracts from the final report of the committee of nine. the comments of various statesmen respecting the final report of the committee of nine and various articles commenting on the committees final report. for those who wish to read the full text of the final report of the committee of nine. copies are available to senators and representatives.
may i state to the senator that the reason for the 25 years is exactly such groundless fears as are  being voiced. and the fact that the senate was unwilling to face them. i do  want to be invidious to the senate. but it has the backbone. the vertebrae. to face these issues at long last and fight them out and let the united states stand in the eyes of the world as ratifying a geide convention. or. if it does  want to. at least to face the issue and vote it down. and then the world would k where it is. that is all it is. and that has taken 25 years. and it is credit to the senate or to the country. second. the other countries have ratified. and the convention is in effect. they are  waiting on us. except that we are. i believe. without any question. the most powerful nation on earth. which has carried the emous burden of world war ii. in which this possibility first came to light. naturally. there is an emous amount of significance in our ratifying this convention as compared with other countries ratifying it. that is all it amounts to. really. the 25 years is hing for us to brag about. i assure the senator from alabama. i realize his position. and i k it is as sincere as mine. speaking from the vantage point of some like myself. for 7 years senator paoxmm has stood up here and protested the assault on our own conscience in allowing this matter to drag. i have said this many times before but the indefatigable zeal with which he has pursued this subject has been one of the most splendid examples of true americanism that i k.
. it has always been asserted by those who utilize this particular weapon more often than most others of us that. somehow or other. if it wants to. the senate can work its will. but in this particular case we have a very clear. transparent use of the filibuster as a weapon. because the senate can work its will. even though it sincerely wants to ratify the treaty. unless it votes for cloture. so i say to senators who are for the treaty. since it takes a twothirds vote for the treaty. we. as proponents. may as well forget it if we do  have a twothirds vote for cloture. but we are entitled to a fair shot at determining whether or  there are twothirds of us who want to so vote.
. the senator from new york does  believe there is one aspect on which we are differing in means and  on purpose. i strongly object to taking yugoslavia and romania out of the program. we do have a difference. and i hope it will  be allowed by the senate. as to the other matters. and this amendment accepting the benchmarks. and saying they are written into the legislation. i do  want them selfexecuting. i want the company to be in business. with our ability to put it out of business if we are  satisfied with the way it meets the benchmarks. they are in the bill at page 4. line 5. up to including line 16 on page 5. the benchmarks are as follows: first. there must be 25percent participation beginning january 1. 1975. second. that all insurance of that kind. to wit. other than war risk. ceases to be written except on a reinsurance basis beginning january 1. 1980. or ending december 31. 1979. as to war risk. that there must be a 11.5percent participation beginning january 1. 1976. and going through december 31. 1980. so we have to be very clear about just exactly how that works. i would like to extend that  to include the war risk proposition so the pagination would read page 6. line 10 as the outside limit of the risks which the corporation is permitted to write except on a reinsurance basis. to end also in the war risk insurance on it is very important that we consider that because in my amendments i am accepting the benchmarks which the senator from idaho referred to except i say it shall  be selfexecuting. if it is made selfexecuting. we would tie the hands of the corporation in respect of negotiations and make it very difficult for them. if  impossible. to arrive at the very benchmarks which congress itself. assuming this goes through. would set. the other thing i would like to refer to is that there is a very different attitude in this matter other than here. the committee of the house of representatives. which is considering this matter. has issued a report which takes a very different attitude toward the situation than the one we take. this matter can be as bad as painted if that body. which thoroughly studied it under representative culver. as chairman. came to quite a different view. there have been reports on this by the general accounting office and the library of congress which we feel are very important and i refer members to those studies in considering how they would vote on what should happen with regard to opic. i am prepared  to conclude my argument for the measure. i send to the desk for printing under the rule three amendments which i stipulate i will  necessarily offer in the order in which they may be printed. and an explanation of each amendment to accompany it. i ask unanimous consent also that the amendments and the explanations may be printed in the record. the being objection. the material was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:
. if there is other debate on this matter. i would simply like to add that the points that i made about a cutoffthat is. an absolute sentence to death of opicare entirely appropriate. to wit. if they do  get the 25 percent so that they write all those contracts beginning in the period from january 1. 1976. on. which gives them only the year 1975 to negotiate. there is sudden death. that is it. to january 1975 to negotiate gives them just the year 1974. that is sudden death. the senator from idaho is right about the fact that 50 percent from january 1. 1978. through december 31. 1979. is prefatory. that is the intention of congress. that is  sudden death. then there is very sudden death when the corporation has got to quit completely writing that kind of insurance. they are out of business. these are decisions which the senate has to make. then we come to the phase of war risk insurance. that is sudden death. until december 31. 1975. it works out to what becomes 111/2 percent in war risk insurance. there are  any people who will do that.  even the hopes or expectations of having anybody do it. then there is the absolute exclusion of writing such insurance after january 1. i believe those points should be made very clear to senators who are called upon to vote on these matters.
. i have done a lot of work on natoi suppose as much as anybody in this chamber. i was chairman of the committee to review all of nato. i would vote for a cut of 75.00 in the troop strength of the united states. and i hope that amendment will be agreed to. but with this shirttail relating to europe. and the requirement that the reduction be in overseas forces. it will. in my judgment. be a clear signal to the europeans that the mansfield amendment. with all respect to the leaderand he ks of my affection for himhas passed. i think that is a bad signal and. for that reason. i must vote against it. i ask unanimous consent that a editorial from the new york times be printed in the record.
. as i say. this amendment is sponsored by 10 senators and seeks as a matter of law to state that the department of defense should  deny to those officers who wish to study at given universities. permission to do so and have the necessary financial support even though those universities have abandoned the rotc program. it involves 12 major universities stretching from california to new york. including distinguished institutions as harvard. yale. columbia. stanford. dartmouth. and so forth. the issue. simply stated. is that the department is doing this because the chairman of the house armed services committeeand i have criticism of the committeein a report declared that he did  want them to finance education at these universities. so they have  done so. there has been action on it by either house. at least we can settle this question. i believe in the rotc. but as between the question of academic freedom or rotcthat is. to have it or  to have itand coercion into making them take it. i come down on the side of coercion. if they are good studies. army officers should be entitled to take them without discrimination against the universities. that is what this amendment is all about. i hope that the senate will support it.
. our country has lost a great citizen and one of its finest sons. his idealism. his evangelism. and his intense patriotism for our country putting its best foot forward will be remembered by all americans. and the way in which he called the blunder of the vietnam war will give him an important place in our history. all americans. regardless of party. will mourn his loss.
. i have worked with senator dominick for a long time in these matters. as he is the ranking member of the education subcommittee. he has conservative viewswe all k thatbut i wish all senators. conservative or liberal. were as honest and straightforward as he is. when he is with you. he is with you all the wayholds barred. if he is against you. he fights you with every appropriate weapon in his arsenal. i respect that. i try to live that way myself. and i recognize it in him. i commend him most highly for it.
. just by way of final e on the speech by the senator from missouri . which i just heard. it is a fact that i spent years on the war powers resolution. obviously. he has had an exchange with the executive branch on this subject. we have been working for some months  on the staff level on the question of implementing the war powers resolution in detail. i promise the senator from missouri that i will carefully examine his views and the exchange he has had with the executive. and then react appropriately. first to him and then to the senate.
. yesterday. august 15. 1974. senator mike mansfield completed 13 years. 225 days service as majority leader of the u.s. senate. this is longer than anyone has served as majority leader and breaks the old record of former senator joseph t. robinson who was party leader but  always majority leader for so many years in the 1920s and 1930s. this amazing record testifies to the high esteem in which senator mansfield is held by his colleagues in the democratic party. however. those of us on the other side of the aisle also respect and have great affection for the majority leader. he is a model of fairness and consideration to all senators. regardless of party. with mike mansfield. partisanship is kept to a minimum and the national interest is always put first. after dealing with him for many years. i can state that he is always willing to help any senator as much as possible consistent with his responsibility as majority leader. i also believe that mike mansfield has opened up the senate and allowed all members. especially the junior members to exercise their prerogatives to the fullest extent possible. this has allowed the senate to function in a way it had  done in the past where junior senators were seen but  heard and has allowed all members to participate to a greater extent in legislative business. in addition to his service as majority leader. mme mansfield has been a kledgeable and influential member of the foreign relations committee and has made tremendous contributions by his opposition to the vietnam war and inflated defense spending. mike mansfield has a record to be proud of and he is that rare man who does  seek the respect or praise of his fellow senators. but who deserves and gets it from all of us. i hope he remains with us for a long time.
. i fully subscribe to the comments of senators mathias and beall. i fully support the action of the appropriations committee to reduce by an overall 5.1 percent this years appropriation for the defense budget. however. i believe where reductions are made for solely budgetary reasons and where a specific weapons system has amply demonstrated its ability to perform the assigned mission in a cost effective manner. such weapons systems should  be unduly reduced. the specific case here is the a10 program. the prime contract for which is being carried out by fairchild industries. the a10 has won. hands down. two fly offs. has experienced cost overruns and is a weapons system that. as amply proved from the lessons learned in the most recent war in the middle east. will be an essential element of the tactical air force when it enters the air forces active inventory. in addition. the introduction of this aircraft into the active inventory will enable the release of modern aircraft that are much needed into the air force reserve and the air national guard. the appropriations committee reduced this programs procurement by 10 aircraft or $41.2 million. which is a percentage of roughly 25 percent. this percentage is considerably above any reduction in certain other air force aircraft programs. and in my judgment. in a case such as the a10 program which is  experiencing development problems or cost overruns. it would be a far more evenhanded approach to reduce the program on a percentage similar to other programs. i hope that the conferees appointed for this bill will take this into consideration and make the reductions equitable. such action. of course. would  involve the adding of more money to the total bill before us.
president ford is fundamentally on the right track in his decision to establish a clemency board to consider amnesty for vietnam era draft evaders and military deserters on the condition that they may perform alternative service rather than experience punishment. imprisonment or dishoable discharge. this action by the president is. in terms of our nation. hoable and conforms to precedent. it is an action that opens up a channel of communication whereby those who wish to do so may qualify to reenter the mainstream of american society without fear of disgrace. disho. or prejudice. i will want to examine further the conditions under which exemption from alternative service may be sought for cause including sincere conscientious objection to the vietnam war as i believe this opportunity should be fully available. i am further gratified by president fords choice of charles goodell. my former colleague in the united states senate and a distinguished american. as chairman of the clemency board. the choice of other distinguished americans to serve on the boardfather theodore hesburgh. robert finch.  fords offer in behalf of the nation and use the clemency board as a means of healing their own wounds of disaffection with their native land.
. that the most critical factor. the most critical weight in respect of this whole matter is to proceed on the basis of established factsincidentally. i hark back to the time of the investigation by the investigations subcommittee of the government operations committee on the tfx which was carried on. and the long arduous struggle which ensued about the development of this particular plane. i feel that the emous range of information which has  been obtained by the navy. especially in respect to carrier operations. which appeared to be the unique aspect of this particular airplane. is such that we really would be flying in the face of the professional expertise should we ti to dismantle a situation which . largely through controversy. has been proved so very thoroughly. apparently. the difficulty which is created is that considering the type of mission which the f14 is expected to engage in. the view of the navy simply is that the differences between the f14 and the f15 are that they are different aillplanes for different missions. in addition. as expressed to us. the f14.has to operate from carriers. which is demanding and makes an airplane cost more. if we are going to have yet aher flyoff. it woul. have to be under a fixed set of engagement rules so that one could truly estimate the competition between the two. the navy feels that it has done everything that any reasonable person could ask it to do with respect to proving its case. and that from  on it is simply a matter of rearguing the same issues. trying to reprove the same things which have been proved. and simply resulting i a delay in an established weapons systemone which has been fully agreed to and the advantage of which is that it is underway and producing at a time when being underway and producing is critically important. while these arguments may be satisfying to various senatorsthe arguments that are set forth on the floorfor practical effect in the final result the issue has been decided. . obviously. senators are at liberty to raise these matters by amendment or in any other way to reargue the issues so that the senateor if it is raised in the other body. the housemay pass on it. but i think that it is our duty and. considering the fact that the navy can be heard here except through any of us. to put into the record the various points of reply which go specifically to the contentions made. and i am doing that in the time today through the cooperation of the leader and of senator
. during my colleagues tribute yesterday to the most distinguished senator from arkansas and chairman of the senate foreign relations committee--and my friendwilliam fulbright. i was unavoidably required to be elsewhere. and i wanted to take this opportunity to express my regret that chairman fulbright is retiring from the senate and my admiration for him. he will be sorely missed  only by his good friends in the senate but by the nation and by the hundreds of millions of the world who thirst for freedom and ecoic and social justice. throughouthis 30 years of service in the senate15 of which have been as chairman of the senate committee on foreign relationsand in a period of remarkable. if  revolutionary. change in american society and especially in the conduct of the affairs of the united states in the world. senator fulrright has offered rare and intelligent leadership and wise counsel to his colleagues and numerous presidonts. from his introduction of the fulbright resolution in 1943which is generally regarded as a forerunner of the establishment of the united nationswhen he was a member of the house of representativesto the fractious and vexing vietnam era. culminating in the enactment of the war powers resolution in 1973 in which he took a most active and decisive rolechairman fulbrights independence of mind. intelligence and high patriotism have been manifest. chairman filbright and i have  always agreed. especially on the middle east. but we have also agreed and collaborated on great issues of foreign policy and our differences have always been those of men having the highest respect for each other. i will sorely miss bill fulbright both personally and as a colleague. and i sincerely hope that we all shall continue to hear much more of and from him. mrs. javits and i bespeak for betty and bill fulbright a lifetime of happiness and dignity and continued achievement.
 truman sought congressional support for his foreign policy he was joined by many republicans in the congress. senator arthur vanderberg made a statement at that time "when the nations security is at stake partisanship stops at the waters edge." it is in that spirit that i hope this congress moves to right our ecoy during a war against the danger of depression and collapse.
. so many of us k that precisely because of the reversals he will be a better secretary of state. it was impossible under the law of averages for him to continue to enjoy the straight succession of successes he did. you can be batting 1.000 or even 500 all the time. his record is still unbelievable. as senator mathias has said. the sheer matter of pulling out our troops in vietnam. a war that could have gone on and on until it would have split this country apart as badly as the civil war. was egh to validate his emous credentials to serve as secretary of state. i hope very much he stays. i must compliment my colleague from maryland for having the good judgment and the excellent sense of timing to say what he has said precisely at this time.
 take them unilaterally. congress has  demonstrated  only that it is ready to assume its role but also that it is ready to take the responsibility. and this is the most critical point. the fact is that. with full kledge of the consequences. congress determined that it would  give any material military aid for the purpose of sustaining the thieu regime in the control of south vietnam and in fighting that south vietnam war. that is a heavy responsibility. a very heavy responsibility. etheless. congress took it. because it recognized that if it wants the authority. it has to take the responsibility. in the long corridor of history. whatever may be the verdict on our views and the action we took respecting vietnam. i believe that something will emerge. and that is that in terms of the types of restraint on war and the making of war and the tremendous divisions and losses which are represented by war. the people of the united states  have a staunch aid in the war powers resolution and in the way it is being carried out. i will say for the state department that it has been very straightforward and entirely catholic in its application of the war powers resolution and in the various reports and other information which must be given to congress under it.
exactly. i shall point out how. briefly. we have actually authorized the use of armed forces for the evacuation of americans and their dependents and for limited evacuation of foreign nationalsall subject to the restrictions which are contained in this bill. which are very serious restraints. and subject to the continuing power of congress. by concurrent resolution. to cause any troops that are put in to be pulled out. we bore in mind the fact that once we commit any troops in a situation such as this. even a guard force. as we did in ph penh. they may draw others in to rescue them. and so on ad infinitum. so we made sure that the war powers resolution would continue to apply in terms of the authority of congress over the presidential act of inserting troops. even if they were inserted in the first place to back up a responsibility which we agreed we hadto wit. to rescue americans from a war zone.
. and congress. in respect of the dread issue of peace and war and the use of the armed forces of the united states in any situation which may involve them in hostilities. i strongly commend the bill to the senate and hope that it will be passed very promptly.
. as one who labored over this bill very ardently. especially as it relates to the war powers resolution. i am deeply concerned about this amendment and i oppose it. i would like to add. only because i do  believe in going over the same ground. the senator from new jersey
it will be ed in lines 7 and 8 the words are "if the president determines that the use of u.s. armed forces is necessary to withdraw citizens". it does  say "all citizens." i do  see where. therefore. the word "such" would tie back to anything else. let me say this: we can be armchair generals. if the senator wishes. i will take my own time  because i am opposed to his amendment. we can be armchair generals. we have to provide in terms of policy. we are providing here very sharply in terms of policy for a minimum presence in that country. but it may be necessary. in the presidents judgment. to have presence at all. if the communists should overrun saigon as they overran ph penh. my belief is that we probably should follow the same course we followed at ph penh. we might ultimately send people back there. but we would  leave them there right . so i do  think we can proceed. except on these basic matters of policy. the amount of money we appropriate. and so forth. if i may say to my colleague. we continue to exercise a restraint on the president because we continue the provision of the war powers resolution that at any time the senate and the congress by concurrent resolution may require the president to withdraw any armed forces. we retain that authority. it seems to me that the amount of funds involved plus the policy restrictions which are here set forth are an adequate restraint on the president.
but the amendment limits the number to a specific number of 500 and conditions it on what the senator calls a single operation. it seems to me that is a directive which would make us try to direct on the ground a condition which we can possibly k the dimensions of. i am one of the most ardent advocates of congressional power over war and over the use of armed forces. i certainly have shown that in many ways. including the war powers resolution. but at the same time i think it would be a disservice to the whole idea if we allowed the pendulum to swing so far that we are going to take over the management of tactical operations. it just can be done. though i k the intent is of good will and faith as expressed by the senator from california. if we get to that position where we will prescribe the number.  in excess of 500. that is where i argue against him. we did  decide that anyone would be left or 1.500 will be left. all we did was prescribe the policyand we have done that very well. i thinkwithin which the president must operate.
i have idea what the number would be other than the strict 500. i k it is  going to be in excess of the order of magnitude we are talking about. to wit. 1.000 or 1.500. i am confident it will be less. but i am concerned about our getting into fixing this specific number in such a liquid and dangerous situation. if it is 502. i want the president to be able to leave them there. if it is 498. great. i am concerned about our exercising our authority. which we  have. in a war of this character in this dangerous situation. i think it could react against us in terms of what is my interest. and i believe that of my colleague as well. to retain the responsibility which is represented by this partnership. it is a matter of degree. i am  saying. "you have done some terrible thing. you are trying to upset the world." it is a matter of degree. i come out on the side against them because of that argument i have just made.
i point out that the question asked is whether a limited constitutional power may exist on the part of the president to introduce armed forces in such situations in order to evacuate citizens of the united states. the second point is that the legal analysis concludes. and i concur with it. that it is the opinion of office of the legislative counsel that the president is without statutory authority to use the armed forces of the united states to evacuate citizens of south vietnam if such use would introduce them into hostilities or into imminent danger of hostilities. that is the state of the law. as to the practice. the war powers resolution works automatically in order to assure that an incident in which the president does have powerand i thoroughly agree with thatdoes  develop into a war. does  slip out of our hands. so that we can stop the use of forces at a given time. even in less than 60 days. . this experience is very revealing as to how the war powers resolution works. i think the committee has taken the right attitude respecting it. we wish to share the power. we do  wish to arrogate it. i am obliged to the senator from arizona.
. my purpose this morning is to report to the senate on a trip which i took with a delegation from the senate visiting various countries of nato. the european ecoic community. and the middle east. as a member of an official senate delegation visiting various countries of the nato european ecoicec--community. i recently traveled to western europe and the middle east. the official delegation was headed by senators humphrey. and scott of pennsylvania and the trip took place between march 28 and april 7 inclusive. i traveled with the delegation to brussels and then by prior arrangement proceeded to london and rome and then to tehran and tel aviv. thereby adding a middle east perspective to the travels of the delegation. which concentrated primarily on developments in nato and the european community. this report is intended as a supplement to the official report of the delegation.
i think the mal practice which has grown up on that is that it does  involve such a utilization of the forces of the united states as to represent a use of forces. appreciably. in hostilities so as to constitute an exercise of the war power or to constitute a commitment of the nation to war. the constitutional convention spoke only of "repelling sudden attacks."
. i have joined in the resolution. although i proudly took aher view from that of our colleague and other colleagues who have endorsed the resolution on the vietnam war. i think it is shocking that there should be any question in the minds of any american family who lost or had a serviceman wounded about the fact that in our estimation these men stand equally with the veterans of every other war. the war against hitler and every other war. in which we have fought. there is a paramount responsibility over. above. and beyond agreement with this particular war. and that is the integrity of our country as a nation. and the willingness of its young men and women to obey the will of the nation as part of their responsibility to the nation. it is in that spirit that i feel the resolution has been drafted. as the senator from alabama has said. and i have joined in.
. the difficulties which it seems to me have arisen are aside from factors of morale. that is something which i have been concerned about and others have been concerned about as to an army which. in a sense. we pay for in this country or which introduces a different attitude toward service in the armed forces than has been the great. tremendously successful tradition in our country of the citizens army. i use the word "army" only because it is a popular term. but this covers all of the armed forces. so that is the first question. their composition. and the general feeling with which the country looks at that army and the way in which the men and women in that army undertake their service. second. and also of very great importance. is the cost. which seems to be escalating. going to extremely high figures in proportion to the aggregate expenditure on the military budget. on march 2. 1975. i received a letter from the assistant secretary of defense for manpower and reserve affairs. william k. brehm. dated march 19. which analyzes the composition of our armed forces. it was written in response to an editorial in the new york times which preceded that. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial. my letter to the secretary. and the letter in reply by the assistant secretary of defense be printed in the record.
i thank my colleague. the next item relates to a matter which is very critical. as i see it. and that is bonuses to enlistees. i mean that really gets to be a mercenary army. the question i ask the senator is twofold: one. what are the representations. if the senator could answer this. being made by recruiters to enlistees. we e with great interest that the only time you get a $2.500 bonus in the combat army is if you enlist for 4 years. therefore. the youngster who comes into the recruiting office has to be very accurately informed. that is point one. point twoand this is  covered by the letter that i have from the departmentwhat does this amount to. how many is it attracting into the armed services and is that practice under careful scrutiny by the committee on armed services so that it may  in itself involve us in some excess or overt mercenary which certainly is characteristic of it.
i have one additional fact. instead of relying on ourselves. i have on this particular matter something to read into the record for the senates interest which relates to the work of a very highlevel committee called the committee of nine which reviewed the nato situation at the end of 1973. that committee had on it as members the former immediate secretary general of nato brosio of italy. it had lord harlech of great britain. hallstein of germany. the immediate past president of the common market. wayne hays and i represented the u.s. point of view. lester pearson of canada. before he died. one of the most distinguished men in the world. and max van der stoel of the netherlands. this is what they said in their final report. i was the chairman of this group on this very subject. and that is why i read it. it is very short: in this connectionto wit the use of a tactical nuclear weaponsin this connection the committee believes that the alliance must consider carefully its doctrine concerning the use of tactical nuclear weapons in the event of aggression against western europe. the possibility of using tactical nuclear weapons against an aggression on the european members of the alliance must remain an option for such defense. this is the meaning of deterrence. and there is deterrence if it be kn in advance that the deterrent will under circumstances be employed. this is just as true * * *
in the event of aggression against western europe. the possibility of using tactical nuclear weapons against an aggression on the european members of the alliance must remain an option for such defense. this is the meaning of deterrence. and there is deterrence if it be kn in advance that the deterrent will under circumstances be employed. this is just as true of tactical nuclear weapons as it is of strategic nuclear weapons. moreover. the possibilities of deterring attack are being changed by techogical developments which range from miniaturization of tactical nuclear weapons to achievement of far greater accuracy in delivery by means of laserguided or televisionguided bombs and projectiles. it is essential. therefore. that the strategy and tactics of the alliance should be reevaluated in light of these developments. taking into account the differentiation in character and effect of existing and forthcoming nuclear weapons for tactical use the rest of it is  pertinent here. but the important point i would like to make is that here was a very. very well balanced committee. i am  saying this with any selfglorification. but it was popularly kn as the "nine wise men of nato" and this is the conclusion to which they came within the context of the nato alliance. because we are touching on a key to european reliance upon the united states. it is very clear that european reliance upon the united states can surrender the option respecting nuclear weapons. which in the european mindand i do  need tell the senators how they feel about the u.s. nuclear weaponsstill must reside in nato. as they see it. in order to give them any feeling that they can be overrun. and that gives them the-
. the war powers resolution has been tested under fire three times in rapid succession in recent weeks and has come through these initial tests very well. in my judgment. at the request of representative zablocki. who was the principal sponsor of this legislation in the house of representatives. on june 4 i made a comprehensive statement reviewing the workings of the war powers resolution in these initial tests. during hearings conducted under representative zablockis chairmanship before the international security and scientific affairs subcommittee of the house international relations committee. i think it would be useful to make the text of my statement available to all members of the senate. and to the people. accordingly. i ask unanimous consent that the text of my statement of june 4. 1975. before the zablocki subcommittee be printed in the recor.
i would like to help the senator with that. if i could. that legal opinion is exactly as senator case has said and was directed against the authority of the president to undertake to give the assurances that he gave that bind him.  $1 can be paid out of the treasury.  one troop committed by the united states. except pursuant to the action of congress. unless the president already has statutory or constitutional authority. and that was what his memorandum was directed to. so. for example. just to give the senator an instance. and again i will be very brief. on the oil situation which sounds operative if you read it. it does  say the congresshe gave us the basic authority in other statutes under which the president could give those assurances which he did about the oil. and the representations made to us were that that included payment. on the question of payment. it had to go l to congress.
i do  believe he would have authority. i must say this is one of the difficulties of the war powers resolution. will the senator consult section 2 (c) . if the senator does  have it before him. i will read it. (c) the constitutional powers of the president as commanderinchief to introduce united states armed forces into hostilities. or into situations where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances. are exercised only pursuant to (1) a declaration of war. (2) specific statutory authorization. or (3) a national emergency created by attack upon the united states. its territories or possessions. or its armed forces. what we sought to do there was to spell out the only circumstances under which the president car. act under section 4(a). which is the operative section. the senator will ice that in sections 4(b) and 4(c) there are other cases in which the president can move the forces as commander in chief. in which case he is supposed to give us ice. but the operative part of the war powers resolution requiring him to pull out only relates to the situation where he introduces troops into hostilities or where hostilities are imminent. that we sought to limit by this declaration of what is his constitutional power. it is  as strong as the senate bill on the war powers which we had to compromise with the house. but it is the best we could do. that is the fundamental effect. i say definitively that in the absence of a declaration of war. specific statutory authorization. or an attack upon the united states or its armed forces. he does  have. in my judgment. authority to introduce american troops into hostilities or into a situation in which hostilities are imminent. without the consent of the congress.
that is a big dispute between us and the president. he asserted that authority in respect to the mayaguez and at the same time he gave us ice that he was doing it. the president construes his constitutional powers. that is. this presidentevery president can have a different viewthis president construes his constitutional powers to include the protection of americans. we did  include it in section 2(c) of the war powers resolution.
let us remember that the senator has in this resolution a provision by which. by concurrent resolution. we can immediately pull out the 200. we can get very deeply involved with that. under the war powers resolution. we can terminate the presidents authority in a much shorter time than 60 days. again by passing a concurrent resolution. so i think the controls remain effective. and that is all human minds can encompass. what the president may claim as his constitutional authority we can always challenge. but we can prevent him. by this or any other resolution. from acting.
one thing has to be made very clear. and that is as to the power the president asserts. let us remember that the distinguished manager of the bill was vice president of the united states. and he is speaking in terms of presidential power. i do  speak in those terms. i think it is a very twilight zone. a doubtful question. but everybody concedes that congress can make him pull out. whatever he is proposing to do. that is the critical point in the war powers resolution. and that is what representative eckhardt wanted to leave absolutely unimpaired. whether or  the president can get by with a rescue as he did with the mayaguez. or we will stop him if he tries to be protracted about it. is a matter much better left to the situation when it occurs. because we can resolve the question of the constitutional power. therefore. senator humphrey is absolutely right about the abourezk amendment. the senator from south dakota does try to resolve the question of constitutional power. we can. and hence we derogate from our own authority if we try it. because it will just be wastepaper. we are better off leaving the law exactly as it is. and that is what representative eckhardts amendment sought. it was unnecessary. he just wanted to take the precaution of leaving the law as it is. so i really believe that the humphrey argument is right on that ground. whether one takes his position on presidential power or mine. that is strictly an argument neither of us can make or unmake by the record on this measure.
may i say to my colleague in this particular respect i feel a special responsibility. i have worked on this resolution for a considerable time. i have done it in the greatest good faith. believing that this will mark the turn to peace. away from a d rift to war. therefore. i feel a special responsibility to see that it works. having devoted myself to this concept as a way out of a wicked dilemma. i have the deepest sympathy for what senator abourezk said on that score in this sense: we may disagree on the history. we may disagree on the facts. we may disagree on the floor. but i feel exactly as i k he does underlying his own views. in the words of golda mier that her heart breaks as much when an arab boy is killed or injured in war as it does when an israeli boy is killed or injured in war. so i have a depth of feeling about this matter. i can assure the senator that i will be a faithful. hoable. and highly diligent guardian of what our country is doing in this regard. which is designed to facilitate the peace. may i say. tooand i thought it was rather simplisticto those who try to lay side by side our experience in vietnam with this resolution. aside from all the other points which have been pointed out this is welcomed. invited. asked for by both sides. we must remember that we have learned a lot. and there has been interposed between the terrible experience of vietnam and  the war powers resolution which gives us the power. the congress does  have to wait 60 days. it does  have to wait 1 day. similarly by concurrent resolution. to pull troops out of any situation in which we do  want to see them involved. therefore. the technique adopted in the war powers resolution to deal with the concurrent resolution. as so very well described by senator case. is the tightest that i and other experts were able to invent. it is far more strong than that under the reorganization act. which has been our classic use for accelerating consideration by the congress. it goes even into the detail. if the senator will look at section 7(d) of the war powers resolution. which is incorporated in this resolution by reference. as to regulate the number of days in which we can have a conference. that is the way we wanted it. so the toughest possible stand on vigorous congressional action has been introduced here. may i say to the senator that what he is trying to do. which is entirely understandable and even laudable. also must face what we have been contending with right along. the purpose of this is to move toward peace. the purpose of it is to also get an opportunity. an interregnum. in which we might move toward peace. therefore. the fact that it is based upon the duration of the agreement itselfin other words. it is the same 3year commitmentbut we do  say so. we do  limit. conduces to our good faith of making this a stimulating effort for peace. while the reassurance to the congress and to the senator from maryland is contained in these absolute provisions that enable one member to set in motion a course of action with the greatest celerity which can be looked at any time.  with any implication that it is going to be 3 years. which might come from the senators amendment. to terminate this responsibility.
. i found it necessary. because of our local interest in my own state. to dig into this question of the f18. the f14. and the other highly technical matters upon which senator goldwater is so outstandingly kledgeable. for myself. i think i have shown in hundreds of votes here that i am  parochial in my votes with regard to my own state. but i felt compelled to look into this question very. very deeply. i say to the senator that i have valued emously his leadership in this matter. that has confirmed my own judgment of his thorough and objective inquiries. as a lawyer. i was thoroughly persuaded of the justice of his position and the interest of our national defense. which happens. in this case. to be joined with the best ecoy. i consider it an important item of evidence on the fact that congress can. should. and must devote its own judgment to these critically expensive aircraft systems. especially when they get into the judgmental level which this one occupies . in this regard. ice should be taken of the fact that the navy has testified that. if it were left to make its own decision. it would choose to procure more f14s. rather than f18s. however. that preference has apparently been overridden on the revealedtobe misapprehended premise that the f18 would be cheaper. i believe that there are two basic points as to whether the congress should accept the navys request to appropriate $110 million for the f18 in this fiscal year: cost and military effectiveness. the navy readily concedes the point that the f14 is a far more capable aircraft for the fleet defense and air superiority missions. and. indeed. there is a great deal of controversy as to whether the attack version of the f18 will be so limited as to make it deficient as a replacement for the a7. which is 50 percent cheaper. but. even if one uses the navys own cost analysis figures. it is apparent that the more capable f14 can be bought for the same price as the f18. however. this is assuming that the f18 will  experience cost increases overruns which in aircraft of this type have varied from 15 to 22 percent in recent history. and it does  take into account that the huge startup and research and development costs of the f18 would entail an investment of roughly $2.1 billion that could otherwise be put toward f14 and a7 procurement. i wish to draw senators attention to excerpts from the october 8 testimony of mr. george a. spangenberg. the former director of the evaluation division of the naval air systems command. before the senate armed services committee. mr. spangenberg is a highly respected expert in the aerospace community. summing up the fighter case. the f18 has more capability than the f4 and costs more. while it has far less capability than an f14 which costs more and is available years earlier. there is way in which the f18 can be justified as a navy fighter. although there are other deficiencies in the design as it has been reported. its range performance alone is sufficient to disqualify it for serious consideration as an a7 replacement. with a 50% higher price and a 50% lower capability than the a7. the f18 can be justified as an attack plane. the navys goal of reducing carrier types is achievable with a mix of p14s and a7s far easier. at less cost and with a greater level of capability than a mix of f14s and f18s. i am very grateful to senator goldwater that he does bring to us his expertise. whatever differences he and i may have on many ideological and political questions. i have emous respect for his attention to the detail involved here and to his vast kledge on what is the most optimum stance for the security and defense of our country. and i have always supported him very strongly. and i consider it a privilege to support him in this matter.
. the senator has pointed out various loopholes in the griffin amendment. but is it  a fact that the major loophole is the very avoidance of the very issue we are debating. we are debating  whether to give military assistance to angola. that is the issue. because that is what money is supposed to be in this bill somewhere. the tunney amendment says:  any other funds appropriated in this act may be used for any activities involving angola. other than intelligence gathering. that would include military assistance.  personnel. by the way. i point out that the griffin amendment is covered fully by the war powers act. that is why we passed it. if we are going to put people in hostilities or imminent danger of hostilities. we have a tight arrangement to cover that. i ask the senator: is it  a fact that if we adopt the griffin amendment. we simply allow an administration to proceed as it is proceeding in the very thing that we feel we have joined into wit. giving military materiel assistance in or about or directly or indirectly to the angolan struggle.
 nixons veto. as the war powers resolution. the final result. which i think has been shown us so often. is one of the great constitutional events in our country. among those who made major contributions was senator eagleton. there was ody more interested and more creatively involved even senator stennis. who. to the great benefit of the 26.00 country. added such prestige to this effort. it was the greatest regret to me that. at the end. senator eagleton found it in good conscienceand i respected his conscienceimpossible to support the bill which came out of the housesenate conference. i welcome his continuing thoughtfulness. interest. and constructive effort to seek to bring into accord with his view. from what he thinks is the experience of the country. the war powers resolution as it was enacted. i hope very much to handle this in a very deliberate way. i am sure he feels the same. or he would  have spent the last 2 or 3 years thinking about it. i consider it probably the most important thing i have done in the almost 30 years that i have been in the house and senate. i hope he will agree that this is a matter which deserves the most profound consideration of the foreign relations committee. he has a whole series of amendments. . 1367 to 1375. inclusive. as well as amendment  1291. about which he has just spoken. i hope very much that senator eagleton will join with me. with the same patriotism and with the same considered quality that marked his participation in this great effort. to give us a full opportunity to review. debate. and consider all the questions which are here involved. i am authorized by the committee to assure him that we will conduct hearings within a suitable framework and consider his amendments. i shall attend every one of those hearings. and we will really have an opportunity to see if. though in a measure of this kind. the time is still young the time has come to consider some amendments. i hope very much that. because of his great respect for this legislation and his thoughtfulness about it. he will join with the members of the committee in seeking that opportunity. rather than feeling that these amendments should be decided here and . on this particular bill. which so many events and so many people believe in.
. we had a breakfast meeting in the committee on foreign relations with the foreign minister of turkey.  of our committee. asked me. and i have the great ho and privilege of introducing to the senate the foreign minister of turkey. a very critical factor in the nato alliance. and the country with which we have had a very longstanding and very friendly relationship. i shall ask unanimous consent that after this introduction we may have a 2minute recess so that members who desire to do so may greet the foreign minister and the ambassador.
. hing in the world would please me more than to be able to accept this amendment because i thoroughly agree with the senator from maryland. the regional approach is going to be found ultimately to be the only way to redeem the great cities of the country. especially the older cities. revolutionary war boundaries or prerevolutionary war boundaries simply have relation to modern facts of life. the senator has drafted his amendment extraordinarily well in reference to other legislation which defines and accommodates an areawide agency. the difficulty we find. or at least i do and i believe senator nelson has the same problem. is that the amendment really is  connected with what we are doing here today respecting the extension for 1 year of title vi. the amendment involves problems on which i may have a very definite concurring view with the senator from maryland. it does introduce a totally new class for a principal sponsor for manpower programs. and would  only extend to the public service employment. which one had reason to believe we would take up today. but would extend also to manpower training and other aspects of the basic law. which is being amended. that fact is significant and vital and could easily be a precedent. and a proper precedent. for many other laws which we have on the books. it would make them far more rational and far more germane to the current day and its problems. especially for our bigger and older cities. like his own city of baltimore. i would hope that the senator would give senator nelson and myself an opportunity to orient our committee to this. to afford a public hearing for it. and then to act within the proper context where members could have full ice of this important extension of basic law and basic policy. by doing that. i believe it would more than serve his purpose. which is very broad and very laudable. it is  a narrow purpose in any way directed toward the rather narrow focus which we have in this extension. i will refrain from any objection at this point. hopefully. the senator will. upon senator nelsons assurance and mine. give us and the committee an opportunity to examine this matter and  press his amendment at this time.
to be conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate had passed bills and a resolution of the following titles. in which the concurrence of the house is requested: s. 649. an act for the relief of roberto quispe. s. 842. an act for the relief of mondakota gas co.. s. 2647. an act for the relief of dr. reynaldo p. perez. his wife. raquel perez. and their child. marie freinde perez. s. 2736. an act for the relief of dr. abraham horwitz. s. 2894. an act for the relief of maria fineza fortich. s. 2917. an act for the relief of guy marius langlols and diane mireille v. langlois. s. 2948. an act for the relief of milos forman. and s. 3017. an act for the relief of lee young boo. s. 3026. an act for the relief of monchito c. entena. antonia v. entena. robert entena. cathleah entena. arvin entena. and eliza r. ayala. s. 3204. an act to designate certain lands as wilderness areas and wilderness study areas. s. 3313. an act for the relief of lucila domingo santos. s. 3314. an act for the relief of isidaria gallardo avariclo. s. 3315. an act for the relief of felina aranador aflnidad. s. 3444. an act to provide for the study of certain lands to determine their suitability for designation as wilderness. s. 3490. an act for the relief of gaspar louis sayoc. s. 3556. an act for the relief of marciasantiago and his wife. elea l. santiago. s. 3819. an act for the relief of comdr. edward white rawlins. u.s. navy (retired). and s. 3848. an act to amend the act of february 25. 1920. the message also annced that  to the congress on july 28. 1976. under section 1013 of the impoundment control act of 1974.
. a report has just been published by the committee for ecoic development that outlines and analyzes the principal issues relating to the national security and foreign policy implications of nuclear power. it is the first report that i have seen that thoroughly explores the interrelationship between our domestic nuclear policies and their international implications. without any bias toward a predetermined conclusion. i stand ready to work next year toward combining the goals of proliferation with expansion of our domestic nuclear fuel capacity. indeed. i believe the key to success in this area is to work for an integrated approach to the problems involved. as suggested by the ced report. the report recommends the strengthening of the iaea so that it has increased inspection personnel as well as use of the latest techniques in surveillance and inspection. it also states the goal of negotiating an agreement with all suppliers that puts all nuclear facilities in all countries under iaea safeguards. however. it stops short of recommending that the united states impose this standard unilaterally if a multilateral accord is  achieved in a reasonable time. which i believe we should consider as a move toward bold moral leadership in this area. of considerable interest is the reports analysis of domestic nuclear decisions in an international context. for example. the nrc is currently considering a major decision on plutonium recycling. whether or  we permit this domestically will have profound implications for any attempts to discourage or control it internationally. which is a nearly unanimous proliferation goal. the report strongly suggests that we ought to be doing- a lot more on the diplomatic front. such as negotiating an agreement to deal with nuclear emergencies and terrorism contingencies. to establish international mechanisms and standards for shipping nuclear materials and storing nuclear wastes. and to expand the iaeas enforcement authority. it is clear that many nations may never agree to the npt. thus new methods must be pursued to deal with the nuclear proliferation menace. in addition to the diplomatic initiatives outlined above. the report speculates that eventually we may have to shift from a policy of preventing the proliferation of weapons capability to a policy of preventing or discouraging the actual use of nuclear weapons. i commend the entire report to my colleagues. i particularly call their attention to the summary chapter. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record at the conclusio my remarks. this contains a brief analysis of each of the reports recommendations as well as a discussion of the nuclear fuel cycle and a plutonium ecoy. the next congress must take action promptly.
i heard the senator very clearly saying it is to give a blank check. i am  asking for that. because i do agree that the language is different. i do  k that it is stronger or weaker. but it is different than the traditional language. i will propose an amendment which will be the traditional amendment. leaving in the whole amendment of the senator and leaving out "nevertheless." the issue i am trying to pose is a different one from what the senator mentioned. the senator himself negated. it seems to me. his own argument by saying. "of course. this is  legally binding." and it is . even if we left this language. "but etheless. it gives the administration a blank check." it does  give the administration. for one..any such thing. the senate is going to vote on this today. so will the house. and so will the conference. and the president will sign it. there are blank checks involved here. the appropriations committee does  have a blank check either. it is a servant of the congress. it will recommend. and we can cut it or we can raise it as we choose. we have a right to do what is right to do. appropriations committee or appropriations committee. let us  have any idea that. "because you do  want to see that we have that power. you do. you do  have it either." it is the senate that must decide..today is the day of decision. it is high time we came to grips with this. we can longer be children in international affairs and hide behind all these subterfuges. the fact is that we are subscribing to the capital of the world bank. and that we are paying in 10 percent. that is appropriated. or it will be. there is callable capital of 90 percent. we express a good faith intention of meeting the call when made. as the senator himself said. and as i say. it is  legal. it is  a contract. they can sue the united states and they can even get up in any international body and say the united states has defaulted. because we undertake legal obligation. we say we have every present intention. this congress and only this congress. to see that if that capital is called it is paid. we will use our every effort to get it appropriated and to meet the obligation. if. as. and when it has to be called. i do  see how we can run a foreign policy of this great country on any other basis. it is a fair compromise between the appropriation and the necessity for running some kind of a policy which gives people some assurance that if the united states says something there is at least the reasonable assurance that it will do it. we have a security treaty with japan. we have one with the philippines. they are for 20 years or 30 years. we have a proliferation agreement with the russians for 5 or 6 years. we do  seem to be afraid of that. and that is life and death.  money. we are trying to work out some way in which we can run the foreign policy of the country and yet adopt the view that every year we have to appropriate. i am offering a way. if it is going to be rejected. it is going to be rejected by this senate in full understanding of what it is doing and  by some kind of a just general rubric that. "well. it has to be appropriated." period. let us see what we are doing here and let us take a day. 2 days. or 3 days. if we need to. and at long last come to grips with reality as to where we are in the foreign policy of this country. if we do  want to subscribe to the world bank. turn it down. do  do it. i would much rather senators did  do it rather than go through these machinations which leave in doubt whether we really purpose to do what we say we are going to do. . i propose an amendment to the amendment. and i send it to the desk.
i thank the senator. i am pleased that the senator has made this point. particularly because it is one in which he and i. in our own discussions. have seen eye to eye. quite apart from the evaluation of the weapon. whether it will or will  replace tactical nukes or whether it is an enlargement of the tactical nuclear arsenal. there is the political judgment which is involved as to the effect it will have upon the effort to limit nuclear armament which threatens the whole world with destruction. it is upon that issue that. in my judgment. the president should give himself more time. and it is upon that issue that we should give ourselves more time. the forecast for the thing is very unpromising because of the happenstance of this provision being in an appropriation bill. because we can have legislation on an appropriation bill and because we had an authorization which admits of this appropration. we strip ourselves of an authority which we always had in the appropriations processthat is. like the president. to review a new weapons system. yet. so stubborn has been this problem that every effort to put us back in that position. which i think would be reassuring even to those who oppose the neutron bomb on other groundshumanity. or whatever the grounds may behas so far frustrated us. i feel deeplyand i join the senator very strongly in thisthat this is something the senate must insist upon and fight for. that every member of the senate. like the senator from idaho and myself. has to stand up for this proposition. which is valid  just for this weapon but also for every other weapon that comes down the pike with the same portentous importance to the future of this country and all mankind. i thank my colleague.
i did  say that. what i was saying was that at a time when the president is giving himself. gives himself. an opportunity. we should have the same opportunity. to ascertain the situation of our nato allies. whether they regard the advantage of these weapons to exceed the disadvantage of the retaliation with what i call dirty nuclear weapons. tactical weapons. or whether they considered the advantage to be so great that these particular weapons ought to be substituted for such a nuclear. tactical nuclear. arsenal as exists in europe . the president is going to find that out in detail. and we should have exactly the same opportunity.
that is exactly right. i called attention to the sentence in the presidents letter which indicates. although this matter is  presented that way and did  start that way. and if it had we would  be here. and that is a mal modernization for weaponry which is on hand and where you replace what are obsolescent weapons with a newer type. but this was  put up to us in any way in that manner. it was put up to us really as a totally new weapon and as a new appoach and something between a nuclear weapon and a chemical weapon.
i thoroughly agree with the senator. except i would  wish to adopt the word "outcry" for this reason. and i am  being factitious about semantics. but the outcry in a matter of this kind can stop us or move us. either way. this is a question of the security of the nato countries and of the world.
exactly. a shared responsibility. again i do  consider it an onus. i consider it a shared responsibility which is what nato is all about and. therefore. we should have an opportunity to see that there is a shared responsibility in so portentous a decision as this amounts to.
i thank my colleague very much. i would say that this neutron weapon right  deserves the scotch verdict . proven. proven perhaps on military grounds. and that is what the proponents have been arguing. and i think quite successfully. but  proven on political grounds. and in this world we do  want to destroy ourselves to demonstrate a point. the hatfield amendment. according to those like myself who do  have the military objections which others may have--and i can understand itbut the political evaluation as to whether this is a worthwhile thing to do . have the right to have at our disposal before we decide the very same considerations. the very same time lag. and the same evidence the president has when he decides. and that is  unfair because mally that is what we are entitled to. he recommends the weapon svstem to us after he has decided. and in this case he gets a blank check before he has decided and before we have decided. . for those reasons i feel that i must support the hatfield amendment.
. it is hornbook law and hornbook debate that where a document is clear on its face. matter what anybody says about it that does  change what is clear on its face. and torrijos. and there is dispute about this. read this to the people of panama. this text. and it appeared in their papers in spanish and in english. and it was widely discussed in panama.  just by torrijos but by others. and i am reminded of an analogy which is very brief and it relates to the proliferation treaty. a treaty which one would agree is at least as important as this one. and in respect of the proliferation treaty we signed that treaty and we declared the day we signed it that if europe was unified. in a defense sense. that the whole of europe would be a nuclear power. and the soviet union. almost the same day. when it signed the very same agreement. said it did  agree with that interpretation. that it would  be a nuclear power when unified. and we all k about the details of the unity of europe. and so forth.  that did  prevent us from signing or them from signing. and we will each adhere to our interpretation. we are like done because action is within our power. it does  depend on them. it depends on us. so whether it is a unified europe. we will treat it as a nuclear power. similarly here. when the treaty is approved and ratified. we will have the unilateral right to intervene and hence there is reason for disturbing the situation by the amendment. and i hope it is rejected.
 and congress in order to have anything resolved in the light of circumstances. that is what the constitution is all about. it is just a framework within which the supreme court has the last voice and in which we. as the implementing power in law. make the balance currently. and i did  want to shut off that opportunity as the constitutional framework of our country. it seems to me that the resolution offered by senator case keeps that balance. because he asks only for consultation or. using the technical word. advice. that. i think. is sound. because the war powers act proceeds also much along that line. in that it is based upon commiting forces of the united states to an area where there is imminent danger of hostilities. when i was asked in that debate. "why dont you define imminent danger of hostilities." i said. "exactly  because we have to have that state of tension between the executive and congress in which politically we may wrestle over the question of whether there is or is  imminent danger of hostilities." for example. i recently received a letter from the counsel for the state department as to the applicability of the war powers act to the carriage of french and belgian troops to the congo. i said. "lets keep that state of tension." it may be that being a hundred miles from the theater of war. which is the basis of their claim that the act did  apply. in this situation meant that our people were  in imminent danger of hostilities. on the other hand. in aher situation. it may mean that they are in imminent danger of hostilities. the people who came in from angola did  have jet aircraft. if they did. our people would have been in imminent danger of hostilities-"and how." as the saying goes. so i think this is a comparable situation. therefore. i believe that the idea of advice is sound. but there are two things i would like to suggest. and if the chair and the parliamentarian will give me their attention. i should like to ask a question. if i may. it will be ed on the third page. in paragraph (f)1 of the amendment offered by senator case. these words appear in the third line: "it shall  thereafter be in order." i ask the chair: does that meandoes that boilerplate meanthat any member may make a point of order. that that point of order is subject to appeal to the chair. and that the senate then has the final power either to sustain or overrule the point of order by its vote.
s accountability to the congress in that regard. as the principal senate author of the war powers act. i had an exchange of correspondence with herbert j. hansell. legal adviser of the state department. about those issues. as legal adviser. mr. hansell is responsible for advising the secretary of state as to the applicability of the war powers act to the movement of u.s. armed forces in circumstances which trigger the provisions of the war powers act. i believe that my colleagues in the senate. and all concerned parties. will find this exchange of correspondence to be of interest and enlightening on a subject of great continuing interest to myself and all members of congress. accordingly. i ask that my exchange of correspondence with mr. hansell be printed in the record. the correspondence follows:
. i support senator harts amendment to delete the funds for the f18 program. there are numerous reasons to halt the f18 program. first. it is far less capable than the f14 which the navy already has. second. the f18 is designed for the wrong mission. it is a fighter. the navy needs interceptors for protection against cruise missiles and bombers. that is. the f14. third. the f18 is longer cheap. originally designed as a low cost lightweight fighter. the f18 is fast becoming more expensive than the f14. which is far more capable. fourth. the navy does  want the f18. according to numerous press reports. which have  been denied. the navy sought the cancellation of the f18 in the preparation of the fiscal year 1979 budget. the navy was overruled for political and budgetary consideration. fifth. the funding being spent on the f18 could more beneficially be used for other higher priority projects in the navys already tight budget. while the f18 is a fine aircraft. it is an excellent dog fighter. it is  absolutely essential. and is a luxury the navy can afford. and it deprives the navy of funds it very much needs for higher priority missions. for these reasons. i support senator harts amendment. in addition. i submit for the record correspondence i have had with the department of defense concerning the f18 controversy and two newspaper articles concerning this aircraft program: [from the washington post. july 11. 1978]
. i was born in new york. and i have lived there all my life. other than during the war years when i served in the army. it does my heart great good to hear what the senator from wisconsin has said. it is very heartwarming. it puts me in mind of one thing. i say to the senator from wisconsin and the senator from texas. i think it would be very good for the people of our city if this actthe senator describes it amusingly. but i think it is an act of confidence by the congress of the united statescould be considered as a vote of confidence given them. that we are  cut off from the united states. that  everybody wishes we were floating away. but that the nation. in a sense. has taken us to its bosom. given us its trust. and expects us to deliver. to really make the city the pride to the united states which it is organically in the magnificent terms in which the senator has described it. i hope that for my city. and i believe that we have a good chance to do it. i k that senator proxmire is against this. but. withstanding that. i think he has shown an extraordinary ability. as a senator. to divide his views from his duties. he has contrived a bill and has been perfectly fair about its strengths and its weaknesses. and i believe this bill can help new york redeem itself. new york is a national institution. it is  just new york. i k the emous help that eli bachrach has been to the senator and the pride he has taken in her work. pat moynihan described it beautifully and properly. i hope the result will be a closer relationship between the people of the united states and the people of new york. i think both have emous gains to be made in that relationship.
. i had doubts about the volunteer army from the very beginning. it is very expensive. it is untested in battle and. most importantly. it goes against the grain of our traditional citizens army concept. in my judgment. the allvolunteer army was a device initiated out of the unpopular draft during the last stages of the vietnam war. i believe that we must correct this misapprehension of the real situation of the united states. i believe that senator morgans amendment and the initiation of registration of 18yearolds in the selective service system is a step in the right direction. the step which i think is essential to the posture of the united states in the world. and i urge my colleagues to support the amendment.
. respecting this particular question. i agree with the construction which is contained in the question. i should like to add this comment: we all realize that there is a certain tug of war as to when bilingual education is completed. is it when the english language is reasonably learned. or is it when the capability of equal achievement in the whole education system has been attained. i believe that senator morgans amendment has determined that issue. at least for the senate version of the bill. that is a fair resolution. to wit. 2 years with an individual evaluation at the end of that time for the individual child. i believe that the construction put upon this language. which was stated and requested by senator kennedy. is entirely consistent with the total policy of the bill.
