. i want to join with my colleagues here today in expressing my sincere congratulations and deep appreciation to dr. bernard braskamp as he begins his 15th year of service as chaplain of the house of representatives. i too. have always found inspiration in the daily prayers he offers at the beginning of each days session of the house. but even more so. i have come to appreciate him for all of his kindnesses.  only to me and to the other members of this house. but also to the number of staff employees who have come to him for his spiritual inspiration and guidance. i wish him well. i join in with all others here today in the fervent wish that god will continue to shower upon him in great abundance. blessings of. good health so that he may continue to be a strong inspirational and guiding force to the members of the house of representatives as well as all americans. for many years to come.
.  only because i regard myself as a close friend of bob hendrickson. whom i love dearly. but also because i come from a neighboring state. probably as neighboring as any state new jersey has. i wish to join in the perfect tribute. so beautifully expressed by the distinguished senior senator from maine . i have come to k bob. since he has been in the senate. as i have had the privilege of king few others of my colleagues here. i have learned to value him for what i believe to be his true worth. the senior senator from maine has well described bob hendricksons high character. i shall  repeat what she has said. but i do wish to say that all the senior senator from maine has said is true. in fact. she could have gone even further. it is rather hard to speak at a time like this. when a close friend is leaving our midst. he is going to be missed grievously by all of us. especially by those of us who have been here during the full period of his service. in his leaving. the loss to the senate will be tremendous. he has been diligent. he has been faithful. and. above all. he has shown great ability in all he has undertaken. in losing you. bob. the senate is losing a member who can be replaced and will  be replaced. but. more than that. the united states is losing a public servant. in the capacity in which bob hendrickson has been serving. such as we in this country can ill afford to lose. and in the countrys loss. the state of new jersey is losing. above all. you have served with great distinction here. bob. furthermore. you have been a distinct credit to the great state of new jersey. i only hope that the people of new jersey realize their loss. as we realize ours. in the years ahead. i k that bob hendrickson. being the type of person he is. will always be finding something to do in the service of his state or his country. i k he will be successful in whatever he undertakes. but. bob. as you go forth from this place. please k that i. for oneand i k i express the feeling of all members of the senatewant you to take with you  only our best wishes for health and happiness. but our best wishes for your future successeven greater than the success you have had thus farthrough many. many years to come. may god bless you and your dear wife and family.
. i could devote these remarks to a most deserved encomium of senator smiths official record as a united states senator. but i prefer to confine this utterance to an expression of appreciation of alex smith. as a man. and as a friend. i knew alex smith before i took my seat in the senate. even then. because of his great reputation as a united states senator. i had come to admire and respect him deeply. upon my arrival in washington and my initiation into the deliberations of this great body. i came to lean on him for the help and advice which a new member occasionally needs. my senior colleague from new york was gravely ill. and i was obliged to "learn the ropes." as it were. without the assistance which a new member usually requires of the colleague from his own state. alex smith sort of took over in this personal emergency of mine. and i shall be profoundly and everlastingly grateful to him for his great kindness and generosity. when one first arrives in washington. one is apt to feel rather lost. and anything but at home. only as one becomes acquainted with the splendid peopleboth in and out of our governmentwho reside in washington. does one really appreciate what a glorious city our nations capital is. alex smith and his dear and charming wife. helen. were most thoughtful in helping mrs. ives and myself to make these contacts and acquaintances. and so it happens that the smiths are among our dearest friends. and we can begin adequately to express to them our deep appreciation for all that they have done for us. it happens that in the years ahead. i am likely to be situated where i shall see more of alex than will those who remain here. only time and circumstance can tell. but of one thing i k: for reasons peculiar to our respective situations. i do  feel that in his departure from the senate. i am to bid farewell to a friend. i k that those who are to remain here will miss him greatly. i k that in his departure the senate will suffer a very heavy loss. yet. in the senates loss. some other part of the countryor the worldwill be privileged to gain. and to that extent i feel that all of us are going to be able to benefitfor alex smith is a public servant in the truest sense of the word. dedicated to the service of his family. his friends. his state. his nationand. i may add to the service of the world. and he will never cease to serve. at this time i can only wish for mrs. smith and for alex all that is best in health and happiness through many. many years ahead. although he deserves it . and will continue to deserve it. the time has  yet arrivedand god grant that it may be far distantwhen one can finally say: "well done. thou good and faithful servant."
. let me make clear at the outset that this is  a personal amendment in a very real sense. this amendment has been authorized. i might say. by the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. which discussed this problem over the last 2 days. consequently i am trying to present it objectively and in behalf of the committee which authorized the money involved in the amendment. you. may recall. a few weeks ago the committee on interstate and foreign commerce reported to the house an extension of the socalled hillburton act. which should be called. incidentally. the priest act. and that the house passed it unanimously. it passed the other body and on july 14 it became a public law. that called for $60 million. but the administration submitted a request of only $35 million. i have here a chart showing the projects all over the country submitted by the state agencies. i do  have the time to indicate the extent of this. but let me just call your attention to it. there are 669 projects all ready to go with a total of 41.436 beds. that is divided into general. mental. tuberculosis. chronic diseases. public health centers. nursing homes. and training facilities and adjunct facilities. the estimated cost is a total of $681.673.000 and the federal share for 1955 would be $270.082.000.
. i ask unanimous consent that there may be printed at this point in the record three papers of an article from the american journal of public health. april 1963. entitled "achieving equal opportunity in use of medical service and hospital facilities." the papers are by richard v. marks. secretarydirector. detroit commission on human relations. the right reverend richard s. emrich. bishop of michigan. protestant episcopal church. detroit. and dietrich c. reitzes. ph. d.. deputy director. commission on youth welfare. chicago. ill.
