i thank my colleague. i think that spells it out accurately. we do  want any implication that there is a preference for anyone and the director of oeo. subject to our legislative oversight. will call them as he sees them on the basis of the best job that can be done. i have one other point and then i shall be finished. my point relates to manpower training. which is a very important part of the work under the ecoic opportunity act. again. managers on the part of the house express themselves as follows: the managers on the part of the house are fully aware that the director has delegated to the secretary of labor authority to carry on programs similar to those provided for in this new part. the conferees agreed that those existing programs could- continue to be carried particularly. but  exclusively. in connection with the concentrated employment programs. and that the scope of their activities  be reduced by reason of the enactment of this additional provision. it had been the plan of most ofthe house managers that -the director -would be directed to retain. rather than delegate. this new authority. they did  insist. however. that he do so. but they do insist that these programs and other manpower and job programs be carried on as originally conceived and designe& by thecongress. that there be reduction in their magnitude. that recent limitations on eligibility (such as those dealing with older workers)- be removed. that the "new careers" program retain real substance and  be limited to public service activities. that substantive efforts such as those going on at the university ofminnesota be encouraged to improve and coritinue. in short. the managers on the part of the house will.* insist that the policies and purposes enunciated by the congress be adhered to. it is their expectation that under this part special emphasis will be placed on single purpose programs. that programs of limited size and scope will be carried out. especially in rural areas. and that the rural poverty areas will receive an equitable share of the assistance being provided. again. i am expressing my own understanding of the senate conferees as i understand it. that except for specific legal changes which are made with respect to mainstream and new careersand they are  major in nature -the manpower programs will go on as at present but that they must. be subject to whatever we do about new manpower legislation because both the senate and the house will have before them manpower bills proposed by. the administration. there may be a manpower bill from the party in control of congress. both sides in their original reports on the oeo made it very clear that there is to be a comprehensive review of the manpower policy scheduled for early in the next session of congress. for example the house says. in its report.  91684. on its bill: with a comprehensive review of manpower policy scheduled for early in the next session of this congress. the committee decided that it would  undertake substantial revision of title i at this time. similarly the senate in its report on the oeo bill this year. senate report 91453. provided: the administration has requested prompt consideration of its proposed manpower training act of 1969. the committee intends to begin extensive hearings on this comprehensive proposal in the near future. the hearings will give administration witnesses. local officials and citizens an opportunity to comment on that proposal in the light of experience gained through the manpower program administration since the passage of the manpower development and training act in 1962. the only qualification. then. to the expression of members on the part of the house is that programs are  necessarily frozen for the entire 2 years during which this bill will operate. both the. senate and house understand that as a result of consideration of the manpower training actundoubtedly next yearand any proposal made by the majority. there may be changes. but that presently we do  contemplate any until we actually get to the point of hearings and possibly legislation on new manpower approaches which the administration has submitted. with that qualification. i think the managers have properly suggested what both groups of conferees. had in mind.
. i consider the employment and training opportunities act of 1970 to be essential legislation for this session. and while i may seek by amendment to improve its provisions in respect to public service programs and in any other necessary respect i wish to indicate my general support for its passage. the employment and training opportunities act of 1970 has been reported by the committee on labor and public welfare after extensive hearings held on the administrations proposed manpower training act of 1970. which i introduced on august 12. 1969. along with senators
i have read this amendment. and i really do  want to read it aloud. because i do  think it even says what the senator from indiana wants it to say. words have been left out. and so forth. let us assume. if we understand it. that what the senator wants is that the widow receive the same pension as the participant from whom she is widowed. our answer to that is. "sure." as the senator from new jersey has said. that would be delightful. except for all the same reasons that we can have a 100percent vesting and many other things. in starting this effort. we can load it with this kind of provision. which the senator wantsto wit. that the surviving widow would get exactly the same annuity as her deceased husband. the answer is that it is  done for us. as senators. under our own plan. it is  done under the federal civil service plan. it is  done under the overwhelming majority of private plans. again. we have to draw a line somewhere as to what will inhibit private plans. we have reached out for what we consider to be an enlightened standard. which is a minimum of  less than 50 percent. that is the best we have been able to do. i think the senator is right when he says that if we do  want to do what he wants to do. we should vote. i suggest that.
