. i respond to the question of the senator from utah and disagree with his interpretation. for the reason that i will endeavor to explain. it seems to me that the language of the amendment bearing on this feature is far preferable and more adapted to the proprieties of the situation than is the original language. in the first place. there rises the question of suppressing military aggression. it is of vital importance that there be military force available on the part of the united nations to suppress military aggression. the great danger which we faced at the beginning of this war resulted from our lack of available military force. and that situation. i believe. is met clearly in the amendment but  in the resolution. it seems to me that we should  need to employ military force to suppress ecoic aggression. we must meet ecoic aggression with ample power. whatever it may be. the language in the amendment is "and with power"of all kinds. the same kind of power provided for in the resolutionwith power of all kinds. and. to avoid misconception. we use the words "including military force." and "to suppress military aggression". and finally. nnd to preserve the peace of the world." we provide full power) to preserve the peace of the world on the ecoic aggression side.
madam president. i wish briefly to discuss a subject which also relates to our foreign policy and relates to the entire world and also heavily involves the peace of the world. and that is what the president of the united states did  say about the berlin crisis.  that a few days have passed since the presidents historic speech on tuesday. july 25. on the berlin crisis. and  that the senate has already acted on two of the measures asked for to strengthen our military capability to meet this crisis. it is appropriate to evaluate the situation in terms of what the president did  say and in terms of the measures and sacrifices he did  call for. but which etheless need to be called for if we are truly to meet our responsibilities to the nations security and as the peace leader of the free world. i was one of those who spoke most approvingly of the presidents speech. i continue to do that. i did  express the thoughts i am about to express sooner because i felt it was advisable  to diminish in any way the stature of the presidents speech or its clarity for all the people of the world. especially its clarity for the rulers of the communist bloc. to them. the message. in my opinion. was and had to be crystal clear that there would be backdown on berlin and that we would marshal both our resources and our allies to that objective. and that we accept the risks in respect of the position of ourselves and our allies in berlin.  that we are in the stage of implementation of this fundamental principle. which the country so overwhelmingly supports. it is essential that those of us in position of responsibility make our contribution to the totality of the planning of our government to enable us truly to meet the responsibility as spelled out by the president. considering the size of the crisis which the president put before us. a crisis having the risk of warand one ks what kind of war. whether limited. general. nuclear. or conventionalhis requests hardly measure up to the risk which the country is taking. it seems to me that the requests of the president. which were very modest. and practically all of which we acted on yesterday. for increased military preparations and the right to call up a reasonable number of additional personnel for our armed forces. follow the path of least resistance and provide much less than is essential to meet the crisis which the president laid before us. i believe. therefore. that the additions which i shall make today begin to equate the size and substance of the measures that ought to be taken with the size and substance of the crisis. for this purpose. i rank as having equal priority with military preparations the determination of the country to take a number of additional steps. first. to establish a peace production board. a crisis as serious as the one which faces us requires a coordination of our industrial sources. it requires some preparation for bringing those resources into a far more active role in the national defense than they occupy . that has been traditionally done by some entity set up for that purpose. we are  at war. and we hope and pray that we shall  be at war. however. an essential part of the preparation for the risk of a war beginning is to have a peace production board. i believe that such a peace production board should have authority to recommend wage and price ceilings. excess profits taxes. materials allocation. and similar aspects of industrial mobilization. in short. we are  giving anyone any authority to put this into effect. we are  legislating any such authority. but we ought to establish an agency which can begin to work on the proposals which may lead to recommendations of that kind should the risk of war become any graver or materialize into some form of warfare. second. we can do business as usual with respect to strikes and labormanagement disputes. we must reinforce national machinery for dealing with labormanagement disputes which result in national emergency strikes or strikes hampering the national security effort. there is a whole list of responsibilities which we have so far failed to give the president in respect to strikes which affect the national health. safety. and welfare. we have given him only inadequate machinery. the tafthartley law injunction. it has been pointed out. for example. that we have  given him authority for a factfinding board even under the tafthartley law to make recommendations for a settlement. and we have  provided a coolingoff period required by law after such recommendations for settlement have been made. . even after the tafthartley injunction. if it does  work. do we give the president any other authority. instead. he must then come back to congress. madam president. it seems to me we certainly can reinforce the machinery by giving the president the power to appoint factfinding boards. which can make recommendations by requiring a coolingoff period. as is done under the war labor act. after those recommendations are made. and that we very seriously consider all the other powers that we give the president. speaking for myself. i believe he ought to have the power to order the seizure of any such struck facilities. if we are really to prepare ourselves to face the risk and the crisis which we face in respect to berlin by having national machinery in law for the purpose of dealing more collectively than we can  with national emergency strikes and strikes affecting the national security effort. third. we have  yet effectively tied the united states private ecoic system into the foreign aid activities of the united states. therefore. an affirmative part of our national effort to win the struggle for freedom is. in my opinion. manned to as little as onehalf. and perhaps by as much as 80 percent less effectively than it ought to be. many things can be done in that regard. for example. we have  yet begun to enable private enterprise to play an effective role in the foreignaid effort by enabling it to provide the pools of management and technical personnel for longterm overseas governmental developmental projects. or by engaging in mixed developmental projects with our government itself. or with foreign governments. or by working out a plan under our tax laws. by which private enterprise can assign some of its personnel to working in the technical assistance programs. or by enlisting the emous power of investment which exists in this country in the foreign aid effort through stimulating private corporations to invest in some of the projects which represent private aid. in that respect. i have joined with three other senators. the senator from maryland . the senator from indiana [. that i have done today.
. during the period of may 27 to june 4. i was a u.s. delegate to three international conferences in western europe: the th atlantic assembly in brussels. the conference on international ecoic cooperationciecin paris. and international labor organizationiloannual meeting in geneva. the first part of this report focuses on the deliberations at the th atlantic assembly. supplemented by additional conversations in london and paris on the themes of eurocommunism. detente. and human rights which were the preeminent political theme at the th atlantic assembly. the second part of this report deals with the ilo. there will be a report separately to the senate concerning the conference on international ecoic cooperationciecjointly with senator ribicorp and representative bingham who were the other congressional members of the u.s. delegation to that historic "thsouth dialogue." also. i have already discussed here on the senate floor the ecoic situation as it developed in the ciec paris meetings. on june 16. the th atlantic assembly of the parliamentarians of the nato nations. held its annual spring meeting in brussels may 2628. i participated in the meeting of the assemblys political committee on may 27 and. as the alternate u.s. member of the assemblys standing committee. or governing body. i also participated in the standing committee meeting on may 28. following this. i had meetings with british leaders of bdth parties in london on may 29 and i attended the ciec meeting in paris from may 31 to june 3 and then flew to geneva on june 3 to attend the ilo conference and to receive a briefing on the salt negotiations from ambassador earle.
