. the amendment which has just been read at the desk is the socalled part iii amendment which a great many senators.  a total of 14. desire to have considered by the senate cleanly and on its own. the reason for that is that we feel that an essential element of a truly effective civil rights bill requires this provision for the attorney general to act to protect the constitutional rights of every citizen in respect of civil rights. regardless of his race. creed. color. or national origin. experience has shown. including from some opposed to desegregation of our public schools. that tremendous expense has been involved to the injured litigants in bringing these actions. the amount ranging from $15.000 to $19.000 a case. we believe that the authority of the united states should be available in representative cases for this purpose. and that such a practice follows the practice under the fair labor standards act and other laws. including the national housing act and the stockyards act. in which similar authority is exercised by the attorney general. this was a highly controverted question in 1957. we believe experience confirms the need of this section. and it is our desire to give the senate a clear opportunity either to include or exclude in the particular measure which is before the senate the socalled title iii provision or part iii provision.
i believe that the one assurance the senator is entitled to haveand i think i am importing something into his considerationis that the same plan with respect to the attorney generals action found under section 245. as we would provide for it in this bill. which appears at page 2.- lines 6 to 12. inclusive. should. as a matter of legislative intent. be clearly stated to be the intent of the senate in respect also of title iii. may i explain to the senator very quickly why it was  actually written into title ii. senator dirksen wrote title iii himself. because he had dealt with the housing sections. so he dealt with the penal aspects of interfering with rights under housing. and he failed to repeat what he had himself provided for in respect of worker protection. so i will state to the senatorwith the authority of the manager of the bill. on the part of both of usthat the intent of the senate is that the same certification should be made in respect to title iii as is made in respect of title i. and if the senate should reject this amendment. that is one of the reasons why it is rejected.
