. the young soviet writer andrei amalrik occupies a unique position in the intellectual and spiritual life of the world today. he is the rarest of beings. a philosopher. in a world characterized by too easy change and a passion for the new and el as far as the west is concerned. and by increasingly deadening conformity and repression of thought and spirituality in the communist world. andrei amalrik stands as a lover of truth. he thinks and writes very much in the same vein as socrates. for amalrik also has an ear tuned to an inner voice. the voice of truth and clarity. imprisonment. sickness or the separation from his wife and friends have  distracted amalrik from being true to his inner imperative. however. unlike socrates. who could stand all night in the extreme cold deep in thought. suffering ill effects. amalrik suffers from a heart condition and during his second 3year imprisonment in a labor camp has contracted meningitis which has permanently affected his health. two books by andrei amalrik which have been published in the west have resulted in his persecution and imprisonment. "will the soviet union survive until 1984." presents an anguished analysis of factors amalrik sees as inexorably pushing the faltering. rigid soviet regime and an increasingly restive soviet populace to the point of disintegration and collapse. despite their avowedly emous military might. this is traitorous book. but is rather the anguished cry of a man who longs to save his nation from the destruction to come. amalrik would alert the soviet regime and his fellow countrymen to impending doom. balancing the world view of "will the soviet union survive until 1984." is the deeply felt but restrained account of his first exile entitled "an involuntary journey to siberia." in this book amalriks underlyin." concern is for the spiritual welfare of his fellow russians and this shines forth clearly. he depicts his personal experience as a reflection of past errors on the part of the soviet leadership and also as a harbinger of things to come. but the concern expressed by amalrik is always a curative one. for he seeks to prove the malaise affecting  only the soviet union but the entire world and to suggest a course of thought and action which could lead back to sanity and renewed spiritual health. andrei amalrik was born in 1938. because he sent an historical treatise to a western scholar. he was expelled from moscow university in 1963. while caring for his late father. an invalid. amalrik worked at various jobs. in 1965. five of his unpublished plays were confiscated by the secret police and he was imprisoned under a charge of antisoviet and porraphic writing and exi:ed to siberia as a "parasite." in 1966. he was allowed to return to moscow with his wife. gyuzel makudirova. a talented painter whose works are in much demand by foreign collectors. in 1970. amalrik was arrested on the charge of "spreading deliberately false fabrications. defaming thc. soviet state and public order." and was sentenced to a 3year term in a labor camp. although his sentence was completed on may 21. 1973. amalrik was  released. on the contrary. and despite his illness. he is being held in a labor camp while new charges are being prepared against him. mr. amalrik has many friends and admirers in the united states who would welcome him with open arms. buth harvard university and georgetown university have invited him to come to this country to undertake further historical research. . andrei amalrik is a world genius who must  be lost in this time of crisis. i therefore urge that every possible effort .b made to persuade the soviet leadership to allow mr. amalrik and his wife to come to the united states to study and to provide us eve ntually .with an equally penetrating insight into the. strengthu and weaknessesof our own people and o the world at large.
. i am happy to join with the million americans of lithuanian descent and. indeed. with freedomloving peoples throughout the world. in paying tribute to the 40th anniversary of lithuanian independence. we who enjoy the priceless gift of freedom must speak on this occasion for a nation which has been silenced by tyranny. a tragic twist of history has made lithuanian independence shortlived. in the 13th century a dozen or so principalities were united into a small nation which. in the following centuries. endured the almost constant encroachments of other. far larger countries. throughout this dark period the hope of eventual independence burned brightly. and finally. on february 16. 1918. lithuanias dream of a free independent state came true. for a period of some 22 years lithuania proudly occupied a place of ho among the free nations of the world. for the first time. her political. social. ecoic and cultural institutions were permitted to flower without interference or subjection. lithuanias land reform law of 1922 was the first in all europe. universal compulsory education reduced illiteracy. the ally of all oppressors. from 64 to 15 percent. her standards of commerce. agriculture and industry rose. the arts flourished in an atmosphere of peace and liberty. and then. in 1940. soviet russia annexed lithuania and her neighboring baltic states. rigid censorship has blacked out the struggles of lithuania against oppression. but we k that since the incorporation of this tiny nation within the u. s. s. r.. more than half a million lithuanians have become the victims of soviet mass murder. and thousands more go each month into exile or slave labor camps. these grim statistics point to the determination of lithuanians to resist oppression and to their indomitable courage in the face of terrible odds. the 3 million silent lithuanians still in their homeland may  hear us directly today. but perhaps some. through the broadcasts of a free world. will k that we fervently hope that one day lithuanians everywhere may live again under a system of humanity and justice.
 nixon and premier khrushchev were debating the virtues of freedom and communism nearby. in the same area. i e that some of the books which have been removed by the soviet inspectors were written by such "reactionaries" as man thomas. dean acheson. chester bowles. adlai stevenson. and adolph a. berle. jr. we republicans have at times had some difficulty in dealing with these gentlemen ourselves. but we have  gone so far as to suppress either them or their books. we can well understand the unsettling effect that their uthodox ions could conceivably have on public opinion in the soviet union if their ideas were permitted to be communicatedand we certainly want them to be communicated. it is true that the sovi3ts have  yet burned these books in public ceremonies. we are aware of a very unfortunate historic experience in that respect. it is perhaps too much to expect that the passion of the soviet government for antisepsis in the area of political philosophy will be carried to the point of actual book burning. yet i am certain that the soviet government feels that it can be too careful. i e with interest that this care for the preservation of the purity of ideas has extended so far as to remove from the american exhibit a copy of the world almanac. as is well knto use a phrase with which our soviet brethren are familiarthe tables of the tides and of the phases of the moon are potentially seditious in content. even when incorporated in a volume which includes such inuous material as information on the income status of the american family. employment and unemployment in the united states. the ecoic status of the population. and indices of business activity and industrial production. i assume that the action of the inspectors will be sustained by higher authority. to whom i understand the united states officials in charge of the exhibit are  appealing. if we are going to let people learn about the turning of the tides and the phases of the moon. their interest is likely to be whetted in such exotic subjects as the hanging gardens of babylon. the custer massacre. and the area of pitcairn island. with all of which the world almanac deals. from such topics as these it is only one step to a morbid interest in statistics such as those on the fact that the people of the united states own and operate over 68 million automobiles. about 1 for every 2 v2 people. and why this comes to bea topic which is manifestly forbidden to a citizen of the soviet union who hopes to make his way in that society.
. i urge very much that there be hearings held by the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am a member. which is charged with this responsibility. i urge that hearings be held upon the whole group of bills on this subject. we in the senate at least should  be content with an advisory council. which will take us to where we should have been 5 years ago. but we should seek to do something very affirmative. whether it be with respect to my bill for a u.s. arts foundation. or the bill introduced by the senator from pennsylvania . or any other one of a number of other bills. we must do something affirmative to marshal the cultural resources of the country both in terms of meeting domestic needs. for which present efforts are far under par. and very particularly in terms of our international posture in this field.
. i submit. for appropriate reference. on behalf of myself. the senior senator from delaware . the senator from florida [mr. smathersi. the senator from minnesota . the senator from pennsylvania . the senator from west virginia . and the junior senator from delaware . a resolution to provide for the installation of a public address system within the senate chamber. the resolution. a revival of a similar effort which i made in 1957. would locate a microphone at the desk of the presiding officer and of each senator. a debate which took place on monday of last week. in which a senator claimed to have been misquoted by the press because his remarks on the senate floor were  heard. highlighted an issue of senate procedure which has long been of interest to me: the fact that. unlike the house of representatives. which for many years has had a public address system in its chamber. the senate has such system. the result is that often interesting and vigorous debate on the senate floor is completely missed by the many visitors in the visitors gallery and even heard only partially. if at all. by members of the working press in the press gallery. in this age of electronics. it is aalous that the senate should labor under such a disadvantage. certainly there is room for a small microphone at each senators desk. and the controls could be easily applied. one place that readily comes to mind is the little used inkwell. which recalls the days when quill pens were still used on the senate floor. the inkwells are ornamental but  useful . when i first came to the senate in 1957. as a member of the committee on rules and administration. i made an effort to bring about the institution of a suitable public address system in the senate chamber. the committee asked the architect of the capitol to study the feasibility of the plan. the staff of the committee made a survey of the then 96 members of the senate and found that a considerable number were interested in the change. also. a considerable number were opposed to any change. principally because of technical difficulties which i think. with the greatly improved state of the art of electronics. can  be entirely eliminated. this would be a helpful small step forward to bring senate procedures more into line with the space age. i hope the support with which the idea was greeted on the senate floor a week ago will result in early action by the committee on rules and administration.
. i am gratified to e that. following the recommendation of the joint labor management committee on foreign film production of the american motion picture industry. the united states has adhered to the film code of the organization for ecoic cooperation and development.--oecd. secretary wirtz. in anncing u.s. adherence to the oecd film code. stated that this move would permit full u.s. participation in the proceedings of this oecd forum concerning motion pictures and would enable u.s. officials to work more effectively for fair competitive conditions for americanmade films abroad. it is clearly essential to restore the competitive position of the u.s. film industry and to make it as attractive as possible to make films in the united states. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the letter of as-. sistant secretary of labor george lp weaver informing me of this development and a labor department release explaining the significance of the u.s. adherence.
 does  choose to follow through on his state of the union message. in which he assured us that he recognized the existence of this problem. at the very least the amendment of the senior senator from oregon and the senior senator from new york would give us an expertise.  merely on the basis of the reading of a paper or testimony. but also on the basis of a considered study. with 6 months time in which to do it. by the secretary of labor. i feel that . somehow or other. the mainspring has been touched in respect to this matter. it is strange that this did  occur in 1963. but i think that it is occurring . i believe that congress is acutely conscious of the fact that we have  been deliberate egh in advance to have law on the books to deal with the situation in which we  find ourselves. i think the moment is very propitious to have labor legislation with some permanent plan to deal with this problem of national or sectional emergencies. particularly in regulated industries.
the "operations" would include the manner in which the 80day injunction operates under the tafthartley lawwhat actually happens when injunctions have been obtained in the labor disputes and what disputes have been settled before the expiration of the 80 days. i have doubt that somehow or other we will get over this problem. however. we need provision on the books so that this situation may be dealt with.
let the senate be perfectly clear on what is before it. the amendment of the senator from vermont has absolutely relation whatever to my amendment. my amendment would seek to insert into the bill a child labor provision. the substitute of the senator from vermont would completely eliminate my amendment. he is against it. he takes the same position as the senator from oregon and other senators who oppose the amendment. except that the senator from vermont adds a new feature. namely. to eliminate the employment of children as actors unless they are over 10 years of age. my amendment does  deal with that point at all. . i do  believe that the senate will be at all confused by that maneuver. in other words. it is aher way of voting " to the amendment which the senator from new jersey . the senator from california . and i have proposed. as to the substantive point at issueto wit. children working in the theater. this was discussed at great length in the committee. the committee happens to have a senator of great distinction in the theater as one of its members. namely. the senator from california . when this matter was raised in committee. he was drawn immediately to his feet to say that there are children he ks of in the united states who enjoy more advantages in terms of schooling and care. and so forth. than children in the theater. movies. television. and so forth. i think that is pretty common kledge. anyway. the laws of the great states where most theatrical performances take place cover these children very. very completelynew york. californiaand i am sure it is also true of the district of columbia. we have never had any complaint about it. we have never had any hearings on the subject. this matter has been strictly imported into the bill by this substitute amendment as a retaliatory move. it can be characterized as hing else but a retaliatory move. we k that some of the greatest talent developed in this country in the field of theatrical performances has been developed as very young children. it seems trite to mention shirley temple. she is an american institution. she developed as a child performer. thus. with all due respect which it deserves. i really do  think that a great and extended harangue by me on this point is needed. it has been imported into the situation to add a retaliatory e to those who oppose my amendment. i do  think it is justified. i think my amendment should be fought out "yes" or " on its merits. the substitute is a totally extraneous matter which only bedevils the issue. i trust the senate will  allow dust to be thrown into its eyes. others have stood and fought for longer than i have on this issue and have accepted defeat in good sportsmanship. i feel the same way. however. i do  think it adds anything to the bill to add this amendment.
. i think that the house bill has certain provisions preferable to the senate bill with respect to union recognition because it allows local unionsi happen to have those in new york in a very substantial way. in addition. i think it reserves certain rate structures especially for books. which are very important to our country. i find one provision in the house bill which i simply can accept. which was written in on the house floor. section 222(b). the socalled righttowork provision. i had in mind to move to excise that for the substitute. but that seems to be considered an unfriendly move both by those for the substitute and those against it. who prefer to have the matter met all the way. head on. i have been a member of the senate too long to assume that i can succeed in the face of that kind of combination. so that the opponents of this substitute may have a clear shot at it. but. because i think it is of overriding importance to leave open collective bargaining to whatever it may produce within the context of the collectivebargaining procedure. i shall be compelled to vote "" while i am on my feet. i would like to point out to members that this is a substitute. if we adopt it. that is it. we lock it in. there are amendments to it. so that i would hope. as we perfect the senate bill. we will deal with the question of local union recognition. if that should seem advisable to members. and that we will deal with the question of ratemaking. and of book publishers. a time hoed element of the educational system of the united states. and other matters which may be pertinent. in principle. i appreciate the senates desire to have ratemaking by a new board. that is a businesslike way to do it. i also hope that the senate. as we fashion this measure. will bear in mind the necessity of treating the workers as we would in relatively private employment. as one goes with the other.
. this past saturday. the nation and the congress experienced a great loss in a tragic and unnecessary accident which took the life of stephen j. wexler. mr. wexler served ably for many years on the majority staff of the senate committee on labor and public welfare. in this capacity he made a great contribution to federal legislation as it affects education. the arts and humanities. as the senior republican on the labor and public welfare committee for the last 10 years. many members of my staff worked closely with him and profited from his expertise and the stimulation of the association. i personally have often had the benefit of his keen insight in legislative problems and his resourcefulness in solving them. steve had a rare gift for placing the broad substantive kledge of statutes and programs in his area of responsibility into the complex political context that surrounds this legislation. this consistently enabled him to provide invaluable assistance to many senators in creating the wide range of federal education programs  in law. the results of these efforts are plain to see. during his service as majority counsel. the education subcommittee produced major omnibus education bills in 1972 and 1974. and is currently well along in creating a major new education bill. numerous other smaller bills have also been passed. a large number of new education programs have been created which  reach every family and community in america. other previously existing programs have been revised and improved. possibly the greatest legislative achievement in education during his fine service was the initiation of the basic educational opportunity grants program. which may benefit 1 million needy students in the coming year by helping them pay for postsecondary education. steve wexler was tireless in supporting the beog concept and his great talents and dedication contributed much to its enactment. in the arts and humanities. he continuously exhibited his sensitivity and judgment in helping construct the proper participation of the federal government without stifling the necessary independence and freedom. among those in the fields of education and the arts who work at the federal level. steve wexler was widely respected and admired. he was one whose counsel was sought and weighed with the consideration due his ability and his character. and his counsel was always sought. his service was a able example of the highest level of professionalism which is provided by the best of the congressional staff. he will be greatly missed by all those who have worked with him in the vital process of creating and improving the laws governing education and the arts. on behalf of myself and my staff. i want to express my sincerest sympathy to steves wife. elizabeth. and to his family in their time of such great sorrow. i hope that they can be consoled in the recognition of the great contribution made by steve to our nation during his all too short lifetime.
this clearly illustrates that the very. very drastic fall off in donations is attributed to this particular change in law made in 1969. also. the music division of the library of congress reports as follows: it is estimated that some 35 wellkn composers have ceased making gifts to the library of congress. including samuel barbour. aaron copland. and walter piston. likewise. the prints and photographs division of the library of congress reports that a number of leading artists have ceased donating their original works to the library of congress since 1969. . from what these artists sayand the endowment experts certainly ought to k what they are talking aboutin the sketches and other preliminary works which go into the development of a major work of art. this is the very thing that the artists will  give on the present basis. but would be very much interested in giving on the basis of some ability to at least get the value of the gifts applied on their artrelated income. again i emphasize that any deduction they receive must be from any income earned from their particular art. otherwise they do  get it. and with the limit that i have described. $25.000 a year.
