 has  acted on his own initiative to relieve their distress. executive power to raise tariffs has been applied to other items. the case for shoes is less worthy. the results are clear: while the government of the united states fails to act. more jobs are lost. more capital investment is lost. this is way to win the war against poverty. we can have the government working at cross purposes: fighting a war on poverty one week and permitting the loss of jobs and selfrespect the next. members of congress who are concerned about this problem have repeatedly contacted the white house. the tariff commission and other responsible officials. to date. we have had effective response to our entreaties. . i firmly hope that it will  be necessary to call this problem to the attention of the administration again. the question does  concern the power to act. but rather the will to act.
. april 24. 1965 marks the 50th anniversary of one of the most shocking events in human history. for on that date. in 1915. there began a massacre of armenians living within the ottoman empire. the horror that marked this tragedy is almost inconceivable. it began with a war tax and the complete disarming of the people. then the young men in the communities were taken away from their homes and families. they were  heard from again. then the older men and the women and children. it is hard to believe that so drastic a means could have been used. measures  even justified to put down a rebellion were employed on a peaceful. unarmed. civilian population. we observe this anniversary with profound sorrow and admiration for a brave people who survived and continued to fight for liberty. many of their relatives and friends came to america and will mark this day with appropriate services. i hope that my colleagues will join with me in extending our sympathy on this tragic anniversary to the thousands of americans of armenian descent who have contributed so much to the progress and the culture of our country.
 johnson also emphasized the demanding task that will confront fiscal and monetary policies when demobilization is undertaken. the two committees have made a significant contribution to the dialog which has been generated on the conversion problem since the introduction of my bill in 1964. those efforts illustrate the need for a much broader involvement by industries. organizations. and associations who have a direct interest and vital concern. the bill that is being jointly introduced today does take this approach. it makes every effort to get the people who may be affected involved. and by so doing. to broaden the base of the kledge and interest which must be applied to solve the problem. the bill states that the commission shall encourage trade associations. labor unions. industry associations and professional societies to make plans and engage in studies which would further the conversion capabilities of their respective organizations. the legislation also requires the commission to prescribe that the contract entered into by the department of defense or any military department. or the atomic energy commission contain a definition by the contractor of his capability for converting his various resources to civilian uses. this concept that is treated here is fundamental to the need which must be faced at the time of conversion. it gives expression to the idea that industry does  want to be dependent upon the defense establishment. and subject to its inevitable fluctuations. in a 1965 report published by litton industries i iced that they are making every effort to reduce their percentage of defense contracting. at that time they had reduced their dependence from its original 100 percent to less than 40 percent. in their last fiscal year they had further reduced this figure to 27 percent of their total business. this business was done by their defense and marine systems branch. this example is an important lesson. some efforts have been undertaken in the direction of conversion in the past. but each time since the second world war that we have begun to grapple with the issue. new military spending has occurred. we are coming to the crossroad again. the longawaited solution to the vietnam conflict will place this country in the enviable position among its world neighbors of actually having the resources. the techogy and the ability to solve the pressing human problems of its citizens and the environment in which they live. the possibility of impending peace poses two questions: whether we have the foresight to plan a rational and effective utilization of the resources to become available. and whether we have the will to do so. we have made extraordinary techogical progress in the past decade.  only has our ability to communicate and to solve problems developed extensively. but our gathering of data has also improved egh to indicate how far we do have to go. . i would urge that ecoic conversion is of the utmost concern at this time. the time and effort must be undertaken  to have any meaningful effect within this congress. more is at stake here than a few hundred jobs or a handful of industries. it is time for new directions and new solutions to the problems in 1969. we do  have the pentup consumer demand of the forties credited by some experts for offsetting the predictions that the united states would go into a depression following world war ii. the proper climate must and can be created for a peacetime conversion that will establish new goals and initiatives. the 1960s has been a time for discovery of many wishes and desires unkn but a few years ago. the voyage of the apollo 8 last christmas clearly dramatized american techogical achievement and potential. i find it unacceptable that we can take the same sort of enterprise and ability and apply it to mans ageold problems of creating a healthy environment. educating his young. and eradicating hunger and disease. the drama and excitement of america is that we have the resources to make the conversion a success. and that the opportunity may soon present itself to begin the task.
. in accordance with rule xl. of the standing rlules of the senate. i hereby give ice in writing that it is my intention to move to suspend paragraph 4 of rule xvi for the purpose of proposing to the bill . making appropriations for civil functions administered by the war department for the fiscal year ending june 30. 1948. and for other purposes. the following amendment. namely: on page 8. line 7. before the period. add the following proviso: "provided further. that the existing rivers and harbors project at fire island inlet. new york. as authorized by the act approved august 26. 1937. is hereby modified in accordance with reports of the division engineer dated may 16. 1947. subject to final approval by the board of engineers for rivers and harbors and the chief of engineers. "
i happen to k something about what has been done. a special paragraph has been included in the report on page 26 under the heading. "allegheny river reservoir. pa." i think. so far as the committee has been able to do it. the situation has been handled very well. the report points out to the indians what they can do in the situation in which they will be placed. and what steps they can take if they do  like what is proposed. so far as resorting to action in the courts is concerned. in the case of other indian reservations from which indians have had to be moved. i suspect very strongly that there has been other land to which the indians could be moved. but in this instance a different situation prevails. i happen to k something about the terrain in that part of new york state. bear in mind that i am  for one moment asserting that new york state claims the land. it is  the land of the state. neither are we trying to stop the building of the dam. because. in one sense of the word. we want pennsylvania to be entitled to what is coming to her. heaven ks that pennsylvania contributes egh in taxes to the federal revenue to be entitled to such a project as this. but what disturbs me is. where are we going to put the indians. it is all right to talk about moving the indians and giving them land back of the area which will be covered with water. but back of that area the hills drop down. the land which the indians till at present is the best land and will be virtually wiped out. that happens to be a very heavily populated section of the united states. eighteen hundred senecas are involved. allowing six indians to a family. on the average. it will be seen that to provide separate farms for each will be quite an undertaking. i am  sure what the indians will be able to do. i have heard the indians themselves have  been too cooperative. but that does  alter the fact that there is in existence the treaty signed by george washington. which the indians have respected. the indians look upon it as a sacred document. i happen to be among those who believe that the question of might making right was settled once and for all when we fought world war i. i do  think might makes right. at the same time. i think the united states must move ahead. even though this does look like an evasion of the principle established at the time of world war i. the government has a right to move ahead. but what are we to do with the seneca indians. perhaps my distinguished friend from louisiana can tell me.
i would like to address a question to the chairman of the committee on ways and means. the gentleman from arkansas with reference to the remarks which he just made. i was  talking about quotas. i was talking about voluntarily checking at least in one instance with the state department. i am told by distinguished people who did this during world war iand i think there were similar indications of this in the korean warthat it worked. there was voluntary consultation. and if i am  mistaken. great britain has the same kind of relationship wherein large borrowings are checked with the bank of england and with the government.
i have raised the specific amounts with the bureau of the budget and the secretary of health. education. and welfare. that is being looked at. but there is  explicit approval at this time. i believe there will be for some elements of this. also. i would say to the gentleman from nebraska. i am very hopeful that the presidents determination to end the war in vietnam will be realized. i hope in our planning for the senior citizens we will look a little further ahead than the immediate budgetary problem which. as the gentleman points out. is serious.
i send to the desk a resolution adopted by the general assembly of the state of rhode island memorializing congress to retain and increase the jobs of the naval underwater system center in newport. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
i thank my colleague who i worked so closely with for many years in the navy department where we wrestled with these problems. and the problem  is far worse than it was then when we have the inflation in figures such as they are today.
. it is my understanding that the senate budget and veterans affairs committees have restored an estimated $25 million deleted from the administrations budget request specifically to insure that this program is extended 1 additional year beyond the september 1981 delimiting date. this is certainly welcome news. i believe my colleagues have acted with both wisdom and compassion on this matter. etheless. in my judgment. the vietnamera veterans readjustment counseling program and the vietnam veterans centers provide a sufficiently important service to veterans of our longest and most controversial war that the program and the centers deserve additional time to accomplish their worthy purpose. i urge my colleagues to keep the faith with the tens of thousands of vietnam veterans who suffered deep psychological wounds from their experience in the vietnam war by extending the readjustment counseling program through
. today i would like to review some of the issues surrounding the nuclear arms race and to outline my own thinking on several of the issues which i believe deserve our attention. i will be joined in this review by several of my colleagues and i look forward to hearing their views on these issues- and to benefiting from their thoughts and insights. we will soon be considering in the senate a defense budget of over $200 billion. as we struggle with the difficult choices involving that budget. questions about our nuclear strategy and the forces necessary to implement it must necessarily be of paramount concern. it is my opinion that considerations of arms control should be an important part of our overall deliberations and debate. unfortunately. that may  be the case. and it is partly for that reason that i want to take this time today to review some important issues relating to our defense strategy. our nuclear force posture and the need for strategic arms control.
. i intend to vote today for the amendment of the distinguished senior senators from louisiana and wisconsin. i have been a supporter of their effort since its inception last year. and i still believe they have the right idea about the strategic defense initiative. they are  out to kill sdi. as some have accused them. and neither am i.  the sponsors of this amendment simply believe. as i do. that sdi must be kept in perspective. this amend-. ment limits sdi to $3.7 billion in 1988hardly a complete denial of firstrate submarine programs and funds. senate armed services. $4.53 evermodernizing arsenal of bombers billion. and landbased missiles. there are sdis enthusiasts make glorious more than egh unkns already claims about the potential of the pro- to discourage soviet attack. is it worth gram. but we must remember that spending hundreds of billions of dolthis research initiative is still in its in- lars simply to add a few more question fancy and certainly has a long way to marks to the strategic equation. that go before it might make a meaningful question is a big egh one to concontribution to the national defense. vince me that sdi should be kept at a the sdi concept as we k. it today relatively low level of funding. and as originated only 42 years ago in presi- a research program. forthe forseeable dent reagans famous speech. al- future. though since then sdi has been the i disagree strongly with the backers subject of passionate arguments here of sdi who *are more than willing to in congress. and of bargaining at the abandon the abm treaty and allow very highest levels of superpower rela- sdi testing and development to protions. it is still largely an unkn ceed. the successful abm treaty has quantity. in my view. the questions proven the workability of the deterraised by sdi deserve our closest at- rent philosophy. and i for one am  tention. they fall into three basic cat- prepared to abandon that theory in egories: order to unleash a research program i. theory. that has just begun to get underway. ii. effectiveness. iii. cost. 11. effectivenesscan sdi work. i. theoryis sdi based on a sound strategic the practical question of whether theory. sdi can work is  an easy one to the basic premise of sdi. and presi- answer. but obviously it should have a dent reagans main motivation in pro- prominent place in our budget deciposing the space shield. are easy sionmaking. in fact. this question is egh- to understand: rather than covered by the first two of paul nitzes rely on the admittedly risky doctrine three criteria for sdi. which were feaof mutually assured destruction sibility. survivability and cost effec(mad]. in which each superpower tiveness at the margin. in order for leaves itself naked to nuclear attack. sdi to work. it must be both feasible perhaps we can move to a defensive and survivable. and it has  yet strategic plan in which the united proven to be either. states would seek to protect itself clearly. we will  k for some from nuclear attack. if all goes well. time whether sdi can work because the theory says. we might even make sdi researchers are still sifting nuclear weapons obsolete. in this through the various possibilities for simple form. the sdi vision is attrac- the design of a deployable system. at tive. the moment there is much discussion there are. however. a number of of beginning some kind of deployment major flaws in this vision. one is the in the mid1990s. putting aside for a unproven assumption that we should moment the grave abm treaty impliabandon deterrence. the doctrine that cations of this proposal. lets look at has prevented the outbreak of super- what would be deployed under such a power war for more than 40 years. as plan. illogical as it may seem. the fact is the only sdi techogy that could that mad has worked. in order to dis- possibly be ready for deployment in card mad theory. and with it our nu- the next 10 years would be interceptor clear arsenal. we would need to devise rocketsthe socalled kinetickill vehia truly leakproof sdi system. cleson space platforms.  this is a but it will be monumentally diffi- fairly crude concept that has been in cult. and may be impossible. to create a existence since the 1960s. and many perfect shield. and without a perfect distinguished scientists have raised sesdi. we will always need up to date rious questions about it. and reliable missiles of our own. to in his testimony last march before ward off possibly destructive attacks. the subcommittee on defense approthus. until sdi attains perfection- priations. dr. harold brown. the and its unlikely ever to do sowe former secretary of defense. pointed must retain an essentially deterrent out that the kinetickill variety of sdi posture. so we must ask ourselves: would be ineffective and easily counwhy pump tens and hundreds of bil- tered by soviet countermeasures. parlions into a new program that will ticularly what are called fastburn leave us essentially where we were boosters. these would essentially when we startedguided by the deter- make incoming soviet missiles much rent philosophyand at the same time harder to detect and destroy. in fact. saddle ourselves with a new weapons brown pointed out that the soviet race in space. fastburn countermeasure would cost sdi proponents answer that their them 5 or 10 times less than it would program will enhance deterrence. cost the united states to put up this each component that we put in space. .early version of sdi. which indicates they argue. will add one more un- that this rocketbased space defense kn to the calculus of soviet strate- system would  meet the nitze critegic - planning. and thus discourage rion -of cost effectiveness at the attack. in my view. however. with our margin.. other sdi techogies in the area of directed energylasers and particle beamsmight be much more effective as a space shield. but last aprils report of the distinguished american physical society. composed of some of this countrys leading scientists. made clear that we will  even k if these futuristic sdi weapons will be feasible for a decade or more. the message of that report. according to one analyst quoted in the new york times of april 24. "is that we can have a longterm. serious research program in ballistic missile defenses. and still stay within the abm treaty because the techogies we want to test will  be ripe for a decade." i believe the scientists should be listened to on the practical possibilities of the sdi research program. unfortunately. the department of defense is  heeding them. and is placing undue emphasis on development of kinetickill weapons that may well be obsolete before they are even ready for deployment. the scientific community is providing evidence that we need to rush sdi. so why in this defense budget should we give the program a huge. disproportionate funding increase. there is good reason.
sometimes that is of the navy would decide  to comtrue. but when you are dealing with plete the ssn21 in the 1991 budget. very. very small volume. very low num- then he would be denying what is inbers. as i foresee the submarine build- cluded in the report language. certaining being in the future. just working ly the secretary has the power in the under the fiscal constraints that we all absence of this language to designate k are going to exist. i think that one contractor and negotiate a price second source is  always the best with that one contractor. way to proceed. that is why i like the this language says the secretary word "competition" in here. shall  do that under this particular
 bush proposed to increase the fee from the original level of 0.04 to 0.125 percent in order to cover 10 percent of the corps operation and maintenance budget. as part of the proposal. 0.01 percent of the increase was to have been allocated to support a programs and activities* related to navigation safety. the increase was enacted in the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1990 [obra]. but authorizing language to effect the transfer of the 0.01 percent to a was  included in that legislation. the army corps of engineers has in fact received funds at the increased level since january 1. 1991. while the 0.01 percent allocation proposed for programs and activities related to as navigation safety program has been accumulating in the trust fund since that time. the legislation we are introducing today will correct this problem. first.
. i believe very much that this amendment of the senator from florida and myself will allow for a wellthoughtout. competitive situation. which will produce hardware that indeed will meet fiscal responsibility standards. which is what. in effect. congress tried to do in its initial directives to the navy. but which the navy chose to disregard the cosponsor of the amendment.
. the p)urpose of my amendment is to restore $168 million to the ssn688 nuclearpowered attack submarine program. the ssn688 class submarine is one of the most effective weapons systems in otlr arsenal. and it is  being delivered on schedule and within cost. it is a worthy program deserving our full support. thel( bill. as it  stands. provides $1.7 billion to fully fund three ssn688 submarines in tile fiscal year 1984 budget. but only $168 million in advance procurement funds. since thle nav.y had requested $336 million ii) longlead funding for four attack submarines% in fiscal year 1986. the subcommittee reduction would force the navy to fund three instead of four ssn668 submarines in fiscal year 1985 and 1986. in making these adjustments to the program. the chairman of the defense appropriations subcommittee is  questioning the need for these submarines or whether the yards have the capacity to effectively handle higher p~rodulction rates. the issue. so far as the subcommittee is concerned. is whether the navy can afford to budget four of these submarines each year. thle subcommittee is also concerned that planned modifications be incorporated in an orderly fashion. the chairmans concerns are legil.miate. in order to fund four ssn688 class submarines in fiscal year 1985 alone. thle navy must set asidt. $3.0 billiona very substantial sumn indeed. despite severe competition among thle military services for funds and accomjpanying pressure to hold down navy -.pending. the secretary of the navy and chief of naval operations ate firmly committed to a fourboat program in fiscal year 1985 and 1986 and are convinced they can obtain the funds% to carry it out. the rationale for moving to a fourboat per year program is simple. t1he navy has 91 nuclearpowered attack submarines and has established a force level objective of 100 attack boats to be achieved by 1990. 1 believe this objective to be consistent with thle mission of this submarine force. to maintain a force level of 100 attack submarines. it building rate of 3.3 boats per year is needed. over the last decade. ssns have been funded at a rate of two boats per year. a higher production rate is  neer 3.sary to reach the 100 total. i have consistently been in favor of cutting this budget where such cuts eliminate wasteful and unnecessary programs. this is  the case with the ssn program. i urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
. the p)urpose of my amendment is to restore $168 million to the ssn688 nuclearpowered attack submarine program. the ssn688 class submarine is one of the most effective weapons systems in otlr arsenal. and it is  being delivered on schedule and within cost. it is a worthy program deserving our full support. thel( bill. as it  stands. provides $1.7 billion to fully fund three ssn688 submarines in tile fiscal year 1984 budget. but only $168 million in advance procurement funds. since thle nav.y had requested $336 million ii) longlead funding for four attack submarines% in fiscal year 1986. the subcommittee reduction would force the navy to fund three instead of four ssn668 submarines in fiscal year 1985 and 1986. in making these adjustments to the program. the chairman of the defense appropriations subcommittee is  questioning the need for these submarines or whether the yards have the capacity to effectively handle higher p~rodulction rates. the issue. so far as the subcommittee is concerned. is whether the navy can afford to budget four of these submarines each year. thle subcommittee is also concerned that planned modifications be incorporated in an orderly fashion. the chairmans concerns are legil.miate. in order to fund four ssn688 class submarines in fiscal year 1985 alone. thle navy must set asidt. $3.0 billiona very substantial sumn indeed. despite severe competition among thle military services for funds and accomjpanying pressure to hold down navy -.pending. the secretary of the navy and chief of naval operations ate firmly committed to a fourboat program in fiscal year 1985 and 1986 and are convinced they can obtain the funds% to carry it out. the rationale for moving to a fourboat per year program is simple. t1he navy has 91 nuclearpowered attack submarines and has established a force level objective of 100 attack boats to be achieved by 1990. 1 believe this objective to be consistent with thle mission of this submarine force. to maintain a force level of 100 attack submarines. it building rate of 3.3 boats per year is needed. over the last decade. ssns have been funded at a rate of two boats per year. a higher production rate is  neer 3.sary to reach the 100 total. i have consistently been in favor of cutting this budget where such cuts eliminate wasteful and unnecessary programs. this is  the case with the ssn program. i urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
i stand corrected by my good friend from new mexico. from oregon. the battle that we are engaged in  just in nicaragua but throughout the hemisphere is a battle that involves two different political systemsone totalitarian. one free. and what those systems can generate insofar as meeting the problems of the region. this war is going to be fought on an entirely different battlefield and it is  the one articulated by the president of the united states and his contra policy. it seems to me that rather than point the finger at the administration our time is better spent in articulating an alternative policy in our hemisphere as a response to the incursion of communism. this amendment does  set up any new agency or bureaucracy. it uses the mechanism that is in place. that of the peace corps. and says that we are better spending our money in the implementation of a peace corps policy as a response to the conditions  to communism but to the conditions that permit the entry of communism. doubling the authorization means that we call for an additional $137 million. ironically a figure slightly higher to be that requested by the president for the contras in fiscal year 1988. . . i ask unanimous consent that i be permitted to withdraw the amendment.
for himself and mr. hart. was received. read twice by its title. referred to the committee on the judiciary. and ordered to be printed in the record. s. 3643 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that the congress hereby finds that destructive devices (as defined in title 18. united states code). machineguns. shortbarreled shotguns. and shortbarreled rifles are primarily weapons of war which have appropriate use as instruments of sport. recreation or personal defense. that intrastate commerce in such devices and weapons affects the flow of interstate and foreign commerce in such devices and weapons. and that therefore it is necessary to regulate all commerce in such devices and weapons. sec. 2. (a) section 922(b) (4) of title 18. united states code. is amended to read as follows: "(4) to any person any destructive device. machinegun (as defined in section 5848 of the internal revenue code of 1954). shortbarreled shotgun. or shortbarreled rifle." (b) section 922(b) of such title is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new sentence: "paragraph (4) of this subsection shall  apply to any research organization designated by the secretary." sec. 3. the amendments made by this act shall become effective 30 days after the date of its enactment.
s objectives of insuring a sufficient degree of minuteman survivability against the emerging soviet counterforce capability. of maintaining the momentum of the american abm program should subsequent deployments be required. and of providing clear diplomatic incentives to the soviet union for earnest negotiations in salt. precisely how to implement this concept would. of course. be left to the department of defense. for this fiscal year -the department could elect to use the available funds to start one additional missile site radar which would provide a total of three msrs and would mean a substantial increase in capability over the present phase i system. the longterm costs of this would be quite comparable to the proposed whiteman site. at some additional longterm costs a fourth msr could be deployed at phase i sites. and would tremendously augment the net survivability of the minuteman force. this is exactly the type of contingency plan to which secretary laird himself alluded in his letter of august 7 to the distinguished senator from washington. the secretary stressed that.should the threat grow with extreme and unexpected rapidity so that it exceeds the safeguard defense level before hardsite is available---something we do  predict at this timewe could strengthen the. foursite safeguard defense of minuteman by deploying more sprints and more msrs in the same four minuteman fields. this is in substance the concept of defense in depth and it is also workable at the two phase i sites. as i mentioned earlier. a number of experts in the safeguard program actually suggested that the first two sites be beefed up prior to expansion to a third and fourth site. the senate should be aware that the decision to seek a third site at whiteman was a close technical judgment which was resolved largely on political and diplomatic grounds. in view of this fact. and of subsequent political and diplomatic developments unkn at the time the whiteman site was proposedi refer particularly to the close political balance here in the senate and to the promising evolution of the salt discussionsthere is good reason for us to choose the credible technical option of a deeper defense at the first two sites. yet aher way of implementing this option would be preferable to many. if the pace of the threat and techogical progress permit. it may be possible to accelerate work on advanced radars to supplement the costly msrs. those advanced radars are already being. worked on. and while there is some difference of opinion as to when they could be ready. they appear to be the best means of deepening the defense. if they were ready in time. then both the shortterm and the longterm costs of this option could be less than the proposed extension to the whiteman site. and system effectiveness could be much superior. this option was the preferred course even of the oneill panel which advised the department of defense on abm deployment options for the coming year. that panel explicitly -concluded: if the. only purpose of safeguard is defined to be to protect minuteman. phase ia as defined in march 1969 should  proceed. the panel emphasized that a more cost effective defense of the deterrent can be devised. specifically a dedicated system of hardpoint defense using smaller. more numerous. and less expensive radars and computers. the department itself has repeatedly stressed that the use of safeguard to defend minuteman is only sensible in cost terms if the larger area defense is also built. in other words. if one is buying a thin. nationwide defense. then department of defense considers the marginal costs of defending minuteman with this techogy acceptable. since the time the panel reported and since the time the department recommended a modified phase ii. the armed services committee has itself wisely declined to authorize an area defense. the committees important decision to restrict abm deployment to defense of the deterrent certainly underscores the oneill panels recommendation that intensified efforts should be made to perfect a true hardpoint defense. passage of. the brookemcintyre amendment would provide a strong inducement in this direction. it is generally recognized that the complex programing for the safeguard system is the pacing factor. that is. the ultimate deployment schedule depends primarily on how soon the computter programs can be written. with the greatly simplified programing of a dedicated system. the defense might well be deployed about as soon as the presently planned system can be ready. i stress. however. that this decision is left to the department by my amendment. if required by the threat. the department could do exactly what secretary laird described to our able colleague. senator jackson. in his letter of august 7. namely. use existing msr techogy to reinforce the defense at the phase i sites. to sum up. this amendment would meet the objectives stated by the committee and by the administration but it would do so at the two sites already authorized. it would take funds from the bill. but would allow their use for defense in depth at malmstrom and grand forks. this would permit the same protection of the deterrent as the addition to the whiteman site. that is. the same number of surviving minuteman could be guaranteed under this plan as under that recommended by the committee. furthermore. production lines would remain open and we would retain all the diplomatic leverage of an ongoing abm program. the programs momentum would in way be disrupted and the soviets would k that. unless salt succeeds. the united states could readily expand its abm system. there would be question that this country is going to do whatever is required to insure that it always has a sufficient retaliatory capability. when issues are so complex. the debate can easily be lost in murkiness. i believe. however. that senators who think through this alternative will see that it is a reasonable and responsible course for the senate to follow. other plan so completely satisfies the conflicting interests and views which have emerged on this issue. let us decide this matter by the light of reason and good will. promoting both the security of our country and the integrity of independent senate judgment on vital issues. this amendment will meet these objectives. i commend it to my colleagues and to my country.
that is true. and that is where i want to stick. because you are a valuable asset. so are the gentlemen from massachusetts [mr. philbin. mr. lane. mr. doue. and mr. kennedy] and the gentlemen from rhode island . they have been helping to bring this about and each is entitled to thanks and praise for the united efforts. i thank you for your assistance which means a great deal to us all and for your contribution. . let me carry on a little further. the gover said: if we had 514.000 barrels of kerosene and 610.000 barrels of  2 to the end of march in addition to what suppliers say they expect. we would have sufficient to take care of all means. for the first 10 days of february we have 76 percent of kerosene demand and 80 percent of  2. this aftern i received from the department of commerce their proposed revised figures for the first quarter. we took the first step today. we are going to take more steps. in my opinion. if i understand the temper of this house and the earnestness and sincerity of my friends on both sides. that table will be in the record tomorrow morning. it will show you where the reductions are as i have computed them. that is  egh. i have a bill before our committee insisting that they revise that down to at least 50 percent. canada went down 50 percent. surely. canada is just as cold as a good many other parts of this world where we are shipping kerosene. they cut out 5.000 tons from denmark. 5.000 to our friends in ireland. they reduced 110.000 by 25.000 to china. they reduced australia from 70.000. down to 20.000. united kingdom. 130.000. down to 50.000. in other words. we found that through the united efforts of the new england delegation and the persistent efforts of the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce and the constant pressure we have been putting on them. we got 300.000 barrels of keroseneand they only need 514.000 to get them out of the mess. so that is aher step in the right direction. look at the headings "gas oil" and "residual oil" and i think you will be encouraged and our people at home will be encouraged. but we are  through. it is  egh yet. let me call attention to one other thing. i am  satisfied with what we did here this aftern. i am  satisfied that any of you are satisfied. i do  think they should have gone ahead and converted that marine hospital in boston in the face of all this. i do  think it was good judgment. and i think we acted very properly in supporting the amendment. i am going over with this problem to the other body and i hope we can join in trying to prevail upon them to appropriate egh funds so that we can get the federal government out of the oilheating business. the federal government should be leading.  following. i think we can all agree on that. they should  be heating with oil down here. here is the navy annex. a witness before my committee recently testified it is so hot there that he has to open the windows. for the record i quote the following from a history of the petroleum administration for war. page 109: during the first upsurge of overland shipments in the fall of 1941. paw suggested and obtained antitrust protection for a pool of the eastcoast companies which would voluntarily distribute the burden of the excess transportation costs among all the companies in proportion to their mal sales volume. the oil companies formed this pool with only a promise from paw to plead their case before the opa. and for many months it was a deficit pool only. opa finally made its first meager price increase on january 21. 1942. at that date the pool showed a deficit of many million dollars. and reached a peak of $38.446.800 by june 1942. my argument is going to be this. it will cost us. according to estimates we have here. to convert to coalas the navy has done so splendidlyin all of these 80 or 90 governmentowned or leased buildings. $441.000. i say that is a capital investment. i think it is a justifiable expense but the cost can be allocated over the entire period of these 5 years since they tell us there will be at least 5 years of shortages. it is also a matter of national security. that is over $38.000.000 absorbed by the oil industry because the federal government would  pay. . today. we all k who is paying for this. it is the consumer. and that is one of the reasons why these companies come down here and testify before us that they have to increase their price by aher 50 cents a barrel to take care of their exceedingly unecoic transportation costs from texas clear up into new england. i think we are going to find a lot of things that need to be checked and i have high hope that with the continued splendid cooperation. and it has been a partisan cooperation of the new england delegation. and with the sympathetic understanding of our friends from the other parts of this nation. we are going to help our people get out of this crisis this winter. but i do  want to have to go through this next winter if i am back. as you will be. or the following winter or the winter following that. let us do this job once and for all while we are at it. i hope the gentlemen will try to arrange to go with me. let us all go together.
 of re dame university. ifinally. i hope you will just look at the brief quotation from the unanimous report and recommendation of the 12 commissioners of the socalled hoover commission filed with congress on march 25. 1949. which i placed in the recorn for february 27 at pages 2420 and 2421. does all this overwhelming evidence count as hing in our serious consideration of this problem. we have had two full sessions and undoubtedly will  reach a vote tonight. i hope that what the members of the interstate and foreign commerce committee have been trying to do in expressing their support of and their reasons for supporting this legislation will enable each of you to understand this complex and intricate problem. i am confident that the bill will pass by a substantial majority. if my efforts have contributed anything toward a decision on the part of any of you which will be satisfactory to you in years to come. i shall be more than repaid. i hope that one of us will approach the vote. perhaps on next thursday. without a more complete understanding of the problem and of the solution recommended. so that our votes can reflect our mature and considered judgment as to what i believe to be one of the most challenging and. even. frightening situations which has ever confronted our nation. in terms of its security and in terms of its future ecoic welfare and development. in terms of the continued improved health of its people. i sincerely hope that all those of you who have any doubts at this moment can resolve them in favor of this legislation when we discuss it again either tomorrow or on thursday. under permission i received in the house. i  include three significant tables for your consideration. i call your particular attention to the marked difference between expenditures in 1947 in the war and navy departments for basic research and for applied research and development. i am informed that there is  a very substantial variation in the situation as of this time. table it.-the national research and development budget 1947* (excluding atomio energy) [in millions] expenditures in agency total applied research and researc development total ................ federal government ..... war and navy departments ........... other departments- ---industry -----------------univereity ------------_--other --------------------$1.160 $110 $1.050 distribution of federal funds war total and other navy total ----------------$25 $500 $12 government laboratories ----- 200 100 100 industrial and university laboratories on contraets ---- 1 425 4001 25 *see appendix 1i for sources of estimates. table iii.-national research and development budget for 1957 [in millions] protype of activity amount portion of total budget basic research --------------------0 440 20 health and medical research ------ : 00 14 military development -------- 1 .00 44 military development ------------- 500 22 federal research expenditures. by agency. fiscal year 1947 [in thousands] expenditures agency a percent of amount total grand total ................ navy department --------------war department ---------------agriculture department ---------interior department ----------national advisory committee for aeronautics -------------------federal security agency ---------commerce department ----------federal loan agency (rfc) ----tennessee valley authority ------veterans administration ------federal works agency -----------smithsonian institution ----------treasury department ........... federal commucations commission -----------------------laritime commission -----------$023. 930 262. 000 237. 000 31.328 30. 358 27.000 13. 236 10. 494 4. 009 3. 054 2. 523 100.0 42.0 38.0 5.0 4.0* 4.3 2. 1 1.7 .8 .6 .4 .1 i less than 0.05 percent. i also think it would be useful to my colleagues to have before them the survey of research and development units of the federal government and i call your attention to the fact that this list is suggestive.  inclusive. consider the fact that it is reported that approximately 90 percent of the national military defense work in this field is let by contract rather than done in our federal laboratories and i am sure you will understand why the committee wanted to provide flexibility so far as our national defense overall program is concerned:
. as a member of the committee i should like to add a word of further explanation on that same point. and in opposition to the thomas amendment. in this bill we are dealing with an attempt to provide something to make up for the increased cost of living of civilservice employees during the war. in the last war every civilservice employee was given $240. there were some mi details in addition. in substance. this bill would give $300 to every civilservice employee. exclusive of overtime. then it deals with overtime. and fixes a minimum of $300. but says. "if you will work overtime you can earn more than $300 extra." the question then arises as to how to compute overtime when an employee receives an annual rate of pay. the provision in the bill as we have it from the committee. and in the law as it  is. is that overtime shall be computed by dividing the annual pay by 360. on the theory that there are about 360 working days in the year. exclusive of holidays. then if we divide 1 days pay by 8. we have the hourly rate. and time and a half is computed on that basis.
the item of $15.000.000 which is  under consideration involves restoration of the budget bureau estimate. that is the amount which it was testified was necessary to carry on the work of the employment service. therefore. if the work is  being done by the states it must be done by the federal government. if we eliminate this item. we do so to the detriment of the returning soldier and of the recovery of industry in america. i wish to mention the particular fact that-
. this aftern i was advised that the department of the army has annced today that approximately 1.500 acres of land and improvements at camp kilmer. n.j.. will be declared excess military land on july 1. 1963. it is a matter of great significance to the whole area in which the installation is located. a long time ago those of us in congress. especially my colleague from new jersey. representative frelinghuysen. have been urging the department of the army to close the camp completely and to turn it over for private use. the installation actually has  been used for many years. it houses only a tiny service detachment. this 1.500 acres of land has numerous buildings which are  being used but were being held by the government. it provides tax revenue or business income to the community under that standby arrangement. on april 9 of this year i again raised the question with the department of the army and asked reconsideraiton of the earlier determination that it had to hold the property. receiving reply. i again requested an answer on may 8. and again on june 15. i am happy indeed that the anncement has finally come today. i wish it had been made much earlier in the interest of the area in which it is located and in the interest of the saving of the large amount of money which it has cost the federal government. savings of $900.000 a year are anticipated by this anncement. the anncement could have been made much earlier if the urging of us in congress who realized that the land was longer necessary and should  stand idle had been heeded. nevertheless. late as it is. it is a matter of gratification that the decision has been made.
i hope we will concern ourselves with the whole problem of the unemployed. whether white or of aher color. it is our job to concern ourselves with that problem. the presidents war on poverty. socalled. is one of the ways in which we should be attempting to meet the problem. at least. we should get on with a study and consideration of the problem and act upon it. but what indicates discrimination is  so much the overall figures. which must be interpreted. it has been said so often that figures do  lie. but liars figure. i k that my colleagues of the opposition have desire to lie about this subject. what is significant is what was indicated. for example. by the florida ad"visory committee to the civil rights commission. which reported. as i described at some length. the frustration faced by skilled negro job applicants in the state of florida. the fact that they acquired specialized training and were promised jobs. but when it was discovered they were negroes. they were advised that the jobs had been filled by others. it is this specific frustrationwhich i k exists in my state alsowhich should be persuasive.
i thank the senator. i wish to approach the matter from a slightly different angle. i am impressed with the distinguished senator from new hampshire. and. to some extent. i think he has been joined by the senator from massachusetts in trying to work out something that more closely meets the feelings on all sides on this important matter. but when the senator put the emphasis on the radars and computers. and excluded the deployment of the missiles in this coming fiscal year. many of us got a uniformly adverse reaction on the ground that putting these computers and radars in place at a very great cost would be a deterrent to the kind of research for the design of a system which would be likely to work better than the safeguard for the purpose of defending missile sites. the senator from new jersey has found that argument a very persuasive one. and up to  at least is disposed to vote against the amendment of the senator. i would be glad to have the senator respond.
we went in great detail into the question of reducing this expenditure to find why it could be reduced under iro and could  be reduced under the united states army. the reasons are fully disclosed in the record. and they are as follows: the iro is an international organization that will operate on european standards. the estimate of the cost of management personnel alone. for example. by european standards is $6.000.000 a year less than it would be according to the salaries we pay. as was testified to us by general hilldring. who was the state department oicial concerned. a former general of the army who had this thing in tow for years. we could  possibly run an operation on the austerity basis that an international organization can run it. he gave us aher example. shoes. he said the united states army shoes cost  less than twice as much for each of these refugees and dps as this international organization will pay for them. therefore. the difference in cost. which is extremely material. about 50 percent less. is accounted for by the fact that they will run the kind of a show that ought to be run on an austerity basis for these camps. which we could  possibly do. this accounts for the difference in cost of about $50.000.000 a year.
. it seems quite well agreed here today that the united states should accept membership in the international refugee organization. i want to sum up. so that we are quite clear. why we on the committee came to that conclusion and why i believe the house should come to that conclusion. first and foremost. the refugee and dp camps in the occupied areas of germany. austria. and italy today are being operated under the united states flag and under the command of united states army personnel. if all of you could have sat with us and heard how the army considers that job burdensome and interfering with its primary responsibilities. and with great justice. you would be more sympathetic to this way out for the army and for the united states itself. second. we can possibly conduct an operation in a way that europeans conduct an operation. they conduct it on the basis of a cost which we just can begin to duplicate. we questioned the witnesses very closely on that score and came to two conclusions. first. that it is actually costing us $130.000.000 a year to take care of the dp camps under our direct jurisdiction in which twothirds of the dps are  located. under the iro plan which we have here it willcost us $73.500.000. which is a very material saving of well in excess of $50.000.000.  satisfied with that comparison. we insisted that the army construct a budget based on the very same austerity basis which the iro will use in the administration of these camps. the construction of that budget is found in the record of the committee hearings on page 33. on that very same austerity basis the army said they could  possibly run the operation for less than $94.000.000 a year. so. matter what basis you take it on. there is a very material saving financially to the united states. that is point two. finally. we transfer our responsibility here to an international organization with which we  deal at arms length. that is a very important consideration. especially as it bears on the issue of immigration. which. as it did in the other body. has come under considerable discussion and consideration in the house here.
i would like to say to the . will the sideration of the house javits consideration. the fact that we should mr. gross. the gentleman realizes. already begin to be thinking ahead as to of course. that there is a great deal of what shall come in the future is to me difference between the inflation which clear because we face decisions that will occurred before the war and the inflamaterially affect the prosperity of the tion which we have today and its effect united states today. the determinant on the national debt.
. will have made that amply clear. you would think from the sound of it that that is a conclusive reason for our stopping this program. on the contrary. that is exactly the reason for  stopping because what brought on munich before world war ii was the fact that the british stood almost alone against hitler in a then defenseless world. what will avoid any other munich will be strength in the free world and that the united states can retreat from establishing that strength. what would you expect the british to do standing alone. do you expect them to invite the dropping of the h bomb on great britain. they are 3.000 miles nearer the soviet union than we are. what greater earnest do the american people want that the british will stand by us and they will again fight for freedom. if they are given a reasonable chance. through all their doubts and vacillationsand this locarike proposal is onewhat greater earnest do you want than that our heavy bombers are based on british territory. if there is retaliation against the air bases it will be.  our air bases in the united statesbut our air bases on great britains soili do  think there can be any greater earnest of the good faith of a people than that of the british people in this situation. there has been a lot of talk about what has been in this bill for military aid. it is true that we are maybe 10 years behind the fevered military preparations of the soviet union and the communist bloc which can dragoon the whole slave world in terms of military preparation. and sad to say. i repeat that. sad to say. 87 percent of this bill is for military aid. why. because we have to catch up militarily. it is going to take considerable time to catch up. the communist bloc are ahead of us in terms of military preparation. do you think we are going to win this struggle with the soviet unionand we are sure we are going to win itif we adopt the theory of a preventive war and are ready to drop the hbomb on moscow. which i do  believe anybody in his right mind in the united states would dream of recommending. that is  going to win it. mutual security in military terms is going to give you the security backing up and will be but the beginning of winning the anticommunist struggle. the way we are going to win it. as we all should k. is ecoically. socially. and morally because we k that what is against us is  only godless as has been truly said time and time again. but it is immoralthey even kidnap people across state lines. it is aher kind of enslavement of peoples and it is  a new method of the russians but is the same course of enslavement as hitler took. the communists operate on the basis of very specious but very spurious propaganda among people in the most depressed ecoic conditions. the real offensive against the soviet union and against all communism is to do the real ecoic job that we k needs to be done for redeeming the world.  we are working on these programs for technical assistance with the use of some $131 million. for ecoic development in this bill and for ecoic development with the sum of $240 million. people talk about how we have suffered reverses and that we are  doing very well with this program. greece is  communist. greece repelled the communists. you ask the fellows in the kremlin if they think we are succeeding. and they may tell you about yugoslavia. which is the greatest defection the communists have had. superior to i. nything we have lost. right in the heart of europe. then you can ask about some of the other reverses they are suffering. like the turkeypakistan pactour new anchors in the near east. they are in this bill. they are  okinawa and greenland. these are defenses which you are providing for in this billall of these i have mentioned. . we need a little perspective. the distinguished gentleman from ohio who opened the debate on the rule. who is  presiding. said that we had spent well over $100 billion in mutual security and foreign assistance. one hundred billion dollars plus sounds like a lot of money. but it is onethird of the gross annual product of the united states for 1 year. the gross annual product for the united states with 7 percent of the wor.ds population which runs around $360 billion a year. it is in excess of twice the gross national product of the whole complex of europe. about 250 million people. we have emous power. and we can sit on that power like midas on a pot of gold. but as surely as god made little green apples we will neither enjoy the power  will we keep it. what we can take are judicious measures for sharing that power with others in the free world who are willing to accept responsibility and keep freedom for us all. and drive back this menace of communism. the like of which man has never seen. ."men say that we are only using money. what do they think of the losses of the people of korea in the roe armies. losses about 3 or 4 times our very tragic own. is that only money. what about the losses of the greek forces in fighting their anticommunist battle. what about the fact that threefifths of the combined vietnam forces are natives of indochina. even though ecoically depressed. free people of the world still love freedom and will fight for it. why should we  be here cheering it instead of discouraging it. for what. for what considering the size of the issues and the magnitude of the powers engaged might be called a "paltry" $31/2 billion. which is something like 1 percent of the gross national product of the united states. if this is going to be our attitude you could understand it if the free peoples of the world turned us down. fortunately it is . every poll shows that the american people by an overwhelming majority believe we must go forward. we must face these unresolved problems. and we do. we must face those things. but our people seem to have the good sense to feel that we must go forward in this common military defense and ecoic offense. i say to you that we will need more regional organizations for mutual security and mutual cooperation within the framework of the united nations. i do  care whether they were devised by the last administration or this one. they are devised by the historical necessity of the united states.
. the rockefeller foundation and the general education board written and sworn statement in lieu of testimony at public hearing. which had been denied them by the special committee on taxexempt foundations. contains a recommendation of the utmost fairness which might yet redeem some of the injustice caused by cutting off the foundations from public testimony. they suggest that the foundations be afforded "an opportunity to be heard on the draft of any report which the committee proposes to submit." despite my demand for a hearing on house resolution 649. the rules committee has  yet undertaken to review the investigative procedures of the special committee. but at least it should give the foundations the chance to be heard on the draft report and i would urge the rules committee and the house leadership to see that this is done. the rockefeller foundations answer says: "we see other way to insure that we are responsive to the real issues in the minds of the committee which would have been disclosed had public hearings  been terminated." this makes sound sense. it is particularly true because much of the affirmative evidence before the special committee given in public session consists of lengthy staff reports trying to prove that because of grants in the social scienceswhich incidentally constitute 15 percent of the rockefeller foundations and general education boards expendituresthe bulk of its grants being for the emously important sponsorship of medical research and advances in public educationthe foundations are responsible for much of the social welfare legislation enacted from 1933 on. which the staff report callsaccording to the answersubversive. unamerican. and contrary to the public interest. i commend to members the rockefeller foundations and general education boards conclusions especially urging that taxexempt organizations make regular public reports about their funds and activities as the predecessor cox committee recommended. second. that the internal revenue service be fully staffed to supervise taxexempt entitlement of foundations. and third. that "there is fundamental injustice in using the staff members of an investigating committee in both an accusatory and an adjudicative role." the reported statement of the chairman of the special committee that some small foundations may be engaging in activities  entitled to tax exemption is certainly excuse for the harm done to all foundations by denying the foundations a public hearing in the investigation. i again urge the rules committee to exercise legislative oversight over the special committee and to see that the foundations have at least an opportunity to be heard on the draft report.
. we are faced today with an amazing paradox. referred to by my colleagues. the senator from wisconsin . and the senator from minnesota . i should like to call attention to it. and to make a suggestion somewhat different from theirs. consumer prices have risen sharply to aher record in january. the united states consumer price index standing at 122.3 compared with 121.6 in december. the base of 100 equaling the 194749 average. this is a rise of 0.6 percent. the steepest since last summer. withstanding this fact. inventory liquidations. it appeared only monday. to the extent of $5.7 billion were the major element in a drop in the gross national product in the last quarter of 1957 of $7.4 billion compared with the preceding third quarter. the unemployment figures of 6.7 percent of the working force certainly show that we are in an ecoic downturn or recession at this time. so do cutbacks in output and shorter workweeks. mally prices would become an invitation to buy under such circumstances.  a squeeze on the consumer. which represents a rising price structure and a falling gross national product. there are some major questions which need to be answered for the people. these include whether our ecoy is doing as much as it should in terms of productivity increases. whether the national income is being fairly shared by the different elements of the population that contribute to it. what and whether prices are being determined competitively or are inadequately responsive to supply and demand due to builtin rigidity attributable to size or organization in american business. therefore. i respectfully suggest that we come again to the position which we took before world war ii. when we set up what was called the temporary national ecoic conference. which operated from december. 1938. to december. 1941. just before world war ii began. last year i suggested that we proceed with such a study through the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. i  urge very strongly that. either through the committee on interstate and foreign commerce or through a select committee. we undertake the same kind of study that we made immediately prior to world war ii. all of us are being asked by our constituents what we are doing specifically about the high cost of living. i think a new overall consideration of the problems i have suggested and many others is needed in some such comprehensive way as was afforded by the tnec. my resolution. senate resolution 137. calls for a study by the committee on interstate and foreign commerce of the consumer interest in the ecoy. it is the consumer whose interest is  at stake. ours is a consumers ecoy. in consumption. and increasingly in production. in consumption because the consumer is king and can make or break any business so long as we enforce the antitrust laws adequately to give him alternatives of choice. in production because of the increasingly widespread ownership of our means of production through direct ownership of securities by almost 9 million americans and indirect ownership through their deposits in mutual savings banks. their lifeinsurance policies. and their interest in pension. welfare. and retirement funds. there is a great opportunity for service to our ecoy right . and we should undertake it. i believe we can profit from our present situation. and learn what we need to learn. and legislate if we need to legislate. instead of spending our time calling each other names. we should find out what to do about our situation in the most informed way of which our republic is capable. i introduce a joint resolution. and ask that it be appropriately referred.
. i am  quite prepared to throw in the sponge on this proposition. i think we have reached a point where the toughest fellow has got to win. i can conceive of the house of representatives. any more than i can conceive of the senate. jeopardizing the independent offices appropriation bill because of this item. the matter has come down to the interesting stage which legislators reach when the fellow who holds out the hardest and the longest may win.  we must decide whether we will do that in respect to this bill. i have little doubt that if we want to sit here and wait out the house. the house will  let the independent offices appropriation bill go for a matter of $15 million any more than it is proposed we should. the question is. how serious is this issue. and how much longer are we ready to fight it out. this kind of action has happened before in legislatures. if the senate or the house really wants $15 million. it can get it. the senate can get it by including the funds in a bill which the house wants urgently if we really want to do it. we can find a way to do it. what i should like to ascertain from the distinguished senator from washington. the chairman of this particular subcommittee. and also from the chairman of the primary committee on appropriations. is. are we trying. in a supplemental appropriation bill. or in some other way. to get this money. i should like to explain my position. first. i could  agree more than i do with the senator from florida that the idea that the army. the navy. and the air force will take over the civil defense of the united states is completely impractical. i should like to see the faces of the people who make such a recommendation when the army. the navy. and air force come before the committee with their estimates of appropriations for what is needed. if they were given that responsibility. we would  have a budget of $40 billion for them. they would have a budget of $50 billion or $60 billion. we all k that in our hearts. so. in my opinion. there is real substance to this argument. if we are going to give the defense establishment the responsibility for civil defense. is it planned to give it to them the day after an atomic attack. or . if it is intended that we give it to them . we can count on  less than a $10 billion increase in the appropriations for the army. the navy. and the air force.
. because it appears that the gross national product and productive power of the 15 other nato countries amount to approximately 15 percent of the gross national product and productive power of the united states. in fact. the gross national prod. uct of those 15 nato countries amounts to approximately onequarter of a trillion dollars. in addition. emous trade responsibilities are  being considered and negotiated among the nato countries. for instance. all of us are familiar with the problems being reconciled between the inner six and the outer seven. i believe i can state authoritatively. as chairman of the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarians. that. in the immediate future. ecoic cooperation of the most intensive character between ourselves and our european allies is absolutely indispensable in order to achieve real success in the cold war. for instance. we are faced with very grave problems in connection with the kind of ecoic warfare the soviet union could wage upon the free world. especially in individual primary commodities. including such items as tin. flax. and fuel oil. we are familiar with many of those problems. especially in connection with the new underdeveloped countries of africa. al of these problems will have to be handled in a collective manner between ourselves and the european countries which are the principal consumers of the commodities. in addition. the atlantic community controls the overwhelming proportion of the world trade. and certainly must take steps to deal adequately with the problems of trade competition. we are beginning to realize in a very definite way. in all branches of our ecoic system. the importance and the effects of the problems presented by both imports and exports. insofar as the united states itself is concerned. the proper handling of all these problems requires far more in the way of contacts and interrelationships with our european allies than has heretofore been accepted as the m. at this time we are considering membership in the organization for ecoic cooperation and development. to replace the organization for european ecoic cooperation. which was the european organization for cooperation in regard to the marshall plan.
s recommendations for longterm authority are certainly deserving of praise and support. however. hing can be done in this field unless private resources are marshaled together with government resources. they are realistic and necessary if we would utilize most effectively our ecoy and social organization to meet the grim competition of the communists in the neutralist and developing areas of the free world. but much more than that is needed. we need. in a twostage process. to effectively enlist our allies in these efforts. and to effectively enlist the private ecoic systems of the united states and of its allies. for the massive effort required to win for freedom over communism with our best weaponscredit and productionwill take a marshaling of these resources greater than anything of which we have yet conceived. the effort to renew the reciprocal trade agreements program in 1962. when it will expire. will be one of the major legislative struggles of our timeand the issue will be vital in the 1962 national political campaign. the facts show that the stimulation of trade can prove even more important and constructive to the development of newly emerging areas than aid itself. this is equally true of private investment and private technical assistance. these can be encouraged by tax incentives that are urgently needed. by leadership for an optimum international investment code. and by working out techniques for enlisting individuals with technical skills in foreign technical assistance activities. in summary. while the administration has shown commendable activity in certain areas. it has  demonstrated an equally decisive leadership or a boldness in taking the initiative on the most controversial and basic issues. by documenting the parts of the administrations program that we support. the parts we oppose. and the phrts on which we offer constructive alternatives. i believe we can be of the most use to our people as a worthy opposition in a time of such peril and national responsibility. for all practical purposes. the output of the american people. through their willingness to sacrifice. must be tantamount to what it is in time of war. so far. this is a peaceful war. and we hope very much that we can win it by ecoic and social means. but it will require an output which is full egh. massive egh. and courageous egh in terms of the sacrifice of the american people to equal the kind of sacrifice we are accustomed to making in time of war in order to win the struggle for freedom against communism. it is in that vein that i have made these comments and certain analyses and criticisms with respect to the first 100 days.
the senator has underlined and emphasized the point i wished to make. that this is the major effort we must make. when someone in congress says. "this is inadequate." others jump up and say. "let us double the appropriation." instead of using the boldness that president kennedy talked about. and our brains in order to bring about two and three times what is here involved by using ingenuity and enterprise in terms of getting our european allies. who can afford it. to join. also we should think in terms of having our free enterprise system join in the effort. in which it can make a profit as well as do something in the interest of being constructive in terms of strengthening the domestic ecoy. . i shall conclude my remarks in a minute. to summarize. the need is very great. we can help to meet the need with european partners. called for by the oecd. and europeans can assist because of their newfound. more prosperous condition. we need large private investment. we must encourage it in our own legislation. i  come to the administration. we must have encouragement also from the countries in which such investment is required. first. by some respect for investments. perhaps through an investment code. or. second. by a willingness to enter into treaties of friendship and commerce which provide for proper tax treatment of private investment. or. third. through the understanding that the people investing their money occasionally will want someone in the country to look after it. therefore. many policies which are pursed in latinamerican countries which prevent anybody from entering the country in a supervisory capacity must be reconsidered. all this. our government should understand. can be at least as important as aid in stimulating other sources of capital quite apart from government. since capital is critically important to all of these countries. i  come to the question of trade. which is along the same line. it is a fact that through restrictions on the importation of such things as coffee and sugar from latin american countries european governments are materially restricting the amount of trade they ought to be doing with latin america . also in view of their newfound prosperity. our government can help latin america by using its influence with our european allies in order to reduce barriers to latin american trade. finally. there is the matter of technical assistance. the private ecoic system of the united states has an emous potential for technical assistance. for providing technicians out of its tremendous reserves of technical skills to help in latin america. our government has  yet developed ways and means for inducing business to give up a man or a woman for 2 years or 3 years in order to do this kind of job. the same technical assistance resources are available among our european allies. just as the same private ecoic system can be extremely useful in private investment. together with our own. in supporting what our government should do with respect to latin america. i hope the administration understands that this program will be completely inadequate to do the job of beating the communists in latin america. i hope the administration will use its boldness. initiative. and ingenuity along the lines to which i have referred. which have been developed in the nato parliamentarians. an organization with which i happen to be closely connected. and in other organizations. and perhaps along other lines it can discover itself. in order to at least bring about a measure of progress by devoting to this task the amount of resources required for the progress we seek. let us understand that every doctrine of "hands across the sea" is  subordinated to the fact that we are in a tough. grim war. the only thing that will count in terms of survival is success. we must make available the means and the men with which to attain that success. hing less than success will do. matter how deserving the effort.
one of the great initiatives undertaken by this country was the marshall plan. which represented the consolidation of the effective ecoic power of what is called the western world which was made by chairman khrushchev of president kennedy at vienna the other day. the call to us was sounded by jean monnet in a commencement address at dartmouth college. approximately 14 years ago. it will be recalled. secretary of state marshall sounded the same type of call in the marshall plan. may it be remembered that when britain was in grave danger she wanted to merge with france at the beginning of world war ii. we are  in such a dangerous situation . we are strong and viable. and we represent together with western europe close to $1 trillion of annual gross national product which is the greatest bloc of ecoic power mankind has ever kn. has anyone ever asked himself what chairman khrushchev would do to us if he had $1 trillion in productive resources. we k what he would do. he would pulverize us ecoically and
madam president. i am pleased to e that there is pending on the senate calendar h.r. 10743. the bill already passed by the house to increase the rates of compensation for veterans who have incurred serviceconnected disabilities. i very much hope that it will be called up as quickly as possible and passed for the presidents signature. the nation should and i am sure does begrudge to its injured veterans this very much needed but quite conservative adjustment so that these veterans may be better able to cope with the rising cost of living. this bill simply calls for additional compensation to take care of the great changes in the cost of living since the rates were last adjusted in 1957. it would also increase compensation for the more seriously disabled veterans. for example. an american war veteran. totally disabled and permanently housebound as a result of service wounds.  receives $265 a month. the pending bill would increase this amount by $25 to $290. according to the senate finance committee. the total cost of increases would be approximately $98 million in the first year. this reasonable measure is strongly supported by the veterans administration and the disabled american veterans. yesterday i had the great privilege of making a speech before the opening session of the convention of the disabled american veterans. there is group in american to who we are more gratefuland quite properly sothan the disabled american veterans. madam president. i k of the deep feelings the american people and the senators have for the disabled veter.17188 ansthe blind. those who have lost their limbs. those who have suffered grievous wounds in defense of this nationand i express the deep hope that we may in this session. before we go home. yet pass this very critically important bill. i shall do everything i can to bring that about. madam president. the bill deserves to be on anybodys "must" listthe presidents. the congress. and that of each of us. i hope very much it will have our early attention. madam president. i think my time has been consumed. so i ask unanimous consent that i may proceed for 2 additional minutes.
i shall vote against the motion to strike out the proposed equipment tax credit. i have given the subject a great deal of thought. as has my dear friend and colleague from florida. as the senator ks. i have had many years of experience with industry and business. both on the legal and the management sides. it is my view that though business is   very enthusiastic about the credit. the reason for its lack of enthusiasm convinces me that the provision should remain in the bill. its lack of enthusiasm is attributable to the idea of business that the proposal would become a very uncertain quantity since it is incorporated in a tax bill. and therefore would be subject to the winds of politics. i think its usefulness will be so validated and it will have such a material effect upon the rate of acquisition of new equipment as to imbed itself into tax law very firmly. because it is constructive. the american industrial plant is undermachined and becoming rapidly very much out of date. and i k my colleague. as he stated. feels the same way.  only am i in favor of the proposed investment credit. but also i think our formula for depreciation must be revised much more along the german and swedish models than along our own. we have hing to lose. the proposal is indispensable to our effort in the cold war to have the american industrial machine occupy the position it occupied after world war i and world war ii. it should lead the world. anything we can do to bring that about will strengthen our country and materially strengthen its ecoy. productivity is the basis of the ecoy. we can always find ways and means to deal with the problems of people if there is available money that is worth something in terms of tangible production upon which to build social solutions to social problems. but if we do  have the basic production. we are really in trouble. that is the danger that we run. so i am very much pleased with the committee report. i k that the vote was close. i k that there is a great deal of opposition to the proposal. i am pleased that the committee left in the bill the proposed equipment tax credit. i k that business is  enthusiastic about it. but i think business is wrong. i think business will be enthusiastic about it once it begins to use the credit and sees how useful it really is. especiallyand this is the paramount consideration. in my viewsince it would be useful in the national interest. i am very glad that my colleague has made that declaration. i have given the subject a great deal of thought. it has been one of the issues in the bill that has worried me most. for the reasons i have stated. i have come to the conclusion that the provision should be supported. and  rejected.
yes. as i understand the views of those who live in the citiesand i also emphasize that i likewise represent the views of many farmers who are engaged in dairyingthe people are perfectly willing to have funds spent for such programs. but they want to have us proceed in such a way that a rational supply and demand situation will be developed in connection with agricultural matters. so i do  believe the city dwellers will object to such a program. the senator from vermont spoke of the possibility of a price increase. however. i do  think the city dwellers would object to that. either. i think they would recognize that the price of this commodity. as in the case of any other commodity they purchase. would be responsive to the operation of the laws of ecoics. and that the farmers must be responsive to the adjustments which occur in the worldas the farmers were during the war. when they increased agricultural production in the national interest. but it seems to me that . 18 years after the end of world war ii. it is up to the people of states which have large urban populations. as well as the people of states in which there are distributors in addition to farmers and city dwellers. to oppose these programs. in the hope that the opposition will mount and will increase to the point where we can end essentially governmental operation of the agricultural system. as well as the agricultural price system. it is for that reason that i have consistently taken the attitude which i have taken in regard to these matters. and which i take today.
i do  k whether i understood the senator from delaware correctly. is it his contention that the inflation of 50 percent in the dollar since the end of world war ii is attributable to the fact that we do  have a gold cover of 50 percent.
the senator is exactly correct. the logical sequel to that is that if the president has abused his power to commit our forces. congress still has a remedy. that remedy is to deny him the money. then he can longer exercise the power. and he must withdraw our forces. that is exactly what the senator from oregon is telling us. the gulf of tonkin action has role with reference to the action subsequently taken. at that time we were reacting to an attack upon american personnel and equipment. our ships were in the gulf of tonkin. since that time. and specifically from february to june of 1965. we have been engaged in combat operations. we are longer advising. we are in direct combat operations in south vietnam with organized american forces. i respectfully submit that this is an entirely different policy decision from the decision which authored the gulf of tonkin resolution. therefore. i am speaking today to explain why i back the actions of the president to date and to give ice why i may refuse to back him tomorrow. incidentally. i think there is a rathei broad feeling pretty much along this line throughout the country. that is wh3 the president has been making all the statements he has madeand quita properlyabout his willingness to nego. tiate without conditions and about th( limited purpose and the limited means he proposes to use to attain that purpose. but it is extremely important that the president should at time mask his purposes. consistent with the national security and with the way this matter is being handled. the president has a duty to the country and to congress to at time mask his purposes. we ought to k at all times exactly what his purpose is. if we are called upon to support that purpose. i think the president would do well to associate himself with congress. personally. i believe he is making a great mistake in  again coming to congress and asking for a resolution of support. by coming to congress again with a resolution. he would thereby give us an opportunity to support his present policy in a formal and direct way. and  force us to express approval or disapproval through other legislative means. therefore. when i vote in favor of this authorization bill. i am  reaffirming the joint resolution of august 1964  rejecting it. new policy support should necessitate a new resolution. without such a resolution. i am left with alternative but to protest against future presidential actions in vietnam through the authorization and appropriations process. that is. through the back door. and on behalf of the people of my state. i shall protest should any policy go beyond limited military means and objectives. the final question. then. is. why do i support the president as far as he has gone. i do support him. and i shall vote that way. and shall k what i am voting for when i vote. the president has expressed a willingness to negotiate unconditionally. i believe. as i have said in a previous speech. that if we actually get a chance for peace talks. the president will. as averell l. harriman indicated. recognize the national liberation front of the vietcong as a party to the negotiations. i am against the idea that they should be included in a coalition government before negotiations. a second element of the presidents policy. as i understand it. is that he is applying limited means to a limited purpose. in other words. he is  asking congress for general mobilization. he assures us that he is  prejudicially draining down the forces of the united states that are charged with responsibilities around the world. but that he is utilizing forces which are available to the united states for this purpose. and i that the purpose is solely to bring about sufficient pacification of major population concentrations in south vietnam to - enable that country to proceed to free elections and selfdetermination. i think this is a very exciting day. it - indicates the complete maturity of our country when  only the president. but also senators like the senator from georgia . can say that if in free elections. after a reasonable pacification period insuring the elections will really be free. the vietnamese decide they want a communist government. * that is what they will have. we certainly will  stand in the way of free elections. this is an extremely important and most mature declaration of policy on the part of very important people in our country. there is one ambiguous point in the presidents declaration to date. the difficulty is that the presideit seems content to carry around in his pocket a worn copy of the august 1964 joint resolution. the president may further wrongly assume that a vote for this authorization bill is an endorsement of any future actions. perhaps that is the real essence of the argument of the senator from oregon . and of the previous arguments which i have heard him makeand he ks that i have the highest respect for his judgment in the matter. i have debated as an administration defender in this particular matter. i speak in the role of a liberal. although the general liberal community is considered to be unfavorable to what the government is doing in vietnam. i do  agree with that because it seems to me to be aalous that the liberal community of the united states should  recognize a struggle for freedom. as this onc is. in my judgment. within the conditions i have described. etheless. that is so. so i have engaged in these debates. and i recognize the problem of escalation. we are always faced with the problem that if we put f- aher 100.000 men. the other side will put in aher 100.000. then it will be increased 100.000 beyond that. then we shall move into cambodia. into th vietnam. and into laos. or we may take some other overt action against communist chinese installations. and the fat will then be in the fire. but i do  conceive of that at all within the authority which i would be voting the president by supporting the bill to authorize $4.7 billion in additional appropriations. i do  believe. from everything that he has shown to date. that the president will construe our action in that way. i believe we are making a pact with him based exactly on what he has said. i make the urgent plea in terms of penalty. of being a grievous. deep offense in this country. that if the president wishes to espouse aher policy which goes beyond the present deployment of our forces. the president. because he has  opened the door by the joint resolution of august 1964. should again come back to congress for a new declaration of policy. if there is any escalation beyond that point. then all of the arguments which have been made with reference to the. escalation become relevant and pertinent. i believe i have stated the situation thoroughly. it is my judgment that if the president sticks to his peace offensive. if he sticks to the limited purpose which he has described to us. and the means which he has described to us. those missions will accomplish that puzpose this particular appropriation. it seems to me. has as its base the testimony of the secretary of defense. found at page 55 of the hearings. i believe that to be so important that i hope my colleagues will indulge me as i read it into the record. senator ellender asked: . you have asked. for an increase in the number of personnel generally. in the amount of 510.521 as appears on page 12 of your statement. that is your exhibit appearing at page 12. how many of those will be directly connected with our operations in south vietnam. this was secretary mcnamaras answer: secretary mcnamara. first. senator ellender. we havent asked for 510.521 to be added to the original 1966 program. but. rather. that amount less the military jobs transferred to civilian jobs. plus aher adjustment. with the result that the net increase we are asking above the original 1966 total is 452.843. senator ellender. well. they are americans who are going to be employed either in the army. or the navy. or the air force as well as personnel to take care of the administrative portion of our operations. secretary mcnamara. the net total is 453.000.  510.000. senator ellender. at the bottom of your exhibit. you have a total of 510.521. you deduct 74.300 and add 16.620 to give you the figuresecretary mcnamara. that is correct. sir. it is 453.000. senator ellender. well. of that 453.000. how many of those will be used in south vietnam. secretary mcnamara. well. these are additions to the total u.s. military force and it is  possible to say that any of those in particular will be used in south vietnam. but. in the net. all of them are being added because of the south vietnam conflict. . if i can help as a senator. as a human being. i shall do everything that i can.
it is within our power to grant this rise in wages. which is justly due. and also it is within our power to fulfill our responsibility to raise taxes. we  have a chance to do this. therefore. i am for doing it and shall face up to my responsibility to raise taxes whenever that issue is before us. the continuation of excessive reliance on monetary policy has already raised interest rates to their highest levels since world war ii. slowed down housing construction considerably and engendered a rate war between savings and loan associations and other credit institutions. unless there is a moderate acrosstheboard tax increase. there can be a corresponding easing of credit conditions and interest rates which is highly desirable in my opinion.
mi. president. i must pushed into the background. in 2 years. - express my tremendoug debt of gratitude under article 13 of the nato treaty. to the senator from kentucky [ who has primary constitutional responsibility for the conduct of u.s. foreign affairs.
. i wish to repeat that i am  dug in on the subject. this is definitely an intelligent and extremely useful opening up of the opportunity for training and jobs to dwellers in the slums and ghettos. naturally. i prefer my approach. but i am  dug in on the subject. one of the other things that troubles me is that. as the senator from vermont said. the $200 million provided for by his amendment would come out of some other part of the bill. i am sure he will disclose to us where it will come from. that approach represents a problem for this reason. this bill is pretty spartan in any case. we all k about the unbelievable demands of the war on poverty. and $200 million is 10 percent. or a very appreciable part thereof. the provision in the bill which relates to the same matter as the amendment of the senator from vermont. has the advantage of  absorbing an important part of the other resources of the bill since special funds are provided to implement it. the amendment before the senate would deduct $200 million from other aspects of the bill.
s action in regard to cambodia would have little effect on the ecoy since the percentage of total defense expenditures to gnp would  change that much. this statement may be good politics but it has little to do with ecoic analysis. here are the facts. it is true that during the course of the vietnamese conflict total defense expenditures as a percent of gnp did  rise iceably. for example in the 10 years of peace immediately prior to the escalation of the vietnamese confict195564total defense expenditures as a percentage of gnp averaged 9.9 percent as compared with an 8.6 percent average during the 6 years since of the vietnamese conflict. this contrasts markedly with the korean war when total defense expenditures as a percentage of gnp reached the 14percent range and defense expenditures during world war ii which reached the 38percent range. looking at these figures alone would then lead to the conclusion that expenditures in vietnam really have  distorted the ecoybut these figures alone are  egh. during the whole period of world war ii194146--when total defense expenditures as a percentage of gnp reached the peak of 38 percent. the consumer price index rose only 19.5 points. during the korean war195154--the consumer price index rose only 4 points. but. in the 10 years immediately preceding the vietnamese conflict the consumer price index rose 15.7 points. and thus far in the first 5 years of the vietnam conflict196569the consumer price index has climbed 17.8 points--a greater yearly increase than took place during world war ii. this clearly indicates that something is wrongeven though defense expenditures as a percentage of gnp remain relatively constant. what is wrong is clearthe united states has  been engaged in a war for well over 5 years. with the deployment of resources equivalent to a major war. and our government has  taken the ecoic. financial. social. measuresand. yes. the controlswhich war requires. it has been good politics to put the country in the mental condition of war even though war and  expanded war is the true reality. but the moment of truth is  upon us--we are facing the moment  only of political but also of ecoic truthand as the conditions of the financial markets and the stock market has indicatedthe old myths are longer good egh. war is bad for business just as it is bad for the preservation of the species. and a war that is  adequately financed is particularly bad for business since it leads into spiraling deficits and spiraling deficits are a key element in the skyrocketing inflation which almost inevitably follows in an ecoy without controls. as i stated last week. to contain the deficit will require some exceedingly hard choices both in the revenue and expenditures areas. i ask unanimous consent that two editorials published recently in the new york times. setting forth the guidelines of a responsible ecoic policy be printed in the record.
i must say his attitude is absolutely an essential ingredient if this matter is to be resolved even in accordance with my idea and that of others who think like me. i would hope the senator would wish to throw into the balance secretary lairds assertion. which. generally speaking. would seem to indicate a posture much like that which we have had up to  until the end of the fiscal year 197172. this would. as the senator ks. represent 1 years extension of what we had understood to be the situation at present. i would hope the senator would also wish to throw into the balance the result of the defense ministers meeting and the nato council. which will open thursday. i think this is a critical factor. i think the whole world will have profited. whether one agrees or disagrees with the resolution of the distinguished majority leader. from the fact that he saw this situation "coming up the pike" early. and had the feeling that it had to be resolved in the interest of our country. that is what i meant before when i referred to the attitude of the representatives of western europe.
s commission on productivityand there is one. and i will give the details--composed of 27 members. made up of men from business. labor. and the public. it is a very distinctive commission. the amendment proposes to give them the authority to seek greater productivity through many of the techniques which were successfully employed in world war ii by exactly the same kind of meansthrough local and plant management. labor. and productivity councils. that is exactly what we did in world war ii. the concept which i have is supported by arthur burns. who is chairman of the federal reserve board. and i have his letter. which expresses the experience of world war ii. when we were successful. i ask unanimous consent that the letter be printed in the record.
. aher thing is important in this matter. i understand. and i have reason to doubt the statement that has been made to me. that the money which involves a certain amount of loss of employment. i understand that this particular area has also lost a very considerable amount of money. in the brooklyn navy yard an emous amount of labor has been lost. as well as important credit to try to substitute some employment for the thousands of jobs lost when the navy yard was shut down. here again quite a fair number of jobs are involved. i understand something in the area of hundreds. without hopes as far as i can see that we can get approval of this amendment that is in technical disagreement. without any provision as to how this transition is to be made with some decent accommodation to the place where it is  and the loss to that place. i would like to ask the manager of the conference report if he would tell us exactly what dictated this policy which is reflected by this particular appropriation and what consideration. if any. has been given to the need of this local area for some transition in respect of the facility which is in question here.
i thank the senator. i shall take 5 or 6 minutes. madam president. i am about to make a statement on the position of my state respecting the military defense appropriations. especially in respect of construction today. which i must say is rather strong for me. but really on the analysis of the figures which we have in this bill and which are simply cumulative over a long period of years. the discrimination which is revealed by the figures against the defense installations in my state. the second largest in population and the first largest in revenue production in the united states. is becoming so marked as to be really scandalous. and it is in that sense that i speak. for years many who have advocated a larger national defense budget have used the argument that. in addition to expanding u.s. defense capabilities. a larger defense budget also creates jobs and thus strengthens the national ecoyan integral part of the nations security. however. some of those areas of the country where unemployment is the highest and where the region especially needs federal help to alleviate chronically depressed ecoic conditions are the same areas where defense spending and facilities are the most sparse. and unhappily for us a perfect example is my own state. especially new york city. the senate has just completed action on legislation to ameliorate new york citys serious ecoic troubles.  the senate is considering the military construction authorization . the former legislation is crucial for new york to rebuild to solvency. but the latter continues the process of reducing new yorks ecoy. while further unbalancing its relation to the ecoy of other regions. while. of course. the object of defense facilities is and should  be to benefit the parochial interests of any state or regionand i am  seeking thatit should  single out any one state or region adverse action. all else being equal. defense facilities can only be properly distributed on basis of merit and should  exclusively benefit or exclusively overlook any single region. the history of the distribution of defense facilities throughout the continental united states since world war ii does  meet the criteria set forth above. regions. states. and districts have been favored over others on a systematic basis. and i fail to see objective merits to explain this unequal distribution. the statistics make the point clear. they are appalling. this year the carter administration has requested $4.247 billion for military construction in the united states and for our armed forces in europe and asia. the senate armed services committee has recommended an authorization of $3.998 billion. a study of the theastmidwest ecoic advancement coalition titled "proposed military base realignments: the regional impact" shows that the 16 states in the theastmidwest region contain 47 percent of the nations population. and support 48 percent of the nations tax burden. however. it receives only 20 percent of the nations principal defense facilities. 17 percent of the defense payroll. 16 percent of defense personnel. and only 9 percent of the military construction budget in fiscal year 1978. in the last 15 years. 327 defense installations have been closed in this region43 percent of all closings. 53 of these closings have been in new york state alone. of the $1 billion in this years military construction authorization only $199 million was requested for the theastern 9 states. only $65.4 million has been requested for new york statewhile a considerable improvement from the $3.9 million appropriated last year for new york. the senate armed services committee has recommended that new yorks $46.5 million be reduced by $25 millionmore than half. this drastic reduction is almost absentmindedly explained by a four line foote on page 18 of the committee report on this legislation. in contrast. california. the only state whose population rivals new yorks. will receive $408.8 million in this bill this year. georgia. with a small fraction of new yorks population and tax burden. will receive $121.1 million. the 12 southern states will receive $685.6 million compared to the $174 million to go to the 9 theastern states if this bill becomes law. hardly content to let matters stand as they are. the carter administration annced on april 26 a series of base closings that will further detract from new yorks already low standing in the national defense facility structure. air force installations in lockport. montauk. and watertown are to be closed. the army has under study closings at forts hamilton. totten. and wadsworth. recognizing that there is hardly anything left to close. the navy has left new yorks few remaining facilities alone. with all respect to my colleagues on the senate armed services committee. i do  believe appropriate cognizance has been taken of new yorks real and potential contribution to the national defense installation structure. the only can tube producing facility in the entire united states is at watervliet arsenal in new york. it has  had a major reation since world war ii. long overdue. the army sought this year $27.021 million to modernize and upgrade this critical arsenal. the house of representatives fully funded this request. the senate armed services committee stripped $25.021 million from this request and explained its actionas i have already statedwith a four line foote. by the way. i would like to read that foote into the record so that we all understand what is going on when i say what i do. it says on page 18. foote 2: the committee felt that the design schedule was such that construction award in fiscal year 1979 was  likely. it did  say impossible it said was  likely: and that the cost might be underestimated. the committee felt that $2.000.000 could be effectively applied in fiscal year 1979. the remaining $25.021.000 is deferred without prejudice. i fervently hope that this matter can be reasonably and satisfactorily resolved in conference. there is one action that could go a long way to resolving the gross imbalance that has persisted in the distribution of defense facilities in the theast. south. and west. while i have grave doubts as to the wisdom of the withdrawal of the 2d infantry division from south korea for national security reasons. if the president proceeds with his withdrawal plan. that division will be based in the continental united states. three bases are under serious study to serve as the home base of that division: fort bliss. tex.. fort benning. ga.. and fort drum. n.y. while basing the 2d division at fort drum. where it would be mechanized and restructured for nato orientation. would  only make a great deal of military sense and restore a considerable degree of balance to the overall u.s. defense base structure. there are numerous indications that the decision to base the 2d division in new york is far from assured. under the guidance and supervision of the army. a draft "environmental impact statement" was prepared on the effects of basing the 2d division at fort drum. in numerous respects. it was a stacked deck against fort drum. housing costs were overstated. and the available labor supply over a longterm basis was understatedboth in a manner inconsistent with the draft environmental impact statements for the other candidate bases. aher indication that worries me is the total lack of responsiveness of the carter administration to queries from myself and my new york colleagues regarding fort drum. in april the entire new york state congressional delegation wrote to president carter concerning the regional imbalance of defense facilities throughout the country in general and fort drum in particular. the carter administration never ackledged or responded to this letter in any way. after months of waiting and receiving reply. along with senator moynihan and the new york delegation in the house of representatives. i sought to meet with president carter. i was informed that my request was rejected on the grounds that to meet with the president on this "parochial" matter would justify other similar meetings with the president from other congressional delegations on similar matters and this would be a bad precedent. i was asked to meet with the secretary of defense instead. i find it hard to understand this refusal of my request to meet with the president because on april 19 the speaker of the house sent president carter a letter. the first line read. "i would like to thank you for the courtesy of meeting with the massachusetts congressional delegation on the fort devens situation." in addition. when my staff attempted to follow up on the proposed meeting with the secretary of defense. the response then became that perhaps it would be more appropriate to meet with the secretary of the army. when i persisted in my desire to meet with the secretary of defense. my staffs phone calls were longer returned. madam president. i do meet with the president from time to time on many matters. but i never would go to the president without giving him ice of what it was all about. and so when we gave him ice apparently all lines of communication froze. a decision on where to base the 2d division is expected imminently: if  today. very. very soon. i fervently hope i am wrong. but it looks very much to me as if once again there is grave danger that someone else will get the gold mine and new york state may get the shaft. madam president. as i say. i rarely speak in this tone. but i am very. very concerned about this worsening situation in respect of my state. i have tried objectively to see if it is warranted to the degree that it is apparently being carried out. that is a very positive and a very dangerous drift. and i rise to protest against it. and i hope very much that the president. the department of defense. and the appropriate congressional committees will heed our words both here in the senate and in the other body
