. a pay raise for members of congress is inappropriate and unwarranted. just 2 months ago. members of congress voted themselves benefits over and above their salary. i do  believe that these changeslifting the limit on outside earned income and removing the $3.000 tax deductionwvould have been made had members kn that they would be receiving a pay raise. .we are  debating budget cuts for many government programs. and. unless we act soon. will be facing the inability of the federal government to pay its bills. voting ourselves a pay raise under these conditions is unconscionable. i do. however. support a pay for the federal executives whose salaries hnave been capped by congressional flat. the loss of qualified and experienced personnel in the federal work force is a severeand longer quiet--crisis. the artificial pay cap placed an high. level federal executives causes a numbei of problems. first. it is difficult to attract topch people to government service since 1977. federal level executive pa3 has increased 5.5 percent. during thil same period. comparable private sectoi pay has increased by 25 percent. genera: schedule civil service pay has increasec by 32 percent. and the consumer pzlci index has gone up 45 percent. second. it inhibits ambition. sever grades of high level civil service are  paid the same. each year the pay cap i in effect. more grade levels bump up against the pay ceiling. without the incentive of a pay raise. these people are becoming increasingly reluctant to accept the additional responsibility or the need to relocate that a promotion may bring. finally. the pay cap provides an incentive for executives to retire early. as of march of 1980. 75 percent of federal executives who were at the pay cap. and who were eligible for retirement. did so. this results in an incalculable loss of both experienced and kledgeable talent within the federal government. in addition. it costs the flederal government a significant amount of money. for each federal executive who retires. the taxpayers must  only pay for a replacementwho may or may  be as skilled and experiencedbut they also pay the pension of an executive who in many cases would prefer to have remained on the job. and all because congress is unwilling to grant these people the pay raise that a variety of commissions and studies have documented that they deserve*
. i should like to proceed with the development of my thesis. the senator from california said: i firmly maintain that our national welfare can tolerate having defense procurement made a political football. i do  think anyone in or outside of congress will dispute the truth of this statement. however. i believe it is an essentially negative truth. it must be carried further before it takes on its true meaning. because the national welfare can afford to have defense procurement become a dead ball. out of play. going here. in other words. congressional direction is sorely needed. in order to keep the ball in play and to score points for the nations defense. there is  too much administrative inertia which permits the ball to stay in one place. and keeps it out of competition and out of positive. scoring action. s. 1178. the armed services competitive procurement act of 1961. is specifically designed to provide this kind of congressional direction. and was. with this purpose in mind. introduced in the senate by my colleague and myself. and in the house of representatives by the entire new york state delegation. the fact that the bill remained in the armed services committee does  make the bill a bad one or one based on an unwise idea. the fact that so many states are exercised about this situation will. i believe. ultimately result in the taking of some action by the armed services committee. the senator from california said: i am impelled to conclude that certain legislative proposals relating to the placement of defense procurement contracts are inspired in large part by obvious covetousness. by selfish envy. and by greater concern over local welfare than for national security. i hardly believe that the senator could have been referring to the legislation which i have just cited. because covetousness. envy. and purely local selfinterest would  be the result of increased and fair competition. however. in the event that the senator was referring to s. 1178. the armed services competitive procurement act. let me say that the basic facts about new york state obviate both the existence of. and the need for. such despicable motivations on the part of its representatives in congress. new york state is a highly productive state. filled with the energy and the enterprise which enabled it to contribute. according to the treasury department. $17.3 billio 18 percentof all the internal revenue collected in the united states during the fiscal year 1960. this is seven times more than the $2.4 billion in defense contracts received by new york state during the same period. new york state is proud that it can make such an overwhelming contribution to our nations welfare. our local interest is to help the national interest. but i must say that we can remain silent when there is any implied charge of covetousness. envy. and purely local selfinterest. when. by way of comparison. it may be ed that california. for instance. contributed less than $8 billion to internal revenue collection in the fiscal year 1960. with more than 60 percentor $4.8 billionreturning to california in defense contracts. in other words. new york state pays twice as much in taxes. but receives only half as much in defense procurement contracts as does california. the senator from california asked whether it would be ecoical to award "defense contracts to concerns in areas lacking scientific institutions which could help solve technical design or production problems." i agree with the senator that it would  be ecoical to award contracts to such areas. and i am proud to point out that new york state has more than 1.000 basic and industrial research facilitiesfar more than any other statewith 625 laboratories. employing 30.000 professional scientists and engineers. 19.000 technicians and 22.000 supporting personnelthe largest concentration in the nationequipped to meet every conceivable research need. in addition. new york state has 170 colleges and universities engaged in research projects and turning out more college and graduate level scientists than any other state. these business and profit research facilities received $1.6 billion in prime defense contracts for experimental. developmental. test and research work during the fiscal year 196067 percent of all the contracts awarded to new york state. by comparison. california received only slightly more in such contracts-$1.8 billion. or only 37 percent of all the contracts awarded to that state: it is quite obvious that new york is getting far more than its proportion. in terms of the awards for defense procurement. of contracts for research and development. and certainly there is claim that such scientific institutions are predominantly concentrated in california. in other words. it is quite obvious that the difference between the total number of contracts going to new york and those going to california has very little to do with the availability of scientific institutions. rather. the difference resides in the $2.2 billion gap in other procurement between new york and california. lest it be thought that this was a phee of only last year. the data for fiscal 1959 are very similarso this phee is  limited to only 1 year. more than twothirds of the $2.4 billion in defense procurement in new york state was for experimental. developmental. test and research work. while less than onethird of californias total of $5.4 billion in defense contracts was for this kind of procurement. the senator from california also made some implications about our weather in new york state. he questioned whether contractors could "keep up with rigid production schedules" under such conditionsin which he also included the "lack of scientific facilities." with which i have already dealt. and the lack of great expanses of space. he wondered whether they deprive new york of some of the defense contract opportunities which he said properly go to california. as to the weather. i am sure that my colleague. the senator from new york who lives in upstate new york. where the winters have been kn to be severe. and who is rapidly becoming the senates foremost expert on weather conditions in general. is much more qualified than am i to give an answer. however. i believe he will agree with me that even the 40inch sfalls in rochester and buffalo are dealt with by the inhabitants of those regions with the same equanimity as the occasional mists creeping in from the pacific ocean are dealt with by the people of california. regarding the importance of wideopen spaces to defense contracts. i am puzzled why florida. with its famous cape canaveral. and texas. with its great expanses. together have been able to attract less than onethird of the defense procurement which went to california. both in fiscal 1959 and fiscal 1960. at this point. i should like to invite the senior senator from california to write a joint letter with meand any other member of the new york state congressional delegation who wishes to accede to this letterto the secretary of defense. asking him if. in the experience of his department. the contractors in new york state have ever proven themselves less able to keep "rigid production schedules" than the contractors in california or any other state in the union. although some may think of this offer as a challenge to the senator from california. i consider it a challenge to the people of new york. if. contrary to my every expectation. the secretarys answer should prove to be in the affirmative. then the businessmen and workers of new york should be made aware of why they are at a disadvantage in the field of defense procurement. before concluding. i should like to touch on the remaining points raised by the senator from california in his remarks of march 29. the senator appeared disturbed by the fact that californias employment in aircraft production has declined more rapidly than that in the missile and space industries has risen. and that the defenseoriented industries in california had a net reduction of 1.000 jobs during the last 4 years. by way of comparison. the latest statistics show that net employment in the aerospace industries. for the nation as a whole. dropped by 60.000 during the past year alone. the senator referred to the substantial share of defense procurement work which is subcontracted by california firms to businesses in other states. although there are definite figures available on the extent of subcontracts let out by firms in any state. i am sure that this practice is common throughout the country and does  materially affect the percentage of actual work done in any one state. this is a matter of choice for the individual prime contractor. and has hing to do with the prccurement policies which determine who is to receive prime contracts from the defense department. except insofar as it affects the individual prime contractors ability to carry out his work. success or failure in subcontracting procedures by the prime contractor would be reflected in the prime contractors ability to meet production schedulesas much or more so than the availability of research facilities. balmy weather. or open spaces. the senator from california quoted a long series of extracts from reports and statements by officials of the defense department. as well as by the distinguished chairman of the house armed services committee. representative carl vinson. purporting to demonstrate that the provisions of s. 1178. placing emphasis on improving the machinery for channeling procurement orders into areas of substantial labor surplus. would be contrary to the law and to the national interest. everything else being equal. why should  the federal government provide "setasides" for laborsurplus areas. as it already does for small business. are we to assume that the federal government can help itself any more than can a private business with four plants. three of which are working at capacity and one of which is partially shut down. i should like to quote from the letter of april 5. 1961. sent by mr. john l. moore. administrator of the general services administration to the steering committee of the new york state congressional delegation. in which are outlined some of the new steps in government procurement policy aimed at helping laborsurplus areas. these new procedures. applicable to the defense department as well as gsa. were instituted after meetings among representatives of the departments of defense and labor. the general services administration. the small business administration. the office of civil and defense mobilization. and the general accounting office. they follow the general intention of the provisions of s. 1178 and they include the following steps: first. a regulation. based on defense manpower policy  4. which sets forth policies and procedures that are designed to increase the flow of contracts into labor surplus areas. has been prepared and is in the final stages of coordination with and review by the agencies concerned with procurement. preparatory to publication in the federal procurement regulations. the regulation provides that preferences shall be given to labor surplus areas through partial setasides of appropriate procurements and emphasizes that best efforts shall be used to award negotiated contracts to labor surplus area concerns and encourages prime contractors to award subcontracts to concerns which will perform a substantial portion of the production in labor surplus areas. second. the procedure in the federal procurement regulations governing the treatment of equal low bids has been modified for the purpose of clarifying and strengthening the preference for labor surplus area concernis. third. additional mi changes are being made in existing regulations to provide further assistance to labor surplus area concerns. such as: (a) giving first preference to small business labor surplus area concerns in setasides for small business. (b) providing that partial surplus labor area setasides may be made if only one or moreheretofore two or morelabor surplus area concerns having the technical competence and productive capacity to furnish a substantial proportion of the procurement at a reasonable price may be expected to submit bids or offers. (c) increasing the amount of progress payments which may be made to labor surplus area firms during the performance of a contract. and (d) increasing the extent of solicitation of bids in all procurements whenever there is the possibility that additional labor surplus area firms might be induced to submit bids. this kind of policy can be helpful in preventing the severe ecoic damage and dislocation that could result from defense procurement practices which during last years octoberdecember quarter permitted a sudden 60 percent drop in the value of contracts let to new york state firms in areas which have had a substantial labor surplus for up to 3 years. finally. the senator from california said at the beginning of his very fine speech: our defense programs must  be operated as a 1961style wpa. again. as with his other statements of broad principle. i am in absolute agreement. however. again we must go further in order to get to the heart of the intention of the legislation proposed by myself and my colleagues from new york. indeed. defense procurement should  become a 1961style wpa. but neither must it be a 1961style gold rushthe channeling of defense efforts in one direction. withstanding the broad opportunities which exist in other industrial areas of the country. i wish to summarize by making it clear that our legislation is  confined to new yorks interests. but applies as well to other industrial statespennsylvania. new jersey. maryland. illis. the new england states. and other newly industrialized areas like kansas and west virginia. the objective is to open up procurement opportunities to more intensive competition. thus the states which  feel they are  getting an adequate share of defense procurement will be given their best chance. if. on such an open competitive basis. california does better than the rest. perhaps even better than it is doing . there can be proper complaint. but the important point is that the basis for competition should be as broadly established as possible. as i have said. that is precisely what my colleague. the senator from new york and i are proposing.
. the amendment which i send to the desk is designed to help to achieve. in a very flexible and binding way. a beneficial impact from our huge defense expenditureswhich are set at a level of some $79 billion for fiscal year 1969. the bill we have before us today is for the authorization of procurement of the major hardware items by the armed forces--ships. tanks. planes. and missiles. that vast outpouring of federal tax dollars could be made to have an extremely important impact on problems of hardcore unemployment if we were to use our imaginations in the matter. for too long. i think. we have tended to think of our social welfare and manpower programs as a small. compartmentalized part of the budget. in fact. it would be entirely possible to assure that large portions of the defense budget could also serve. at least in part. in the war against poverty in our ghettos and rural poverty areas. all we need do. and it is the effect of this amendment. is to direct our defense expenditures in such a way as to insure that they have a maximum feasible impact on the problem of hardcore unemployment. which is the master problem in the antipoverty area. there is hing revolutionary about this suggestion. our defense expenditures  are used to help sustain certain sectors of the ecoy. for example. a large proportion of the research and developmental work in connection with the civilian ecoy and defense products is carried along by appropriations for defense research and development. moreover. we have in the past given explicit directions to the secretary of defense to seek to aid american small business in his procurement activities. so the defense budgetthrough the socalled setaside programis consciously used to support smaller entrepreneurs. finally. the small business administration manages a large number of procurement programs. which seek to direct government procurement activities generally to the benefit of small businesmen.  has this concept of using government procurement been limited by the congress to aiding small business. there is. in fact. explicit precedent for the use of such purchasing power to aid companies which employ the hardcore poor. and to encourage companies to employ such persons. this legislative precedent for what i am suggesting today is in section 153(c) of the ecoic opportunity act of 1964. as part of the special impact program. and was inserted last year at my initiative. under that provision. the director of the office of ecoic opportunity is directed to take steps as may be necessary. in cooperation with the heads of other federal departments. to insure that "contracts. subcontracts. and deposits made by the federal government or in connection with programs aided with federal funds are placed in such a way as to further the purposes of this part." to wit. problems of chronic unemployment. finally. i would e that the executive branch is already moving in the direction which i suggest. under defense manpower policy  4. issued by the office of emergency planning under its general powers. a preference is given in the placement of federal government contracts and facilities to sections of concentrated unemployment or underemployment. and to certified firms which will comply with the regulations of the secretary of labor in employing disadvantaged persons. that policy has certain limitations. however. which make this new legislation i propose today necessary. first. this contract preference only goes to firms actually located in designated poverty areas. and hence is limited to a relatively small number of firms which can locate in ghetto areas and to products which are capable of manufacture in these areas. large procurement items. such as tanks and planes. are generally  manufactured in central city areas with their congested conditions and necessary limits on air pollution. transportation and storage capacity. and the like. second. i believe it is desirable to put legislative teeth into this administrative policy. and to aim it specifically at the secretary of defense who manages the budgetary sector with the largest procurement possibilities. the program. in my view. needs to be expanded and intensified. and this is a first step. an example of what can be achieved through such a policy is presently pending before the department of defense in a contract proposal by republic aviation. which is headquartered in my own state. at its own initiative in the submission of a contract proposal to build more f1o5 aircraft. republic undertook to train and employ over 2.160 hardcore people in building the aircraft. out of a total work force of 8.301. and to construct a plant in a ghetto area of brooklyn if need be to carry out that policy of employment. this figure of 2.160 hardcore employees is substantially in excess of the number of such persons which republic would employ in the construction of the aircraftindeed. which it did in the past employ in building the first order of these planesand yet the company figures that the added costs of training and employing these unskilled people is so insignificant in the overall cost of the contract that it can be done at extra cost to the government. moreover. the company states that there will be loss in quality of the product. and cites the example of american industry during world war i which employed and trained people at all skill levels without damaging consequences to product quality. industry can and will train and employ these people if given the incentive to do so. and the best incentive is a contract. republic wants and needs complex set of federal manpower training subsidies.  any loans or grants to subsidize plant construction. all it wants is the contractgiven that. it will do the rest and will employ these people. moreover. the company says that it will even retrain the workers to other jobs once the f105s have been delivered after the 3year production period. the purpose of this legislation is to encourage the secretary of defense to take account of such social impacts in considering contract proposals and to weigh them favorably. that does  mean that he must give the contract to the bidder which undertakes to employ the hardcore. rather. that employment impact is only one factor. if. for example. the secretary preferred aher aircraft or product. he could choose that bidder. or if speed of delivery. product quality. or cost were a countervailing factor. that would determine the matter. i should also e that the appropriations bills for the defense department traditionally carry language requiring the acceptance of low bids in procurement contracting and prohibiting the payment of any price differentials. the legislation i offer today would  interfere with that policy since and. as we have seen in the republic aviation case. the price differential would be insignificant if present at all. let me conclude by restating the philosophy of this amendment. we have major unused resources which flow through the federal budget which could have an extremely salutary impact on problems of urban and rural poverty. if we wisely use the markets created by federal procurement activities we can put a large number of hardcore unemployed to work without the redtape and complexity involved in manpower training and ecoic development subsidization programs. this type of procurement policy. in my view. is a key means of expanding our antipoverty and job training programs at very small cost to the taxpayer. it may even be the most costeffective way of creating jobs for the poor. if we must fight wars abroad. let us seek imaginative ways to make that war effort bring peace at home. through jobs for the poor.
. it was with great satisfaction that i read an article by paul delaney that appeared in the new york times on friday. january 16. 1976. "manpower program is helping the arts." my longstanding involvement in the arts. in manpower training. and public service employment. made the article of particular interest to me. i am sure my colleagues will be gratified to see the positive returns on their investment in the ceta program. the inative use of funds under the comprehensive employment and training act has provided jobs for unemployed artists. actors. and dancers. a group which traditionally has a high unemployment rate. and is frequently overlooked and iged. the benefits to the communities involved. by giving direct access to the arts to people who had had previous contact. can be calculated in monetary terms. but has a farreaching salutary effect. some of the cities who have invested in the arts. such as new york. chicago. and san francisco. have set a worthwhile example that can and i hope will be followed by other prime sponsors across the country. as the time nears when the congress must reauthorize and expand the current public service employment program. under the comprehensive employment and training act--ceta. it is inative approaches such as those cited. that can be pointed to with satisfaction. while there is evidence that there is an upswing in the ecoy. the rate of unemployment remains at 8.3 percent. it is forecast to remain at the high level of 7.5 percent for the next year. even by the most optimistic reports. our present ceta program has created 330.000 jobs in a short period of time. and it should be expanded further to provide additional employment. congress first task. which will be addressed in the coming weeks. is to maintain those presently hired with ceta funds. beyond the present expiration date of june 30. 1976. the problem of some prime sponsors. who are experiencing a shortfall of funds before june 30. is a primary concern that will i hope be considered when the subcommittee on employment. poverty and migratory labor takes up the reauthorization bill. i ask unanimous consent that the article by paul delaney be printed in the record.
. i sat on this committee. and i think i went through most of its deliberations. i am extremely conscious of the arguments being made by senator wallop and senator percy and many others. i. too. am a man of some property as much as i am given credit for. for years10 years minimumi have reported all my investments. income tax figures. and so forth. one thing that i think is being overlooked in this debate is that we do have a basic structure which is essential. and that is a general prohibition against doing anything which would demean us or demean the senate. i remind my colleagues of that because it is very important that we hang onto those sections. because if we do. we can accommodate almost any other reasonable changes. i will give two examples. we have discussed conflict of interest a great deal. i refer senators to page 27. line 3. it is only 5 lines. and i shall read it: a member. officer. or employee of the senate shall  receive any compensation.  shall he permit any compensation to accrue to his beneficial interest from any source. the receipt of which would occur by virtue of influence improperly exerted from his position as a member. officer. or employee. that subsumes everything in the conflict of interest. look at "gifts." page 21. lines 15 to 21: member. officer or employee of the senate. shall solicit or accept a present or future gift. favor. service. or anything of value from any person. business. or other entity under circumstances where he ks by the exercise of ordinary care that such gift. favor. service. or thing of value will. might tend to. or is intended to affect the present or future performance of official duties.
i just wanted to add one other fact. that the unemployed person must come from a lowincome family. there are three new criteria: 15 weeks unemployed. lowincome family. and a 1year project. which eliminates practically the whole substitution proposition. i agree if senators want to make their argument on the fact that the answer to our problem is  public service jobs. i could  agree more. i certainly agree with senator brooke. but did we invent the fact that there is an endemic unemployment of 7 million plus. we simply have to deal with the condition. this is one way to deal with it. absent the tax rebate it seems to me we have other opportunity right  than this one. i thank my friend.
