exactly true. and when you realize that we are hemorrhaging to the tune of $25 billion to $30 billion because of the unecoic price that we are paying for oil. the importance looms even larger. . it has been properly said that the business of the united states is business. and here is an area in which the private enterprise system. in terms of its societal impact. and the business system of the united states. have demonstrated their ability to give aid. through supplemental activities. in keeping multilateral and bilateral foreign aid operating effectively. in urging my colleagues to act favorably in extending opics operating authorities. i want to direct their attention to the changes that will occur in future opic operations as a result. in part. of the legislation  before us. i refer particularly to the new developmental thrust of the legislation as well as to the intention of the administration to give opic a greater developmental role. the need for increased developmental assistance of all kindsboth in the private and public sectorsbecomes readily apparent if one looks at the state of the international ecoic system. particularly the accumulation of international debt in the developing countries. in recently concluded hearings before the foreign ecoic policy subcommittee. administration witnesses estimated that even under the best of circumstancesthat is. real increase in the price of oil over the next 5 yearsthe oil importing countries will need $300 to $350 billion to finance their projected deficits. the official financing channels. under present administration plans. will  come even close to being adequate to meet these financing needs. the developing countries will have to turn to private investment to provide the necessary capital to generate real ecoic growth. without which these countries will  be able to meet their international liabilities. i am convinced more than ever before that the private sector in the developed world will have to be brought into the developmental process in a massive way. we are considering today an institution that will facilitate the involvement of the u.s. private sector in the development process. opics chief purpose is to mobilize the resources of the u.s. private sector to promote ecoic and social development in the developing countries. as a complement to u.s. development assistance objectives. specifically. opic facilitates u.s. private investment in the developing countries by selectively insuring. and in a few cases partially financing. proposed private enterprise projects that will benefit both the host developing country and the united states. opic provides insurance against such political risks as inconvertibility of local currency into u.s. dollars. expropriation and loss due to war. revolution or insurrection. in addition. opic provides project financing (loans and loan guarantees) on commercial terms and related services in support of small or pioneering ventures. s. 1771. as reported by the committee. has made two significant changes in the developmental criteria which should guide opic. in addition to the long series of factors that opic must take into account in its operations and included in the present legislation. s. 1771 states that opic. as its two major operating principles. "shall especially be guided by the ecoic and social development impact and benefits of such a project and the ways in which such a project complement. or is compatible with. other development assistance programs of the united states and other dos." and give "preferential consideration" to investment projects in less developed countries which meet the poverty criterion of the international development association. that is with an annual per capita income of less than $540. these changes stress opics developmental purpose and its emphasis on the poorest developing countries. although the bill does  require opic to conform to the new directions mandate of the aid program. it legitimately stresses that the private sector projects should be compatible with aid objectives. in addition. our report calls an opic to study its rate structure to give lower rates to the poorest countries and report on the results of the study to the foreign relations committee. the administration supports the new thrust that we have given opic in s. 1771. during hearings before our subcommittee. administration witnesses emphasized the administrations intention to steer opic toward a more developmental role with maximum emphasis placed on that function. consistent with opics undertaking to be self -sufficient. to this end. the opic board has decided that opic will concentrate primarily on encouraging expansion of mutually beneficial u.s. private investment in minerals. energy production in opec countries. food production and processing and on a broader range of developmental investment in the lower income countries. in addition. the board will restrictbut  terminateopic services in the higher income ldcs with over $1.000 per capita income. with exceptions only for mineral and energy projects. those sponsored by u.s. small businesses and cooperatives and exceptionally developmental projects. aher important change contained in s. 1771 would remove the present prohibition against opics use of its own funds in promoting or financing mineral surveys or projects. the removal of the prohibition would permit opic to undertake a limitedyet inativeprogram of involvement in encouraging investments in fuel raw materials in oilimporting ldcs. this would contribute to reversing a global misallocation of resources resulting from a preference among investors to develop less rich mineral deposits in the developed countries than richer deposits in the developing countries. such a trend. if continued. could significantly increase the cost of raw materials over the long run. a brief look at the record will demonstrate the impact of opic programs on the development process in the developing countries. over the last 3 fiscal years. opic has assisted 425 projects in 55 countries. representing $4.6 billion in total investment. estimated host country benefits for the first 5 years of operations of these projects include net foreign exchange gains of $1.3 billion. net fiscal revenues of $198 million and 149.000 new jobs. moreover. these projects will provide significant but unquantifiable benefits such as worker training. new products for local use and the stimulation of indiges business activity. aher important contribution that opic makes to the development process stems from the stability that opics participation lends to investment arrangements. as shown by opics claims record. opics participation tends to enhance the possibilities for avoiding or resolving investment disputes. in addition. opics involvement reduces the likelihood that a dispute between the private investor and the host country will escalate into a dispute between the united states and the host country. any institution that can reduce the likelihood of a poliical confrontation deserves our support solely for that reason. i would like  to turn to opics impact on the u.s. ecoy. at the outset. i want to emphasize that opics contribution to the development process in the developing countries comes at cost to the u.s. taxpayer. opic is selfsustaining and is  seeking any appropriation. it charges substantial fees for its services and follows prudent underwriting and lending policies. insurance fees for combined coverage vary from 1.5 to 3 percent per annum. which are three to six times as high than the concessional fees charged by comparable agencies in other industrial countries such as germany. france. or japan. opic also imposes certain surcharges and coinsurance requirements on large comuanies. aher important point to be remembered is that opic runs an increasingly successful operation. since it began its operations in 1971. opics earnings hqve exceeded $328 million against $53 million in operating expenses and net insurance claims payments of $108 million. insurance reserves have grown steadily through these earnings and  stand at $229 million. which appear to be sufficient to preclude any future anticipated request for appropriations. we have heard much talk about how opic and the investment it facilitates injure the u.s. ecoy. i heartily disagree. opic pays soecial attention to the impact of a potential project on the u.s. ecoy. it is highly selective and encourages only those projects that will  have an adverse effect on the level of u.s. employment or balance of payments. in the last 3 years. opic has turned down 34 projects as either being "runaway plants" or likely to have a negative impact on u.s. employment. a representative of organized labor sits on opics board to insure that labors concerns are taken into account in the proi ect selection. to complement its policy of avoiding projects that may cost u.s. jobs. opic has decided to strengthen its efforts to support projects that stimulate the creation of u.s. jobs. opic estimates that projects it has assisted during the past 3 years will have generated an inflow to the united states of $2.3 billion and created 37.500 u.s. jobs during the first 5 years of the projects expected lives. s. 1771 also seeks to give opic a develormental role in the u.s. ecoy by reaffirming our intention that opic 3.49.10 should give preferential consideration to projects sponsored by small business and companies lacking significant experience overseas. we have provided opic with some flexibility in defining "small business" for foreign investment purposes. nevertheless. we have required opic to continue to make every effort to give preferential consideration to those firms falling within the small business administration definition of small business. opics record in this area has shown some recent improvement. almost twothirds of opic financing already goes to projects sponsored by such companies. opic insurance programs in the past have. however. primarily been used by fortune 1.000 sized companies. since 90 to 95 percent of all u.s. investment overseas is made by these companies. only the very largest companies are able to selfinsure. with the majority requiring opic insurance to offset the political risks inherent in investing in the developing countries. nevertheless. opic must make a concerted effort to encourage the smaller u.s. firms to avail themselves of the insurance program. in this regard it is important to recall that congress provided in 1974 that opic initiate investment identification and counseling services primarily to enhance interest in the lower income ldcs and to help smaller u.s. companies and those inexperienced in overseas operations. i am encouraged by the fact that in the last 3 years approximately almost onefourth of the projects opic has insured have involved companies smaller than the fortune 1.000. which is far above their percentage of u.s. foreign investment. the importance of opic and the services it provides can be demonstrated by opics inability to meet the "privatization" mandate contained in the 1974 legislation to turn over completely its direct underwriting functions to private insurance companies. all concerned agree that this mandate has proven unworkable. because opic provides a service that the private sector will  provide entirely on its own. s. 1771 eliminates the requirement that opic turn over its entire insurance operation to private companies because continuation of the requirement would undermine opics effectiveness as a developmental agency. opics portfolio can once again aim at maximizing opics developmental impact rather than maximizing private participation. which had brought with it a concern for less risky. more profitable projects. the bill would. however. permit opic to seek private coinsurance participation on equitable terms when this is consistent with opics basic objectives. s. 1771 also bars pavment of insurance claims in cases where the insured investor is found by a u.s. court or agency to have committed an act of bribery of a foreign official with respect to the insured project. this provision would. however. cease to be effective upon enactment of general legislation providing for criminal penalties for acts of bribery committed by investors in order to influence actions of a foreign government. in conclusion. i strongly believe that the provisions of s. 1771 will support and strengthen the administrations new guidelines for giving opic a greater developmental focus. the bill extends opics authorities for 4 years. clarifies opics developmental mandate. and directs opic to favor small business and benefit the u.s. ecoy. especially u.s. employment. at cost to the u.s. taxpayer. with this legislation and the administrations new policy guidelines. opic is about to embark in a new direction. any past evidence of opics disinterest in fulfilling the developmental function is. therefore.  relevant to the future. this is what i meant earlier when i urged my colleagues to focus their attention on the changes we have made in the legislation. i would also like to bring to the attention the "dear colleague" letter that senators humphrey. glenn. stone. bentsen. percy. griffin. and i circulated in support of opic. i ask unanimous consent that the letter be printed in the record.
