. i am joined today by senators reed. kennedy and kerry in introducing legislation that would study the sustainability of the john h. chafee blackstone river valley national heritage corridor. established in 1986. the blackstone heritage corridor recognizes the national and historical significance of the blackstone region as the birthplace of the american industrial revolution. at the time of its inception. the blackstone corridor represented an entirely new approach for the national park service (nps). instead of designating the area as a unit of the national park system. the blackstone corridor became an inative model for how the nps could work with states and local communities in recognizing and interpreting the history and resources of a region. spanning two states and encompassing twenty communities and half a million people. the corridor represents a unique partnership between the nps. the states of rhode island and massachusetts. and the local communities. charged with overseeing the corridor. federallyappointed state and local representatives form the blackstone corridor commission and work with the nps to carry out the mission of preserving and interpreting the unique resources and qualities of the blackstone valley. during the commissions tenure. strong partnerships with local governments. private investors. and community stakeholders have been formed. introducing millions of dollars in private investment for heritagerelated projects into the local ecoy. the success of the corridor can be attributed to the dedication and hard work of the nps and the corridor commission in bringing communities together to realize the common goals of revitalized communities. historic and ecoic restoration. and an improved environment. all this has been accomplished with a relatively small amount of federal funding that has been leveraged many times over by state. local. and private sector dollars. on a daily basis. the nps and corridor commission are working directly with community stakeholders to transform the blackstone corridor. raise its ecoic" and environmental status. and preserve the historic mill buildings. riverfronts. and town centers of the blackstone river valley. the ongoing success of the blackstone corridor. and the federal governments role in the regions many triumphs. underscore our interest in determining a future role for the corridor commission and nps in the blackstone valley beyond the existing sunset date. with authority for the corridor commission set to expire in ember 2006. we are introducing legislation today that would authorize the nps to conduct a sustainability study exploring future options for the blackstone corridor. we are asking that the agency conduct this study within a oneyear timeframe. utilizing annual funds that have been appropriated for the commission. the john h. chafee blackstone river valley national heritage corridor sustainability study includes the following components: an evaluation of the progress that has been made in accomplishing the strategies and goals set forth in the cultural heritage and land management plan for the blackstone corridor. including historic preservation. interpretation and education. environmental recovery. recreational development. and ecoic improvement. an analysis of the npss investment in the- corridor during its lifetime and a determination as to how these federal funds have -leveraged additional state. local and private sector funding. an analysis of the npss. investment in the corridor during its lifetime and a determination as to how these federal funds have leveraged additional state. local and private sector funding. an anslysis of the commission form of authority and management structure for the blackstone corridor. and. an identification and evaluation of options for a permanent nps designation or a state park or regional entity as a sustainable framework to achieve the national interest of the blackstone valley. i look forward to working closely with the cosponsors of this bill. as well as members of the committee on energy and natural resources and my senate colleagues in moving this legislation forward in the months ahead. i ask by unanimous consent that the text of the legislation be printed in the record.
. i am joined today by senators reed. kennedy and kerry in introducing legislation that would study the sustainability of the john h. chafee blackstone river valley national heritage corridor. established in 1986. the blackstone heritage corridor recognizes the national and historical significance of the blackstone region as the birthplace of the american industrial revolution. at the time of its inception. the blackstone corridor represented an entirely new approach for the national park service (nps). instead of designating the area as a unit of the national park system. the blackstone corridor became an inative model for how the nps could work with states and local communities in recognizing and interpreting the history and resources of a region. spanning two states and encompassing twenty communities and half a million people. the corridor represents a unique partnership between the nps. the states of rhode island and massachusetts. and the local communities. charged with overseeing the corridor. federallyappointed state and local representatives form the blackstone corridor commission and work with the nps to carry out the mission of preserving and interpreting the unique resources and qualities of the blackstone valley. during the commissions tenure. strong partnerships with local governments. private investors. and community stakeholders have been formed. introducing millions of dollars in private investment for heritagerelated projects into the local ecoy. the success of the corridor can be attributed to the dedication and hard work of the nps and the corridor commission in bringing communities together to realize the common goals of revitalized communities. historic and ecoic restoration. and an improved environment. all this has been accomplished with a relatively small amount of federal funding that has been leveraged many times over by state. local. and private sector dollars. on a daily basis. the nps and corridor commission are working directly with community stakeholders to transform the blackstone corridor. raise its ecoic" and environmental status. and preserve the historic mill buildings. riverfronts. and town centers of the blackstone river valley. the ongoing success of the blackstone corridor. and the federal governments role in the regions many triumphs. underscore our interest in determining a future role for the corridor commission and nps in the blackstone valley beyond the existing sunset date. with authority for the corridor commission set to expire in ember 2006. we are introducing legislation today that would authorize the nps to conduct a sustainability study exploring future options for the blackstone corridor. we are asking that the agency conduct this study within a oneyear timeframe. utilizing annual funds that have been appropriated for the commission. the john h. chafee blackstone river valley national heritage corridor sustainability study includes the following components: an evaluation of the progress that has been made in accomplishing the strategies and goals set forth in the cultural heritage and land management plan for the blackstone corridor. including historic preservation. interpretation and education. environmental recovery. recreational development. and ecoic improvement. an analysis of the npss investment in the- corridor during its lifetime and a determination as to how these federal funds have -leveraged additional state. local and private sector funding. an analysis of the npss. investment in the corridor during its lifetime and a determination as to how these federal funds have leveraged additional state. local and private sector funding. an anslysis of the commission form of authority and management structure for the blackstone corridor. and. an identification and evaluation of options for a permanent nps designation or a state park or regional entity as a sustainable framework to achieve the national interest of the blackstone valley. i look forward to working closely with the cosponsors of this bill. as well as members of the committee on energy and natural resources and my senate colleagues in moving this legislation forward in the months ahead. i ask by unanimous consent that the text of the legislation be printed in the record.
. there is most extraordinary language in this act we are considering. the senator from iowa touched on this. but i wish to reiterate it. it says that withstanding the endangered species act or any other actany other act. whether it is the clean water act. the historic preservation act. whatever it might be. any other law that is on the booksthis dam can go ahead. furthermore. it does  give the tva the option of deciding  whether or  they want to go ahead. it directs them to build that dam. they are hereby. directed to build. construct. operate. and maintain the tellico dam. it seems to me that is a wrong way to do business. we should  except everybody from every law the united states has. and. second. we should leave the option with the tva. in the event we do pass this. to proceed or . i think the whole procedure is bad business. and i hope the amendment is agreed to ing.
. i am pleased to join my disinguished colleague. senator durenberger. in sponsoring s. 317. the state and local river conservation act of 1985. this legislation serves to stimulate conservation of rivers by state and local governments. traditionally. the protection of natural resources has been a federal role. the national wild and scenic rivers system protects 65 rivers or river segments. however. our nation has many more rivers that merit protection. the national park service has identified more than 1.500 river segments as possessing exceptional natural values. this act provides an inative alternative to the national wild and scenic rivers system for protecting these exceptional national resources. state and local governments can and have taken the initiative to protect streams of exceptional value. in rhode island. the woodpawcatuck rivers study is an excellent example of how state and local governments can complement federal efforts in river conservation. the woodpawcatuck rivers corridor is rhode islands least developed and most rural river system. since these rivers are of such high quality. it is essential that they be conserved. the national park service. in 1983. entered into a cooperative agreement with the rhode island department of environmental management and the office of state planning. the woodpawcatuck watershed association. and nine municipalities to set this effort in motion. as a result of the cooperative study. an inative plan was developed for the protection and enhancement of the natural. cultural. and recreational resources of the wood and pawcatuck rivers. the state and local governments are playing a vital role in the conservation of these rivers. the state and local river conservation act provides incentives to state and local governments to establish or upgrade river conservation programs. this bill authorizes $8 million in federal matching grants to support program planning and administration. an additional $2 million is authorized for statewide river assessments. the measure also protects rivers from adverse development and provides a mechanism for states to concur in federal development projects. further. the bill clarifies the application of existing laws to river conservation. with regard to volunteer participation and tax incentives for the donation of land. easements. and rightsofway. the national wild and scenic rivers act will continue to protect many of americas rivers. in concert with this effort. the state and local river conservation act can provide the impetus for more state and local involvement. the federal. state. and local governments can work together toward the common goal of protecting americas high quality rivers. i hope the senate can consider this important measure in the near future. and i urge my colleagues to join in supporting this effort.e
. i am pleased to join my disinguished colleague. senator durenberger. in sponsoring s. 317. the state and local river conservation act of 1985. this legislation serves to stimulate conservation of rivers by state and local governments. traditionally. the protection of natural resources has been a federal role. the national wild and scenic rivers system protects 65 rivers or river segments. however. our nation has many more rivers that merit protection. the national park service has identified more than 1.500 river segments as possessing exceptional natural values. this act provides an inative alternative to the national wild and scenic rivers system for protecting these exceptional national resources. state and local governments can and have taken the initiative to protect streams of exceptional value. in rhode island. the woodpawcatuck rivers study is an excellent example of how state and local governments can complement federal efforts in river conservation. the woodpawcatuck rivers corridor is rhode islands least developed and most rural river system. since these rivers are of such high quality. it is essential that they be conserved. the national park service. in 1983. entered into a cooperative agreement with the rhode island department of environmental management and the office of state planning. the woodpawcatuck watershed association. and nine municipalities to set this effort in motion. as a result of the cooperative study. an inative plan was developed for the protection and enhancement of the natural. cultural. and recreational resources of the wood and pawcatuck rivers. the state and local governments are playing a vital role in the conservation of these rivers. the state and local river conservation act provides incentives to state and local governments to establish or upgrade river conservation programs. this bill authorizes $8 million in federal matching grants to support program planning and administration. an additional $2 million is authorized for statewide river assessments. the measure also protects rivers from adverse development and provides a mechanism for states to concur in federal development projects. further. the bill clarifies the application of existing laws to river conservation. with regard to volunteer participation and tax incentives for the donation of land. easements. and rightsofway. the national wild and scenic rivers act will continue to protect many of americas rivers. in concert with this effort. the state and local river conservation act can provide the impetus for more state and local involvement. the federal. state. and local governments can work together toward the common goal of protecting americas high quality rivers. i hope the senate can consider this important measure in the near future. and i urge my colleagues to join in supporting this effort.e
. there is a flaw in what the senior senator from louisiana says. he says the independents are out there . but he does  e that. and i would call to his attention. the independents. if they are out there . are operating under the very law that senator wilson wishes to return to. namely unlimited liability for cleanup costs. that is the current situation. so i think it is a bit unfair to say that this amendment favors the big oil companies as opposed to the present situation. if the independents are out there  they are out there under the very situation that the senator from california is advocating. i will finish quickly by saying that this amendment of the senator from california has the active support of the oceanic society. the natural resources defense council. the conservation law foundation. and the national wildlife federation. i also ask unanimous consent a letter from the sierra club dated august 3. 1989. be printed at this point in the record.
. every state is grappling with the issue of solid waste disposal. landfills across america are reaching their capacity. and residents are resisting efforts to create new landfill sites in their communities. incinerators are an alternate means of waste disposal. but i am concerned that some communities are considering incineration before all other options have been thoroughly explored. congress soon will be considering renewing and strengthening rcra [the resource conservation and recovery act] our nations primary regulations regarding solid waste disposal. a main topic of concern will be what to do with the growing mound of waste we are creating daily. obviously. the best solution to dealing with waste is to avoid producing it in the first place. waste that is produced can be burned. or buried. or dumped at sea. but each method has a devastating environmental consequence. there is one method. however. that can be done by everyone and actually has a positive environmental impact. and that is recycling. there are states. such as my home state of rhode island. that have instituted mandatory recycling programs. by complying with these efforts. residents feel that they are doing their part to help improve the environment. businesses also have begun to pitch in by instituting their own recycling programs. in fact. many senate offices. mine included.  have separate bins for paper. glass. cans. and other waste. today i would like to bring your attention to aher source of waste. have you ever wondered how much trash is generated at a convention. once the exhibits have been broken down. the leftover accompanying trade material. handouts and such have been collectedall this adds up to quite a large amount of trash. last year mccormick place in chicago. the largest exhibition hall in the country. generated more than 77.000 cubic yards of solid waste. this is egh to cover more than 500 football fields to a depth of 1 inch. and this is just one facility. from january 12 through 15. 1992. the national housewares manufacturers association will be sponsoring its international housewares show at mccormick place in chicago. this national trade show. one of the largest in the world. will include 2.000 exhibitors and attract more than 50.000 attendees. this year the national housewares manufacturers association has decided to implement a comprehensive waste recycling program for its convention. plastic. aluminum. and mixed paper. such as trade magazines. will be recycled. i commend and applaud the national houswares manufacturers association recycling initiative. it is my hope that other trade show managers will follow the associations lead and institute similar programs. waste disposal is a very serious and complex environmental problem. recycling alone is  the solution. but efforts by organizations like the national housewares manufacturers association and mandatory recycling programs implemented by states like rhode island will go a long way in helping to reduce the amount of waste we generate each year.e
. i made one misstatement. i suggestedi guess more than suggested--stated that the junior senator from tennessee was in the senate when he voted to overrule the endangered species act in connection with the snail darter. that was incorrect. he was in the house and took that vote in the house. he took the vote. but i suggested he was in the senate. that was inaccurate. in making that suggestion i said it was in the past 8 years. i think in fact it was prior to that because i can remember senator baker was here at the time and. of course. senator baker preceded senator gore coming to the senate. in other words senator gore took senator bakers seat. so that must have been prior to the past 8years. the vote on the snail darter and the tellico dam probably was some 10 years ago. i am  exactly sureabout that period. the junior senator from tennessee at that time was in the house of representatives. but. indeed he did take the vote that i said he did.
. yesterday. the senate passed h.r. 5679. the hud/va appropriations bill. as part of that bill. the senate adopted. by voice vote. a hazardous waste amendment which i authored and which was cosponsored by senators durenberger and baucus. although i submitted extensive remarks on the amendment at the time the amendment was adopted. that statement did  contain an explanation of the metals recovery study included in the amendment. at this time. i would like to address that portion of the amendment. recycling of hazardous wastes which contain metals or other valuable resources makes sense. if the recycling activity is carried out in a safe manner. these activities can benefit both our ecoy and the environment. in recent years. metals recovery or recycling operations regulated under the resource conservation and recovery act [rcra] have been the focus of some debate. those involved with the recovery or recycling operations have alleged that rcras stringent hazardous waste regulations discourage such operations. on the other hand. some state hazardous waste management officials and those representing the environmental community have alleged that these operations are dangerous and need to be regulated even more stringently. the metals recovery study contained in my amendment directs epa to conduct a study on the effect of rcras regulations on metals recovery operations. in conducting this study epa must consider how we can best encourage metals recovery while still ensuring that these activities are conducted in a manner that protects human health and the environment. i would like to make clear what this study does  direct epa to consider. the goal of this study is  to determine whether metals recovery operations may be exempted from regulation under rcra. it is  to determine whether metal bearing wastes or byproducts should be considered products as opposed to wastes. the study also does  direct epa to consider whether facilities that recover metals should be regulated under subtitle c of rcra as hazardous waste treatment facilities or under subtitle d as hazardous industrial operations the goal of this study is to determine what steps congress could take to encourage legitimate. safe metals recovery operations within the context of subtitle c of rcra. where those operations involve hazardous wastes or materials. epa is directed to complete this study by april 28. 1993. and transmit its findings to the senate committee on environment and public works and the house committee on energy and commerce. it is hoped that the information gathered during this study will be useful during the 103d congress in our efforts to reauthorize rcra.
. i would like to join in the thanks to the distinguished chairman of the committee. senator deconcin. for working this out with us. with the distinguished senator from ohio [senator merzenbaum]. taking the lead on it. as has been pointed out. senator metzenbaum is the chairman of the task force which the distinguished senator from wyoming is a member of. representing the republican side in a task force from the environment and public works committee to deal with the gsa. this was a difficult problem. i k the concernsthat the chairman of the committee. the manager of the bill. has. in the past. we have had some difficulties in our committee getting on with approving or disapproving of the request for buildings that come before us. last year. we truly had an unfortunate situation develop. but i think that the solution that senator metzenbaum and senator deconcng have worked out here is a fair one for everybody involved. it gives us the chance to review these. we have to say yes or  if we do hing. then the buildings go on forward. that seems fair. so i thank all involved
 inated mr. armstrong for this position on april 28. last thursday. june 9. the committee on environment and public works unanimously reported out mr. armstrongs ination. during mr. armstrongs confirmation hearing. senators campbell. allard. conrad. and dorgan. as well as representatives skagos and pomeroy. spoke in support of his ination. in addition. senator daschle. gover romer of colorado. gover racicot of montana. gover janklow of south dakota. and the association of state floodplain managers have written letters of recommendation on mr. armstrongs behalf. i am pleased to report that michael armstrong has an impressive background that suits him well to the position before him. for the past 3 years. he has served as the director of fema region 8. which includes the states of colorado. montana. th dakota. south dakota. utah. and wyoming. mr. armstrong has done an excellent job as region 8 director. he has assumed tremendous leadership during major disasters. such as the recent floods in th dakota. moreover. mr. armstrong has done a great deal to encourage public outreach and coordination between federal. state. and local response resources. fema is the central agency within the federal government responsible for emergency planning. preparedness. mitigation. response. and recovery. the position for which mr. armstrong has been inated. associate director of mitigation. carries out femas policies and programs to eliminate or reduce risks to life and property from natural hazards such as floods. hurricanes. and earthquakes. federal emergency management has always focused primarily on how to respond to a disaster. after it strikes. we in congress are different. almost every year. we pass supplemental emergency appropriations legislation to pay for the additional. unanticipated costs of timely disasters. fema is beginning to place greater emphasis on the mitigation or prevention of longterm risks before the disaster strikes. the purpose of this shift in focus is hopefully to reduce liabilities and ultimately to reduce the cost of disaster response. this appears to be a smart move. and we are all eager to see fema succeed in carrying out this initiative. if confirmed. mr. armstrong will lead femas efforts in mitigating the risks of natural disasters. this task is  an easy one. but i am confident in mr. armstrongs ability to face the challenge ahead.
. i believe that this amendment will improve the sikes act significantly. and represents a major achievement in environmental law in this congress. the speed with which this legislation has moved in this congress understates its importance both for the agenda of the environment and public works committee. and for efforts to conserve natural resources nationwide. i would especially like to thank both the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee on readiness. senator inhofe. and the distinguished chairman of the committee on armed services and manager of the bill. senator thurmond. for their cooperation and efforts in facilitating approval of this amendment.
 inated mr. armstrong for this position on april 28. last thursday. june 9. the committee on environment and public works unanimously reported out mr. armstrongs ination. during mr. armstrongs confirmation hearing. senators campbell. allard. conrad. and dorgan. as well as representatives skagos and pomeroy. spoke in support of his ination. in addition. senator daschle. gover romer of colorado. gover racicot of montana. gover janklow of south dakota. and the association of state floodplain managers have written letters of recommendation on mr. armstrongs behalf. i am pleased to report that michael armstrong has an impressive background that suits him well to the position before him. for the past 3 years. he has served as the director of fema region 8. which includes the states of colorado. montana. th dakota. south dakota. utah. and wyoming. mr. armstrong has done an excellent job as region 8 director. he has assumed tremendous leadership during major disasters. such as the recent floods in th dakota. moreover. mr. armstrong has done a great deal to encourage public outreach and coordination between federal. state. and local response resources. fema is the central agency within the federal government responsible for emergency planning. preparedness. mitigation. response. and recovery. the position for which mr. armstrong has been inated. associate director of mitigation. carries out femas policies and programs to eliminate or reduce risks to life and property from natural hazards such as floods. hurricanes. and earthquakes. federal emergency management has always focused primarily on how to respond to a disaster. after it strikes. we in congress are different. almost every year. we pass supplemental emergency appropriations legislation to pay for the additional. unanticipated costs of timely disasters. fema is beginning to place greater emphasis on the mitigation or prevention of longterm risks before the disaster strikes. the purpose of this shift in focus is hopefully to reduce liabilities and ultimately to reduce the cost of disaster response. this appears to be a smart move. and we are all eager to see fema succeed in carrying out this initiative. if confirmed. mr. armstrong will lead femas efforts in mitigating the risks of natural disasters. this task is  an easy one. but i am confident in mr. armstrongs ability to face the challenge ahead.
. i believe that this amendment will improve the sikes act significantly. and represents a major achievement in environmental law in this congress. the speed with which this legislation has moved in this congress understates its importance both for the agenda of the environment and public works committee. and for efforts to conserve natural resources nationwide. i would especially like to thank both the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee on readiness. senator inhofe. and the distinguished chairman of the committee on armed services and manager of the bill. senator thurmond. for their cooperation and efforts in facilitating approval of this amendment.
i just rise. . in 1973. the senate decisively endorsed the endangered species act with the intent to mitigate mans effect on the destruction of life. we wisely recognized the importance of all creatures of the earth and how much we have yet to learn of their potential worth. withstanding the aesthetic and spiritual values of such animals as the giant blue whale. and the practical medicinal benefits of minute plants. all life is part of an intricate. interdependent web. single soecies. therefore. is unimportant. the endangered species act has served its purpose well. with the sole exception of tva. federal agencies testified before congress that they have been able to accommodate the survival of an endangered species with the intent and purpose of their public works projects. hundreds of conflicts have been resolved due to good faith interagency cooperation. implementation of the act proves that man and animal can successfully live together. as they should. i am afraid. however. that the success of this act and the logic that led to its passage will be severely undermined by the existence of a federal project whose potential benefits should have been questioned from the start. the tellico dam and the seemingly inuous snail darter are the focus of a new controversy over the alleged inflexibility of the endangered species act. understandably the idea of a 3inch fish halting a multimillion dollar dam seems comical at face value. mind you. i must admit i have special reverence for the snail darter. but. at the same time. i have love for the tellico dam. in the past. tva officials failed to reassess the value of a project that was first conceived in 1939. but  begun until 1967. responsible persons. including the present chairman of the tennessee valley authority. question the benefits of the plan if it is allowed to go full term. closing the gates of the tellico dam will  only destroy the last habitat of the snail darter. but also 17.000 acres of high quality farmland. the last freeflowing section of the little tennessee river. and numerous historical and archeological sites. including the ancestral home of the cherokee indian. all this would be accomplished in exchange for a 0.0005 percent increase in tvas energy output. yet. because of this one questionable undertaking. we are  ready to consider a bill. s. 2899. which will give the u.s. government the authority to condemn a species to extinction. the culverbaker proposal allows a sevenperson committee to provide an exemption for a project if its benefits outweigh the benefits of conserving a species. what are the criteria. is the species edible. does it provide for other species. is it pretty to look at. i believe we simply do  k egh about life and its interactions necessary to maintain the health of our planet to make such decisions. certainly. the effect of the proposal would  be detrimental if federal agencies truly dedicated themselves to resolving a conflict with an endangered species as they have done over the past 5 years. but there is a danger that those same agencies will  have the license to push ahead with their programs and defer the problem to the committee. hence. the committee will be faced with the cut and dry decision to either save a project or a species. i contend that the success of the act in the past has clearly shown that the united states government does  have to play god and make such life and death decisions. therefore. i urge my colleagues to support the nelson amendment to s. 2899. let us  let the fate of the tellico dam excite us into changing a law that works.
. acid precipitation. be it wvet or dry in nature. is one of the major environmental problems facing us today and it looms as an ever worsening problem for the 1980s. with the conversion of many powerplants from petroleum and natural gas to coal. emissions loadings of pollutants such as sulfur and nitrogen oxides (so..) will increase and add to acid precipitation. the prospect of acrosstheboard relaxation of auto emissions standards as proposed by h.r. 4400. the mobile source clean air act amendments of 1981. could further compound the problem of  only acid precipitation but general pollution loadling of carban moide (co) and hydrocarbons ats well. this is  only a regional problem but also a global one. in fact the problem has placed a strain on our relations with our neighbor to the th. canada. many lakes in canada and the united states are  devoid of most higher forms of animal life due to acidic precipitation and more are in imminent danger. the dollar value of the damage caused by th% plight is already quite high. unless we take action  to reduce our emission rates of s02 and ~ the problem wvill only become worse. acid rain causes numerous problems. acid rains leach valuable minerals as well as mobilize toxic metals in the soil such. as aluminum. copper. and lead. through bloaccumulation toxic metals canl become highly concentrated in our food chain and can pose a serious health hazard. in addition. acidic waters transported through metal pipes can corrode those pipes. causing toxic metals to go into solution and come out of the tap into our drinking water. acidic influx into bodies of water can increase the levels of methyl mercury in fish which in turn can be quite harmful to man. also. acid mists may even be implicated in lung problems such as emphysema as well as certain heart ailmients. in addition acid rain corrodes many manmade structures. such as monuments. buildings. and or finishes. the scientific evidence amassed shown a direct correlation between s0. slidl missions. coming mainly from powerplants and automobiles respectively. and acid
 who created epa in 1970. we are committed to renewing the republican commitment to the environment in the time remaining in this legislative session and in the years to come. clean air and clean water are hard work. we intend to see to it that our party takes the lead from here on gmt.o by mr. packwood:
. for the september 29 issue of the wall street journal. elliot carlson has written a penetrating and alarming account of the plight of the u.s. fishing industry. mr. carlson states that the decline of the industry has lead many kledgeable people to fear for its future. u.s. authorities seem either unwilling or unable to halt the continued harassment of new england fishermen by foreign fleets sweeping our fishing grounds. present federal programs aimed at helping the fisherman are unresponsive to his problems and are badly in need of overhaul. in less than a month. the subcommittee on energy. natural resources. and the environment of the committee on commerce will consider five bills which address themselves to major problems facing the nations fishermen. i look forward to the hearings. for i am sure that they will be a major contribution to the construction of effective and farreaching new programs that will aid in the revitalization of this great industry. i ask unanimous consent that mr. carlsons article be printed in the record.
. i am glad to join with members of the senate and house from new jersey and new york in sponsoring legislation authorizing an interstate compact that will lead to creation of the midatlantic states air pollution control commission. the compact already has been approved by the states of new jersey and new york. and makes provision for the eventual inclusion of connecticut. pennsylvania. and delaware as partners. the bill before us today would give congressional consent to the compact. the commission to be formed would be composed of the govers of the signatory states as well as a federal representative. each member would have a single vote. and a majority would rule. the major responsibility of the commission would be to establish and enforce uniform standards of air quality for a regional "airshed." the lines of the "airshed" would be delineated by the new agency. the coordinated attack on air pollution envisioned by the compact is recognition of a simple fact. namely. that air pollution has respect for traditional political boundaries. the fragmented efforts to date to control air pollution in the highly industrialized states of the midatlantic region can do the job. the contamination of the air continues without perceptible abatement. to be effective. the attack on air pollution must be regionwide and the controls must be at the same level for all parts of the region. the creation of a single. areawide agency to act both as leader and coordinator in the clean air field is the obvious answer. such interstate instrumentalities are clearly within the bounds of the federalstate relationship. indeed. they are examples of the creative use of that relationship to deal with a growing category of problems requiring joint action by a number of states. one example in my own region is the delaware river basin commission. a partnership of four states--new jersey includedand the federal government. the mission of the drbc is to conserve and develop the tremendous resources of the delaware river basin. the proposed midatlantic states commission would more than meet a federal recommendation made earlier this year that a bistate organization be created to clean up the heavily polluted air in the thern "new jerseynew york city area. i supported that recommendation as i have all constructive efforts to cleanse the polluted skies of my state and the region surrounding it. the introduction of the proposed interstate compact in the house and senate should be cause for complacency in the battle against air pollution. rather. it should be taken for what it isa sign that state and local officials of our region finally recognize the need to work together to attack a problem that one state can solve individually.
. it is with the greatest regret that i find myself in an opposing position to some of my very good friends with whom i generally see eye to eye. this bill teaches us that we people from the cities have got to take more of an interest in what goes on on the farm. because we are paying the bill. we are paying it in the fcrm of the cost of food. and in this matter of appropriation involved. we are paying it. in addition. in taxes. i think the point that has  been brought out as yet is what we are talking about. we are talking only about what individual farmers are to be paid for .taking care of their own land. we have already passed an appropriation of over $50.000.000 for advising farmers on good soil conservation practices and this is -proper. indeed. we are  dealing with that . there are also appropriations which have to do with building dams and carrying out drainage and other worksin this or other billsin order to preserve the land. we are dealing  only with what we pay the individual farmer for using fertilizers. spreading lime. plowing under certain crops. and similar practices.
. i. shall raise a number of matters and i hope that the committee and the ranking miity member will bear with me. the first matter i wish to deal with. upon which i am . presenting an amendment. is the sandridge dam project. listedin the bill from the other body as ellicott creek. n.y. this is a very esseniial project foi the people of the western part of the state. of new york. it has been authorized by the house billsubjectto an accommodation extended to one of the representatives from new york. barber conable. who felt the relocation problem was extremely serious and wanted some way to ascertain if there was an alternate to the one chosen for this project. in view of the fact that the matter was  in balance in the other body. with one representative ardently desiring the project and aher desiring to have it looked .at to see if there were any alternatives. it struck me that. on the part of the state of new york. we should make clear our great interest in having the project approved in conference. but  try to ameid it here. which might change the agreement arrived at there. i think it serves my state best if i have printed in the record -the telegram from gover rockefeller pointing out the high urgency of this project to our state and a letter addressed to me from the junior senator from new york . generally to the same effect. and expressing to the chairman of the committee and. the ranking miity member the deep interest of the state in this project and the great necessity it represents to us in terms of conservation of land and the hope that the balance which has been attained in the other body may be retained. assuming. and i hope that it is. that the conferees agree on allowing this project as it appears in the house bill.
