. i rise in strong support of the substitute bill being offered by the gentleman from washington and the gentleman from minnesota and in opposition to the abbitt amendment. according to recent estimates by the national council on hunger. only 8.8 million of the 25.4 million impoverished americans  receive food stamps. in my judgment. it is unconscionable for the agriculture committee to have prohibited the issuance of free food stamps. even for the destitute. and included an unenforceable and unjust work provision in the bill at a time when the food stamp program reaches only onethird of the eligible participants. the foleyquie substitute would expand and improve the food stamp program so that it would reach all americans who need it. by extending eligibility to every person from a household of fouror the equivalentwith an income of $4.000 or less. making free food stamps available to the completely destitute. enabling the elderly to buy meals from profit groups. and thus free them from the burden of food preparation. allowing food stamp and commodity distribution programs to operate concurrently in a given area. and authorizing the secretary of agriculture to establish food stamp programs in any state that fails to initiate its own program within 300 days after the bill is passed. the substitute measure would authorize expenditures of $2 billion in fiscal year 1971. $2.5 billion in fiscal year 1972. and $3 billion for fiscal year 1973. this represents a large increase over the $610 million authorization for fiscal year 1970. but we must be willing to pay the price if we are to eradicate hunger from this nation of plenty. certainly it will be worth this price to eliminate the present cost to society of hunger. malnutrition. and the illnesses associated with hunger. administration of the food stamp program would be improved in a number of important respects. for example. the substitute would replace the present timeconsuming certification procedure with certification by declaration. with verification of certification done through sampling techniques. weekly distribution of food stamps would be authorized. to better comply with the cash flow of lowincome families. while the substitute does contain a work provision. it would reduce a households coupon bonus only in proportion to the share of the individual in the household who fails to register or accept suitable employmentinstead of excluding the entire household from the food stamp program if any one adult fails to register or accept work. as provided in the committee bill. clearly. this is a more equitable approach. perhaps most important in assuring the availability of the food stamp program to all those who need it. the substitute would eliminate the committee requirement that the states pay. by 1974. up to 10 percent of the bonus costs of the stamps. plus some additional administrative costs  borne by the federal government. such a requirement would impose an impossible burden on states which are already finding it difficult to keep up with rising welfare and education costs. and might force some of them to drop out of the program. i strongly support the adoption of the foleyquie substitute. which should lead to a more effective and farreaching food stamp program.
i thank the distinguished senator. . i rise to oppose the amendment of the distinguished senator from indiana and to associate myself with the remarks of the distinguished senator from south dakota. let me say that i do  think any apologies are due for what has been accomplished by the food stamp program. it has had its mistakes. but in the sense of delivery of product. in the sense of oversighti might add. there has been far more oversight here than there has been on the defense budget over the yearsin the sense of an end to be achieved. apologies. e whatsoever. indeed. i think what we do for the weakest elements of our society. is very much the measure of a civilization and the measure of this country. yet the mood . in these times. the political wisdom of these times. is to use the excuse of a weakened ecoy to turn our backs on the weakest elements of our society. this is one example of it. i remind my colleagues on the floor that one of the biggest investments this nation ever made. $7 million to buy alaska. was made at a time when the nation was literally bankrupt. we are getting that back many fold this yearprobably about $7 million every 2 hours. the main investment we have to make is in human beings and the quality of life. you can talk national defense until you are blue in the face. we have defense unless we have a motivated people. a motivated people have to be fed and a motivated people have to be housed and a motivated people have to have a job. that is the essence of our defense. it is also the essence of the greatness f this country. i very vehemently oppose  just the amendment itself but the concept as it is presented here. on the floor of the senate. i hope the amendment will be defeated.
 the federal government will spend the dollars being considered by the amendments whether or  the amendments pass. the question before us is whether we want more dollars spent for welfare type subsidies to the disabled or fewer dollarsthose called for in the amendmentspent to allow the disabled to taketheir places in tax paying productive jobs. i urge my colleagues to approve the amendment. i can think of anything. in terms of humanity and in terms of the new ecoic reasoning. that comes together and calls more for the adoption of this amendment.
: there is reason why anybody has to make this into an either/ or choice. you either have to have strong defense or you can have a welfare state. that is a lot of sense. the united states is a balanced and commonsense society. yes. we nesd money for defense. who argues that. but these proportions. the same thing was done on the social side admittedly. decades ago. when we had the great society. i think what the american people call for  is for the pendulum to come back in the middle. that is what is sought to be achieved by the chafee amendment an emasculation of the defense budget.  an exaltation of the social budgets or those dealing with education. but to bring the pendulum back in the middle while the budget committee and the administration on the other hand want to freeze the irrationality of that defense budget. that is what is at issue.
: there is reason why anybody has to make this into an either/ or choice. you either have to have strong defense or you can have a welfare state. that is a lot of sense. the united states is a balanced and commonsense society. yes. we nesd money for defense. who argues that. but these proportions. the same thing was done on the social side admittedly. decades ago. when we had the great society. i think what the american people call for  is for the pendulum to come back in the middle. that is what is sought to be achieved by the chafee amendment an emasculation of the defense budget.  an exaltation of the social budgets or those dealing with education. but to bring the pendulum back in the middle while the budget committee and the administration on the other hand want to freeze the irrationality of that defense budget. that is what is at issue.
the u.s. government has recognized the value of low interest rates in its own domestic policies. in the housing bill which passed the congress recently. we recognized that many of the people living in poverty in the united states today can afford to pay the mal interest rates in this country. so we have a sliding scale providing for a minimum interest rate of 1 percent contained in that bill. thus low interest rates are  unusual for our government. our government is  acting solely from humanitarian motivations. it is also acting from a very pragmatic point of view. it understands that there is point in charging interest rates to people who can afford to pay those interest rates. the developing countries are in the same dire circumstances in which we find people who are living in poverty in this country. i agree with the distinguished senator that we are in a financial crisis at home. and i believe this has been reflected in the cutback in foreign assistance. in the first instance. i would much rather give these countries x number of dollars in foreign assistance at an interest rate they will be able to pay. than to give them that amount of money at an interest rate they can afford.
. i am pleased to be a cosponsor of the amendment. introduced by my distinguished colleague. the junior senator from california. and others. i can certainly appreciate the concern of the administration and of the appropriations committee that the costs of administering welfare programs be held to an absolute minimum: i do  believe there is anyone in this body who would question this worthwhile objective. but many of us do have legitimate questions over the means. particularly when we consider the extremely harmful effects which section 208 of the bill. as presently drafted. would have on many of our states. i. for one. would have difficulty in supporting a limitation on expenditures if the secretary of hew were given discretion to make exceptions in cases of great hardship. in the commonwealth of massachusetts. for example. the state welfare agency has just begun to assume responsibility for administering a variety of welfare programs. previously. these were administered by the local governments. in such a situation the service. training. and administrative costs are quite naturally increasing at a rapid rate. yet if the committee amendment prevails. the commonwealth of massachusetts will  be able to spend any more in fiscal 1971 than 115 percent of the amount which it spent in fiscal 1970when most of the costs were borne by the local governments. according to the administrations own figures. massachusetts would be set back nearly a million dollars under the proposed limitation. if. however. one projects a similar rate of increase in the states burden for fiscal year 1971 as was sustained in 1970. then the commonwealth of massachusetts stands to lose $3.5 million. an amount which it can ill afford. the federal government has encouraged. promoted. and largely funded this great program for many years. i sincerely hope that an arbitrary ceiling will  be imposed at this time. but rather. that such matters will be left to the finance committee which presently is considering a complete reorientation of our entire national system of social welfare. for these reasons. i urge the adoption of the harris amendment. deleting section 208 from the bill.
. those who receive social security have already been taxed once as their contribution toward their retirement income. we do  tax them again by charging income tax on their social security checks. and. we should  impose a "food stamp tax" on social security increases by making these costofliving adjustments the cause of higher food stamp purchase price and loss of food stamp eligibility for the elderly poor. by mr. brooke:
but . as the secretary of health. education. and welfare and i personally regret that he is leaving the job. because he has been such an outstanding secretary. but i do think they could have taken aher look at this and found they could do a job here in the best interests of education and still keep within our fiscal restraints.
i thank my distinguished chairman.  of the united states will sign for the good and welfare of so many millions and millions of americans. with the exception of this one disagreement in title ix. the conference has come to its conclusion with what we believe to be. even in these times of fiscal difficulty. a sound. solid education appropriations bill. and we are proud to present it to the senate for its adoption.
that might be the healthiest thing that ever happened for this country. that we could shift some of this so that some of these states with the lower cost of living would have some of the welfare recipients.
ir. president. i am today joining with senator mathias in submitting an amendment to the food stamp bill which provides for the establishment of a national commission on the reform of income maintenance programs. the time has long passed for consideration of the problem of the burden of welfare on our nations cities and states. over the years. i have advocated the assumption of responsibility for welfare at the federal level. and the welfare problem has become particularly urgent with the intensification of the fiscal crisis which confronts our cities and states. last year at our hearings in the banking committee on the new york city fiscal crisis. i expressed my own grave reservations about the wisdom of financing the debt of new york city through federal loan guarantees. based upon my experience in municipal fi9638 co: nance. i believe that it is the responsibility of state and local governments to finance their own activities. however. i did vote for the new york city seasonal financing act of 1975. that act provided for shortterm. seasonal cashflow loans of up to $2.3 billion for new york over the next 3 years. the seasonal financing program will assist new york in meeting its shortterm cash needs. it will . however. solve the citys basic ecoic problems. at recent oversight hearings on the seasonal financing act. secretary simon presented to the banking committee some longterm options to help meet the needs of new york and other cities. among other things. the secretary observed. we need a comprehensive reexamination of federal. state and local relationships in the area of assistance to the disadvantaged. he cautioned that a change in welfare policy would  in itself be a solution to the financial problems of new york and other cities. and i agree with him on this. however. federal assumption of responsibility for welfare would go a long way toward easing the fiscal burdens of our financially strapped cities and states. in new york. for instance. if the federal government were to assume all of the citys current welfare obligations. the citys budget deficit would be reduced by about $800 million. welfare is truly a national problem and the financing of public assistance must be a federal responsibility. new yorks situation is only the most publicized example of this problem. in fact. the city of boston has a higher percentage of its population on public assistance than new york does. philadelphia. st. louis. baltimore. newark. and washington. d.c. all have higher percentages of welfare recipients than new york. with a declining population. these cities can longer afford to support their increasing welfare populations. a dramatic shift in our population has occurred over the past decade or two. there has been a large migration of poor persons from the south and elsewhere to our urban centers. a movement of the middle class to the suburbs. and an aging of the existing population in our cities. the population of the central cities has decreased. while the number of poor persons on welfare has increased. the unavailability of jobs for these people in the cities has increased the welfare burden. at the same time. the loss of a tax base because of the migration of middleincome people and industry to the suburbs has made the burden of paying for welfare even greater for the hardpressed working people still living in the cities. ironically. those cities and states which have tried to provide a decent standard of living for their welfare population. including my own state of massachusetts. have been forced to bear a disproportionate share of the national welfare burden. a federal assumption of responsibility for welfare can remove this unfair burden and. at the same time. equalize the benefits available to poor persons in all jurisdictions. in sponsoring this amendment. i am
. i am today joining with senator mathias in introducing a bill which provides for the establishment of a national commission on the reform of income maintenance programs. the time has long passed for consicdration of the problem of the burden of welfare on our nations cities and states. over the years. i have advocated the assumption of responsibility for welfare at the federal level. and the welfare problem has become particularly urgent with the intensification of the fiscal crisis which confronts our cities and states. last year at our hearings in the banking committee on the new york city fiscal crisis. i expressed my own grave reservations about the wisdom of financing the debt of new york city through federal loan guarantees. based upon my experience in municipal finance. i believe that it is the responsibility of state and local governments to finance their own activities. however. i did vote for the new york city seasonal financing act of 1975. that act provided for short- t term. seasonal cashflow loans of up to $2.3 billion for new york over the next 3 years. the seasonal financing program will assist new york in meeting its shortterm cash needs. it will . however. r solve the citys basic ecoic problems. c at recent oversight hearings on the seasonal financing act. secretary simon presented to the banking committee t some longterm options to help meet the a needs of new york and other cities. among other things. the secretary observed. we need a comprehensive reexamination of federal. state and local relationships in the area of assistance to the dispdvantaged. he cautioned that a change in welfare policy would  in itself be a solution to the financial problems of new york and other cities. and i agree with hinl on this. however. federal assumption of responsibility for welfare would go a long way toward easing the fiscal burdens of our financially strapped cities and states. in new york. for instance. if the federal government were to assume all of the citys current welfare obligations. the citys budget deficit would be reduced by about $800 million. welfare is truly a national problem and the financing of public assistance must be a federal responsibility. new yorks situation is only the most publicized example of this problem. in fact. the city of boston has a higher percentage of its population on public assistance than new york does. philadelphia. st. louis. baltimore. newark. and washington. d.c.. all have higher percentages of welfare recipients than new york. with a declining population. these cities can longer afford to support their increasing welfare populations. a dramatic shift in our population has occurred over the past decade or two. there has been a large migration of poor persons from the south and elsewhere to our urban centers. a movement of the middle class to the suburbs. and an aging of the existing population in our cities. the population of the central cities has decreased. while the number of poor persons on welfare has increased. the unavailability of jobs for these people in the cities has increased the welfare burden. at the same time. the loss of a tax base because of the migration of middleincome people and industry to the suburbs has made the burden of paying for welfare even greater for the hardpressed working people still living in the cities. ironically. those cities and states which have tried to provide a decent standard of living for their welfare population. including my own state of massachusetts. have been forced to bear a disproportionate share of the national welfare burden. a federal assumption of responsibility for welfare can remove this unfair burden and. at the same time. equalize the benefits available to poor persons in all jurisdictions. in sponsoring this bill. i am  suggesting that the issues involved in federalization of welfare are simple. we must consider the intricate relationship between our employment program and our welfare policies and. in my opinion. .he availability of jobs is our highest national priority. we must deal with regional variations in the cost of living. we must consider the relationship of velfare related servicesday care. nedicaid. and food stamps. these and ther considerations must be carefully veighed. but it is  as if we have just begun o think about these problems. congress nd the administration have studied. investigated. and evaluated proposals for dealing with the welfare issue for many years. a decision can be put off much longerif hing else. the fiscal plight of our cities and states reminds us of that. what senator mathias and i are proposing is that we set a definite timetable for consideration of specific proposals to reform the welfare system. i urg:c my cclleagues to support this bill. by mr. kennedy (for himself and mr: roth):
. i would like to raise one further point for clarification with regard to the limitation in our bill on filing of state claims for afdc. medicaid. and social service expenditures. it is my understanding. . that this provision will  preclude states from filing estimated claims for currentyear expenditures and adjusting them later in the year on the basis of final fiscal records. does that conform to your understanding of the provision.
i ice on page 28 there is provision for payment in lieu of taxes in annual amounts which do  exceed 10 percent of the annual shelter rent. i am sure the gentleman ks that that does  constitute payment of all taxes.
. as a cosponsor of this amendment. and as ranking miity member of the district of columbia appropriations subcommittee of the senate appropriations committee. i urge its adoption by the senate. adoption would restore the house provision for 25 positions and $310.375 to establish the aid for dependent children of unemployed parents program in the district of columbia. the afdcup program was established by the congress as a national program. on what possible grounds can we justify the exclusion of the district from its benefits. surely we do  want to discriminate against needy children merely because they happen to live in the nations capital. the purpose of this amendment is to permit the district of columbia to share in the 1962 social security amendments authorized by congress by adding a fourth category. unemployment of a parent who is the head of a household. to the other grounds for granting public welfare assistance. it is an attempt to help needy children. who are the inent victims of situations over which they have control. as donald brewer. director of the department of public welfare of the district of columbia. has testified: this program is designed to take care of those heads of households who. for a variety of reasons and sometimes for relatively short times. sometimes for longer periods of time. have employment and there is other assistance for them in the district of columbia * * * so for these families  there is assistance provided by any public agency whatsoever. mr. brewer is convinced that this program is  only vital but is capable of being carefully controlled in terms of caseload and total financial burden. as mr. brewer testified before the house subcommittee: i think our experience and the experience of other agencies is that this caseload can be controlled at a minimum and can be moved. i. think that there are jobs and there are increasing job opportunities. but the people need. the people and the jobs need to get together and occasionally there needs to be some training in between. we intend to control the program also in terms of the persons accepting work. so that when work is offered and they do  accept it and there is justifiable reason. of course they become ineligible. the cost to the taxpayer of caring for a child in an institution or foster home far exceeds the cost of maintaining him in his own home. in a 1963 study published by the metropolitan washington chapter of the national association of social workers and the commission on human resources. it is pointed out that to keep a child in junior village costs $185 a month. all of which is paid by district funds. in a foster home. the cost is $57 a month plus clothing and medical care. also paid entirely by local funds. in contrast. an adc grant for maintenance of the child in his own home in october 1962 amounted to $32.43. more than half of this adc cost is reimbursed by federal funds. any comparison of adc costs with foster care costs makes clear the higher cost to the taxpayer of the departments present policy. the opponents of this amendment argue. mistakenly i believe. that we are promoting illicit relationships under this program. rather. by refusing aid to families unless the fathers abandon them to avoid the maninthehouse rule. i believe that we discourage responsibility and stable homes and encourage promiscuity. and. further. if we are to talk of morality. what of our moral obligation to assist the children of this community who are in desperate need through fault of their own. do we really want to visit the sins of the parents upon their children. do we really want to punish the responsible parent who has lost his job and is unable to find aher in order to discourage malingerers. this program meets a great need. let us pass this amendment.
. i thank my colleague. i want to make just this additional remark. that as the senator from minnesota. the senator from south dakota. and the senator from massachus3tts have very well pointed out. the essence of this proposal is just barely keeping the food stamp program even with the ecoic cost of living. and that is all. we are  trying to enrich it or anything else. we are just keeping the poor person who is on this program. or trying to keep him. in roughly the same position as others who are benefiting from the provisions in this bill. to guard against the penalty of his paying the full cost of inflation
we have had the same complaints from our commissioner of labor in new york. who has said that the amount is inadequate to do the job of handling unemployment insurance claims. it seems to me that whether or  this threat of recession is serious. we certainly want to keep this unemployment insurance sound. i shall therefore support the amendment offered by the gentleman from michigan. . i include the following telegram: detroit mich.. march 22. 1954. representative george a. dondero. house of representatives. washington. d. c.: we urge favorable house action on bureau of employment security. department of labor. supplemental budget request of $141. million. this full amount rather than the $7/2 million recommended by the house appropriations committee is necessary if michigan is to have the proportionate share essential to proper administration.
i thank the senator from iowa for his observations. i am sure he ks that i am  necessarily committed to some of his views on these matters. i do  believe we can really condition the making of an incentive tax cut on what we may save by reducing spending. yet i do believe that under these conditions it is necessary to keep a tighter rein on expenditures than one otherwise would keep. and that there are areas in which savings can be made. i do  believe in broadsword cuts without selectivity. for example. those who favor making deep cuts in a welfare program do  favor making cuts in the appropriations for defense. in fact. instead of making cuts in the appropriations for defense. they want increased appropriations made for that purpose. for my part. i believe that some of the welfare programs are as essential to the national defense. in terms of the morale of the people. as are the big bomberswhich will cost more than the appropriations the president requested. so although i can agree entirely with the senator from iowa. i do believe that if we art to have an incentive tax cut. we must keep a tighter rein on expenditures than perhaps we would like to do. for that reason i voted for a cut in the hew program.
. every year i report to my constituents in new york state on the current session of congress and on my activities during the past year. this is my 19th report. nineteen hundred and sixtyseven was a gratifying year for me personally. but the first session of the 90th congress itself was characterized by deep legislative frustrations in the face of grave national crises. it was a session of inadequacy. the nation was deeply troubled this year by the vietnam war. the growing crisis of our cities. and the threat of international financial crisis. yet. the congress seemed to be more preoccupied with debating the dodd case involving the ethics of a memberbut  passing a much needed code of ethics for senators and congressmenand with disputes between house and senate over how best to cut government spendingwithout passing a tax bill. the pace of the session itself was most distressing. for example. other than supplemental appropriations to cover current needs.  one appropriation measure was enacted until june 24. and most of the measures dealing with the needs of peoplesuch as social security. antipoverty and education were held in continuous delay until the final hours. left unresolved were important measures on civil rights. higher education. crime prevention and housing. all of which are critically needed. also unresolved were efforts to establish responsible congressional guidelines in the search for peace. the need for permanent legislation to protect the nation from strikes or lockouts threatening its health and safety. and an effective program to deal with fiscal and monetary policies at home and abroad. especially in view of the devaluation of the british pound. i will continue to work next year for the adoption of the javitssymington resolution. cosponsored by 63 senators. which outlines the elements of stability and peace in the troubled middle east. and i will also work for adoption of aher resolution i have circulated in the senate. which would replace the outdated gulf of tonkin resolution in establishing practical u.s. peaceseeking goals in vietnam. enacted were several measures of particular interest to me. one was the public broadcasting act of 1967 which will provide federal aid. under strict guarantees of freedom from federal control. to commercial television and radio. aher was a bill barring age discrimination in employment. a proposal i have been sponsoring since i was a congressman in i was particularly gratified that my assignment on the appropriations committee and my seniority as ranking miity member of the labor and public welfare committee enabled me to help conserve major aspects of the antipoverty. education. and welfare programs from insistent attack in key housesenate conferences. it also enabled me to fight for longoverdue projects for new york state. i was hoed this year by being elected chairman of the political committee of the th atlantic assembly. the parliamentarians arm of nato. and by the prestigious distinguished congressional service award of the american political science association. for my legislative activities in the senate. these represent the highlights of the past year.
. it is my understanding that the bureau of the budget has objections to this particular provision and. hence. that the department of health. education. and welfare must express objection to it. i have given this matter consideration myself and it seems to me it is one of those situations in which we in the senate have to judge whether the objections on the part of one of the government departments are justified. i have  heard egh for myself on this matter to substantiate the objection. i point out that the amendment offered by the senator from maryland does. to some extent. at leastperhaps totallyrepresent a problem which the senator from virginia is trying to reach. my own inclination. subject to the views of the senator from colorado if the senator from maryland is willing. is to accept the concept which he has. with the understanding that as we amalgamate the ideas with respect to the bill. we will do our best to retain what ideas we can in conference. but i would  wish to be inflexibly committed in conference to the precise amendment to the bill. but that we would accept the idea. there is a lot in the idea. we will do our utmost. in the context of weaving in the ideas together in settlement with the house. to go as far with it as we can. sometimes. members insist that we be absolutely tied to an amendment adopted. and staying with it in the conference. come what may. i could  make that agreement with respect to this amendment. i respect it. it seeks to serve a desirable end. i would be willing to take this as. again. an element in whatever plan on this particular subject we work out with the house.
the family assistance act would provide. for the first time..a national minimum payment and would also call for a more substantial assumption of local welfare costs by the federal government. in march of 1968more than two years agothe presidents advisory commission on civil disorders (the kerner commission) strongly recommended that efforts be made to develop a system of income* supplementation to provide "for those who can work or who do work. any necessary supplements in such a way as to develop incentives for fuller employment." the president and this republican administration has advanced the first comprehensive legislative proposal to meet that objective. this legislation marks a substantial beginning in dealing with the inequities of the present system which is characterized by discrepancies in the amount of assistance and treatment of individuals between regions of the country. families headed by males and females and between the working and working poor. the administrations proposed bill deserves every support and our best efforts to refine it in every feasible way to insure that a beginning in this policy is made in this sessionand that it is the best beginning possible. in that connection i ampleased to e the statement made by senator long. chairman of the committee on finance on july 22 in resuming hearings. to the effect that the "senate should be. and will be. given an opportunity to vote on welfare reform this year." to accomplish that objective will take the full and sustained personal support of the president and the administration. i am pleased by recent reports that the president intends to exercise that kind of personal leadership and i hope that he will do so in the clearest of ways so that this historic proposal will become law. this legislation constitutes a most commendable initiative. yet is only a beginning. accordingly. i introduce today. a series of amendments to strengthen the measure in a number of ways which i think the senate should adopt under the circumstances. the amendments.i offer todayare as follows: first. i submit an amendment to increase the $1.600 federal eligibility and payment standard to 50 percent of the poverty levo1 beginning in fiscal year 1974. and to revise the basis for determining the poverty level to reflect more adequately the amount which a poor family actually requires to meet food and food costs. on the basis of current costs. the application of this new criteria would result in a federal standard of $2.400 for a family of four in fiscal year second. i submit an amendment to increase the federal eligibility and payment standard by an additional 10 percent of the poverty level for each year after fiscal year 1974 so as to reach the poverty level in fiscal year 1979 and in substance take over state welfare costs. my third amendment would provide an incentive for all states to raise their levels of supplementation by providing immediately upon the effective date of the act for federal sharing in state supplementary payments on a variable basis. ranging from 50 to 83 percent depending upon state fiscal capacity. rather than on the 30percent basis prescribed for all states under the proposed house bill. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a table entitled "percentage applicable to states under medicaid formula (title ix. social security act)."
i thank my colleague very much. i think that is essential. there is aher matter on which i would like to inquire. this relates to the level of expenditure for labor. hew items. when the current rate is the operative provision which is referred to on page 2 of the committee report. the report states: in reference to continuing projects and .activities covered by the department of labor and health. education. and welfare and related agencies appropriation act. financed under continuing resolution during fiscal year 1973 (p.l. 93334). the proposed resolution defines "current rate" as that established by the continuing resolution which. in general. appropriated the amounts at a rate for operations equal to the lower of the rate passed by the house or the senate in h.r. 15417. the first vetoed appropriation bill for the department of laborhealth. education. and welfare and related agencies. for fiscal year 1973. the words "current rate" appear in this particular bill that we are considering today as it relates to the department of labor. health. education. and welfare. at page 4. lines 6 through 13. when called upon to explain this very provision in the continuing resolution. the chairman of the appropriations committee of the other body said the following. and i want to be sure that here our appropriations committee is undertaking the exact same interpretation. the senator from indiana . who has been very active in this matter. has been called to the chamber so that he may also comment if he feels further clarification of this colloquy is needed. representative mahon said:
 nixon stated that: from the experience of the oeo. we have learned the value of having in the federal government an agency whose special concern is the poor. its value as an inator has arisen. in my opinion. from two basic sources. first. its ability to fund and recognize the creative solutions to poverty which have their "feet in the soil." as efforts developed by community action agencies and community ecoic development programs at the local level. second. its ability to evaluate the actions of existing federal departments in terms of their impact upon the poor. with an objective eye. it is questionable whether the inative cycle can be continuedwithout loss or impairment if community action is placed. as proposed in the house bill. in the department of health. education. and welfare. which already. in fiscal year 1974. was responsible for administering $32.7 billion in programs. exclusive even of social security programs. we believe that there continues to be a need for a separate agency for the poor and that if it is the consensus that the oeo itself should  be continuedas appears to be the case at least with the house of representatives and the administrationthen an agency of a new character should take its place. this new agency would be chartered both to continue those existing functions which still require the care of an agency whose special concern is the poor. and to step out in the direction of greater involvement of state and local government which the administration has previously urged. but for which it provides constructive policy.
. at this time i wish to commend the members of the senate appropriations committee for their diligence and dedication in formulating this second supplemental appropriations bill. i am especially pleased that the committee. in its wisdom. saw the compelling need to appropriate $7.350 million for the transition quarter to fund the food assistance program. i believe the food assistance program is an essential component of the child nutrition program. because of it. schools drawing attendance from areas in which poor ecoic conditions exist are able to obtain equipment used for the storage. preparation. transportation. and serving of food. those of us who support the food assistance program recognize that our intention to provide our poor school children with hot lunches can be realized unless the necessary kitchen equipment is also provided. when i learned in january of the decision of the department of agriculture to request only $20.7 million for this worthy endeavor. and thus to seek funding for only 7 months of fiscal year 1976. i was most concerned. i communicated the concern to assistant secretary feltner of the food and nutrition service and urged him to seek full funding for fiscal 1976. regrettably. secretary feltner replied that increased funds would be sought and that. therefore. the food budget would be reduced by $7.3 million. i am pleased that today the senate appropriations committee has reported a bill that restores these funds. this will make it possible for this excellent program to continue in its present form serving the nutritional needs of our schoolchildren. i am hjopeful that the senate conferees will convey to the housesenate conference on the second supplemental appropriations bill a sense of the importance of the food assistance program and of the need for the funds we have provided for the remainder of the fiscal year 1976 and the transition quarter.
i believe. . one of our leading organizations. i believe it is the ced. just the other day called attention to the fact that it was infinitely more important for the cities to have a federalization of welfare than it was to have revenue sharing. that it would do them more good and do the country more good. i ask unanimous consent that this news clip be made part of my remarks. and printed in the record.
