. i shall speak briefly because i k that the senator from oregon wishes to obtain the floor. he is most gracious to allow me to proceed. i protest strongly in respect to the conference report against the excision of the amendment on the persecution of jews in the soviet union. it is the great tradition of our country. going back to the middle of the previous century. that such persecutions have been protested. the senate. after much deliberation. adopted the amendment. it is my deep conviction that it would have been adopted in the house of representativesif submitted to a voteas overwhelmingly as it was in the senate where. i believe. the vote was unanimous except for one dissenting vote. etheless. it has been excised. and the language which has  been put into the conference report is. reallyand i say this with all respect language which relates to the particular problem. -moreover. it does take the finger of blame for persecution of jews off the soviet union where it belongs. with respect to the language used in the conference report. i would  wish to say it is meaningless. i would never say that about language which asserts that the american people are against infringement of the right of freedom of worship or to condemn persecution. even in most general terms. however. it is fair to say that this really has hing to do with the amendment. which is in accord with and germane to the issue with the specific and precise case made on the floor of the senate about the persecution of jews in the soviet union. carried on by the soviet union as a matter of government policy in terms of many antijewish acts. repression of the jewish religion and of jewish culture. all of which was specified in great detail when the question was debated in the senate. this situation is very much to be deplored. moreover. it is a situation which should be protested. it is a fact that it defies the tradition of more than a century in this country of protesting exactly this kind of act in exactly the same country. we protested antijewish acts when the czars were in power. and  we have an opportunity to protest them to the soviet union. one final thought appeals to me very deeplythat we justify a vast part of the struggle in respect to foreign aid. in respect to the defense machinery of the united states. in terms of the struggle against communism. to prevent communism from taking over the world by infiltration. subversion. or persuasion. yet. when we have one of the most meaningful. most appealing. and most sympathetically compelling issues with the communistsnamely. the issue of freedom to practice ones religion. the issue of persecution on the grounds of faith. we forgo it for some doctrinaire idea that it should  go into this law. but somewhere else. what more appropriate place could there be than a law which implements policy upon which all american foreign policy is based. and our determination that communism shall  take over on earth. the one thing that communists are trying to sell mankind on is its liberalism in terms of accommodation to the rights of man. it is the one issue they defy with the greatest of cynicism. the fact that antisemitism is a crime is written into the basic law of the soviet union. yet the government of the soviet union practices antijewish acts which many of us feel are tantamount to the very thing its basic constitution asserts to be a crime. yet. given the opportunity by a wellnigh unanimous vote in the senate to affirm our principles in the foreign aid bill. we take it out upon the doctrinaire ground that it does  belong in this piece of legislationwhich is exactly where it does belong. for the life of me. i can understand where else it should go. it is a "sense of congress" resolution. i am deeply convinced that it is the sense of the country. i believe that the excision of the resolution is shameful and unfortunate. i protest deeply that it was stricken from the bill and referred to only in the broadest and most general of terms. terms to which i could  object and would never protest against. it is right. however. it is  germane to the issue with which the senate is dealing when it adopted the resolution by such an overwhelming majority of senators.
