. i am pleased to be joined today by senator feinstein in introducing the family planning state empowerment act of 2003. this legislation would provide states with a mechanism to improve the health of lowincome women and families by allowing states to expand family planning services to additional women under the medicaid program. the federal government currently reimburses states for 90 percent of their expenditures for family planning services under medicaid. due to the importance of these for lowincome women. this reimbursement rate is higher than for most other health care services. generally. women may qualify for medicaid services. including family planning. in one of two ways: they have children and an income level below a threshold set by the state. ranging from 15 to 86 percent of the federal poverty level. or they are pregnant and have incomes up to 133 percent of the poverty level. federal law allows states to raise this income eligibility level to 185 percent. if they desire. if a woman qualifies because of pregnancy. she is automatically eligible for family planning services for sixty days following delivery. after those sixty days. the womans medicaid eligibility expires. if states want to provide medicaid family planning services to additional populations of lowincome women. they must apply to the federal government for a socalled "1115" waiver. these waivers allow states to establish demonstration projects in order to test new approaches to health care delivery in a manner that is budgetneutral to the federal government. to date. these waivers have enabled eighteen states to expand access to family planning services. most of these waivers allow states to extend family planning to women beyond the sixtyday postpartum period. this allows many women to increase the length of time between births. which las significant health benefits for women and their children. for this reason. an institute of medicine report recommended that medicaid should cover family planning services for two years following a delivery. some of the waivers allow states to provide family planning to women based solely on income. regardless of whether they qualify for medicaid due to pregnancy or children. in general. states have used the same income eligibility levels that apply to pregnant women. 133 percent or 185 percent of the poverty level. creating continuity for both family planning and prenatal care services. these expanded services also help states reduce rates of unintended pregnancy and the need for abortion. my state of rhode island "was one of the first states to obtain one of these waivers. and has had great success with it in terms of preventing unintended pregnancies and improving public health in general. rhode islands waiver has averted 1.443 pregnancies from august 1994 through 1997. resulting in a savings to the state of $14.3 million. in addition. rhode islands waiver has assisted lowincome women with spacingout their births. the number of lowincome women in rhode island with short interbirth intervals. becoming pregnant within 18 months of having given birth. dropped from 41 percent in 1993 to 29 percent in 1999. the gap between medicaid recipients and privately insured women was 11 percent in 1993. compared with only 1 percentalmost negligiblein 1999. as these statistics show. these waivers are extremely valuable and serve as a huge asset to the womens health.  only to my constituents but to constituents in the thirteen other states who currently benefit from these waivers. unfortunately. the waiver process is extremely cumbersome and time consuming. taking up to three years for states to receive approval from the federal government. this may discourage states from applying for family planning waivers. or at the very least. delay them from providing important services to women. our bill would rectify this problem by allowing states to extend family planning services through medicaid without going through the waiver process. eliminating the waiver requirement will facilitate state ination and provide assistance to more lowincome women. this bill will allow states to provide family planning services to women with incomes up to 185 percent of the federal poverty level. for lowincome. postpartum women. states will longer be limited to providing them with only sixty days of family planning assistance. states may also provide family planning for up to one year to women who lose medicaideligibility because of income. i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation. and ask unanimous consent that the text of legislation be printed in the record.
the reason the court gave for vacating the rule was the failure of epa to provide substantial evidence ih the record to support its actions. you did  do egh. they. said. the substantial evidence test does  apply to any other environmental laws. only to tsca. and the only rule ever attempted under tsca was overturned by the courts because epa did  meet a test. a test that under the johnston amendment would apply to all our environmental laws. reading the decision. one gets the impression that even if epa had passed the substantial evidence test. the rule would have been thrown out on other grounds. the court said that epa had  considered a sufficient number of regulatory alternatives because it only did cost estimates on five options.  all of the possible options. the court said epa had  satisfied the requirement that it impose the least burdensome option because it had  presented any evidence the least burdensome option was among the five considered. one could almost conclude that those who drafted the regulatory reform bill before the senatein other words. the johnston substitutedid so with the fifth circuit courts ruling in mind. every hurdle that has made tsca a useless law to protect health and environment is rolled up in this bill before us today. it applies across all of our health and our safety and our environmental statutes. wonder the administration says it will veto the johnston bill if it passes. . if the senate will be guided by the two questions senator glenn set outfirst. will real reform occur. and. second. will environmental laws be protected or will they be underminedonly one -of the two proposals before us today passes that muster. the glennchafee amendment contains a series of steps that will improve the quality and reduce the burden of federal regulations. it does so without threatening to undermine our environmental and safety laws. the other bill may be described by senator johnston as a tougher reform bill. doubt. more rules will be blocked by that bill. under that bill. it could well result that federal regulatory agencies would be brought to a virtual standstill. that is what i am confident will happen if this bill should ever become law. which fortunately has a slim chance of occurring. but that is  the goal of regulatory reform. to have the whole regulatory process of our federal government brought to a halt. i am sure senator johnston and proponents of his bill believe setting high standards for regulations will get better rules. but in making the hurdle too high. so high that needed rules. rules that are fully justified by their benefits. can never reach the level of perfection that is demanded. they are blocked by endless rounds of review. while those on the other side may charge that the glennchafee amendment achieves only modest improvement in regulations. i fear that the underlying substitute may result in health and environmental regulations at all. if that is the objective. fine. if the objective is we do  want any rules. and apparently we are going to pass everything in infinite detail in the laws that we pass. that is one thing. but certainly. in my judgment. that is  the best course for our nation. i thank the chair.
. i am pleased to be joined today by senator feinstein in introducing the family planning state empowerment act of 2003. this legislation would provide states with a mechanism to improve the health of lowincome women and families by allowing states to expand family planning services to additional women under the medicaid program. the federal government currently reimburses states for 90 percent of their expenditures for family planning services under medicaid. due to the importance of these for lowincome women. this reimbursement rate is higher than for most other health care services. generally. women may qualify for medicaid services. including family planning. in one of two ways: they have children and an income level below a threshold set by the state. ranging from 15 to 86 percent of the federal poverty level. or they are pregnant and have incomes up to 133 percent of the poverty level. federal law allows states to raise this income eligibility level to 185 percent. if they desire. if a woman qualifies because of pregnancy. she is automatically eligible for family planning services for sixty days following delivery. after those sixty days. the womans medicaid eligibility expires. if states want to provide medicaid family planning services to additional populations of lowincome women. they must apply to the federal government for a socalled "1115" waiver. these waivers allow states to establish demonstration projects in order to test new approaches to health care delivery in a manner that is budgetneutral to the federal government. to date. these waivers have enabled eighteen states to expand access to family planning services. most of these waivers allow states to extend family planning to women beyond the sixtyday postpartum period. this allows many women to increase the length of time between births. which las significant health benefits for women and their children. for this reason. an institute of medicine report recommended that medicaid should cover family planning services for two years following a delivery. some of the waivers allow states to provide family planning to women based solely on income. regardless of whether they qualify for medicaid due to pregnancy or children. in general. states have used the same income eligibility levels that apply to pregnant women. 133 percent or 185 percent of the poverty level. creating continuity for both family planning and prenatal care services. these expanded services also help states reduce rates of unintended pregnancy and the need for abortion. my state of rhode island "was one of the first states to obtain one of these waivers. and has had great success with it in terms of preventing unintended pregnancies and improving public health in general. rhode islands waiver has averted 1.443 pregnancies from august 1994 through 1997. resulting in a savings to the state of $14.3 million. in addition. rhode islands waiver has assisted lowincome women with spacingout their births. the number of lowincome women in rhode island with short interbirth intervals. becoming pregnant within 18 months of having given birth. dropped from 41 percent in 1993 to 29 percent in 1999. the gap between medicaid recipients and privately insured women was 11 percent in 1993. compared with only 1 percentalmost negligiblein 1999. as these statistics show. these waivers are extremely valuable and serve as a huge asset to the womens health.  only to my constituents but to constituents in the thirteen other states who currently benefit from these waivers. unfortunately. the waiver process is extremely cumbersome and time consuming. taking up to three years for states to receive approval from the federal government. this may discourage states from applying for family planning waivers. or at the very least. delay them from providing important services to women. our bill would rectify this problem by allowing states to extend family planning services through medicaid without going through the waiver process. eliminating the waiver requirement will facilitate state ination and provide assistance to more lowincome women. this bill will allow states to provide family planning services to women with incomes up to 185 percent of the federal poverty level. for lowincome. postpartum women. states will longer be limited to providing them with only sixty days of family planning assistance. states may also provide family planning for up to one year to women who lose medicaideligibility because of income. i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation. and ask unanimous consent that the text of legislation be printed in the record.
the reason the court gave for vacating the rule was the failure of epa to provide substantial evidence ih the record to support its actions. you did  do egh. they. said. the substantial evidence test does  apply to any other environmental laws. only to tsca. and the only rule ever attempted under tsca was overturned by the courts because epa did  meet a test. a test that under the johnston amendment would apply to all our environmental laws. reading the decision. one gets the impression that even if epa had passed the substantial evidence test. the rule would have been thrown out on other grounds. the court said that epa had  considered a sufficient number of regulatory alternatives because it only did cost estimates on five options.  all of the possible options. the court said epa had  satisfied the requirement that it impose the least burdensome option because it had  presented any evidence the least burdensome option was among the five considered. one could almost conclude that those who drafted the regulatory reform bill before the senatein other words. the johnston substitutedid so with the fifth circuit courts ruling in mind. every hurdle that has made tsca a useless law to protect health and environment is rolled up in this bill before us today. it applies across all of our health and our safety and our environmental statutes. wonder the administration says it will veto the johnston bill if it passes. . if the senate will be guided by the two questions senator glenn set outfirst. will real reform occur. and. second. will environmental laws be protected or will they be underminedonly one -of the two proposals before us today passes that muster. the glennchafee amendment contains a series of steps that will improve the quality and reduce the burden of federal regulations. it does so without threatening to undermine our environmental and safety laws. the other bill may be described by senator johnston as a tougher reform bill. doubt. more rules will be blocked by that bill. under that bill. it could well result that federal regulatory agencies would be brought to a virtual standstill. that is what i am confident will happen if this bill should ever become law. which fortunately has a slim chance of occurring. but that is  the goal of regulatory reform. to have the whole regulatory process of our federal government brought to a halt. i am sure senator johnston and proponents of his bill believe setting high standards for regulations will get better rules. but in making the hurdle too high. so high that needed rules. rules that are fully justified by their benefits. can never reach the level of perfection that is demanded. they are blocked by endless rounds of review. while those on the other side may charge that the glennchafee amendment achieves only modest improvement in regulations. i fear that the underlying substitute may result in health and environmental regulations at all. if that is the objective. fine. if the objective is we do  want any rules. and apparently we are going to pass everything in infinite detail in the laws that we pass. that is one thing. but certainly. in my judgment. that is  the best course for our nation. i thank the chair.
. i rise to pay heartfelt tribute to the memory of our beloved and most distinguished colleague. arthur h. vandenberg. whose untimely death all of us mourn. i pay tribute to him  alone because he was one of the most outstanding statesmen of his day and generation.  alone because. through clarity of thought and expression and persuasion. he was able to contribute so much to united national thinking on matters of foreign policy.  alone because of his own preeminence as leader in the determination of vital aspects of our nations foreign policy. but also because he was so human and so friendly and so kind in his daytoday relationships with us who were his colleagues in the senate and with all who were privileged to k him. in his passing. each one of us has lost a true and loyal friend. during the last days of his illness. while we in the senate have been distraught by controversy and confusion over grave questions of foreign policy. i have thought frequently of this great american and of his consummate wisdom and simplicity in resolving complicated issues which sometimes seemed to defy solution. we who knew him well remember vividly that he possessed the gift of being able to discern the "common deinator." as he termed it. in every great question to which he turned his attention. by penetrating approach and forthright analysis he revealed issues for what they were and defined their "common deinators" so that all could see and comprehend them. at the same time. recognizing the dynamic. everchanging nature of national and world conditions. he seemed never to regard as completely final any conclusion he may have reached on controversial phases of these conditions. his thinking followed narrow groove terminating in a blind alley. he was without prejudice ox base motive. rather. with flexibility of mind and sympathetic understanding. he perceived the emotions. the ambitions. and the viewpoints of those about him. and thus appreciating human strength and weakness. he was able to reconcile in large measure the differences among those who served with him and to bring them into substantial agreement on conclusions he had reached. yet he possessed deep convictions and an abiding faith which served him well as chart and compass for every course of action on which he had embarked. the long illness and death of arthur h. vandenberg have been truly a world tragedy. with all respect to his contemporaries. i k of e to take his place. but out of the sorrow of the hour we can derive some measure of solace as we consider arthur vandenbergs long and distinguished career in the service of his country. and his devotion to the cause of peace and justice everywhere. reflecting upon his personality and character and his method of doing things. we can derive inspiration and new courage to meet the challenge of the hour. and. meeting it. to overcome the obstacles that confront us. his mantle falls on all of us. it remains for us to accept it and to assume the obligation which it imposes upon us.
. i am introducing today a joint resolution to establish a joint select committee on civil disorder. this measure is similar to that introduced yesterday in the other body by the senator from massachusetts . and i commend his initiative in proposing swift and concrete action to identify the causes and implement the solutions to the tragic riots which are ravaging far too many of our cities. ideplore lawlessness and violence and the actions of looters and snipers who breed anarchy in our cities. congress bears the responsibility to deal swiftly and effectively with the basic reasons for such violent acts. the toll in lives lost. in property damaged. and in progress toward a better life. setback need  be recounted here to underscore the imperative need for effective and meaningful action. as senator brooke has pointed out. constructive action is  likely to result unless we have an understanding of the nature of the disorder which has occurred and the causes of that disorder. while others have suggested different causes of the violence. i share senator brookes view that "the seeds of violence are to be found in the political. social. and ecoic disadvantages which have been imposed on so many americans." indeed. hunger. bad housing. ill health and lack of work are sufficient of themselves to create an atmosphere that breeds violence. they need allies. among the functions of the joint committee will be the investigation of the causes and effects of the riots. the examination of community attitudes in places in which riots have occurred or may occur. and the investigation of responses of certain state and local governments to community grievances. the committee will also be mandated to recommend legislation to deal with these basic issues. the resolution requires that . the committee submit a series of interim reports. the first to be filed later than 3 months after the passage of this resolution. senator brookes resolution would have set up a select senate committee on civil disorders while my measure would establish a joint committee for the same purpose. this is a domestic problem of the first magnitude and should be subject to the searching scrutiny of members of both the house and the senate. i would hope that the larger size of the joint committee. and the necessity for cooperation between the two bodies. would  delay the start of the most important work of this group. only when we have satisfied ourselves and the nation that we k why the riots have occurred will we be able to take such action as may be appropriate to alleviate those conditions. and to assist constructively the people of the ghettoes in obtaining the opportunities to which all americans are entitledwithin the clear framework of law and order.
s recommendations because i believe it is more appropriate for the bureau to be in the department of justice along with the federal bureau of narcotics so that lawenforcement aspects of these two programs can be coordinated. as you k. the prettyman commission on narcotics and drug abuse recommended this in 1963. as did the hoover commission on executive reorganization a number of years ago.
. it is a wellkn fact that our federal laws must be revamped in this crucial area. we must distinguish between the criminal pusher and the victimized addict who is in need of medical treatment. assistance. and rehabilitation. we must act without delay in this. one of the nations most severe problem areas.
in answer to the question. there is hing in the bill which would prevent a claimant from going to any doctor or a series of doctors to seek the opinion that he would approve of. when he gets whatever opinion he seeks. he then sends it in with the xrays to the federal government. under the system as proposed. that ends it. the government can check that xray unless. of course. there is a fraud. a fraud situation. as i mentioned earlier this morning. where an xray in theory is for miner x where actually it is for miner y. or something of that nature. but as to the determination of the reading of the xray. that can be challenged by the government.
good morning senator. im robert chafee interim director. los angeles county department of childrens services and certainly would like to thank you senator for taking the time to visit maclaren childrens center and conducting these hearings. also i appreciate the opportunity to discuss some of the issues that are impacting the childrens services operation in los angeles county at this time. the factors leading to children being placed in shelter facilities have come about for several reasons. but i believe certainly senator as a principal sponsor of p.l. 96272 this brought needed attention to the important issue of protection and care for victims of child abuse and neglect. in california. our senate bill 14 is the implementing legislation for public law 96272. this law assists children by requiring programs that hopefully will reduce foster care drifts and provide services that will enable children to stay in their own homes. in los angeles county potential child abuse situations may be reported to our department or to law enforcement authorities or agencies and referrals usually come from neighbors. family members. medical and school and school personnel. casework decision is then made to remove children from their home when there is a need for protection and their safety can be assured. placement here in los angeles countys maclaren center occurs when an abused. neglected or exploited child is removed from his or her home. and extensive medical treatment is required in cases such as drug withdrawal infants and victims of severe abuse. also. they may be brought to maclaren where a more secure setting than a foster home is needed to protect the child from a threatening adult or where spaces are available in shelter care foster homes. in california counties and other states its certainly becoming increasingly difficult to recruit and retain foster parents. and the reasons for this include ecoic hardship. the increase in the number of families where both parents work and the more difficult children going into foster care. also i might add at this point that certainly public awareness of abuse and protection programs has caused fantastic increases in the percentage of referrals in los angeles county within the last yearover 48 percent increase of child protection referrals in 1984 compared to 1983 and over 190 percent increase in child abuse reporting for the same period. so we are finding increased public awareness is putting tremendous strain on the present resources that we have.  california senate bill 14 includes a child abuse and neglect response system providing for immediate inperson response 24 hours. a day. 7 days a week. during this first contact with the family. crisis intervention services are offered to maintain a childs safety in his or her own home. we believe its crucial to provide an interdisciplinary assessment at the time of the crisis. and certainly the early joint assessment - by trained social work. law enforcement and medical personnel brings together the three disciplines which are responsible for providing services to children at risk. by involving these professionals at an early point in the initial stages of the family crisis. solutions may be found that will prevent removal of the child from his or her home. we also believe. however. that the child welfare system could be more responsive in preventing placements. preplacement prevention services which are critical to child protection include counseling. inhome caretakers and teaching homemakers. we hope for continuing federal support for these critical services. also in los angeles county we have developed a pilot project that should help prevent placement of children by combining the three components of law enforcement. social work and medical assessment into a unit that will respond together at the time of family crisis. this emergency response unit is designed to provide immediate protection to the child in his home and community using both private and public sector resources. if medical assessment is needed. specialized child abuse and neglect teams are available to medically diage and treat the child at many major hospitals in los angeles county. these teams of doctors. nurses. and medical and pyschiatric social workers are specifically trained to identify and treat child abuse. on august 4. 1983. the los angeles countys board of supervisors formed a childrens services task force with representatives from public and private sectors. the purpose was to focus attention on services to children and families. as a result of their findings. a separate department of childrens services was formed in december 1984. a childrens services commission made up of private citizens was also created to help focus community attention on the needs of abused and neglected children. we believe that these actions will result in more comprehensive services to victim children. however. we see the need for continued federal interest and support for childrens services. the problems of child abuse and neglect continue to increase placing many children in jeopardy. foster home recruitment is an ongoing program of high priority so that a familylike setting can be provided for children who must be temporarily removed from their homes. the more foster homes available. the fewer placements in maclaren childrens center and the more. selective and successful the placements will be. we hope that you will continue to recognize the need for funding of all reasonable costs for the treatment services given by foster care providers and associated services. because of the increasing number of child sexual abuse reports our board of supervisors ordered the development of a child sexual abuse trauma center. a onestop community based comprehensive treatment center for victims of child sexual abuse. we believe that this pilot project could serve as a model for communities nationwide. we also believe that continuous collaboration of public and private agencies to identify service gaps is urgently needed. we recently completed a research project. for example. with our local united way to determine the status of preplacement prevention services in private sector agencies in la county and we are  setting up a broadbased group of executives from both the private and public sectors to ensure that any identified service gaps are closed. in summary. i believe early assessment and treatment is the key to placement prevention and early family reunification. prevention and treatment services must be coordinated so that children may safely remain at home or have their homes made safe for the return at the earliest time possible. thank you for the opportunity to share some of my views with you and of course would be happy to answer any questions if you wish. senator cranston. thank you very. very much. id like to go on to hear from the two of you and then i do have a couple of questions.
good morning senator. im robert chafee interim director. los angeles county department of childrens services and certainly would like to thank you senator for taking the time to visit maclaren childrens center and conducting these hearings. also i appreciate the opportunity to discuss some of the issues that are impacting the childrens services operation in los angeles county at this time. the factors leading to children being placed in shelter facilities have come about for several reasons. but i believe certainly senator as a principal sponsor of p.l. 96272 this brought needed attention to the important issue of protection and care for victims of child abuse and neglect. in california. our senate bill 14 is the implementing legislation for public law 96272. this law assists children by requiring programs that hopefully will reduce foster care drifts and provide services that will enable children to stay in their own homes. in los angeles county potential child abuse situations may be reported to our department or to law enforcement authorities or agencies and referrals usually come from neighbors. family members. medical and school and school personnel. casework decision is then made to remove children from their home when there is a need for protection and their safety can be assured. placement here in los angeles countys maclaren center occurs when an abused. neglected or exploited child is removed from his or her home. and extensive medical treatment is required in cases such as drug withdrawal infants and victims of severe abuse. also. they may be brought to maclaren where a more secure setting than a foster home is needed to protect the child from a threatening adult or where spaces are available in shelter care foster homes. in california counties and other states its certainly becoming increasingly difficult to recruit and retain foster parents. and the reasons for this include ecoic hardship. the increase in the number of families where both parents work and the more difficult children going into foster care. also i might add at this point that certainly public awareness of abuse and protection programs has caused fantastic increases in the percentage of referrals in los angeles county within the last yearover 48 percent increase of child protection referrals in 1984 compared to 1983 and over 190 percent increase in child abuse reporting for the same period. so we are finding increased public awareness is putting tremendous strain on the present resources that we have.  california senate bill 14 includes a child abuse and neglect response system providing for immediate inperson response 24 hours. a day. 7 days a week. during this first contact with the family. crisis intervention services are offered to maintain a childs safety in his or her own home. we believe its crucial to provide an interdisciplinary assessment at the time of the crisis. and certainly the early joint assessment - by trained social work. law enforcement and medical personnel brings together the three disciplines which are responsible for providing services to children at risk. by involving these professionals at an early point in the initial stages of the family crisis. solutions may be found that will prevent removal of the child from his or her home. we also believe. however. that the child welfare system could be more responsive in preventing placements. preplacement prevention services which are critical to child protection include counseling. inhome caretakers and teaching homemakers. we hope for continuing federal support for these critical services. also in los angeles county we have developed a pilot project that should help prevent placement of children by combining the three components of law enforcement. social work and medical assessment into a unit that will respond together at the time of family crisis. this emergency response unit is designed to provide immediate protection to the child in his home and community using both private and public sector resources. if medical assessment is needed. specialized child abuse and neglect teams are available to medically diage and treat the child at many major hospitals in los angeles county. these teams of doctors. nurses. and medical and pyschiatric social workers are specifically trained to identify and treat child abuse. on august 4. 1983. the los angeles countys board of supervisors formed a childrens services task force with representatives from public and private sectors. the purpose was to focus attention on services to children and families. as a result of their findings. a separate department of childrens services was formed in december 1984. a childrens services commission made up of private citizens was also created to help focus community attention on the needs of abused and neglected children. we believe that these actions will result in more comprehensive services to victim children. however. we see the need for continued federal interest and support for childrens services. the problems of child abuse and neglect continue to increase placing many children in jeopardy. foster home recruitment is an ongoing program of high priority so that a familylike setting can be provided for children who must be temporarily removed from their homes. the more foster homes available. the fewer placements in maclaren childrens center and the more. selective and successful the placements will be. we hope that you will continue to recognize the need for funding of all reasonable costs for the treatment services given by foster care providers and associated services. because of the increasing number of child sexual abuse reports our board of supervisors ordered the development of a child sexual abuse trauma center. a onestop community based comprehensive treatment center for victims of child sexual abuse. we believe that this pilot project could serve as a model for communities nationwide. we also believe that continuous collaboration of public and private agencies to identify service gaps is urgently needed. we recently completed a research project. for example. with our local united way to determine the status of preplacement prevention services in private sector agencies in la county and we are  setting up a broadbased group of executives from both the private and public sectors to ensure that any identified service gaps are closed. in summary. i believe early assessment and treatment is the key to placement prevention and early family reunification. prevention and treatment services must be coordinated so that children may safely remain at home or have their homes made safe for the return at the earliest time possible. thank you for the opportunity to share some of my views with you and of course would be happy to answer any questions if you wish. senator cranston. thank you very. very much. id like to go on to hear from the two of you and then i do have a couple of questions.
. pursuour citizenry. in my home state of ant to rule xxvi(2) of the standing rhode island. industries which are the rules of the senate. i- submit for jewelry. textiles. and welding and ship. the rules of the committee on the building. hold the potential for raising budget for the 100th congress as an individuals risk of disease. fre- adopted by the committee on march .quent exposures to solvents. fumes. 17. 1987. ious gases. and other substances all the rules of the committee follow: add to the potential for disease. male rules of the committee on the budget. textile workers run up to double the 100th congress mal risk of chronic lung disease. metal craftsmen have triple the ex- 1. meetings pected death rate from influenza and (1) the committee shall hold. its regular n jmeeting on the first thursday of each pneumonia. jewelry workers over age month. additional meetings may be called 64 have a cancer rate five times great- by the chairman as he deems necessary to er than people in other factory jobs. expedite committee business. occupational health problems are a . (2)each meeting of the committee on the major problem in rhode island and budget of the senate. including meetings to across the country. conduct hearings. shall be open to the most of the time. measures such as public. except that a portion or portions of periodic checkups. quitting smoking. any. such meeting may be closed tothe and proper dietan. lower that s o public if the committee determines by can orisk to recbrd vote in open session of a mijoitty of more manageable proportions. but -the members of the committee present that first these individuals must be ified. the matters- to be discussed or the testimony that they are indeed at risk. then " to be taken at such portio portions(a) will disclose matters necessary to be kept secret in the interests of national defense or the confidential conduct of the foreign relations of the united states. (b) will relate solely to matters of the committee staff personnel or internal staff management or procedure. (c) will tend to charge an individual with crime or misconduct. to disagree or injure the professional standing of an individual. or otherwise to expose an individual to public contempt or obloquy. or will represent a clearly unwarranted invasion of the privacy of an individual. (d) will disclose the identity of any informer or law enforcementagent or will disclose any information relating to the investigation or prosecution of a criminal offense that is required to be kept secret in the interests of effective law enforcement. or (e) will disclose information relating to the trade secrets or financial or commercial information pertaining specifically to a given person if(1) an act of congress requires the information to be kept confidential by government officers and employees. or (2) the information has been obtained by the government on a confidential basis. other than through an application by such person for a specific government financial or other benefit. and is required to be kept secret in order to prevent undue injury to the competitive position of such person.
madam president. i have already nearly a year ago spoken out in favor of the civil rights restoration act. the act before us today. thus. i will  repeat those remarks except to say that i fully associated myself with the remarks just delivered by my distinguished colleague from vermont. he very eloquently set forth the arguments in favor of this act. and i fully support what he has said and i commend him for the splendid leadership that he has given  only in this measure but a whole series of other civil rights mepsures that have come before this booy during his long and distinguished tenure here. it is my understanding. madam president. that an amendment will be offered to this act that would in effect overturn the supreme court ruling in the case of the school board of nassau county. florida versus arline. i am opposed to such an amendment and will briefly set out my views. in 1987. the supreme court held that a schoolteacher who had a history of tuberculosis qualified as "handicapped" under section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973. in finding that a history of tuberculosis did qualify as a handicap. the supreme court recognized that "societys accumulated myths and fears about disability and disease are as handicapping as are the physical limitations that flow from actual impairment." unfortunately. the disabled are often more handicapped by societys preceptions than by their own physical impairment. the arline decision itself cites many examples where persons with cerebral palsy. epilepsy. arthritis. and cancer were all subjected to discrimination because of unfounded fears of transmissibility. or merely because disfigurement caused discomfort in those making the hiring decisions. section 504 of the rehabilitation act provides that: otherwise qualified handicapped individual shall. solely by reason of his handicap. be excluded from participation in. or denied the benefits of. or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance. the emphasis behind section 504 and behind the entire civil rights restoration act is the same. this is the point of the act: when we as a nation give money to a program. federal taxpayers money goes to a program. we the taxpayer who are paying for this in turn ask that that program be conducted fairly. that it be conducted intelligently. and that it be conducted in an hoable fashion. federal funds should  subsidize discrimination. that is all it says. that is what it is all about. let me digress for a moment and point out an important distinctioe that is missed often than  in the discussion of the arline case. "disci imination." as used in the act. and as it is used in the arline decision. means just that: discrimination means a baseless. irrational exclusion. somebody is kept out for baseles:u or irrationalreasons. ms. arline hae a history of tuberculosis. which is it contagious disease. but tuberculosl does  present a constant contagion. the generalization that once infected. always contagious. is groundless. it just is  so. the supreme court therefore qualified ms. arline as protected under 504. namely. she had a handicap. but the court did  automatically conclude that she must be reinstated in her position.  at all. there remained a factual determination to be made. a factual determination whether. first of all. was she qualified for the job. that in this case has actually been made. yes. she was qualified for the job. she had the job. but the other factual determination was. was ms. arline indeed infectious. if she is infectious and going to injure other people. then.  she is  qualified. but if she is infectious. yes. discrimination does  mean excluded for a medically sound reason. it is just the opposite: unless those who are ill. disabled. or mentally impaired are allowed a shot at this factual determination. the factual determination means. is there a medically sound reason for keeping the person out. and if there is . then that is discrimination. and if they are excluded. kept out for unsound. for less than medically sound reasons. then they will continue to fall victim to igance. that is far more handicapping. as i said in the original part of my remarks. than their impairment. all the arline decision does is give these people a chance. when section 504 was enacted. congress sent a message to all those programs that received federal funds. essentially. we asked them to "share with handicapped americans the opportunities for an education. transportation. housing. health care.- and jobs that other americans take for granted." americans who are mentally or physically disabled. or who have an illness. those with cancer. epilepsy. cerebral palsy. arthritisthe list goes onhave rights. freedoms. and responsibilities. sure. that is ackledged they have responsibilities. but also they have rights and freedoms just like all other americans. sectioh 504. as interpreted by the supreme court in the arline decision. protects those rights by cutting through the myths and misperceptions and requiring reasonable analysis and medical judgment. before we allow the exclusion of any american from a federally funded program. to require sound thinking and fair dealing when it comes to ones livelihood. or ones education. or ones home to give that to all our citizens is the purpose of civil rights. and i do  think that is too much to ask. thank you. . january 2p. 1988
. i also want to express my grief and deep concern over the horrible murder of dr. david gunn in pensacola. fl. that is a horrible thing to take place in our country. certainly those individuals who were picketing outside are perfectly entitled to express their views. but to bring it to this extent. murdering someone whose views were different from those of. in this particular case. dr. gunn. who was the physician at the clinic and i believe was the owner of the clinic. is totally inexcusable. and to his family. i join the other senators and our nation in saying how deeply we regret this. and we send our condolences to his family.
well. again. i do  care to expand on what. to me. is a tragic comparison--cosmetic surgery and abortion. tennis elbow or golf elbow and abortion. tragic. a tragic comparison. the hyde language. so restrictive. goes way beyond what is even contemplated or espoused by the distinguished senator from idaho. believe me. the cosmetic argument is one that would  apply in probably a tenth of 1 percent of those cases. or of those situations that result in abortion. medically necessary. medical judgment. maternal health. these are rather specific terms and. i might add.  much different from the terms used in the amendment of the distinguished senator from washington. ody is advocating cosmetic abortion. frivolous abortion. the amendment of the distinguished senator from washington states: e of the funds in this act shall be used to perform abortions except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term. or where medically necessary or for the treatment of rape or incest. i think that is rather specific. rather narrow. the judgments made on what is medically necessary. i think. are far better done by doctors than u.s. senators. but e of that. really. is an issue or should be an issue in this debate. the law of the land has already been established. it merely comes down as to whether or  rich or poor. anyone can have an abortionperiod. more than that. as simple as that. on that issue. there should be differentiation. 
then i shall have to ask my ouestions in his absence. in the hope that. they will be responded to when he reaches the floor. . let me raise aher point as to what happens under this type of legislation should a pregnant woman. through the amniocentesis process. discover that a child she is carrying has some birth defect or some genetic defect is she bound. then. to have that child. is that a question. in other words. that anybody in this chamber is going to respond to in the affirmative. or does she have the right to make a choice at that point. both for herself and for whatever it is that might be born of her. i heard the senator from th carolina refer to the deliberate termination of inent human life. i wonder whether the senator from th carolina would like to make it a crime for a womto smoke or for the sale of tobacco to a pregnant woman. because we  have conclusive scientific evidence that tobacco is responsible. in large measure. for birth defects and may cause the termination of inent human life. so. with all this concern exhibited for the fetus. why  follow through on those scientifle facts which we k.  those which a senatorial subcommittee is trying to establish. but those which science has already established as terminating inent human life or deforming it or endowing it with birth defects. is the senator from th carolina willing to take that kind of step .i should like to have his response to that question. because i am  speculating. what i ask is a matter of fact. i believe that the language as it is presently written suffices. i am  pleased even with the restrictions that presently exist in the law. but rape and incest are exceptions. the life of the mother is an exception. an ectopic pregnancy is an exception. birth control devices are an exception. the law has been set forth very clearly on the matter of abortion. and the public policy has been set forth with great clarity. this little procedural endrun of legislating on this particular appropriations bill is meant to obviate all that public policy and all that law. the reason given is some sort of vague reference to orders from above as to what is right and what is wrong. how well i recall the scene in the movie "cromwell." more particularly the scene of the battle of naseby. where on one side sat the forces of charles i. led by the king and by the archbishop of canterbury. invoking the divine being on their behalf. willing to do his cause in his name. then the camera swings over the field to the forces of cromwell. and there sits the lord protector on his horse. invoking the name of god in his behalf. to protect him and what it was that he was about ready to do in gods name. that is what differentiates this nation above all others. we do  legislate in gods name but in the name of the people of this country and its constitution. that is the precept that is going to be violated by this type of legislation. and there will be end to it. yes. the chroogical procedure of this legislation has brought us to this point. but make mistake: should this be adoptedand the life of the mother is last exception on the booksit will  be long before that is gone. then someones religious belief will have been fulfilled there is the great error in what is being presented before this body today whether in law. in the constitution. oi in science. the amendment of the distin. guished senator from th carolina should fail.
i say to the senator that we did our best in the committee to make sure these issues would  come up. believing. rather. that they should properly come forth from the committee of the senator from south carolina. but they are  here through his committee. i look forward to such legislation being presented to the u.s. senate. obviously. i am going to be in opposition. but i have complaints coming if i lose on that matter. that is aher story entirely. what worries me is the utilization and abuse of the appropriations process. admittedly. this did  start with the senator from th carolina or the senator from south carolina. it started many years ago. but it has reached epidemic proportions. to the point that appropriations bill can  clear the floor. the net. result is that we are going from continuing resolution to continuing resolution. i have been informed by the leader that he intends to bring up the department of justice authorization bill. and we will have a lot to discuss on that matter. we will have many votes and try to resolve those issue. but at least hing else is being harmed in that process. what is being harmed right  is the functioning of the entire government. do i realize that everybody is within their rights. everybody is certainly within their rights. anybody can do whatever they want on the senate floor. that does  mean is necessarily leads to the most expeditious handling of our government.
. i am going to be very brief. because i understand everybody agrees we should get to the vote on the point of order. indeed. if that is  sustained. we will have a chance to debate the.merits of the proposal. so i hope we would vote on the point of order almost immediately. but i want to make a couple of remarks in relation to the comments of the distinguished senator from colorado.  1. whethei the senator likes it or and he and our colleague. the distinguished senator from th carolina. do  like itthe fact is roe versus wade is the law of the land. point  2. when.the senator mentions elective. that implies that one has a freedom to choose. that is the reason the constitutional issue arises here. this is  a question. in other words. of poor versus rich. such as the medicare law. that was decided by the court and. i disagree with that decision. that decision regarding federal funding said that those who can afford it will  get an -abortion. -s 14632 those who can. can still go out and get an abortion. the issue here however. between the free and the imprisoned. there is election involved as far as the individuals are concerned. they do  have the choices. they are in prison. they have lost their freedom. so. obviously. the constitutional issue raised under the eighth amendment comes up in terms of cruel and unusual punishment. whatever they may be denied is clearly set forth in law within the bounds of this amendment. but please let us understand the senators portrayal here. it is as if the same choices were available to the inmate as are available to anyone of us. matter what our category. but this is just  so. and he raises an entirely new issue under the constitution.
. i rise but that is  the case. indeed the today to introduce the quality serv- monitoring of state facilities isminiices for disabled individuals act. this mal and ineffective and focuses on pabill is my second legislative initiative perwork rather than people. for the in response to the hearing i chaired most part. states certify their own fathis session on the care of institution- cilities as acceptable for receipt of ized mentally disabled persons. and federal funds. and while statutory authe 9month investigation which pre- thority exists for the department of ceded them. my interest in initiating health and human services to "lookthis investigation was  solely be- behind" or validate the state certificacause of my role as chairman of the tion decision. such validation reviews subcommittee on the handicapped. as have been limited and do  ensure a parent and a citizen i have been reg- timely corrections when deficiencies / ularly shocked by reports in the media are identified. in fact. many facilities of physical abuse. violence. and death have repeated deficiencies yet still in state facilities for the mentally dis- maintain their certification. at our abled. hearings. a nurse told us of a state so last year. i initiated an intensive hospital operating below "minimally investigation into care and treatment -acceptable standards" for 2 consecuin our nations institutions for the tive years. still action was tiflen by mentally disabled. this was a followup state or federal officials. december 13. 1.985 a system based on such a conflict of interest can work. indeedwe have documented that it is  working. and we in the congress can allow our precious tax revenues to be spent in facilities that strip the very essence of citizenship from disabled americans. we can allow individual state agencies to be the sole authority to tap the u.s. treasury when that money is spent in facilities that include in their list of abuses a trampling of basic human rights. today i introduce a bill to remedy this situation. the quality of services for disabled individuals act has been developed. after months of research and lengthy discussions. to remedy the problems identified during the staff investigation and hearings. its purpose is simple: to create a mechanism to ensure that disabled individuals receive quality services in programs receiving federal fundsquality services that enables them to achieve their maximum potential through increased independence. productivity. and integration into the community. the quality services bill accomplishes this by establishing a system of monitoring and certification that removes the existing conflict of interest in the certification process. and creates a new clientcentered survey system for certification to replace the current papercentered survey. it centralizes within the department of health and human services the responsibilities for assuring quality of services furnished to disabled persons in programs receiving funds through titles 18 and 19 of the social security act. so that coordinated leadership guidance. and support for such services will be available. and it creates financial incentives for states to develop a range of community programs so that institutionalization can be prevented or reduced. so that our disabled citizens can be under the watchful eye of their neighbors with the community supports they need and deserve. we must be clear about the federal governments responsibilitiesour responsibilitiesto the vulnerable citizens of this country. we must create a mechanism to ensure quality servicesin the institutions. in the hospitals. and in the communities. so that our successors 10 years from  will  hear the same tragic stories that we hear today. the quality services for disabled individuals act will accomplish this goal. i urge my colleagues to examine the record on this issue and join me in this vital and important reform. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this bill be printed in the record.
. i am evans going to be exceedingly brief. i should exon glenn alert my colleagues that we will be gore moving to this vote in a matter of minutes. i oppose the amendment of the dis- armstrong tingulshed senator from th caroll- bond breaux na for two reasons.  1. it reinstates cochran the helms language. which language cohen was for all practical intents and pur- conrad damato poses obviated by the passage of the danforth cranstonkennedy amendment. so it deconcini will wipe cranstonkennedy off the dixon books if tils language is accepted and. dole domenieic just as importantly it will eliminate durunberg rape and incest as it  sits in the ford bill as being eligible in terms of an orn abortion provided from medicaid gramm funds. finally. in this bill we come back to adans common sense. that specifically is bentsen that a woman that is pregnant by biden virtue of rape or incest would have so the available to her medicaid funds for ment. (n the performance of an abortion. a mr. v matter that we left several years ago move to and i am sure has caused untold hard- tile mot ship and tragedy among the populace. agreed t so i hope for those two reasons the mr. b helms amendment is  adopted. motion o i move to table the same. and i ask the nm for the yeas and nays. agreed t
. today i have joined in cosponsoring a bill. originally filed by my distinguished colleague from massachusetts . calling for the federal government to enter into a program that would provide free tickets to sporting events for our most ecoically underprivileged youth under the age of 19. this proposal calls for federal. state. and local cooperation with local law enforcement agencies. who would furnish tickets to these forgotten youngsters. under this bill. free tickets would be provided for approximately 80 million amateur and professional sporting events and the opportunity for 20 million young people to see games played by the nations finest athletes. i k it is possible for our amateur and professional leagues. including baseball. football. basketball. soccer. and hockey. to set aside a number of their seats each game for the purposes of this program. which. i believe. would prove beneficial to their popularity and paid attendance in the long run. this program is a positive and meaningful step forward in two areas. it would  only give our underprivileged young people the opportunity to view exciting. wholesome sporting contests but could also establish better relationships between these young people and the police and fire departments. recently this house has given much attention to controlling the problems of our nations city ghettos. most of this activity has been remedial in natureattempting to sooth or patchover existing sources of trouble. but little has been done to go at the infectious causes that breed the problems of the central city. we must remember that the young people of these neighborhoods did  ask to be born into a life of neglect and despair. we can show them that someone cares. that positive efforts are being made to improve the quality of life for the poorest of the poor. this legislation. if enacted into law. might help develop the potential of a generation of deprived youth. i. therefore. urge my colleagues to join in sponsorship of this program.
. all of us have been deeply distressed in recent months by the evidence of hunger and malnutrition and disease which has been uncovered by the. select committee on nutrition and human needs. even . despite the number of hearings which have been held on this subject and the publicity which they have received in the press. the full extent of the problem is just beginning to penetrate the conscience of the comfortable majority of americans. it is  kn. for example. that in many areas of this country food stamp and commodity surplus programs are existent. either because the general income level of the particular county exceeds the basic minimum standard. or because county officials are reluctant to undertake the administrative burdens of the programs. yet one of the major causes of overcrowding in our urban centers arises from the fact that poor people. who are unable in their own areas to obtain minimum amounts of food and care through federally established programs. flock to the cities. certainly it is in the interest of all americans to provide food. education. and job training for people where they are. certainly remedial legislation could improve the ability of established departments and agencies to meet the needs of the poor. yet until that need is accurately defined and the loopholes clearly distinguished. we can begin to meet the human problem. in this light i welcome the anncement of secretary of health. education. and welfare. robert finch. that his department will undertake a thorough investigation of hunger in america. but the initiative in this area can and should  be left entirely to the executive branch. the select committee on hunger and human needs is performing this vital function for the congress and for all america. it is doing a job which should have been done decades ago. and it is doing it thoroughly and ecoically. when the committee has already progressed so far. and when it has clearly indicated its intention to complete the investigation during this calendar year. i see reason whatsoever for reducing its appropriation by $100.000. thus cutting its operating capacity in half. i therefore urge that full funding be restored. and that the committee be allowed to proceed with its appointed task.
. the renewed outbursts of civil disorder in the cities of america are costly and futile counterpoints to the profound sense of grief which has swept across this nation since last thursday. the lasting imprint on this countrys conscience and behavior will  be made by the misguided and reckless participants in these disturbances. however vividly we may remember the ugly scenes of these few days. the lasting impressions will be those etched in our memory by the good life and good works of the man whose death last week bound the great majority of americans together in outrage and mourning. all over the land people are seeking appropriate ways to express their bereavement at the passing of martin luther king. jr. in these first days of our loss proper tribute has been paid to dr. king.  in the streets. but in the churches and chapels. the schools and homes of the united states. and i am confident that the greater and lingering tribute will come in further action toward the glorious goals of brotherhood and justice so diligently pursued by martin luther king. jr. as americans. individually and collectively. rededicate themselves to these ends. it would be fitting to pay our respects to this le figure by enduring public commemoration of his life and philosophy. for this. purpose i believe the congress should declare january 15. the birthday of martin luther king. jr.. an annual occasion of recognition for this man and his mission. to accomplish this i am today submitting the following joint resolution:
. i think the distinguished senator from new mexico underestimates the intelligence of his colleagues in the senate if he thinks they have either been misled or they do  understand the significance of the hyde laiguage or the significance of the socalled brooke amendment which included the words "medically necessary." i hope that the senator did  mean that the senator from massachusetts intended to mislead anyone in the senate. because i have the highest regard for the intelligence of all of my colleagues. i think the distinguished senator from th carolina understood it. i think the distinguished senator from pennsylvania understood it. and i think the distinguished senator from new mexico understood it and understood it well. i will remind the senator from new mexico that he even had a vote on this particular issue. if he will recall it. and he discussed it at some great length. there were many members of the senate present at that time. and the senate overwhelmingly rejected his position. so let us  get into the question of the senate  understanding what it is doing. let us  mislead the country that the senate does  k what it is doing when it votes on these matters. because the senate does k what it is doing. the motion of the senator from pennsylvania to go back to the house position goes back so far that we would  even include instances of rape and incest. if a child is raped. and the senator from new york brought this out very clearly. that child can have an abortion. if a child is taken advantage of by her father. and that happens in this country. that child can have an abortion. the senator has said we want to open up the doors. so that anybody can have an abortion. i do  even like the term "pro abortion." i do  think there is anyone who is pro abortion. they are pro choice. and when we say "medically necessary." we mean "medically necessary." i just want to cite to the senator what the supreme court said on the pennsylvania regulations. which is beal against doe. the court said: whether "an abortion is necessary" is a professional judgment. that . . . may be exercised in the light of all factorsphysical. emotional. psychological. and the womans agerelevant to the wellbeing of the patient. all these factors may relate to health. this allows the attending physician the room he needs to make his best medical judgment. "medical necessity" appears in other laws of this country. it is hing new. we k what it means. we k what it does  mean. i think that it is mischievous to suggest that any woman can walk in and say that she has a cough and that a doctor who is qualified is going to say: "therefore. yes. my dear young lady. you are entitled to an abortion." that is  it at all. we are concerned about the life of the mother. we are also concerned about the health of the mother. we are also concerned about the health of the fetus. there are some things worse than death. there are some things in life that are worse than death. there are some diseases-
. as one of the original cosponsors of s. 995. i wish to reiterate my strong support of this bill. my remarks shall be very brief. for this is a matter of the most basic justice for the working women of our nation. in gilbert against general electric. the u.s. supreme court held that working women disabled by pregnancy or related conditions are  entitled by the laws forbidding sex discrimination to the same benefits that their employers provide for workers who have contracted other disabilities. in recent years we in the congress have tried to eliminate the invidious discrimination suffered by the women of our nation and to provide true equality of opportunity for both women and men. in 1963. congress enacted the equal pay act. assuring women equal pay for equal work. in 1964. the landmark title vii of the civil rights act was enacted to prohibit discrimination based on race. sex. religion. and national origin from all aspects of emnloyment. in 1972 the equal employment opportunity act was passed to strengthen the employment of women. however. the suureme court ruling  in effect abolishes one most important employment benefit right for women--disability benefits for pregnancy. childbirth. and related medical conditions. to allow businesses to provide disability benefits for all medical conditions but these and claim that this is  sex discrimination is sense. to claim that companies need  provide pregnancy benefits because pregnancy is voluntary at the same time the company provides benefits for such medical procedures as vasectomies and hair transplants is absurd on its face. the hardships which this ruling imposes are widesuread. serious. and place great strains on american families. there are 39 million women. or 46 percent of all women over the age of 16.  working outside the home and who at some time during their work years could be threatened by a loss of pregnancy disability benefits. and for the great majority of these working women a job is essential. for 25 million of these women are working because they must support or help support their familiesbecause they are single. divorced. or widowed. or because they have husbands who earn less than $7.000 a year. to deprive working women of pregnancy disability benefits could force great ecoic hardship upon them and their families. losing a substantial portion of their income will mean that many families will have to forgo the most basic necessities. or even in many cases to go on welfare. faced with these prospects. many women have reluctantly felt compelled to obtain an abortiona choice which should be forced on woman. congress clearly must act and act  to correct the inequity and disastrous consequences of gilbert against general electric. in s. 995 we do this. and i would emphasize most strongly that s. 995 in way provides special disability benefits for working women. they have  demanded.  asked. for such benefits. they have asked only to be treated with fairness. to be accorded the same employment rights as men. the provisions of s. 995 do . as some claim. allow women to "take advantage" of disability benefits. indeed claims that women would "take advantage" of disability benefits. whereas men presumably would . are insulting. the bill before us is necessary and equitable. i urge my colleageus to enthusiastically support this legislation.
i want to call attention to two points which i think may be emphasized to some greater degree. in the first place. this is a 31man committee. most of the members of the committee are lawyers. although i do  think any of them maintain that they are exceptionally qualified constitutional lawyers. but i think they are learned in the law sufficiently so that they look at such a question very carefully before they reach a conclusion. twentyeight members of this committee are supporting this bill before us this aftern. and are opposed to the proposed amendment. i have doubt of the integrity or the honesty or the ability of the three members who disagree with us. but that is a significant fact. secondly. i have  heard this aftern any reference to the case of curtin v. wallaci (306 u. s. 1). but it is very much in point. the court there recognized that health. sanitation. safety. and other regulatory inspections have been an integral part of our constitutional fabric since colonial days. the court. in discussing the validity of the tobacco inspection act. said: inspectionand i stress thatinspection and the establishment of standards for commodities has been regarded from colonial days as appropriate to the regulation of trade. and the authority of the states to enact inspection laws is recognized by the constitution. but the inspection laws of a state * * * are subject to the paramount regulatory power of congress. * * and congress has long exercised this authority in enacting laws for inspectioni and the establishment of standards in relation to various commodities involved in transactions in interstate or foreign commerce. i think that constitutes a complete answer for anybody as to whether this is or is  constitutional.  i should like to address myself to a very practical point. there are in this country over 77.000 factories and processors. and they handle over 2 million separate items. it has been suggested by others that 99 percent of those people are perfectly willing and. in fact. anxious to have this law. my own information was that it was 98 percent. however that may be. i think this question has gotten a bit out of focus this aftern. because we are concerning ourselves with only the 1 or 2 percent who are the racketeers. the fakes. the adulterers. the unscrupulous people who would be perfectly willing to jeopardize the health and safety of the american people for their own selfish. pecuniary profit. and i say that advisedly. i quote dr. crawford when he said. in connection with the supreme court decision: as a result. inspection can  be carried out only on a voluntary basis. but it may be said to the eternal credit of the 98 or 99 percent of the people involved that they have permitted this inspection since that time. then he went on to say: but the volunteers are the same reputable businessmen who never had anything to hide. the diluters..the adulterers. and the cheats can lock their doors in our faces and they do. so. although i recognize the good intention and the complete integrity of my friend from mississippi . i do insist the end result of adopting this amendmentwhich is  asked for by the druggists. and their association does  ask for this. in fact. they endorse this billas the chairman of the committee has said. would be to wreck this inspection law. and you might as well then wipe the whole law off the books. we are concerned with the 98 or 99 percent of the decent people in the food and drug industry who are for this bill. we are concerned with the health and safety of the american people. and we should give the administration the power which the president has specifically requested so that the food and drug administration can act efficiently and effectively. do  let anyone delude you that this amendment would  cripple the operation of that agency in this field. most of the offenders have been detected by the sudden. unexpected appearance of an inspector. last year more than fourfifths of the nearly 2.000 court cases were based on these factory inspectqrs. dr. crawford said: . through factory inspection the fda has been able to save the publicand the governmentmillions. and stop rackets at their source. president eisenhower said: public interest similarly demands one prompt specific action in the protection of the general consumer. the food and drug administration should be authorized to continueand i emphasize these wordsto continue its established and necessary program of factory inspection. the committee bill answers fully that demand of public interest and fulfills the presidents sound recommendation. let us defeat this amendment and then pass this bill overwhelmingly.
. i think there should be a yeaandnay vote on the question of agreeing to this amendment to the long amendment. i think it has the peculiar virtue of raising the issue very sharply. and i think the resistance of some members to the taking of a yeaandnay vote is the best recognition we could possibly have of that situation. as the senator from tennessee and the senator from iowa have said. the question is whether we shall depart from our traditional procedure of having this matter determined by the courts of the land.  by administrators. the provision of court procedure. rather than administrative decision. was established many. many decades ago. and is responsible. i believe. for much of the health of our agricultural ecoy. which has become the envy of the entire world. so the issue  is whether the senate should depart from that procedure. and should let the determination be made by administrative action.
i commend the senator from kentucky for his constructive suggestions on this particular matter. as a senator from a state in which civil disorder and riot have produced tragedy in recent days. i am as conscious. i expect. as any senator of the need for an affirmative approach. a preventive approach. which is the heart of the senators suggestion. is exactly what we must all be looking for. and i commend him. i wish also to associate myself with his condemnation of selfserving political charge and countercharge. . that is absolutely wrong. and it is certainly the worst kind of politics to attempt to get partisan advantage out of a national tragedy.
. as a member of the housesenate conference committee on s. 1773. the foreign assistance act of 1973. i would like to comment briefly on section 114 limiting use of funds for abortions. the conferees intended in this section to prohibit the use of aid funds to pay special fees or incentives for the performance of abortion. such payments have been considered in some countries to encourage family planning but the conference committee wished to make clear that it did  want u.s. bilateral assistance funds to be used by other governments to provide financial incentives for abortion as a method of family planning. we wanted also to be sure that aid would  support programs to motivate or coerce women to practice abortion either as a substitute for preventive measures of family planning or against individual wishes or conscience. the congress. which has strongly supported family planning and other programs related to population growth. has consistently stressed that: individual will be coerced to practice methods of family planning inconsistent with his or her moral. philosophical. or religious beliefs. section 114 should  be construed as an attempt to dictate medical procedures to individual women in developing countries or to medical practitioners following the prevailing local customs and medical practice or to foreign governments. that is a matter of medical and personal judgment wholly beyond congressional authority and rightly so. similarly. section 114 does  affect the policies and programs of international agencies that respond to local requests and circumstances. section 114 is designed to support additional research on all aspects of fertility control and to help medical practitioners to deal with the existing problems of selfinduced abortion. hazardous late abortions. and various illegal procedures to which millions of women resort. as the world faces new shortages of food and energy and therefore also of fertilizer and other vital commodities. it becomes ever more important to make available safe. acceptable and voluntary methods of family planning.
without question the senator is correct. to continue. . we have the habit in the senate of talking as though we lived in aher world. or in a vacuum. it seems to me to be our bounden duty. whether i am right about part 311 or whether i am wrong about it. to k that there are serious dangers of disorder and. indeed. of local anarchy in a number of areas in the southern states. that serious charges are made that meetings or assemblages are being suppressed. one does  k whether those charges are justified or are unjustified. even in certain actions of that kind. the police have a right to take action. and the courts have sustained it. but it is all symptomatic. that we are  legislating abstractly for civil rights to which people believe they are entitled under the constitution. but we are dealing with a burning. intense human question involving the national interest. and also involving public order in community after community.
 to go into federal court to seek "appointment of a special receiver to take immediate possession in the name of the united states of any plant. mine. or other facility which is the subject of such labor dispute and to use and operate such plant. mine. or other facility in the interests of the united states. and if the court finds that the exercise of the power and authority provided by this section is necessary to preserve and protect the national health or safety. it shall have jurisdiction to appoint such a special receiver and to make such other orders as may be appropriate." the amendment further provides that such operation by the special receiver is for the account of the employer. but the employer may elect to waive all claims to the proceeds of the receivers operation and receive instead fair and reasonable rent for the facilities as long as the court deems necessary but later than 30 days after restoration of labor relations between the parties to the dispute. the purpose of this legislation. is to recognize and reaffirm the paramount. overriding public interest in the continued effective operation of facilities necessary to protect and preserve the national health and safety. the bill leaves unchanged the 80day injunction provisions of the tafthartley act. except for technical amendments. i recognize the pro and con arguments on the 80day injunction. but it is consistent with my bill in that neither adopts the principle of compulsory arbitration. the bill would  cover such strikes as the recent new york city newspaper strike. which could  be considered a dispute affecting the national health and safety. however. this bill. in the provision for public recommendations for settlement. could serve as a model for state legislation. which might under specific conditions be applied to a newspaper strike.
i call attention to the very serious and most distressing situation which exists under the hillburton act. which. by the terms of the legislation itself. allows separate but equal facilities for whites and negroes in hospitals as accommodating the requirements of the hillburton act. this act gives the federal government a very important share in the construction of new hospitals and presents a situation which urgently requires legislative attention. it is literally shameful that in this day and age. after the supreme court decision of brown against the board of education in 1954. we still have imbedded in the hillburton act--and. incidentally. in the morrill act .with respect to landgrant collegesthe separate but equal doctrine which has been struck down by the supreme court. and which has caused the whole structure of policy negating the idea that that represents the american way. which it definitely does . these articles show how urgently legislative attention is required. i would say that one of the greatest challenges faced by the congress is whether it can exorcise this completely obsolescent and very damaging and harmful provision of law. or whether it must sit with its hands folded and allow a provision of law with which such a great majority of the country disagrees. and which the u.s. supreme court struck down as being contrary to our beliefs. the question is whether that provision must remain imbedded in the law because we do  have the necessary procedures or a way of manifesting our will to change it. i shall do everything i can to bring about such change. it is a real challenge to the congress. and one of those challenges which will determine how the congress stands in the eyes of the country. if we can cope with anything as elementary as that problem. it seems to me the country must take a very dim view of our capacity for running the countrys business.
i thank the chair. s package bill for civil rights. but this is a question of justice in the barest zones of humanity. a play has been written called "the death of bessie smith." which involved the case of a negro woman who died because one would pick her up and take her to a white hospital in the south. this is  unusual. it is one of the things that is most deeply rooted in the minds of negroes in the south. the least we can do is to say we are  going to spend u.s. money to support this practice. it is really very elemental.
s advisory commission on narcotic and drug abuse. should have marked the historic break with the past which i have long advocated. by beginning to treat addiction as an illness and  merely as a crime. the commission set the stage for this new 1)ok by backing. in its comprehensive report. what i have continually urgedalong with my colleague. senator keating--as the basic minimums of an enlightenedi view of this social disease: 1. legislation to provide fed eral assistance to state and local governmeats and profit organizations for broad .reatment and rehabilitation programs in the metropolitan environment of those afflicted 2. legislation authorizing federal civil commitment for treatment of narcotic abusers as an alternative to criminal conviction and imprisonment. 3. development of a comprshensive federal research program within the national institute of mental health. 4. a massive effort to achiexe effective international control of the distribution of dangerous drugs. i have hoped that with this distinguished expert support behind the recommendations. the executive branch and the congress would  act speedily on these recommendations. so far there has been indication of action. perhaps because of controversy over the commissions recommendation that the narcotics bureau be removed from the treasury department and split between the justice department and the department of health. education. and welfare. this may or may  be advantageous. but whatever the dispute on its merits. it should  sidetrack the administration from acting on. and recommending to the congress. the basic requirements of a modern program to solve the drug abuse problem. i ask unanimous consent that there be included in my remarks at this point a recent editorial from the wall street journal bearing on this problem.
. several factors in this answer should be mentioned. first. almost alone among the departments and agencies whose answers i have inserted in the record. hew feels it must pick and choose among its various programs. under only some of which it believes it has constitutional power to withhold funds from segregated state uses. i have never understood how the constitutional power and obligation under the 14th and 5th amendments could be abridged by the particular statutory language of this or that program. but this is the position hew. virtually alone among federal agencies. has taken and  apparently continues to maintain. second. among the programs from which the department of health. education. and welfare believes it does . without further legislation. have the authority to withhold funds is the hillburton hospital construction program. in its answer. it relied very heavily upon the fact that litigation has been pending in the fourth circuit upon this point. i was therefore most gratified to e chief judge simon e. sobeloffs decision late last year in these two hillburton cases. which held that the extensive federal and state involvement in financing hospital construction under the act brought the hospitals so constructed within the meaning of "state action" under the 14th and 5th amendments. thus the court enjoined the hospitals involved in those cases from segregating and otherwise discriminating against negro patients. the language of the decision would also extend. in my judgment. to a prohibition against refusing privileges to negro doctors. and against requiring negro patients to employ white doctors. the supreme courts denial of certiorari yesterday leaves standing this decision. which will also have a significant effect upon elimination of segregation and discrimination in many federally supported state and local progams. the fourth circuit decision only goes part of the way. of course. since it means only that segregated institutions which have been supported by federal and state funds in similar fashion are subject to injunction in suits brought by private parties in the federal courts. this places such hospitals in the same footing as schools. which as a result of the brown against board of education decision in 1954. are also subject to individual suit. the problem is that after all these years such suits have succeeded in desegregating only a small fraction of the affected school districts. and the danger is that the same fate may beset the present decision. necessitating hundreds of individual suits. the other side of the coin remains unclear. this is the question of whether hew will  deny further federal tax moneys to applications for new or additional segregated hospitals. the hew report says that such applications were being held up pending appeal. and that a final court decision of unconstitutionality would cause them to change their regulations to preclude such grants. i am  checking this with the department as a result of yesterdays supreme court action in this case. i am also checking on the impact of this decision on the other programs administered by the department. since the hillburton separatebutequal language is the most specific statutory provision imaginable. and with it should fall also the other less specific provisions of other acts which the department has previously relied upon in refusing to withhold funds.
. i rise only because of what has been said about the education of the american people. the education of the american people and the education of congress is entirely proper and entirely permissible and entirely within the right of every member of the senate. but it should  be interminable. that is the issue. senators have the right to educate. and the right even to duplicate argument after argument. but the process should  be interminable. without question. everything that has been said in this debate so far on the mere motion to take up the bill will be said time and time again. if these were ordinary times. we might say. "this is one of those things that we have to live with." but these are  ordinary times. the headline on the newspapers this morningand this is  an unusual headlineis "rioting negroes stone police in jacksonville. fla." i do  see how we can sit by in the senate day after day and assume that we are living in a vacuum. what is the function of government. the function of government is  to submit to threats or stonings or violence by anyone. matter how much people have been put upon. i agree. i have voted that way and i shall vote that way again. i agree. whether it is the negroes who have been treated with the greatest of injustice. or whether it is someone else. it is the function of government. to find answers to legitimate grievances. there is reason why there should be disorder and violence. a majority of us are willing to answer a legitimate grievance. a majority of us k it. and a majority of us are willing to cure the grievance. education is one thing. but interminable "education." when we are dealing with realities. raises serious questions as to the capability of the republic to cure itself. to save itself. and to survive. these are the issues to which the senator from pennsylvania and i have been addressing ourselves this morning.
. i have for many years struggled to have eliminated from the hillburton act one of the last overt vestiges of the constitutionally invalidated separatebutequal doctrine. section 622 (f) of the act. as enacted in 1944 and as it is still on the books. requires that state plans under the act provide for adequate hospital facilities "without discrimination on account of race. creed. or color." and that the applicant shall give assurance to the state that the facilities will be available without such discrimination. but the section goes on to make an exception "where separate hospital facilities are provided for separate population groups. if the plan makes equitable provision on the basis of need for facilities and services of like quality for each such group." since the 1954 supreme court school desegregation decision. there has been little doubt that the separatebutequal language of section 622(f) violates the 5th and 14th amendments as a denial of equal protection of the laws in federally and statesupported hospitals. i have repeatedly introduced bills to repeal that language and have moved amendments to various appropriation and authorization bills which would have achieved the same effect. all have been without result. and the department of health. education. and welfare has continued to approve applications for segregated hospitals and facilities under that provision. early this year the court of appeals for the fourth circuit held that the provision was unconstitutional in the case of two hillburton hospitals in th carolina. and the supreme court denied certiorari. i then attempted unsuccessfully. to learn from hew what they proposed to do with their regulations in view of the fourth circuit decision. it has been my position throughout that further legislation was necessary except to remove the invalid language from the books. even without legislation the executive branch has a clear obligation. in my judgment. to disregard unconstitutional legislative directions and to enforce the law in accordance with constitutional requirements. in the amended hillburton measure proposed to the congress by the executive early this year. the separatebutequal language was eliminated from what was  section 603(e) of the act. as the measure was passed by the house. and as it is  reported to the senate by the labor and public welfare committee. both the separatebutequal language and the antidiscrimination language which had preceded it are eliminated from the act. what is left is the requirement that a state plan shall provide adequate hospitals and facilities "for all persons residing in the state" and that assurance shall be received by the state from the applicant that the federally aided facility "will be made available to all persons residing in the territorial area of the applicant." by this circuitous route we have at last brought the words of the hillburton act into line with the constitution. the language  left in the act will be almost identical with language in the library services act. which the department has for some time interpreted as permitting it to require that facilities. to receive federal aid. must be segregated. however. whatever was done with this language. racial segregation in hospitals built and modernized with federal tax moneys would have had to come to an end because of title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. which set the policy for the entire federal government. with the doubly invalidated separatebutequal language  deleted from the hillburton act itself. there should be rapid action by hew to make the constitution a reality in this most important area of health services. in this connection. i was pleased to e in the press a meeting held at hew this week at which plans to desegregate hillburton facilities were discussed with representatives of national health organizations. a long campaign here in the senate  ends successfully but begins on the level of implementation. the play "the death of bessie smith" relates poignantly the story of the negro singer who was turned away from an allwhite hospital and died. at last we will begin- to make such tragedies a matter of past history.
. fridays washington post tells of a federal court decision to enjoin the requirement of a loyalty disclaimer for certain medicare recipients. in the case. the los angeles court granted a motion made by the american civil liberties union to restrain the government from requiring medicare applicants to state whether they belong to certain organizations. the action is part of a test case. initiated by the aclu challenging the requirement of the social security amendments act of 1965. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the post article be printed in the record.
. three decisions in courts in california. new york. and the district of columbia point up the increasing awareness that alcoholism is a disease and must be regarded as such before the law. an august 16 opinion by judge harold h. greene in the district of columbia court of general sessions. criminal division. reaffirms the easter decision that a chronic alcoholic may  be convicted or sent to prison on account of his intoxication and details the unfilled need for proper clinical care of alcoholics at the local level as an alternative to jail. the opinion rendered last may in the municipal court of los angeles eloquently states the case for the courts recognition of alcoholism as a disease. the june 6 decision in the u.s. district court for the western district of new york by judge harold p. burke -rules that alcoholism is a disability qualified for disability insurance benefits under the social security act. in the light of the interest that has been displayed in the developing body of law relating to alcoholism as a disease. i ask unanimous consent that these three decisions be included as a part of my remarks.
 this bill represents a totally new turn in the federal approach to the problem of narcotics addiction. namely. it provides for treatment of an illness rather than punishment for a crimepunishment which. in my judgment. has proved to be completely inappropriate and has resulted only in a rate of recidivism exceeding 90 percent. and this withstanding the fine work done at fort worth and lexington. if i may say so to the senator from arkansas. he is today an instrument serving a very great cause. of tremendous interest to a community like mine in new york which has been so heavily troubled in terms of crime and social breakdown as a result of narcotics addiction. i k that the senator from arkansas will join me. in saying that we are also indebted to the senator from connecticut for the hearings he has held. on this problem. and for his fine leadership in this whole movement which  culminates in this bill.
 we are considering this bill with practically senators present. and the importance of it may pass us by. and it should . because the bill has very serious and important implications for the carrying. out by the federal government of its responsibilities under this act. which is being amended. and in the office regarding drug abuse which we established in the executive department. under dr. jaffe. the special action office for drug abuse prevention and for which we have already provided very large sums of money. the importance of this measure is that it opens up and recognizes a basic fact. because of the pressure of the addiction on narcotics addicts and the syndrome of crime which is necessary to maintain it. and that of organized crime. the beastial people who sell. push. and smuggle heroin and other addictive drugs into our country which destroy the lives of the addict and the lives of inent people around them. the crime syndrome has made the tremendous incidence of crime a national crisis. and an especial crisis for great cities like my own city of new york. the estimate in the committee report is that to maintain the habit. the criminal activity ranges from several hundred million dollars to several billion dollars a year. i think the latter figureseveral billionsis more accurate. we have in new york city the unhappy distinction of having about half the addicts in the united states. an estimated 250.000. and some estimates go as high as 325.000. the mere concept of maintaining this habit. which is estimated to probably cost $100 a day. just boggles the imagination. when one multiplies 250.000 addicts by $100 each day to maintain the habit. and multiplies that aggregate figure for every day of the year. he can see why i speak of billions of dollars in criminal activity. the important aspect of this bill. the most creditable aspect of itand i would like to commend the senator from nebraska . who. as long ago as january 1971. introduced a billis based on the work of two brilliant doctors. to whom the country is so indebted. as the principal sponsors of this type of treatment. i refer to dr. marie nyswander. and her husband. dr. vincent dole. i came in contact with them when i was attorney general of new york. and i was at my wits end to solve the problem. marie nyswander. then a young doctor and researcher at new york university. was the one light i saw. i embraced everything she stood for. i worked with her as an attorney general in the association of attorneys general. and have ever since. this has been a very long period of time. it took very long for us to realize that. where we lack a cure. and where the drugfree therapeutic community was so expensive and it takes such a long period of time in treatment for the addict. the rate of recidivism is in excess of 50 percent. it is an unbelievable situationmethadone. which is itself addictive. and the committee states so frankly. is just the only way. and yet. what is so shocking. and the point i would make here. is that methadone is the only thing until we discover something else. methadone maintenance is an interim measureclearly proven effective for certain addictsand needed  while the search for antagonists and other effective longterm solutions goes on. dr. jaffe says he is pretty.close to a solution on an antagonist. which will actually. when taken or ingested. repel the drug. so that you do  have to give the user an addictive drug. as of . at least we k methadone maintenance offers one solution a cureall for all addictsbut it is a proven treatment modality for certain heroin addicts in order to combat the scourge of heroin abuse which is a plague on our society. regrettably. a tremendous effort is being made in some quarters to discredit methadone.
. if we are going to. have a gladiatorial contest. it would be horrible. and even worse than unsporting. to send one of the gladiators into the arena without weapons. and yet that is precisely what it is proposed to do. the arnicus amendment is simply a proposal to strip the consumer protection agency of even such weaponry. in terms of representing consumers. as is in the hands of every other agency and department of government today. we have constantly maintained that all we are trying to do is establishwhich is really what the government operations committee is supposed to doa reorganization of the consumer function in the government by establishing an agency equipped for the purpose with a singleness of objective. rather than the diversity of every agency and every department theoretically being empowered to protect the consumer. but. king the fear or timidity of some sections of american businesshappily  allwe have inserted in the bill a whole legion of assurances and safeguards. many at the behest of the distinguished senator from alabama . of the chairman of our committee . and of other senators. in order to assure. reassure. and lock in again the fact that business would  be under any circumstances imposed on. to me the most ironclad of those assurances. aside from the specificity of detall. was the amendment sponsored by the senator from arkansas . chairman of the appropriations committee and former chairman of our committee. the senator from connecticut . the senator from illis and i accepted it. that amendment was to establish what is really a controlling supervisory commission. with jurisdiction over the general policy of this enterprise. binding upon its administrator. which would be bipartisan in its nature. and subject to confirmation by the senate. with the feeling that that was the ultimate sanction. senator mcclellan. i think everybody will recognize. certainly is  a man who would think of any idea other than one which he felt would give a sense of stability and even relative conservatism to the operation of this agency. my staff has made a listand i think it is appropriate that it should be included in the recordof 20 substantive provisions and criteria which are safeguards against any undue interference by the consumer protection agency with responsible business practices and the orderly processes of government. they include the following: the cpa will have regulatory authority. there is a limitation upon its intervention. which limitation is very strong when it comes to intervention in court. with the court having to find. under very strict criteria. a basis for intervention. a protection against the delay of agency proceedings or their disruption. because he must proceed exactly in accordance with the mal rules and regulations of the agency. a protection against intrusion by the agency in private meetings or discussions. it may present orally or in writing its views. but it is  required to be present at any particular meeting or discussion. a protection against any abuse of the agencys compulsory process. so that it may  be arbitrary. for discovery or even for interrogatories. a very strict protection against any unfair inquiry in terms of acquiring information from miscellaneous bust.nessses. we have limited the places where the administrator really has authority to get information to a relationship of that information to consumer health or safety or consumer health or safety .or consumer fraud. and that may be test.ed in court. a protection against arbitrary. capricious. or vindicative intervention by the consumer protection agencyagain. subject to judicial review. a protection against unwarranted allegations in complaints from consumers. especially as it relates to a specific business or its products and services. with a full opportunity to the respondent to reply and to have publication equally of that reply. very strict protection against the disclosure of confidential information in the hands of any other government agency. and protection for business secrets that may come into the possession of the agency. protection against disclosure to the public of false or misleading informationagain. subject to court action. protection against surprise disclosure. with prior ice to a company affected and an opportunity to come in. protection against unfair comparison of products or services of a particular business. clarification that substantive criteria applicable to agency decisions remain unaffected by the power given to the consumer protection agency. i ask unanimous consent that a specification of these 20 safeguards and the details be printedin the record.
the other point i would like to make is that we had quite a discussion here on the item for a special action office for drug abuse prevention. and the senate took a figure of $35 million. accepting an amendment which i offered for $5 million additional. the house had $20 million and the appropriation is $25 million. again. i repeat the points that were made when the senate committee took the $5 million. the urgency of cleaning up the methadone waiting list is a matter of tremendous importance to every metropolitan city. its sequel is in crime and violence of the worst kind. i would like to suggest again we may have to come back in january with adequate proof showing that by  providing the necessary money to clean up the waiting list we are ourselves being responsible for allowing people on the streets who are likely to be very serious criminals. this is almost unforgivable. i realize the problem with the other body.
. there i widespread agreement today that a pro foundly complex problem of drug abus. reaches deep into the whole structure o america. throughout every strata of ou: society. the american people are in tensely worried about drug abuse an( about the individuals who sustain it. thi drug pushers and dealers. it is a problem that has brought frus. tration. agony. and heartbreak to many the issue is suffused with uncertaint3 and misinformation. it frightens and an. gers. for drug abuse seems to call int question the process by which our societ3 derives and affirms its values. full or easy solutions have yet appeared. we must recognize that law enforcement. treatment. and rehabilitation. education and prevention efforts can make important inroads on the problem but. together or separately. they may  be able finally to resolve it. such resolution may be possible only when we. as a society. successfully deal with the underlying causes which have activated drugtaking on such a grand scale. but in the meantime. the terror of crime in our home and on our streets attributable to drug abuse must be abatedfor it represents a crisis of public order for society. at the federal level. we took a significant step toward achieving that objective last year in the treatment and rehabilitation area of drug abuse policythe socalled "demand side"-when congress established the special action office on drug abuse prevention in the white house. headed by the very able dr. jerome h. jaffe. this office has sought to bring together the frequently disparate. uncoordinated. and conflicting activities of nine different federal agencies in the areas of medical and program research into the causes and cures of drug abuse. education. and training to reduce the abuse of drugs and treatment and rehabilitation of drug users so that they can be returned as productive members of society. on the supply side of the drug abuse problem. i am  convinced that all that can be done is being done and it is this subject that i wish to explore also today: the capability of our laws and our federal drug enforcement agencies to reduce supply. and to operate most effectively in interdicting the domestic. interstate. and international commerce in illicit drugs. the dramatic increase in the incidence of illicit drug use. particularly among children and young people. is proof egh that supplies to sustain such drug use are readily available. we k that these supplies are derived from illicit drugs which are roughly divided into categories: those of clandestine origin. such as heroin. cocaine. marihuana. and lsd. and those diverted from legitimate origin. such as barbiturates. amphetamines. and tranquilizers. with some important exceptions. most it of the drugs of clandestine origin are sur. d reptitiously brought into the unite( - states from abroad. whereas a large por. tion of the diverted drugs are of domes. tic manufacture. in all cases. the drug. are ultimately made available to the drue s abuser through criminal activity. illicit. international drug traffic is e booming business. it is a business rootec f in international affairs and linked tc r rapidly expanding demand. who is the "pusher". he is a tourist a migrating laborer. a businessman. student. transportation worker. he is the professional hijacker diverting ship_ ments of tens of thousands of amphetamine tablets. he is the serviceman mailing pounds or ounces of heroin into the _ continental united states. and. he is the diplomat taking advantage of his generally unrestricted movement across international boundaries. he is the organized crime syndicate director. who runs a heavily financed and broadly based enterprise. while the _ latter may be moving and marketing heroin across continents and oceans for millions of dollars in profit. the pusher is also the neighborhood street peddler who may be the 10th man in the chain. . as he sells a heavily diluted drug which . has passed through many hands.  is illicit drug traffic a matter of smuggling alone. for it is carefully joined with purportedly honest commerce. it can arise out of licit agricultural and chemical production. and it can be tied in with major financial enterprises. indeed. it is this simultaneously licit--in one placeand illicitin aheraspect which poses some of the most important international questions as far as cooperative drug enforcement efforts are concerned. there are sanctuaries for production. for warehousing and transhipment. for holding cash and for protecting criminal figures who may be wanted by other governments. our drug trafficking problems are thus emously complex on both the national and international levels. the social and ecoic costs of this traffic in the united states are extraordinary. recent surveys of the national commission on marihuana and drug abuse--of which i am a memberreflect the fact that drug abuse has increased rapidly. and that the use of hard narcotics such as heroin and cocaine has reached alarming proportions. one drug. heroin. is the single greatest cause of death for all people between the ages of 15 and 35 in new york city. in many urban areas. the addict is the prisoner of the addict. as they confront a standing challenge to safety. across the country there have been increasingly frequent accounts of heroin use by preteenage children. heroin does  respect age. sex. or class. it is present in factories. and on college campuses. some of our high schools and. elementary schools have become supermarkets for drugs. it is widespread in the military and can be purchased openly in many american cities. the national commission has reported the astounding fact that the number of young people between the ages of 12 and 18 who have tried heroin is 11/2 million and increasing. heroin is perhaps the most profitable contraband commodity. with one ounce sometimes costing almost eight times as much as an ounce of gold. the following chart illustrates the price range of illicit drugs in new york city and other communities in new york state:
. on aher matter. also the subject of an amendment which will be here tomorrow. i am deeply concerned by senator bartletts amendment to the labor/ health. education. and welfare appropriations billh.r. 15580which provides: part of the funds appropriated under this act shall be used in any manner directly or indirectly to pay for or encourage the performances of abortions except such abortions as are necessary to save the life of the mother. congress has developed and expanded the medicaid program as the primary means of assuring that the poor of this country have access to medical care. it is apparent from the millions of people who participate in the program that this program is vital to the health and wellbeing of ecoically disadvantaged individuals and their families. i believe there is benefit to individuals and families in senator bartletts amendment. access to medically supervised abortion under the rules laid down by the u.s. supreme court is  considered to bring about significant health advantages in many cases to individuals and their families. this is best illustrated by the statistics in new york state. where the maternal death rate has been cut in half and infant mortality rates have declined to a new low since enactment of a liberalized statute. the bartlett amendment. without regard to medical need. would completely deny health benefits to women who are poor and most distinctly in need of adequate medical care to improve their health. this amendment. by denying abortions only to women who are poor. is discriminatory for it deprives women too poor to pay of the rights which the constitution and the supreme court accord to women with means. the amendment would effectively deny 3 million lowincome women their right to good health care by prohibiting the use of the only funds available to them for this medical service. also. this amendment eliminates all decisionmaking and exercise of choice on the part of women who are poor. thereby infringing upon their civil rights and personal freedom. the inherent discrimination of such a prohibition was pointed out by circuit judge lumbard in his decision in the u.s. district court requiring the state of new york provide medicaid payments for abortion. he ruled that: the directive [prohibiting medicaid payment for abortions] ... would deny indigent women the equal protection of the laws to which they are constitutionally entitled. they alone are subjected to state coercion to bear children which they do  wish to bear. and other women similarly situated are so coerced .... the indigent is advised by the state that the state will deny her medical assistance unless she resigned her freedom of choice and bears the child.... she is thus discriminated against both by reasons of her poverty and by reason of her behavioral choice. interest of the state is served by the arbitrary discrimination. even prior to the supreme court ruling. state law in this country totally prohibited access to abortion. and both state and federal courts have progressively struck down legal obstacles to abortion. most recently. the supreme court recognized abortion. "consistent with responsible medical practice." as a matter of private choice and personal conscience. and the amendment would constitute a legal impediment to equal protection for a class of women who must look to the federal and state governments for their health care.
. it should be ed that court tests in six states. whose medicaid programs sought to limit reimbursements to those abortions deemed by the state to be "therapeutic" or "medically necessary." have resulted unanimously in orders that medicaid must reimburse for all legal abortions if the program reimburses for other pregnancyrelated services. fortyone states and the district of columbia. either voluntarily or on court order.  reimburse fully for legal abortions under medicaid. the few remaining states still have restrictions of one sort or aher. some of which are being challenged in the courts. but only west virginias restrictions are as stringent as those in the bartlett amendment. only when the womans life is threatened. i respect those whose philosophy. experience. religious training. moral standards. and values lead them to conclude that abortion is wrong. however. i do  believe they should seek to impose involuntary requirements for other individuals who may have a difference of opinion. it is a matter of individual conscience. oliver wendell holmes said that "moral predilections must  be allowed to influence our minds in settling legal distinction." i urge my colleagues to support the motion to table. that i will soon offer. so the coercive powers of the state are  employed in the service of any sectarian view.
if i may sum up my positiongluttony. which causes a lot more illness than pregnancy. is also voluntary. so is  taking exercise or  getting sufficient air. so is  going for an affirmative checkup to the doctor every year or every 6 months. so is neglecting your eyes by  getting the proper glasses. i mean. if we are going to get into that. that is ad infinitum. i must oppose the selection of this one item on the ground that we are doing the pregnant woman some kind of a favor. the fact is what we are doing. what we are dealing with here. is an actual disability which is prejudicial to millions of women. and it is. therefore. a discriminaton which we should  accept. what the senator wishes us to do is to single this out. to make an actuarial insurance schedule for this one but  for 50 others which are just as voluntary. therefore. it seems to me that we would only complicate our lives infinitely more by taking that kind of an approach to this problem. may i point out. too. if i may just complete my argument. that when i said that what we are trying to do was to restore the situation to what it was. the fact is that before the supreme court decision there did  seem to be any question in the minds of many gf us that where there was to be disability coverage for women under comprehensive disability plans. . some employers held out against that. and the supreme court decided with them. it does  make it right and does  change the fundamental reach of the civil rights act which definitely stated that you could  or you should  discriminate on the ground of sex. and so we are. in pursuance of an intent which we legislated in 1964. simply saying to the court. "this is what we meant and we mean it and. therefore. because you left us choice. we are going to make clear in a separate statute that is what we meant and what we mean today." but i do  see why we should import into that intent an arbitrary limitation for this particular disability. particularly where we ourselves state. the whole committee states. and the senate would state in acting upon our representation. that classifications and protections are absolutely in order so long as they are  inherently discriminatory. therefore. i believe that to select out this particular disability for this particular kind of restriction is bad policy. the senator says my state does it and senator williams state does it. well. we often run into those situations here with many states. i do  agree with everything my state does. i do  think it is a paragon of virtue. and i will tell the senator. for example. that in workmens compensation i am ashamed of my state as to the inadequacy of its workmens compensation laws. the compensation which it gives to the disabled worker. so while i am impressed with such a factand it is incumbent upon me to express my agreement or disagreement with it. which i do. i flatly disagree with iti am  going to lend myself as a senator of the united states to making what i consider to be a serious injustice here. because my state happens to do it. so. . i believe for the reasons which i have stated. and in view of the protections which we agree are inherent in the law . and will continue to be inherent in the law. that the amendment should be rejected.
. as an original cosponsor of the bill. and as ranking miity member of the committee on human resources. which unanimously reported s. 2522. the voluntary family planning services. population research. and sudden infant death syndrome amendments of 1978. i support this legislation. s. 2522 will significantly improve existing title x programs of family planning and population -esearch. first. each of the four current title x categoriesservices.. training. research. and informationare provided with authorizations over a 5year period. so as to increase the opportunity of individuals to receive voluntary family planning services and improve existing biomedical. behavioral. and contraception research efforts. second. s. 2522 extends and clarifies the jurisdiction and role of the office of population affairs in hew as established in title x by public law 91572. third. the bill will strengthen crucial natural family planning and contraceptive research programs and provide incentives for increased program development in the private sector. fourth. and perhaps most important. s. 2522 authorizes a new and essential program to provide voluntary family planning services to sexually active adolescents who wish to avoid unwanted pregnancy. this latter provision. emphasizing services to adolescents. is particularly important. it is estimated that there are at least 9.7 million women at risk of unwanted pregnancy who have difficulty obtaining family planning services. often due to ecoic reasons. a great proportion of these women are teenagers. more than half of the 21 million people in the united states between the ages of 15 and 19. and 20 percent of the 8 million 13- and 14yearolds. are estimated to have need for such services. about 1 million of these adolescents become pregnant each year. and almost 600.000 give birth. many of these pregnancies are unwanted. and often result in disastrous consequences for these individuals and their families. there is a higher incidence of low birth weight pregnancies. a greater risk of complications of pregnancy and childbirth. and higher rate of school dropouts. unemployment. welfare dependence. and outofweldock birth among these adolescents than in the general population. by providing this new emphasis on voluntary services to sexually active adolescents in this legislation. we can begin to confront and preempt the problems facing pregnant teenagers and their families. these amendments to title x continue the authority of the voluntary family planning program to serve persons of all ages and all income levels. family planning services have been particuarly inaccessible to lowincome persons. and other programs. mandated by title iva and xix of the social security act. supplement the basic title x program by affording lowincome women the opportunity for family planning services. finally. s. 2522 incorporates the sudden infant death syndrome (sids) program within title x. this program. currently housed within the genetic disease title of the public health services act (title xi). will be placed in more appropriate administrative framework as part of title x. as a new part b of title x. the sids program will be provided with an increased authorization to improve counseling. research. and information activities. this will enable us to continue to search into the causes of this most tragic problem. and to seek out methods of prevention of sudden and unexplained infant deaths.0
