. brief remarks entitled "when you plant a tree" were delivered at the ninth annual willamette tree planting festival in oakridge. oreg.. by mr. h. r. glascock. jr. mr. glascock is forest counsel to the western forestry and conservation association. i ask unanimous consent that his observations on planting of a tree ap-
. there is a myth that we can afford to preserve parks. wildlife refuges and wilderness in alaska. but must make the maximum amount of land open to development in order to provide access to needed mineral. timber and oil resources. the facts demonstrate that this view is simply wrong. along with many other americansmany from my state of rhode islandi believe we can enact a strong and rational alaska bill without denying us needed resources. i want our nation to have a strong ecoy. a strong ecoy requires us to wisely develop and utilize our natural resources. but there is much more in alaska than minerals. timber. and oil: there is unparalleled wilderness landscape. fantastic wildlife resources. and an indiges culture of people who have lived in harmony for centuries with the land and wildlife. clearly. it is our responsibility to strike a fair balance between resource development and conservation. l. in this debate. along with senator hart and others. i will offer an amendment to provide greater protection of wildlife and their habitat in alaska. other amendments will be offered dealing with national parks. wilderness. rivers. forests. and transportation procedures. i strongly urge my colleagues to listen to the debate on these amendments and remember the uniqueness of the entire alaska lands issue. by doing a good job in protecting the land and wildlife in alaska we can protect a living heritage of scenic and wildlife treasures only for ourselves but for future generations
i would say to my colleague that i have a strong interest in this program. it is playing an important role in the conservation of our nations water resources and recreation areas. especially in new england. just last month. the national park service. the state of rhode island. and several local governments in the state entered into a formal agreement whereby the service would provide technical assistance from this program to fund a joint study to develop a protection strategy for the wood river in rhode island. the study is expected to be concluded during fiscal year september 19. 1.983 cod 1984.. however. i am concerned about the availability of funds to finish the study. this endeavor is important to the people of rhode island. as you k. we are a heavily populated state with a limited number of open areas for our residents to enjoy. if the wood river area can be protected for outdoor recreation. it would benefit the citizens of our state immensely.
i thank my good friend and colleague. he has been most kind and attentive in this matter and also on the wood river study. these studies are important to many people in my state and i appreciate his assistance in securing funds for these projects.
i would say to my colleague that i have a strong interest in this program. it is playing an important role in the conservation of our nations water resources and recreation areas. especially in new england. just last month. the national park service. the state of rhode island. and several local governments in the state entered into a formal agreement whereby the service would provide technical assistance from this program to fund a joint study to develop a protection strategy for the wood river in rhode island. the study is expected to be concluded during fiscal year september 19. 1.983 cod 1984.. however. i am concerned about the availability of funds to finish the study. this endeavor is important to the people of rhode island. as you k. we are a heavily populated state with a limited number of open areas for our residents to enjoy. if the wood river area can be protected for outdoor recreation. it would benefit the citizens of our state immensely.
i thank my good friend and colleague. he has been most kind and attentive in this matter and also on the wood river study. these studies are important to many people in my state and i appreciate his assistance in securing funds for these projects.
. i have looked over this new amendment and. first of all. i would like to make a parliamentary inquiry. is it my understanding that. the tree has been filled out and that there are amendments to this amendment possible.
. anyone who has visited the beautiful berkshires of western massachusetts can come away without a lasting impression of the magnificence of this sylvan countryside. these rolling hills and mountains are a natural resource of which all americans can be proud. unlike our great national forests of the west and the south. nearly all of the land comprising the berkshires is in the hands of private owners. many of whom wish more than a sanctuary from the more densely populated areas of the theast. thus conservation and preservation of their beauty depends to a large extent upon the individual efforts of the area landowners. much attention has been devoted to the functions and responsibilities of both industry and government in sound practices of conservation. on the other hand. perhaps too little concentration has been devoted to the role of the individual. especially in such areas as forestry. jeremiah j. mahoney has pointed out in an article appearing in this mornings wall street journal that many landowners seek to leave every tree on their land untouched in the erroneous belief that this is the soundest method of conservation. the result is often quite the oppositeupper growth of the trees becomes so dense that the lifegiving sunlight needed to maintain the undergrowth is shut off and this lower vegetation dies out. by  utilizing sound selective cutting practices long employed in state and national forests and on all timber company lands. the individual forest owner may actually be damaging the woods. he is trying so carefully to preserve. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
may i say to the gentleman from indiana that i do  subscribe to the proposition that there is  a fundamental difference in philosophy between those who wish repeal of the essential philosophy of the tafthartley law and those who do . i see the alinement on that difference in philosophy between those who support the wood substitute. and those who are opposed to it as i am. the points i was trying to make are that. however we may differ on particular issues when those issues come up. that does  put those men and those women in any specific class. and further. that there is an honest attempt here on the part of those who support the bill h. r. 2032 to bring about repeal of the tafthartley law in accordance with the basic intent with which campaigns were waged for repeal of the tafthartley act.
. i am happy to endorse the ination of mrs. marietta tree to be u.s. delegate to the human rights commission of the united nations ecoic and social council. mrs. tree is a distinguished and able new yorker who has served in able manner the people of the city and the state of new york. and the people of the nation. she has been a member of the new york city commission on intergroup relations. of the fair housing practices commission. of the urban league. and of many other wellkn groups in the fields of social and human welfare. i believe that this appointment is a most deserved and merited one. which will bring credit to the united states and to the united nations.
. i shall be brief. i trust the senate will listen to me as patiently as i did to many other senators. this provision bears out precisely what i argued. i have seen proposals which received less than one dozen votes reversed on occasion. and those who voted the other way were glad to see the votes reversed. very unwise legislation is being proposed. in terms of american foreign trade. it is proposed to do the very thing the state department warned us against in respect of canada. and which the canadian government has protested. with respect to a species of lumber covered by a trade agreement on lumber from canada. we are flying in the teeth of that protestation and warning and asking that the lumber be marked. i wish emphatically to be recorded as voting "nay." i have already made my record. the senate may do what it thinks wise. but i rise to point out that we are doing precisely what the state department and other government agencies warned us against. it may see that at least one voice is raised in protest. we are flying in the face of a situation which the canadians have already anticipated and protested against. i think this action is unwise. this is exactly what the state department warned against in its letter of march 20. when it stated to the committee that there was a legal commitment to the government of canada. i regret very much that the senate. as appears likely from present appearances. is about to put this provision in the bill. the testimony upon this question was explicit. mr. blau. of the commerce department. stated. as shown on page 22 of the hearings:
i wish to say. in fairness to the senator from california. that he was tremendously helpful with respect to this bill. and that we should  miss the forest for the trees. we do have a difference. which will come out. in respect to his amendment. in connection with administration and the role of the state. but i do  consider that as at all the major preponderant aspect of the bill. on the bill. in all its details. including the authorizations. i pay my tribute to the senator from california for an indispensable contribution. i wanted that to be very clear. matter how acute our differences might sound in a few minutes on a detail of administration.
there is a substantive argument. too. which is important. a good deal of educational structure. whether we like it or  has been built out of this impacted areas money. i do  think it can be snapped out that rapidly without doing some serious damage to the educational picture. as i have said. i am  entirely sold on impacted areas aid. but i rather believe that. in the interest of getting the total education package. even if we do  agree. it is a price i willingly pay because i think it is so vitally important in this continuing resolution. especially considering the icejam that we have on appropriations. we must keep our eye on the forest and for the moment do  keep our eye on the trees. that is the essence of my feeling in this matter.
but when they do. if they hold otherwise. or if we pass other laws. we expect that to be carried out under this policy and uniformly applied. there are three major points. i sat in this conference and it could be that i am so immersed in it that i have missed the forest for the trees. three major points arise: "uniformity." the words "whatever the origin or cause of such segregation." and the use of the term "de facto" in connection with whatever may be the law regarding de facto. even though it does  exist today.
may i be frank with the senator. as he always is with me. and as the senator from new hampshire always is with me. i do  want. with millions and millions of people involved. to miss the forest for the trees because we have to scale down our original intentions. in other words. i fear that we are going to take the least expensive route to please perhaps some small brokers and dealers. because they do  want to spend the moneyand i can blame themand miss the big purpose of the bill. that is what worries me. what worries me is the fact that we are going to scale down the whole conception of what we are trying to accomplish in order to suit some people who do  feel happy about paying the small tab. and thereby miss the basic purpose of reassuring the community of investors that they at least have something that stands between them and the improvidence of the individual broker. i ask that question because i think there is a moral responsibility here. if the senator wants me to go along with this without a contest. he takes upon himself the moral responsibility of writing down the value of the guarantee just because we have to look after the interests of the small dealers.
