madam president. i stand before my fellow senators in full support of the resolution on which we voted yesterday. a stunned world and nation is struggling to come to grips with the horrifying violence of september 11. 2001. i support the presidents efforts to marshal the resources of our intelligence. law enforcement. diplomatic. and military apparatus to bring about justice and to do so as swiftly as possible. i call on any nation kn to be harboring terrorists to fully cooperate with the united states and stem the rising tide of conflict. i believe people around the world are in equal measure demanding justice for these horrendous crimes and anxious for the world to settle its disputes in a rational and civilized manner. we must cling to the hope that this is possible. even while we recognize that on this earth there exists people capable of unbelievable barbarism. this is a time of overwhelming sadness. and i join my colleagues in support of s.j. res. 22. madam president
 mussharaf of pakistan said. "this will have very negative repercussions around the islamic world." i believe it is wise to heed the concerns of our friends. and our friends are telling us that we are ratcheting up the hatred. in two nations recent elections the defining issues seemingly revolved around american arrogance. the fact that the two countries are our friends. germany and brazil. is alarming. what congress does this week and next will have very serious implications throughout the world. demagogues in the middle east and elsewhere are surely ready and willing to exploit a u.s. invasion of iraq. and today the cia is warning americans of the connection between a rise in terrorism and military activity in iraq. certainly it is preferable to address the threat posed by any international criminal in concert with our allies and within the confines of the united nations. this is the preference outlined in the amendment offered by senator levinan amendment i support. we need to provide people susceptible to antiamericanism with a positive message that respects international cooperation and friendship. the levin substitute upholds the values i have heard in discussions with the people of rhode island. it recognizes the benefit of an international coalition in taking on the tremendous challenge of disarming the iraqi regime. it authorizes military force against iraq only as part of a new unapproved resolution. and failing that. allows congress to return to session to consider an alternative approach. as a nation. we are united in opposing the tyranny and repression of saddam hussein. but there are real disagreements both here at home and abroad as to how best to ensure that this man can threaten world peace. adoption of the levin amendment would  give saddam hussein a chance to further obstruct and delayit is the prudent idea most consistent with the values that have made the united states a great nation. i urge all of my colleagues to support the levin amendment.
. i am pleased today to draw the senates attention to a public servant who has given meritorious service to rhode island and to the nation. since 1981. albert w. billington has been a special agent with the naval criminal investigative service (ncis). in december. mr. billington will retire from the ncis. he leaves a record of achievement. and his service will be missed. al billington graduated from theastern university in 1977 with a bachelors degree in criminal justice. beginning his career as a special agent. his first assignment was the san francisco office where he investigated general criminal matters. just 2 years later. he began a oneyear assignment as the special agent afloat aboard the uss enterprise (cvn 65). during the tour. he led several highprofile investigations while the ship and battle group were deployed in the western pacific. and for this he rdceived the ncisra san francisco special agent of the year award for distinguished service. later. mr. billington graduated from the department of defense polygraph institute in anniston. al. and was reassigned as a special agent polygraph examiner to the nis theast region polygraph site in new london. ct. he rose through the ranks first as the site manager and later as the special agent in charge of the polygraph office. as division head at nishq. he conducted oversight of all polygraph matters for the department of the navy. in 1994. al billington was appointed assistant special agent in charge of the theast field office in newport. ri. handling all criminal and fraud investigations. in 1997. he was promoted and reassigned as the special agent in charge of the ncis middle east field office in bahrain. he served with distinction during this time of heightened alert and terrorist activity and was awarded the navy superior civilian service award by vadm c.w. moore. commander fifth fleet. usn. two years later. he was transferred to ncis headquarters and served as the deputy assistant director for investigative support. in 2001. mr. billington assumed his present position as the special agent in charge of the ncis washington. dc. field office. upon his retirement. mr. billington will be returning to his home in portsmouth. ri. spending time with his wife. bonnie. and son. matthew. i join with al billingtons colleagues in expressing thanks for his dedication and valuable service to our nation. and in wishing him success in all his future endeavors.*
s. the overwhelming majority of editorial pages across the nation agree that district and circuit court inees are entitled to an upordown vote. however. a vote to invoke cloture is  an automatic vote for confirmtion. in fact. i joined several other republicans in voting against a district court inee earlier this month. i have heard from a number of rhode islanders who have serious concerns about mr. myers. particularly his views on property rights and environmental protection. and i will carefully weigh their objections should the senate invoke cloture on his ination in the future.
madam president. i stand before my fellow senators in full support of the resolution on which we voted yesterday. a stunned world and nation is struggling to come to grips with the horrifying violence of september 11. 2001. i support the presidents efforts to marshal the resources of our intelligence. law enforcement. diplomatic. and military apparatus to bring about justice and to do so as swiftly as possible. i call on any nation kn to be harboring terrorists to fully cooperate with the united states and stem the rising tide of conflict. i believe people around the world are in equal measure demanding justice for these horrendous crimes and anxious for the world to settle its disputes in a rational and civilized manner. we must cling to the hope that this is possible. even while we recognize that on this earth there exists people capable of unbelievable barbarism. this is a time of overwhelming sadness. and i join my colleagues in support of s.j. res. 22. madam president
 mussharaf of pakistan said. "this will have very negative repercussions around the islamic world." i believe it is wise to heed the concerns of our friends. and our friends are telling us that we are ratcheting up the hatred. in two nations recent elections the defining issues seemingly revolved around american arrogance. the fact that the two countries are our friends. germany and brazil. is alarming. what congress does this week and next will have very serious implications throughout the world. demagogues in the middle east and elsewhere are surely ready and willing to exploit a u.s. invasion of iraq. and today the cia is warning americans of the connection between a rise in terrorism and military activity in iraq. certainly it is preferable to address the threat posed by any international criminal in concert with our allies and within the confines of the united nations. this is the preference outlined in the amendment offered by senator levinan amendment i support. we need to provide people susceptible to antiamericanism with a positive message that respects international cooperation and friendship. the levin substitute upholds the values i have heard in discussions with the people of rhode island. it recognizes the benefit of an international coalition in taking on the tremendous challenge of disarming the iraqi regime. it authorizes military force against iraq only as part of a new unapproved resolution. and failing that. allows congress to return to session to consider an alternative approach. as a nation. we are united in opposing the tyranny and repression of saddam hussein. but there are real disagreements both here at home and abroad as to how best to ensure that this man can threaten world peace. adoption of the levin amendment would  give saddam hussein a chance to further obstruct and delayit is the prudent idea most consistent with the values that have made the united states a great nation. i urge all of my colleagues to support the levin amendment.
. i am pleased today to draw the senates attention to a public servant who has given meritorious service to rhode island and to the nation. since 1981. albert w. billington has been a special agent with the naval criminal investigative service (ncis). in december. mr. billington will retire from the ncis. he leaves a record of achievement. and his service will be missed. al billington graduated from theastern university in 1977 with a bachelors degree in criminal justice. beginning his career as a special agent. his first assignment was the san francisco office where he investigated general criminal matters. just 2 years later. he began a oneyear assignment as the special agent afloat aboard the uss enterprise (cvn 65). during the tour. he led several highprofile investigations while the ship and battle group were deployed in the western pacific. and for this he rdceived the ncisra san francisco special agent of the year award for distinguished service. later. mr. billington graduated from the department of defense polygraph institute in anniston. al. and was reassigned as a special agent polygraph examiner to the nis theast region polygraph site in new london. ct. he rose through the ranks first as the site manager and later as the special agent in charge of the polygraph office. as division head at nishq. he conducted oversight of all polygraph matters for the department of the navy. in 1994. al billington was appointed assistant special agent in charge of the theast field office in newport. ri. handling all criminal and fraud investigations. in 1997. he was promoted and reassigned as the special agent in charge of the ncis middle east field office in bahrain. he served with distinction during this time of heightened alert and terrorist activity and was awarded the navy superior civilian service award by vadm c.w. moore. commander fifth fleet. usn. two years later. he was transferred to ncis headquarters and served as the deputy assistant director for investigative support. in 2001. mr. billington assumed his present position as the special agent in charge of the ncis washington. dc. field office. upon his retirement. mr. billington will be returning to his home in portsmouth. ri. spending time with his wife. bonnie. and son. matthew. i join with al billingtons colleagues in expressing thanks for his dedication and valuable service to our nation. and in wishing him success in all his future endeavors.*
s. the overwhelming majority of editorial pages across the nation agree that district and circuit court inees are entitled to an upordown vote. however. a vote to invoke cloture is  an automatic vote for confirmtion. in fact. i joined several other republicans in voting against a district court inee earlier this month. i have heard from a number of rhode islanders who have serious concerns about mr. myers. particularly his views on property rights and environmental protection. and i will carefully weigh their objections should the senate invoke cloture on his ination in the future.
. american history is replete with many great heroes. unfortunately. commendation and praise were  accorded many of these individuals until after they had passed from the scene. today we ho a living american hero. one who has made a contribution to the present that will list him in history with the many american great. it is with an emous amount of respect and admiration that i salute j. edgar hoover. director of the fbi. for what he has done. for what he is doing. and for what we can anticipate from him. international communism is still the greatest threat to the free countries of the world and is the cause of many of the problems that our country is faced with today. the relentless fight carried on by the federal bureau of investigation against subversivism and its movement. which to a large extent  lives in underground fashion. is a program of work that  too many americans are conscious of or appreciate because of the silent. quiet and efficient way the fbi has of operating. yet it is one of the mainstays to our being able to exist as a free nation and continue to be the leading free nation that other countries can look up to and depend upon for guidance. i deem it a great ho and personal privilege to help in hoing one of todays great americans.
. at the present time the congress of the united states is engaged in the study and consideration of a number of matters of vital importance to our fast growing metropolitan areas. hearings are just being completed on proposals to aid mass transportation. other studies are underway on a variety of subjects including juvenile delinquency. air pollution. and crime. what has stluck me about all of this activity is the lack of coordination between these areas of inquiry. two years ago. i introduced a resolution to creat a select committee composed of 13 members of the house of representatives. this committee was to "conduct a full and complete investigation and study of the problems of urban areas. including housing. urban renewal. slum clearance. prevention and elimination of urban blight. air and water pollution. water supply. sewage facilities. transportation. and other problems of urban areas." little progress seems to have been made in coordinating these studies. therefore i am again submitting this resolution in the hope that a study. such as the one proposed. will enable the house to act on the basis of informed. coherent judgment in dealing with these problems. the areas of concern which i have mentioned are necessarily related. they can thus be considered most profitably together. i urge my colleagues to turn their attention to this matter.
. yesterday. september 15. 1963. i delivered an address before the biennial convention. central states region of the international brotherhood of teamsters. in the main. i explained several bills that i have introduced in the senate involving the bonding provisions of the landrumgriffith law and proposal for amending our federal code of criminal procedure. i ask unanimous consent that my speech be printed at this point in the record.
 if the court does  act within 40 days of the attorney generals request. the federal registrars will be empowered to issue certificates of qualification. if these certificates are  hoed by the appropriate election officials. contempt of court proceedings can be instituted. when 50 or more persons with certificates of qualification to vote are denied this right. then the election will be voided. a sixth grade education in an accredited public or private school will be regarded as fulfillment of literacy. education. or intelligence requirements. despite the commands of the civil rights act of 1964. shocking and devious tactics have been employed to restrict the voting right. in my judgment. this legislation is absolutely necessary to guarantee that every single american citizen who can qualify to vote can vote. we can do less.
. i am proud to join my colleagues here today in introducing the civil rights law enforcement act of 1966. in my judgment. the enactment of such legislation is long overdue. all of the hard work and effort of the congress in enacting legislation in 1957. 1960. 1964. and again last year will be to avail if the rights they guarantee can be enforced due to inequities in the administration of justice. the civil rights commission has twice reported in detail on defects in the administration of justice: in the procedures by which grand and petit juries are selected in state and federal courts. in the ability to enforce laws penalizing private and official violence. and in the inability of private citizens to achieve adequate relief from acts of official violence. in 1963 the commission devoted an entire volume of its report to the administration of justice. last year. the commission again added to our information on this problem in its "law enforcement report on equal protection in the south." withstanding these warnings. action was  taken and we have witnessed numerous examples of private and official violence. several resulting in cxii319part 4 tragic deathsfor which the defendants never received punishment. the failures of our legal mechanism in this field reflect on our commitment to be a nation of laws.  of men. we can longer postpone action in the field of civil rights law enforcement. we believe that the legislation we propose today will accomplish its purposes with a minimum of disruption to present practice. and with a minimum of interference with the state legal systems. title i establishes an objective and equitable standard for the selection of jurors for federal courts. by using the voting lists as the basic source. an adequate crosssection of people can be obtained for jury service. the voting rights act of 1965 contains the tools necessary to prevent the discriminatory deprivation of the right to vote. if properly enforced it can insure fairness in the jury system. the evidence of discrimination we have seen in state court jury selection makes it incumbent on us to act in this field as well. our bill establishes a presumption that the federal system is fair and equitable and serves as a model for the state systems. states need  conform to the federal system in every particular. but they must show that whatever procedures they use insure that discrimination on account of race. color. or sex in the selection of jurors is prevented. title ii amends sections 241 and 242 of title 42 of the united states code. due to judicial interpretations of the type of violence and degree of intent that nmust be proven. it has been next to impossible to obtain convictions under these statutes. our bill includes official as well as private violence within the scope of section 241 and lessens the burden of proof. the bill also establishes a sliding scale of penalties according to the seriousness of the violation of the statutes. this title insures that violators will be adequately penalized for their wrongdoing. without in any way interfering with the state judicial process. title iii is familiar to all of us. it would grant to an individual deprived of his rights. or to the attorney general acting on behalf of the united states. the right to bring a civil suit for relief. title iv also carries out the recommendations of the civil rights commission and others by making the employer of a public official. such as a police officer. who violates the civil rights of aher. jointly liable in a civil action for damages under sections 1985 and 1986 of the code. in my judgment. the enactment of these changes is vital to the quality of our entire legal system. we have learned through tragic experience that our legal tools are   adequate to the task. it is the job of the congress to provide these tools. person should be denied justice because of discrimination in the selection of a jury. person should be permitted to substitute physical brutality for a fair trial. the citizen wronged should be able to recover for his losses. i would like to commend our colleague.
. once again we have been reminded of the inadequacy of our existing laws to protect the rights of all americans. everywhere in the united states. the crime that was committed against james meredith yesterday is tragic proof that legislation passed .in 1957. 1960. 1964. and 1965 is meaningless unless the rights of our citizens can be fully protected through our processes of law enforcement. on march 7. i was pleased to join with my colleagues on this side of the aisle in introducing the civil rights law enforcement act of 1966. among the provisions of this bill is title ii designed to strengthen our criminal provisions for the protection of civil rights and liberties. the language of our title ii does  differ substantially from the language of title v of the administration bill. however. the administration did have the benefit of the language of the supreme court on sections 241 and 242 of title 18 of the united states code in united states against price and united states against guest decided this term. all sections of the civil rights law enforcement act of 1966 are important and necessary. we need improved safeguards against jury discrimination if our citizens are to have the benefit of the rights guaranteed in the sixth amendment. we need a full title iii provision. and we need indemnification of law enforcement officers. but the irrational act of yesterday demonstrates that the protections that would be afforded by our title ii and the administration title v are imperative . therefore. we are introducing title v today and calling upon the administration and our colleagues on both sides to cooperate in reporting and passing this bill. the language of the two titles does  differ substantially and we believe that our effort demonstrates our willingness and intention of doing whatever is necessary to assure the prompt enactment of these necessary safeguards.
. yesterday seven republican members of the house issued a statement calling on the administration to take the initiative in seeking an end to racial discrimination in southwest africa. we believe that such leadership is particularly important in light of the recent decision of the international court of justice. signing the statement with me were mr. mailliard. of california. mr. frelinghuysen. of new jersey. mr. conte. of massachusetts. and
s frei of chile. belaunde of peru. lleras restrepo of colombia. and leoni of venezuela. just to mention a few. are dedicating the majority of their government programs to the basic alliance tenet of ecoic development within the framework of a free. democratic society. problems assail these countries.  the least being the subversion and terrorism exported from cuba. the latin american solidarity organizationlasomeeting which ended last week in havana made it quite clear that the threat of subversion both to latin america and our own country will continue if castro has his way. improved living conditions together with enlightened democratic processes are the best insurance against such calls to insurrection. castroinspired guerrilla movements wither and die where social justice prevails. there is cause for overconfidence. but we have reason to be proud of our solid accomplishments to date. let us go forward in this spirit toward our goal of development in freedom in latin america.
. the passing of prime minister levi eshkol is a cause for sorrow for the people of israel. as his successor. mr. allon said: he was a man of the people who remained one of the people. we have lost a brother. a friend and a leader. his death is also a loss to the world which looked to his strong and capable leadership in dealing wisely with the tense and complex problems facing israel and in maintaining peace in the middle east. his life encompassed and paralleled the entire history of modern israel. from the reclaiming of the desert wastes. through 20 years of striving for statehood. to its achievement in 1948. as a fighter. farmer. union leader. and foreign envoy he worked for the creation of the state. and then led it through its formative years as he rose to become minister of agriculture and development. minister of finance. and. since 1963. prime minister. his love for his country and his desire to live in peace was resolute. levi eshkol was a patriot. yet a realist. a strong and decisive statesman. yet a master at conciliation in the most difficult political issues. his total commitment to the welfare of his nation did  preclude the political and diplomatic flexibility vital to working amid high tension toward the peaceful settlement of the complex problems of the middle east. i am glad to e that those who are  faced with the continuing and awesome responsibility of preserving the security of israel and peace in the middle east have agreed to maintain his policies. we who are concerned with and dedicated to the integrity of the israeli nation. peace in the middle east and in the world. will continue to uphold the goal of peaceful settlement that mr. eshkol so deeply hoped for. as former supreme court justice and u.s. ambassador to the united nations. arthur goldberg. recently said: our renewed efforts to create . . . (a) just and lasting peace in the middle east... would be the finest memorial to levi eshkol.
. it is with great ho that i join my colleagues today to participate in this years official observance of captive nations week. for 1970 is particularly significant in the quest for freedom and justice for all peoples of the world. twentyfive years ago we successfully concluded the second world wara long struggle for the preservation of liberty and the principle of national selfdetermination. twentyfive years ago. 47 nations came together to sign the charter of the united nationsan organization whose founding reflects the hopes for peace. liberty. and justice for all mankind. in the quarter of a century that has passed we have witnessed increasing progress toward these goals. certainly we have continued to support the ideals and hopes which are shared by all freedomloving peoples. there still exists. however. great numbers of people who are  free. who do  enjoy the freedom and liberty which is their right. it is particularly fitting. therefore. that in this year when we commemorate so much. we also recognize the plight of those still living under oppressive rule. denied. by the use of force. universal human rights. and national selfdetermination. let us hope that in the years to come we will be able to stand here in celebration of the universal application of the ideals of liberty. freedom. and justice.
. i would like to direct the attention of my colleagues to an informed and enlightened article on southwest africa which appeared in the washington post this morning. the author. mr. ernest a. gross. has impressive credentials to comment on this subject by virtue of his previous service as assistant secretary of state and u.s. delegate to the united nations. mr. gross presents a logical and cogent argument that south africa has violated the terms of its mandate over southwest africa by extending apartheid to the territory and by refusing to account to the united nations as required by a 1950 opinion of the international court of justice. i trust that these points will be given careful consideration by the court in its current consideration of the security councils request for an advisory opinion on the legal consequences for states of south africas continued presence in the territory. the text of the article follows:
ial citation and the medal of freedom for his work as executive trial counsel at nuremberg. as a member of the senate from the state of connecticut. he was an ackledged leader on a number of important issues. including gun control and prison reform. he identified drug abuse as a major national problem many years ago. he was a man committed to freedom and democracy. his life and his career were strengthened by the love and devotion of his gracious wife. grace. and i pray that the affection of those of us who served with tom dodd could in some way lessen her sorrow. may i extend to her and to her children my most heartfelt condolences.
. last december. the house enacted house resolution 1336. to protest against the continued injustices to which the jewish people in the u.s.s.r. have been subjectd by that government. it can be presumed that this and other protests which were raised in other countries had considerable influence in the soviet decision to commute the death sentences that had been imposed on two of the jewish defendants in the leningrad trial that month. since then. the soviets have continued a series of trials involving jewish defendants who have expressed a desire to emigrate. these trials have been conducted under conditions that have caused great concern on the part of citizens of all faiths throughout the world. there have been many reports of the harassment of representatives of the american press when they have sought to observe these proceedings. the most recent trial at riga. in which four jews were found guilty of antisoviet activity and sentenced to terms ranging from 1 to 3 years in prison camps. was moved without ice and at the last moment to a new and inaccessible location. in effect barring foreign observers and press from viewing it. the next trial is scheduled to begin on june 21. at kishinev. moldavia. as the one guarantee that the defendants will have a fair trial is the presence of outside observers. i have today directed a letter to the secretary of state to urge every appropriate action on behalf of our journalists and correspondents so that they might be assured access to its proceedings. i am gratified to have the support of 55 members of the house in this effort. and am pleased to include here the text of the letter to secretary of state william p. rogers. and the list of signatories:
 franklin delaroosevelt. and thus began his historic career of 34 years. during his term on the supreme court. one of the longest in its history. justice black was the author of the 1947 ruling permitting the use of public funds to transport children to parochial schools. the 1962 ruling against prayers in public schools. the 1963 decision guaranteeing legal counsel to all criminal suspects. and the 1970 decision upholding the right of 18yearolds to vote in federal elections. it was mostly through the cogent reasoning of justice black that the court gradually extended the 14th amendment to protect individuals from actions of state and local governments which violated the liberties guaranteed by the first. fourth. fifth. sixth. and eighth amendments. for black. the freedoms of conscience. expression and association were at the heart of our constitution and of democracy. and it was in this area of law particularly that he did his most important work. always striving to apply the protection of the constitution to ideas. regardless of his personal feelings about them. hugo black was a man of conscience and of law. a spirited and forceful judge. he was a great man. a towering force in shaping the course of american constitutional law. his loss will be felt for many decades to come.
. sometime ago the acting majority leader annced that it would be the policy of the senate to consider each week on monday at least that portion of the calendar which had riot previously been considered. with that in mind. i ask unanimous consent that the calendar be called. beginning with order number 903. on page 9 of the calendar. where the previous call of the calendar. on february 2. left off. and that only bills to which there is objection be considered.
. i assume we could very easily hit .on the figure of a thousand dollars a month. or $750. or $500. which we all k might be construed. however. under mal conditions. in the luxury class. but what we are arguing  is a- matter of principle. the senator from connecticut has so well pointed out the procedure and the method to be followed in taking care of any case wherein there is an injustice at the present time. and the need for any limitation- such as is here. indicated becomes absolutely unnecessary. there seems to be necessity for it. -therefore. in view of the fact that one ks what the proper figure is. whether it is $500. $750. or a thousand dollars. in plain. everyday. ordinary justice to everyone in this country. as long as there is machinery to deal with the matter i think the provision should be taken out of the bill entirely. there should be reference to it.
when the calendar was called on that date. upon my request. the senior senator from nebraska very kindly objected to consideration or passage of these bills. i desired to study further these proposals in order to be as certain as possible that their provisions would be equitable to the indians. themselves. and at the same time be a constructive step forward in our national indian policy. i have  explored the ramifications of the proposed legislation sufficiently to satisfy myself that valid reason exists for objecting to the passage of these bills. h. r. 1113 will serve as an important step toward giving indians full citizenship. upon application and after a hearing to determine that the individual is competent to manage his own affairs. an indian. 21 years of age or over. may be released from disabilities and limitations especially applicable to indians. the viltue of this bill lies in the opportunity it will provide for the individual indian to manage his own property without. in any way. jeopardizing his tribal membership. the second bill. h. r. 4725. clarifies a jurisdictional problem common to all states where indians reside on reservations. in those states in which indians are entitled to vote in state and county elections. criminal jurisdiction over offenses committed on reservations will be conferred upon the state to the same extent that the state government has authority over the same offense committed elsewhere. testimony before both houses of the congress indicated indisputably the great need for adequate protection of law and effective law enforcement on reservations throughout the country. our traditional system of government by law falls down when law enforcement agencies are  effective. i understand that the senator from nebraska is to offer an amendment to the bill which would safeguard the traditional hunting and fishing rights of the indians. with this protective amendment. the legislation should contribute to the more orderly and equitable maintenance of justice for indians on reservations. s. 1688 empowers the secretary of the interior to settle with the indians of new york the obligations of the treaty of september 15. 1797-
 should proclaim a national emergency of the character referred to. and then having requested. because of the conditions which might arise under such circumstances. the attorney general to obtain an injunction. an injunction of the character under consideration. can the able senator from missouri imagine a court refusing to go along on such request.
. i had hoped and expected to support the amendment offered by the able senator from illis. but after reconsideration of this question and having listened to the presentations which have been made here this aftern. the pledges which have been forthcoming from important and distinguished members of the senate. and realizing. as i do. that the chances are that either this amendment or the other amendment replacing the money stricken from the appropriation bill by the conferees. would very likely meet with defeat in the senate this situation might put any of us who feel the necessity for asking for additional funds in the next session of congress at a great disadvantagein view of these facts. i shall join the able junior senator from illis  to press any amendment. however. i look to my colleagues in the senate to support the position which some of us find it necessary to take because of conditions which exist in our own states should we find that additional funds will be necessary next january or next february. resting on the confidence which i have in my colleagues in the senate to see that justice and fairness prevail in this matter. i join the able senator from illis in the position which he has taken.
. i do  like to see this particular investigation limited to the charges made by one particular individual. i have a very high regard for the distinguished junior senator from wisconsin. but if we are going into this matter it seems to me that we very definitely should  limit the investigation to those charges. if there are conditions in the state department which ought to be investigated they certainly ought to be investigated in full. and the investigation should  be limited in any respect. therefore. i move to amend the resolution--
. reserving the right to object. i wish to say that i intend at the proper time to move to amend the resolution offered by the distinguished senator from illis by deleting the words "as charged by the senator from wisconsin ." that would give us a clear investigation of the type which it seems to me should be undertaken if any investigation at all is to be conducted.
. personally. i strongly favor the issuance of such an order. and i feel that this action should be taken with the least possibly delay. at the same time. i would caution those who may be responsible for its administration. if and when such an executive order is issued. to make sure that conflict occurs with respect to those states which have enacted permanent laws against discrimination in employment. working arrangements between a federal agency thus established and the agencies dealing with this matter in the several states should be adopted in the first instance. and hing should be permitted to occur which in any way will undermine or handicap the efforts of these states to combat discrimination in employment. there may be some who will question the advisability or expediency of urging this type of legislation at this time. they may feel that action of this kind will be detrimental to the defense program. i do  agree with this viewpoint. just as the fairemployment practices order contributed so much to national unity and allout effort in the last war. so is a similar order  most appropriate. just as there is thorough justification for the adoption of a policy or plan of this nature temporarily. so there is equal justification for such a program on a permanent basis. if we and our allies have been fighting for anything in korea. we have been fighting to defend and preserve freedom and justice in the world. if freedom and justice mean anything. they mean the right of everyone to equal opportunity to earn a living according to his ability and regardless of his parentage or religious faith. freedom and justice are part and parcel of our american creed. those of us who are sponsoring this bill seek thereby to help make our american creed a living reality and thus more fully to establish at home observance of the ideals and principles for which we profess to stand among the nations of the world.
 of the united states. although at this time. when there is such a crying need for far greater recognition of the ideals and principles for which t. r. stood than appears adays to exist. and speeches commemorating this particular anniversary marking so important a milestone in the history of our country and in the life of that dynamic champion of justice and civic righteousness are very much in order. i shall  delay the deliberations of the senate by making a speech of this nature. rather. i shall confine my comment to emphasizing the great significance of this occasion and to calling to the attention of my fellow senators a most pertinent editorial which appears in this weeks issue of the saturday evening post. and which i ask to have printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
 whatever his executive powers may be. i think they have been pretty well defined within the past 2 or 3 days by the supreme court of the united states. i think we  k much better what executive powers are. and perhaps what inherent powers are.
. while the current steel case put the spotlight on the constitutional issues involved in government seizure. there are various other aspects of seizure of a conipany or an industry which must be evaluated before consideration can be given to workstoppage legislation in periods of national emergency. i have. therefore. requested the department of justice to provide information dealing with the governments experience with seizures ordered under the smithconnally act between 1943 and because of the vital importance of these data for the proper assessment of government seizure. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record at this point in my remarks. my letter to the attorney general. the factual memorandum prepared by the justice department under the direction of mr. baldridge. the assistant attorney general. and an article from the buffalo evening news analyzing the many legal problems arising from seizure.
recently the distinguished chaplain of the united states senate received an unusual award for distinguished service. he was awarded a very beautiful medal by the freedoms foundation of valley forge. pa. on the medal is inscribed: for outstanding achievement in bringing about a better understanding of the american way of life. the medal was awarded at a able ceremony held in the old supreme court chamber in the capitol on thursday. the jury making the decision as to who should be thus recognized was composed of supreme court justices of the various states.
. this is an amendment to section 4 of senate joint resolution 13 to provide that the boundary of each original coastal state. in the case of the great lakes. is approved and confirmed to the international boundary line. my own state of new york is the only original coastal state which would be affected by this amendment. it is my understanding that the amendment is consistent with a decisian of the united states supreme court which held that the bed of lake ontario lying within the boundary of the state of new york belongs to the state of new york to the international boundary line. i refer to the case of massachusetts v. new york (271 u. s. 65). decided in 1926. therefore. i submit this amendment for the purpose of assuring the continued recognition of the boundary of new york state in the bed of lake ontario. to the international boundary line.
. i shall be very brief. i do  wish to let the occasion pass without rising to point out that this is one more example of the manner in which the states of new york and new jersey have worked together for their common good. time and time again problems have arisen. and we have always united in doing what we could do to solve them. and to further the best interests of the two states. in this particular instance we have joined in an effort to bring to an end a very provoking situation which has existed all too long in a great harbor. on behalf of the government of the state of new york. for which i can speak in this instance. i believe. i desire to express to the chairman of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. the senator from new hampshire . and to his fellow committee members. and to my colleagues. the senior and junior senators from new jersey. our appreciation for their cooperation with us in accomplishing a much desired result. of course. without all of us working together hing would have happened. i say to my distinguished friend the junior senator from new jersey . that without his particular interest in the matter i daresay it could  have been expedited in the way it has been. with the cooperation of the chairman of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. before i close i wish to read a telegram which i have received from the gover of the state of new york. because it is applicable at this time. the telegram is addressed to me. it reads: albany. n. y.. july 16. 1953. hon. irvinr m. ives. united states senator. senate office building: early congressional approval of the waterfront commission compact for the states of new york and new jersey is of vital importance  only to the port of new york district but to the entire nation. the 19month investigation by the new york state crime commission of waterfront conditions disclosed an incredible criminal domination of vital business activities characterized by widespread corruption. intimidation. and violence. the recommendation for a waterfront commission was designed to remove control of the piers from gangsters and hoodlums. end the public loading racket. pilferage. and extortion and permit the reestablishment of genuine collective bargaining. the plan was widely supported and acclaimed by responsible civic and business groups. lawenforcement agencies. and public officials at public hearings held in new york city in june. every opportunity was provided for the submission of alternative proposals and better program was advanced. the compact legislation was unanimously supported by every member of both houses of the new york state legislature and in the state of new jersey the bills were approved with only one dissenting vote. the waterfront commission compact will provide the means through which labor and management can end mob rule over the most important port area in the united states. prompt approval of the compact will combine the full force of the federal government with the efforts of the states of new york and new jersey to stamp out the evil conditions which have blighted the port. terrorized honest workmen. and subjected a multibilliondollar industry to a system of organized piracy. i earnestly hope that the congress will expedite this program through prompt and favorable action.
i can quite agree with my good friend from nevada on that. i think this is very necessary legislation. i believe an honest. concerted effort to draft legislation to deal with the problem with which the country is confronted has been made in this instance. and while i realize. of course. that it may be subject to amendatory legislation. or to court interpretation. and that perhaps tha question of its constitutionality may arise. nevertheless i feel very strongly that any legislation of this type which we might attempt to formulate and pass in this congress would always be subject to the same kind of difficulty. i feel that this is a step in the right direction. a step which should be taken. assuming we can place on the termiogy of the report the interpretation which it should receive.
in the motion of the senator from california. i strike out everything following the word "and" in line 5. in other words. the clause "report to the senate as expeditiously as equity and justice will permit" is stricken out. and the new language which the clerk just read takes its place. the committee is instructed to actand i  quote the new language--"to make a report to this body". namely. the senate. "prior to the adjournment sine die of the senate in the 2d session of the 83d congress." the house can adjourn and go home. and we can remain here to consider this case.
. i rise to call attention to the anniversary of that tragic event which has come to be designated as baltic geide day. fourteen years ago communist brutality was responsible for the forced deportation of thousands of inent latvians. lithuanians. and estonians. the infamous treatment of these helpless victims of tyranny remains a crime against humanity and a blot on the conscience of free men everywhere. on this anniversary let us again assert our determination to right the injustices committed during that dark period of communist treachery. the peoples of latvia. lithuania. and estonia look to us for that sign of hope so they may continue to withstand the aggressor until their day of liberation.
i went a little bit further than did the distinguished senior senator from pennsylvania. i think we have to go further than that. we are considering a unique situation. i k of situation we have ever considered with respect to an indian reservation exactly like the one in question. i think we have a greater responsibility in this instance than we have ever had as to anything of this kind before. the congress of the united states owes a moral duty to follow up the matter and see that justice prevails. to see to it that the indians get a fair deal.
i think i explored the matter this aftern. i do  want to repeat all i said. i think any amendment of any kind made to the bill in this particular instance will prove fatal so far as the bill is concerned. what we are trying to do is get a bill through the senate and to the house. we can do that if we stick to this one thing. if we send a hodgepodge to the house. we will get here there. i do riot think they will even consider it. this bill is extremely important. we shall have been working on it 4 full years come the first of may. next week. if we can get that bill passed. we are oh our way. and we can take care of the rest of the program. which we will do. i have great confidence in what the committee will do. i have great faith in what it will bring to the floor.
i am very grateful to the senator. an investigation was started about the first of may 1954. and was begun at the behest of the president of the united states. following a recommendation he made in his state of the union message of that year. that was the genesis of the bill. the mcclellan committee had hing to do with it.
. i shall  take 5 minutes. i merely wish to say i commend the distinguished senator from arkansas for his excellent explanation of what this is all about when it comes to consideration of the matter by the select committee. as the senator said. the select committee has  had time to go fully into the question of secondary boycotts and picketing. when we came to the point of making our recommendations. we decided it would be most advisable  to cover such matters in an interim report. that is the reason we have  recommended anything in connection with either item. that is the reason the standing committee left these items out. anyone would think. to listen to the discussion on the floor. that the tafthartley act does  have anything to do with secondary boycotts. i well remember a dispute i had in 1947 on that very question. the tafthartley act does outlaw secondary boycotts. the hotcargo problem has been considered by the supreme court. that provision is unenforcible. that is exactly what the court said. the decision has been rendered. the matter is covered in the tafthartley act as it stands. before we legislate further. if we are going to legislate intelligently. what we have to k is more about the field and what is happening in it. that is something which the select committee can provide and has  been able to provide to date. the distinguished senator from nebraska has introduced a bill which is very far reaching. the bill introduced by the senator would. as i understand it. outlaw most boycotts. with the exception of a few primary ones. certainly. all secondary boycotts would be outlawed. the bill also would deal to a substantial extent with primary boycotts. as i understand. the bill further would outlaw all organizational picketing. some of those matters should  be dealt with at this time. i think the secondary boycott provisions of the law should be stepped up. i think there should be further provisions regarding picketing. i. myself. have introduced a bill on the subject. i am  pressing for passage of that bill. for the reason we have  gone into these matters sufficiently. i think we are considering a very good bill at the present time. if we stop  and pass the bill. we will  have anything of which to be ashamed. as a matter of fact. we will have legislation of which to be proud. we should be proud of being able to do so much in the limited time in which we have had to work. bearing in mind that we have done all this since april 15. the earliest date on which we could start. i think that is almost miraculous.
i do  k exactly what kind of individual the person the senator is describing is. some might receive comfort. others would  receive any comfort at all. i daresay most people would  receive any comfort at all from that kind of reply. if a constituent of mine wrote me in that way. i would  reply in that manner. i would simply point out that we are exploring the field. that we anticipate some legislation will be enacted into law. that legislation to handle the matter has been introduced. but that a sufficient investigation has  yet taken place so that recommendations can be made by the select committee. which is doing the investigating. to cover the field in a preliminary report this year.
. i introduce. for appropriate refercnce. a bill to require disclosure of any communication from members of the congress to any executive agency concerning any matter before that agency for adjudication. while it is obvious that there is  sufficient time for the congress to act on this bill during the remaining few days of this session. i am introducing it. nevertheless. for the information and consideration of those who will participate in the next session. a recent investigation in the house of representatives raised questions as to congressional inquiries in behalf of constituents. directed to government agencies which had matters before them of concern to the constituents. my own answer to any such questions is that myfiles are open to anyone. my office has made literally thousands of inquiries in behalf of constituents. and so has every other congressional office on capitol hill. it is a practice expected of us by our constituents. and recognized by the rules of the senate based upon the legislative reorganization act of this bill makes such inquiries a matter of record in the quasijudicial proceedings of any agency. i ask unanimous consent to have the bill printed in the record.
 i am very sensitive to the remarks made with regard to the authority of congress in this matter. however. it is my understanding. after talking with chairman alan boyd of the cab. that the matter that is at stake here. as he told it to me. is this: he has saidin our judgmentmeaning the cabif this supplemental is  put back in the bill the carriers could be put out of business. i asked him most particularly whether that was his clear and thoughtful judgment. that the effect of this action could put the carriers out of business. he assured me that that was the case. and he said in addition that he thought that should this action be taken here. that is proposed today. there could be a suit in the court of claims which could result possibly in a more substantial payment or a payment of "at least" the amount involved in the bill. he thought that this was a clear. legal obligation of the united states and would be so upheld. so my question to the chairman is this: if this has the effect of or runs the risk of putting the carriers out of business. is there  some remedy that could be applied to continue until such time as a more equitable formula could be worked out.
york. ial crime commission that will be meeting and submitting a report by the end of 1966. all will be attacking serious problems that deserve the best minds and the best thoughts that america and this house can give to the program.
s civil rights act of 1966 which would make explicit that interference with or intimidation of any poll watcher. candidate for office. or other person participating in any general. special or primary election constitutes a federal crime and is punishable in accordance with federal criminal procedures. two weeks ago. i traveled to mississippi as part of a bipartisan congressional delegation to underscore federal concern with both the tragic shooting of james meredith and the conduct of the mississippi primary elections under the new voting rights act. although the voting rights act is beginning to work. i heard firsthand reports of the real concern and even fear many persons still have regarding the electoral process. mississippians who had served as poll watchers in prior elections refused to serve in the recent primariesas a result of their concern over direct or indirect intimidation. . the house committee on the judiciary is presently considering the civil rights legislation in executive session. and i hope that this amendment explicitly concerned with the electoral process. poll watchers. and candidates for public office is adopted by the committee before the bill is reported to the floor.
i thank the gentleman for his comment. he is accurate. i believe there is a need to make this coverage explicit. particulary since we are dealing with a criminal statute which is subject to narrow judicial construction. there have been some instances called to my attention where an individual was allegedly threatened for the past or prospective exercise of this right. might i ask the gentleman from ohio. the ranking miity member. whether this amendment is agreeable to him.
. i am unable to support h.r. 2508. a bill to establish federal standards for congressional districting. in its present form. while legislation along these lines is desirable. and the committee has made a start. i believe that the bill before us. could compromise two important facets of congressional districting. first. by permitting a variance as high as 30 percent in the size of district under the interim provisions to be in effect through 1973. the bill would seem to be departing markedly from the impact of several significant court decisions. second. the last sentence of section 2 raises doubts as to the jurisdiction of federal courts in congressional districtting cases. serious constitutional questions are involved in the districting cases presently in litigation. and it would seem advisable that there be uncertainty about the authority of federal courts to decide these issues on the merits.
. i believe this is a very serious moment on the floor of the house. in this particular debate. i believe mrs. greens amendment would seem to have only one of three meanings: first. that it merely codifies present practice to the extent that the guidelines apply whenever there is found to be need for them. or second. the requirements of the guidelines must be applied even where segregated schooling arises out of residential patterns and and i repeat ""-out of racial discrimination sanctioned by state or local action. or third. the thern districts must be tested by the same gradualgradualdesegregation principles as have been applied to the south. option  2 would work a change of emous significance on the floor of the house without any committee hearings and in the face of supreme court decisions holding such segregation  to be unlawful or unconstitutional. option  3 would make little sense. in that it would signal a weakening of civil rights enforcement at a time when we must pursue our commitment vigorously. we can afford amendment which would weaken the impact of title vi. either by permitting more gradual compliance in the th or in any other way. i would ask the gentlewoman from oregon a question.
 nasser is quoted as saying that he had  "budged one inch" from his decision to enforce a blockade of the gulf of aqaba. israel prime minister eshkol has made plain the vital importance to israel of free and inent passage in the gulf and explicitly stated on may 23: what is at stake here is a formal and clear international undertaking on compliance [with the right of free passage] and on this depends the maintenance of international law and order. i have this morning talked with arthur h. dean. who negotiated the u.s. position with respect to the convention on the territorial sea and the contiguous zone. signed in geneva in 1958. and ratified by 33 nations. in particular. . urge the parties involved to consider taking this serious matter before the international court of justice.. although such a step is  mandatory. of course. such proceedings could  be undertaken in good faith unless the united arab republic guaranteed free and inent passage into the gulf. pending the courts determination. in the event that such a formula is  considered. and if the security council is unable to resolve the matter. if united states and soviet diplomacy and efforts in other capitals do  make progress. and if the united arab republic makes effective its annced decision to block the strait of tiranthe united states must be prepared to stand by its commitment to free and inent passage in the gulf of aqaba in concert with other nations. specifically. secretary dulles wrote in an aide memoire to israel foreign minister abba eban. on february 1. 1957: in the absence of some overriding decision to the contrary. as by the international court of justice. the united states. on behalf of vessels of united states registry. is prepared to exercise the right of free and inent passage and to join with others to secure general recognition of this right.
. i am happy to be able to introduce today a joint resolution designating october 31 of each year as "national unicef day." the work of unicef around the world was recognized in 1965 when the organization was awarded the el peace prize. yet even before this high ho was bestowed. americans were long aware of the important role that unicef is playing throughout the world. by means of assistance to governments to help eliminate hunger. disease. and igance. unicef does much to improve the lives of the children and young people of the developing nations. it is especially fitting that we should choose october 31 to mark our national recognition of unicef. because on halloween. children donate the proceeds of their trickortreat visits to the organization. the children of america helping the children of less fortunate lands to build better lives is a hopeful sign for the future and for world peace with justice and understanding.
 kennedy and the senseless tragedy at the university of texas last year. as well as the countless crimes of violence committed on the streets of every city in the nation. point to the need for legislation that will place sensible controls on the purchase of firearms through the malls. statistics indicate that in .1965 alone. 5.600 murders. 34.700 assaults. and most of the 68.400 armed robberies were committed with guns. in a recent 3year period. of the 4.000 people who ordered guns from only two of the mailorder dealers in the city of chicago. onefourthor 1.000--of them had criminal records. it is weapons in the hands of criminals. the mentally ill. and extremists that are dangerousto themselves. to their neighbors. and to society at large. however. it would  serve the end of curbing violent crime  is it within our democratic tradition to place restrictions on .the acquisition of firearms by the sportsman 6r the hunter. the bill that i am introducing today is aimed at the criminals  at the sportsmen. " the congress has spent entirely too much time studying what steps should be taken to curb mailorder gun sales and time at all in taking concrete measures to put such controls into effect..in the meantime. the violence continues and needless injuries and deaths occur. the legislation i am introducing today would implement the most effective approach to controlling mailorder sales of firearms. the major responsibility would continue to lie with each state which would still make. its.own decisions about how best to prevent the misuse of firearms in that area and would enact the necessary laws in their own legislatures. the bill i propose would. by virtue of its interstate provisions. enable each state to enforce its laws effectively. presently. a person residing in a state with stringent laws regulating who can purchase a gun. can easily circumvent his states restrictions by ordering his weapon by mail from a dealer in aher state. briefly. this bill imposes federal restrictions on purchasing a gun in ones own state for a person who complies with state and local law and meets two conditions. first. he must be 18 years of age to purchase a long gun and 21 to purchase other weapons. second. the bill specifically provides that "it shall be unlawful for any licensed importer. licensed manufacturer. or licensed dealer to sell or otherwise dispose of any firearm or ammunition to any person. king or having reasonable cause to believe that such person is a fugitive from justice or is under indictment or has been convicted in any court of a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding 1 year." purchases of rifles and shotguns can be made by residents in person from dealers in other states. and the arms can be shipped home. if the transaction and delivery comply with the laws of both localities. other purchases of rifles and shotguns. and all purchases of handguns originating out of state. can be made from or through dealers in ones own statewhose ability to ship weapons in interstate commerce is  restrictedjust as a local purchase is made. what this amounts to is that only two national standards are set for the purchase of gunsand e at all for the use of guns. the standards of this bill prevent criminals and juveniles from buying guns from licensed dealers. otherwise. the gun enthusiast who wants a handgun will have to buy it in his own state. the sportsman who wants a rifle will have to buy it from a dealer in his own state. or by it in person in aher state. in my judgment. these provisions will  interfere with the pursuit of his hobby and interest by the hunter and sportsman. it will. i hope. go a long way toward limiting the acquisition of firearms by persons whose intent in obtaining them is destructive and dangerous to society. it is my understanding that further hearings on this bill will be held by the senate juvenile delinquency subcommittee in the near future. i am hopeful that this round of hearings is the preview to decisive action by the congress.
i commend the gentleman for his initiative over the years in this field and for the clarity and expertise of his presentation today. little should need to be said here this aftern with regard to this bills merits. for we have engaged in debate on its lrovisions during the course of consideration last session of the civil rights act of 1966. this bill contains substantially the same provisions as were contained in title v of that act. the object of the bill may be simply stated. and yet it promises to have farreaching implications. the purpose of the bill is to provide federal criminal penalties for interferenceby force or threat of forcewith the free exercise of certain enumerated federal rights. among these are the right to vote. to enroll in or attend a public school. to apply for or enjoy employment. to use the facilities of a common carrier. and to enjoy the services of public accommodations. american. . should be subjected to intimidation or interference with the free exercise of these rights because of his race. color. religion. or national origin. that such incidents still occur in parts of this land is a national shame. as i and a group of colleagues on our side of the aisle stated. on march 6. 1966. in introducing the civil rights law enforcement act of 1966: it is empty to declare our commitment to equal rights if men and women can be persecuted for exercising those rights. it is insufficient to pass laws implementing the constitution if men can disobey the letter of those laws and subvert their spirit with impunity. . i am shocked that this afterns debate has been marred by an all too blatant attempt to impede progress on this measure. i should think it would have taken us little time here today to pass legislation which would put the full force of the federal criminal apparatus behind a prohibition of forcible interference with civil rights.
. the shocking testimony revealed at the tilal of 18 men in federal district court in meridian. miss.. confirms many of our worst fears at the time of the murder of andrew goodman. michael schwerner. and james chaney in 1964. the complicity of law enforcement officers with ku klux klansmen and a deliberately aroused mob in planning and carrying out the brutal murders of the three young men is. as the new york times stated this morning. "a tale of horror." and brings forth a renewed cry for justice which has been so long denied. that such a horrifying plot still breeds in the minds of men and that their society permits it to come to fruition is a national shame. it is compounded by the fact that one has ever been brought to trial by the state of mississippi for the murder of these young americans. the 18 defendants  on trial can be charged under federal law only with conspiracy to deny the youths their constitutional rights. the events of that summer night in 1964  becoming clear make more urgent than ever the passage of the civil rights law enforcement act of 1967. this measure. already approved by the house. provides federal criminal penalties for interferenceby force or threat of forcewith the free exercise of certain enumerated federal rights. it is my hope that the senate judiciary committee. under direction to report a bill to the floor by october 24. will recommend the passage of the legislation without crippling amendments. our commitment to the ideals for which andy goodman. mickey schwerner. and james chaney died is empty if we fall to provide the federal legislation necessary to bring to justice those misguided americans who continue to deprive their fellow citizens of their civil rights. the least the families of these three men and all america has a right to expect is action  on this bill.
. the assassination of dr. martin luther king is a tragedy for america and for the world. his voice is stilled. but  silenced. death will  defeat him.  conquer his ideals. who can forget the witness and testament of this great churchman. who can forget the eloquence of his voice in montgomery. in birmingham. in selma. in washington. d.c.. in chicago and in memphis. saying "we shall overcome" or "i have a dream" or "if a man has hing worth dying for then he is  fit to live." indeed. it is  the length but the quality of this christian martyrs life that should be remembered. how well he lived his life is stated in his own words: say that i was a drum major for justice. say that i was a drum major for peace. i was a drum major for righteousness. he had a great vision. an america where all men are brothers. a worldwithout violence or war. his deep belief in violence and his timeless words "we shall overcome" can best be hoed by the house of representatives this week through the passage of the civil rights bill and by the prompt enactment of major legislation and appropriations to implement the recommendations of the riot commission report. what we need above all. i think. in the united states. is a new national commitment to action. a new spirit. dr. king once said of our own sick society: america. youve strayed away. youve trampled over 19 million of your. brethren. all men are created equal.  some men. all men. america. rise up and come home. i believe if we would truly ho dr. king. we will see. in mrs. martin luther kings words. "that my husbands work will be carried forward." we will see to it that his ideas of equality for all men in freedom will become a reality so that america can save its own soul and move forward with the spirit that has charactelized our country but  always our actions since the days of the revolution. lest we forget. martin luther king. in his moving letter written from the birmingham jail on april 16. 1963. said: injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. we are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality tied in a single garment of destiny. whatever affects one directly affects all indirectly. i am sure that members of congress. and indeed all americans. extend their deepest sympathy to mrs. king and their childrenyolanda. martin iii. dexter. and berniceand wish godspeed to the reverend ralph abernathy and the reverend andrew young in carrying forward his great work.  alone for the united states but for all mankind.
i would just add. s riot commission report. i hope that we will stand behind the action of the committee as a bare minimum. as an imperative commitment of faith to the cities. and vote down the amendment which would drastically curtail and weaken the program.
. this is a very sensitive and serious question we are dealing with today. and i believe this particular amendment raises serious questions of constitutionality. first. it goes back in time. the language includes the following: "during the preceding 12 months." this raises ex post facto questions in that it deals with conduct in the past. prior to enactment of the statute. second. this amendment does  deal with conviction in a competent court of jurisdiction. but uses the words. "engaged in overt acts." and it further deals with "overt acts" aimed at disrupting or attempting to disrupt programs conducted by any institution in cooperation with the department of defense." perhaps the author of the amendment has in mind columbia university in this regard. i believe. very simply stated. as i said before. that this amendment raises questions of constitutionality. it is unreasonable and quite possibly discriminatory. it does run counter. in my judgment. to the protections of the first amendment. as speech and some kinds of action have been held by the supreme court to be so intermingled as to constitute expression protected by the first amendment. symbolic speech. i believe further that it might touch on the right of the people peaceably to assemble and petition the government for redress of grievances. i urge the defeat of the amendment.
 earlier this week. last july. i introduced this bill as it had been prepared by senator edward kennedy and in its original form it contained a ban on the mailorder sale of firearms. the legislation today would strengthen its provisions to include a ban on the sale of rifles and shotguns to outofstate residents. it also prohibits the sale of such firearms to juveniles and in these three respects would extend to rifles and shotguns restrictions parallel to those that the crime bill applies to pistols and handguns. it is my hope that the judiciary committee will take positive action on this bill at its next meeting. it is essential we enact this vital legislation this session.
. mac mathias is one of the ablest members of this body and if. as expected. he is elected to the senate. the members will deeply miss his friendship and counsel. however. his leadership can have even greater scope in the senate. and he can be counted on to be in the forefront of sound approaches to law and order with justice here at home and a creative foreign policy directed unmistakably toward peace overseas. serving on the judiciary committee. mac mathias has been in the vanguard of the fight for civil rights. frequently introducing key legislation before the administration. he and i visited selma together and joined with several other colleagues in introducing the first voting rights act in this body. moreover. mac mathias has well understood the urgency and the imperative need to implement the riot commission report. while he has supported the omnibus crime control and safe streets act and strongly supports federal funds to strengthen state and local police programs. he is aware that the root causes of injustice and despair must be met by programs of jobs. housing. and education. mac. all of your colleagues wish you the very best in the days ahead and continued and expanding service to the nation.
. i commend the gentleman for offering this amendment to provide additional funds for the equal employment opportunity commission. the amendment is sound and is needed. i am glad the gentleman has taken this initiative and i hope it will have broad support from both sides of the aisle. discrimination in employment practices is indeed one of the most pervasive and serious problems which we. as a nation must face today. our efforts on behalf of miities and women can be minimized or decreased. for far too long. millions of americans have been unjustifiably and senselessly denied equal job opportunity because of their race. creed. national origin. or sex. it was  until the passage of title vii of the 1964 civil rights act that any hope existed for these individuals. we have  given them this hope. let us  fail in our responsibility to insure its implementation. considering that the investigation backlog of the commission is  at approximately 2.500 and is increasing. how can we. in good faith. expect the commission to fulfill its statutory responsibilities under title vii of the civil rights act of 1964 by only providing an appropriation which fails to increase their ability to handle these cases expeditiously. i respectfully submit that an appropriation which does  provide for the commissions effectiveness in minimizing this backlog will. in the end. be much more costly to our nation. we can longer afford to postpone a confrontation with job discrimination. under present conditions. there is minimal satisfaction to an individual whose complaint is 18 months in the processing. can we. as legislators. seriously contend that we have done our best in providing for the implementation of title vii as long as the individuals remedy is delayed for over 1 year. can we. as legislators. seriously expect the commission to fulfill its statutory obligations if we do  provide sufficient staffing. the mandate of title vii is clear. let us  fail to fulfill our promise. so long in its coming. but so necessary in its effect. other steps must be taken to strengthen the eeocsuch as the passage of legislation i have introduced with congressman hawxins to give the commission power to issue cease and desist orders. but the most essential step is sufficient operating funds. i urge support of the amendment.
. very simply. these sections seek to perpetuate illegal segregation and discrimination in public schools: 15 years after the supreme court declared that segregated education is inherently unequal. 5 years after congress enacted the civil rights act of 1964 banning federal assistance to school systems which discriminate on the basis of race. 1 year after the supreme court ruled that ineffective freechoice plans are unacceptable. and only 10 months. i submit. after this house deleted identical language from last years bill. freedom of choice plans have been totally inadequate and insufficient evidence of desegregation. and the courts have held that such plans are acceptable only when these plans result in the elimination of discrimination and unconstitutional segregation. specifically. on may 27. 1968. the supreme court held in the green case that the "burden on a school board today is to come forward with a desegration plan that promises realistically to work. and promises realistically to work ." the issue of busing is introduced into these sections only as a red herring designed to negate the supreme court decision in the green case and to vitiate title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. the sections should be removed from the bill. and we should give full authority to the department of hew to withhold money to enforce desegregation. i compliment the gentleman from california and the gentleman from massachusetts for their continuing leadership in the cause of justice.
 i do so just for the purpose of talking about the anthology. that has been brought up. first of all. this program was established in 1967 to create an annual anthology of the best writing in poetry. criticism. essay. and short fiction which appeared during the prior year in all of americas small literary magazines of limited circulation. second. the poem was chosen by a jury of three established poets. two of whom were winners of the pulitzer prize. more than that. the anthologies which have been published were done so on a rotating basis by the major u.s. publishers on a profit and ost basis to the government. endowment funds went directly to the writers and editors. but more to the point. the endowment has terminatedand i repeathas terminated its support for future anthologies and in the future funding will only be to finance future creative activity rather than to give recognition for past accomplishments. so. the new chairman is making a change.
. i rise in support of the efforts of the gentleman from tennessee to discuss and clarify the recent reports of fbi director j. edgar hoovers charges that fathers daniel and philip berrigan are plotting to kidnap a white house aide. i am  in a position to make a judgment on the validity of these charges. it is one thing for the director of the fbi to testify and subsequently to release his testimony to the press in support of supplemental funds for the bureau. citing national needsbut it is aher thing to mention specific individuals. mr. hoover has warned in the past about naming individuals in congressional testimony without the constitutional protections of due process. while i have high regard for the fbi. neither this agency  any other agency of the executive branch should be exempt from due process or from upholding our fundamental principles of justice.
. i am very happy to join with the distinguished gentleman from california in coauthoring this bill. i would say very simply at the outset that this bill and the action on it today will be a test of republican principle on the one hand and democratic leadership on the other. it will be unconscionable if this house fails to act affirmatively. having once passed this bill in 1965. it will almost be beyond belief to recognize by inaction that this congress will  take meaningful steps to end discrimination in employment through appropriate federal action after 32 states have already acted. this is  a case of the congress having led but of the congress having followed. i deeply hope that all members. at least on this question. will see the merits of providing minimal ceaseanddesist powers. powers that work eminently well in twothirds of our states and. clearly. powers that can be provided in any other way. one of the arguments that will be raised ad infinitum. if  ad nauseam. in this debate i am sure will be the question of time elapsed before relief is obtained. the plain fact of the matter is that in the new york state commission for human rights and other state commissions possessing ceaseanddesist authority enforceable in the courts less than 1 percent of the cases ever had to go into court proceedings. the way to deal with this problem promptly. fairly. and equitably is to strengthen the equal employment opportunities commission through ceaseanddesist powers. i wish to commend the gentleman in the well for his thoughtfulness. persistence. and continued vision in this matter. i deeply hope that the house will act in the interests of all americans rather than be sidetracked by some side issues which would genuinely weaken the opportunities for equal employment for all americans.
. what are the dangers of the court proceedings. the danger. first of all. is that we would load onto the courts of the united states an additional 20.000 cases. does any member seriously think that by adding 20.000 additional cases to the court calendars we are going to expedite matters. let me state that through the commission procedures cases are dealt with much more expeditiously. let me repeat that. much more expeditiously. whereas. in court proceedings it can take months or even years. for example. a caseweeks against southern bell which was a sex discrimination casehas been in the courts for 5 years and it was just settled in april. i have seen through the commission procedures cases conciliated in a matter of days. it was relatively rare that it became a matter of months. but. believe me. if you go to the court procedure. you go to a much more difficult procedure. both in time and flexibility. finally. let me say this. that the commission procedure works. it would  be the law of the land in 32 states if it did  work. i have yet to see anyone say that the commission procedures as followed by the several states does  work and work well.
. i have asked for the additional 2 minutes so that i might reply to the comments of my colleague. the gentleman from illis . first. the gentleman from illis raised a question of 20.000 cases. and the fact that this might overload and jeop. ardize the court calendars. that is the figure that has been provided me by the eeoc as to their estimate of the pending cases that are unresolved due to the fact that they do   have cease and desist powers. i think as a reasonable estimate there are something like 16.000 to 17.000 cases. as the gentleman ks. that are still pending with the commission. and have  yet been resolved. in fact. they were able to conciliate fewer than half because the commission does  have ceaseanddesist power. as to the nlrb. it is my understanding that in fiscal year 1970 something like 72 percent of the cases have been settled without need for a formal hearing. in my experience. certainly in new york. if the commission works effectively. if the individuals k that the commission has the power of the law in cease and desist. then you can conciliate. the whole thrust of what i am trying to say is  that the commission procedure works alone. but that it works a great deal better. why. because you do  have to go into court in the first place. because the individual ks that there is that power. and is willing to sit down and conciliate. and the matter gets resolved. and resolved promptly. finally. let me say that i think it is terribly important that the republican party. that was born in the fight to make men free. fight today for that procedure which will most clearly and effectively deal with millions of people who still are denied equal employment opportunities. and who need federal protection with cease and desist. that is our heritage as a party.
. on the point of how rapidly cases proceed. let me just say that litigation on title vii cases has been held up for years in courts. for example. the case of washington against t.g. & y stores has been before the federal district court for the western district of louisiana on motions to dismiss for 13 months. but the case has  yet reached trial. even more outrageous is the fact that charges were originally brought in this case 3 years ago. second. let me point out that chief justice burger has opposed legislative introduction of large numbers of cases into the federal judicial system without first providing for the reorganization of that system. in an address before the american bar association last year. chief justice burger said: the difficulty lies in our tendency to meet new and legitimate demands with new laws which are passed without adequate consideration of the consequences in the terms of case load. the commission itself estimates that the new case load could be 20.000 additional cases. i would submit that that would  result in expediting the administration of justice. but it could mean a lack of timely and effective enforcement. the house passed this bill in 1966. the senate passed it in 1970. i hope today that we make equal employment opportunity a reality  and defeat the erlenborn amendment and then go on to approve the committee bill which is the kind of legislation that should have really been passed 20 years ago and which is legislation that is vitally necessary to our country.
i commend the gentleman on his statement as to the action on the conference report. i believe very strongly that the freedom of information amendment bill before us is clearly a step forward. in addition to setting important time limits by which government agencies would be required to respond to cases and lawsuits. it would authorize a court "to enjoin the agency from withholding agency records." "to determine the matter de o." and to "examine the contents of such agency records in camera to determine whether such records or any part thereof shall be withheld under any of the exemptions set forth" later in the bill. as the bill emphasizes. "the burden is on the agency to sustain its action." the in camera inspection provision included in this bill would overturn the 1973 supreme court decision. epa against mink. in which the court held that inchambers inspection is ordinarily precluded under the act. such inspection was also denied in a case in which i was involvedwith . i hope and urge that the veto will be overridden.
 as coauthor of the original freedom of information act along with the chairman. i share his view. i would like merely to make one point and ask a question. first i share the gentlemans concern about what constitutes executive privilege. and to the extent it does exist it should be construed extraordinarily narrowly in my judgment. i hold that it does . for instance. extend to foreign policy or national security information which is essential to the legislative and oversight purposes of the congress under the constitution. but my question goes beyond that to the experience the gentleman and i had with respect to the pentagon papers and i believe judge gesell. by the time the court acted. the pentagon and secretary laird had declassified about 80 percent of the papers. the court at that time in their opinion held they could  then look behind the governments judgmentdetermined by the then pentagon attorney fred buzhardton the remaining 20 percent. so. when the gentleman in the well says we are dealing here with a very minimum somewhat more stringent standard and much prompter action by the court. we etheless are dealing with an area which is still very. very broad. i personally think well over 90 percent. perhaps 98 percent of the pentagon papers could have been declassified at that time. and unless the courts can act to hold some kind of accountability in this kind of determination. then our republic lacks defenses for the right of the people to k that which it is imperative for us to k.
. i rise in opposition to only one provision of h.r. 13650. and that is the provision therein which permits each federal agency involved to adjust or compromise in an amount up to $25.000. any claim against the united states. i do  object to the provision that allows an increase in the amount for which there can be a settlement before the commencement of a legal action. what i am concerned about is the fact that each federal agency. without any showing of expertise in the field of tort or negligence or similar law. will be allowed to settle in the substantial figure of $25.000 whatever claims are made. i submit that $25.000 is  "petty cash." and that with many claims this can add up to a sizable sum. if the suggestion is made that each federal agency can employ competent people to handle the job. it just means a greater federal payroll. however. it is contended that the agencies  have the necessary people. up until this bill. the department of justice has had the obligation of bringing uniformity to the question of settlements. a person hit by a truck operated by the post office. or defense. or interior departments. has the same type of claim. we can expect each individual department to apply a uniform rule. to suggest that the department of justice exercise the necessary control by setting rules and regulations. is to avoid reality. if the department of justice were  trying to abdicate its responsibility to police these claims against the government. they would  have suggested this amendment to the federal tort claims act. if we are interested in protecting the united states properly against claims and also against a continuing increase in government personnel. we will vote against h.r. 13650 until the provision which i have discussed is deleted therefrom.
. i would hope that mr. justice douglas would exercise more selfrestraint. and i have little hope for his future matrimonial status. having done the mathematical progression of marriage 1 for 80 years. marriage 2 for 10 years. marriage 3 for 21/2 years. wherefore marriage 4 should be for 6 months. etheless. i believe that our entire discussion is out of order. marriage is a private matter and unless we are prepared to say that there is a violation of oath of office or a mental disability. we are going too far afield. we may  agree with mr. justice douglas opinions. but it has application to his marital status. i believe the gentleman from illis has proceeded with selfrestraint. but i do believe our whole discussion has been out of order. we may  agree with mr. justice douglas opinions. but that has relationship to his marital status.
i just feel that mr. justice douglas opinions ought  to be the occasion for our questioning his marital status. i am inclined to believe that if his opinions were otherwise his status as a married man might  have been raised.
. on july 28. 1966. i introduced h.r. 16657 to deal with the increasing problems of auto theft in this country. my statement with respect to this is to be found at pages 17550 to 17552 of the congres-
. the discussion has made it obvious. especially the points made by the gentleman from new hampshire that this is  really the appropriate forum for this determination. all the more so when the validity of the procedure followed. as to which a great deal of heat has been engendered here today. is pending in the court of appeals for the seventh circuit. until such time as the court has ruled on the question. i see point in our considering the matter here. i can. therefore. vote for the contempt citation. the passage of time can affect the situation. because the offense. if any. occurred more than a year ago on may 27. 1965. and all of this occurred before i was even elected. whatever information the committee seeks. and for which it attempts to enforce this sanction. will  be elicited in any timely way. the committee voted to take action on january 13. 1966. and only brings this up at this eleventh hour of the 89th congress.
 of the national automobile theft bureau. at the public hearing on auto theft recently held by the u.s. senate judiciary committees subcommittee on juvenile delinquency. mr. murphy is a former police commissioner of the city of new york and served in that capacity during the period when i was a member of the new york city council.
 of the bronx division of the protestant council of new york. pastor of the bedford park congregational church. united church of christ. and police chaplain for the past 10 years with the new york city police department. kn as new yorks finest. for the record. i would like to share with my colleagues of the house of representatives his general outline of what a new york city police chaplain does. based on his actual experience. i k that my colleagues will want to help the course of law and order by .supporting this approach to strength in the inner life and faith of americas police. the outline follows: police chaplain posrrion
. a basic tenet in the laws of nations is that a sovereign nation has exclusive jurisdiction over all civilians within its territorial limits--cunard s.s. co. v. mellon. 262 u.s. 100 (1923). the foreign country can. however. by consent. relinquish jurisdiction over the defendant---in re ross. 140 u.s. 453 (1891). this consent has been given by many of the nations in which our civilian and military personnel are located. although the problem of application of law to military personnel raises different questions. article 2. section 11. was incorporated into the uniform code of military justice with the intent that it should be operative with respect to civilian dependents. similar to mrs. covert. thereby providing an american court with jurisdiction for the prosecution of their criminal offense s. when the host courts decline to do so. mr. justice black. speaking for the majority in covert. held article 2. section 11. invalid. thus leaving american court in which crimes committed by civilians or dependents of military personnel stationed abroad could be tried. when the host country declined to prosecute. the effect of the decision was to permit mrs. covert to escape prosecution. in the several years that have elapsed since the covert and kinsella decisions. the jurisdictional gap created by these cases has caused extensive problems. general manss. testifying before the committee on constitutional rights of the committee of the judiciary in a special subcommittee on armed services of the u.s. congress in 1966.1 discussed the complexities created by the covert decision. he testified that most of the time the military does  have jurisdiction. and the host country under many of the statusofforces agreements. even if they have concurrent jurisdiction. are  very much interested in prosecuting. because of the cost of trial and. if there is a cbnviction. the necessary expenditures during imprisonment. the general gave the committee specific examples. in summing up the situation. general manss saidwhat we have in these particular cases are a couple of murders on the house. the bill i have introduced today will provide the district courts with the necessary jurisdiction to try these defendants. and it brings with it. under civilian jurisdiction. the necessary safeguards of grand jury indictment and trial by jury. though the situations that i have described sound very unusual. they have become frequent occurrences. in 1964 through 1965. six murders and negligent homicide cases were reportedonly one of these cases was subject to the jurisdiction of the host country. during the same period. 234 robberies and larcenies were committed and only 22 were subject to local jurisdiction. and such jurisdiction was exercised in only three of the 22 cases. in summary. of all the offenses committed overseas that were subject to local jurisdiction. a total of 1.178. only 222 were actually tried. in essence. these figures tell us we have had 956 serious offenses committed overseas with tribunal in which to prosecute the perpetrators. thus. in 196465. the jurisdictional void created by the covert and kinsella decisions permitted serious criminal offenses "on the house." we have often debated. here in this body. the problem of the constitutional rights of defendants. however. here we are faced with the need to protect the public and the right of a sovereign to prosecute criminal activity. my bill would supply the instrument by which these offenders can be brought to justice. this i believe is a necessary condition for the maintenance of a society that has as its foundation equal justice for all. .i urge my colleagues to give this bill careful consideration. for a society that permits criminal offenses to go uniced cultivates the malignancy that may even: tually cause its disintegration. i see gener1al manss testimony at page 62. a copy of the bill follows: h.r. 11244 a bill to amend title 18 of the united states code to give united states district courts jurisdiction of certain offenses committed by americans outside the united states. and for other purposes be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives o. the united states of america in congress assembled. that section 7 of title 18 of the united states code is amended by inserting "(a)" immediately before "the term" and by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection: "(b) for the purposes of this title. any act done outside the united states and its territories and possessions. within an area leased by or otherwise reserved or acquired for the use of the united states which is under the control of the armed forces of the united states. shall be deemed to have been done within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the united states if the act was done by any national of the united states employed by or accompanying the armed forces of the united states who is  a member of such armed forces. in any case in which jurisdiction is conferred solely by reason of this subsection. a judgment of conviction or acquittal on the merits under the laws of the foreign state where the act occurred shall.be a bar to any prosecution under this title for the same act."
. in accordance with article i. section 10. clause 3 of the constitution. introduced a bill which would give the consent of congress to each of the several states to enter into an interstate compact regarding divorce. this compact would provide for uniform grounds for divorce. uniform jurisdictional requirements for granting divorce. and uniform laws for the recognition of divorce decrees of other jurisdictions. by enacting this statute the congress will go on record as favoring a frontal approach to the problems ofdivorce law. the bill. in line with our federal system. would give impetus to the states to cog "divorces in the liberal jurisdictions." federal legal publications. inc.. 1955 edited by david von g. albrecht. 10mayers. lewis. "ex parte divorce: a proposed federal remedy." 54 columbia law review 69 (january. 1954). "see for example the reference in time magazine. march 3. 1923. regarding former senator cappers (kansas) proposed constitutional amendment. "williams. supra. at p. 360. see 94 cong. rec. 56. 95 cong. rec. 38. 96 cong. rec. 3810. 97 cong. rec. 744. 1295. 4560. 6338. 778. 7882. 99 ong. rec. 153. 2139. 2434. 4575. 4716. operate to iron out the problems involved. and reach a solution whereby the interests of the nation as a whole as well as the desires of the individual states will be adequately protected. in view of the importance of the societal goals involved in this area of law. i urge my colleagues to consider carefully the legislation i have today introduced. a copy of the bill follows: h.r. 11453 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that the consent of congress is hereby given to each of the several states to enter into any agreement or compact.  in conflict with any law of the united states. with any other state or states for the purpose of (1) developing. establishing. and enforcing uniform divorce laws. including but  limited to. uniform jurisdictional requirements. uniform grounds for divorce. and uniform recognition of divorce decrees of other jurisdictions. and (2) establishing such agencies. joint or otherwise. as such states deem necessary for making effective such agreements and compacts.
the gentleman from missouri has spoken of the problem of crime and has emphasized the failure to use electronic devices for surveillance in connection with the problem of crime. i just want to ask the gentleman if he does  recall the day we were sworn in at this session of the 90th congress. that night we heard the president speak on his legislative program. and the one point that i recall specifically he made in this connection was that he. himself. said that he would ask the congress to outlaw all methods of electronic surveillance. i just wonder whether the criticism is placed properly on the attorney general.
 of the united states. whose father was one of the founders of the museum. ninetynine years of research and scores of expeditions have filled the museums 58 halls and 11.5 acres of floor space with exhibitions covering every aspect of natural science. while millions of valuable specimens comprise the study collections used for research and investigation. the scientific and educational work of the museum is carried on by 13 departments. each headed by a chairman or curator under the leadership of the director. the funds through which specimens are purchased. exhibitions constructed. explorations carried on. and scientific investigation conducted are contributed by the trustees. members. and other friends. the city of new york pays for the maintenance of the building. education. and custodial staffs. amounting to about onethird .of the museums budget. its research program in part is supported by federal funds. during the course of its history the museum has changed and developed with the changing times. the original concept of the museum which limited its scientific investigations to anatomical study and classification of dead forms has undergone a tremendous evolution and growth in recent years. it  embraces the whole field of ecology. the study of living plants and animals in relation to other living species. and to the chemistry. and physics of the environment. today. the american museum is at the forefront of research in systematic biology and evolution. in studies of fossil and live animals of many varieties. and in investigation about man and his cultures from earliest times to the present. the american museumhayden planetarium conducts an active growing program of research and education in astroy. very important too is the fact that the museum is part of the effort made by the city of new york. the largest city in the nation. to create better citizens. the thousands of elementary school. college. and postgraduate students who visit the museum every week emerge inspired to play a role in the development of their city. their country. and their world. the most extensive phase of the museums centennial planning involves the museums exhibit halls. since the beginning of an expanded exhibition program in 1959. the museum has opened 10 permanent halls and some 30 special exhibitions and temporary exhibits. by 1969. six additional halls that are  being developed will have been completed. they range in subject matter from a comprehensive study of life in the oceans to a view of the cultural patterns and social organization of the peoples of africa and of the pacific. specifilcally these halls are man in africa. ocean life. biology of fishes. earth history. mexico and central america. and peoples of the pacific. the plans for 1969 call for an academic procession. a convocation. and an address by an outstanding american on "the museum in modern society." a symposium on "the american museum of natural history in modem society." a reception and a dinner with an invitation to inspect the museum. all on april 7. the publication of an anecdotal history of the museum by geoffrey hellman. a pictorial history of the museum by jean lecorbeiller. a childrens book on the behindthescenes at the museum by david levine. a collection of the most outstanding articles that have appeared in the magazine curator as a special issue of the magazine. meetings at the museum of some 10 to 12 scientific societies. presentation of the museums medals for outstanding contributions in the field of the natural sciences. floodlighting of the museum. the "man and nature" lectures by dr. margaret mead. an exhibit on 100 years of the american museum of natural history. and an ambitious exhibit to be placed inthe roosevelt memorial on the theme "man and his future environment." the exhibit being concerned with mans present future and highlighting population and conservation problems. the mere existence of an institution like the american museum of natural history helps to give a better image to the united states. the museums contribution to our cultural life is a story that deserves to be told. i am. therefore. giving support to the issuance of a commemorative stamp by the post office department to celebrate the first 100 years of this great museum and on this 99th anniversary. as we prepare for the celebration next year. i am introducing a bill to help accomplish this result.
. i voted " on the motion to adjourn at the opening today. i think that senator robert f. kennedy. more than anyone i k. would have wanted us to get on with the important business at hand such as the most pertinent questions of gun control and crime in the streets.
 carter did during his recent visit to the bronx. and. without this data. we are a long way from seeing a cure. classifying arson as a part 1 crime would go a long way toward providing the information necessary to wage a vigorous and effective fight against those individuals who are engaged in burning down americas cities just to make a buck. rhode island police and fire chiefs. chambers of commerce. and insurance companies have emphatically stated that the legislation that we are considering would be an important step in combating the devastating crime of arson.
the very next day after we met with gover parfitt. we met with general torrijos. and we raised precisely this point. "why. general. have you personally  met with gover parfitt." the answer was: my people have met with his people. firemen have met with the firemen. the police chiefs with the police chiefs in the zone. there is that level of cooperation. but here. it seemed to me. was the most significant point. significant to those who constantly say that general torrijos is a dictator. and in a dictator the term implies he is above all. he is supreme.
 that maintenance budget. as it was explained to us by gover parfitt. applies to all the activities conducted within the zone. by that we mean schools. housing. fire departments. police stations. the govers residence. and all that. it does  apply to the maintenancefor the canal itself.
. i merely rise to congratulate the senator from ohio on this amendment and to say that he has been a leader in the efforts in this field. last year i had the privilege of cosponsoring with him an amendment to make arson a major crime which would be reportable by the fbi and thus hopefully receive more attention and if it would be agreeable with him i wish to be added as a cosponsor of his amendment.
. i recognize that this does  increase the amount of money under this particular appropriation but it earmarks it for efforts in this area of arson which is the fastest growing crime in the united states which is one of the most costly. which is one of the most costly in lives as well as property. and the extraordinary thing is as has been pointed out by the senator from ohio that something can be done about arson. it has been accomplished in the city of boston. it has been accomplished also where and if we can only get these lessons out to our fire departments i think we can make considerable progress. so i congratulate the senator and i k the senator from massachusetts has been active in this also and i wish to pay tribute to him as well.
trying to quantify efficiency. of course. is always a little difficult. the suggestion inevitably made by the proponents is that there will be more efficiency in this area where they will have twice as much square footage as they presently have. the senator from nebraska will have to make his own judgment on that. my own judgment is that experience has clearly shown us that staff rises to meet available space and experience is clear that in giving the senate more space. whether in the plaza hotel. the immigration building. capitol hill hotel. senate court apartments. hill apartments. 400 th capitol street. immediately we fill it. that is what we do. we just add more and more staff. out they go to fill up every single available square inch. the chairman of the building committee has pointed out that he has a staff member who works in a bathroom. that is what we do with any space. i do  think anyone would be prepared to stand before this senate and say that when we move into this new area where there is going to be twice as much square footage that will  soon be filled and we will be right back where we are .
. today. the senate is about to pass the state. justice. and commerce appropriations bill conference report. this bill originally passed the senate by a vote of 51 to 35. i was one of the 35 senators who voted in opposition to that bill and i would like to take this opportunity to share some of my thoughts on that bill with the rest of my colleagues here in the senate. in the debate over that appropriations bill. we spent a good deal of time on amendments that would prohibit the department of justice from initiating or participating in legislation that would require busing as a solution in desegregating our schools. the proponents of this amendment argue that this was a vote on the merits of busing and continued federal participation in this activity. . what about the merits of busing. do students learn better in desegregated schools. what happens when children who have participated in busing programs leave this environment. what have been the results when some school districts consider uniting the city and surrounding suburbs in a single desegregation plan. the results to these and other questions are  all in yet. but already we are getting conflicting analyses. scholars who have studied this question are divided on the merits of busing. some scholars argue that desegregation has provided few academic benefits for miity students who have been involved in these programs. other scholars point to studies showing that efforts at desegregation have made some improvements under certain circumstances in the education of miity students. how do you measure improvements. again. opinion is divided. should we rely on supposedly objective test scores to measure improvements. should we look at the percent of miity students involved in desegregation programs that have gone on to higher education. is an individuals track record for getting employment a better measure of the success of these programs. there is agreement here either.  surprisingly. public opinion on this matter is also divided. opponents of busing can point to nationwide polls which indicate that over three quarters of the american people are opposed to forced school busing. on the other hand. proponents of desegregation point to public opinion surveys showing that a vast majority of americans still favor desegregation as a way to improve educational oprortunities for all americas youth. clearly. the results of two decades of busing is mixed. but should the votes on this appropriations bill be viewed strictly as votes on the issue of busing itself. i think . the format in which these amendments were considered raises serious constitutional concerns. approving this amendment withholds from the federal government the only remaining method for insuring that federal funds are spent in a constitutional manner. let us review quickly what congress role has been in desegregation. in 1961. congress enacted title vi of the civil rights act which prohibited discrimination in federally funded programs. title vi envisioned two ways for the federal government to insure that federally funded programs do  support discrimination. one of these ways was for the federal government to terminate its suoport for programs that were discriminatory. the second way was for the federal government to file suit to require those entities operating discriminatory programs to abide by the constitution. in 1977. congress passed what is kn as the eagletonbiden amendment. this amendment prohibited the department of health. education. and welfarethe agency of the federal government authorized to oversee school aidfrom administratively requiring school districts. as a prerequisite to receive federal funds. to desegregate by transporting children beyond the nearest school. in a decision upholding the eagletonbiden amendment. a federal district court emphasized that the department of justices continued ability to litigate effectively was the prime support for the constitutionality of the eagletonbiden amendment. this district court decision was upheld by a federal court of appeals. in a large measure due to the department of hew s ability to still refer a case to the department of justice for suit. monday. the senate approved an amendment which removed this option from hew. in my judgment. this amendment is open to constitutional challenge as it is presently worded. but also invites further legal challenge to the eagletonbiden amendment because the constitutional safeguards on which it reststhe department of justices ability to bring suitis longer present. given the. at best. mixed reviews of the busing program. as well as the desire of many citizensboth black and whiteto regain control over their local schools. is very tempting to support such an amendment to this department of justice appropriations bill. however. if we have learned anything at all from our experience with busing. it is that we should exercise great caution in trying to address this problem with a simplistic solution. the issue of desegregating our schoolsand the proper role if any. of busing in that processis a difficult and complex matter that deserves closer and more careful scrutiny than can be given simply by an amendment first offered on the floor of the senate to an appropriations bill. dealing with the issue in this way can cause more problems than it solves. it is my feeling that members of congress must pass laws which meet constitutional muster first. and only within this constitutional muster first. and only within this constitutional framework can we turn our attention to remedying social ills. for these reasons. i voted against the helms amendment to the department of justice bill.
. i am pleased to join as a cosponsor of this legislation. what would this bill do. first. it would require that the fbi permanently reclassify arson as a part i crimeor major crime--in its uniform crime repot. such a change would standardize the reports of arson by local jurisdictions. and make more complete and up to date information available for federal. state. and local efforts to fight arson. second. the bill would provide up to $5 million for the u.s. fire administration to strengthen its antiarson research. equipment. and training techniques. third. the bill would create an itteragency antiarson committee to coordinate federal agencies conducting antiarson investigations. this interagency committee would make federal programs more consistent. reduce duplication of effort. and would  preempt state or local authority in this area. finally. the bill would encourage law enforcement officials and insurance companies issuing fair plan insurance policies to work more closely together to combat arson. why is such a program necessary. because arson has been one of the biggest "growth industries" in the past decade. between 1974 and 1978 alone. the number of fires classified incendiary or suspiciousfires that officials kn. w or had reason to suspect were setincreased from 114.000 to 508.512. losses from these fires increased from $563 million in 1974 to $1.03 billion in 1978. rhode islands experience with arson is unfortunately much the same. in 1974. there were 144 incendiary or suspicious fires. by 1978. this figure had climbed to 722 fires. losses from these blazes increased from $2.7 million in 1974. to $8.2 million by 1978. this growth has  gone uniced. television and newspapers have presented special series on this problem. helping to increase public awareness regarding the scope and complexity of arson. in addition. efforts by all levels of government to fight arson have increased. in rhode island the govers office has formed a state task force on arson. and the state fire marshal and attorney general have been cooperating closely with police and fire departments. in addition. many city and town fire departments have started arson awareness programs on their own. the investment in these programs has started to pay dividends. in providence. between 1974 to 1978 investigators could only verify 30 percent of all fires as deliberately set. in 1979. through better kledge and more thorough inspection techniques. fire officials were able to identify almost 60 percent of the fires as deliberately set. south kingstown. r.i.. with a population of approximately 20.000 can also point to success with training programs. due to a better system for reporting fires. and more resources for investigation. four times more arrests for arson were made in 1979 than in 1978. we should  be lulled into a false sense of security by the successes. rather. we should renew our efforts. enacting this legislation would add the weight and prestige of the fbi in helping to identify arson. the additional resources authorized in this bill would help state and local governments offset the loss of other valuable programs. such as those run under the law enforcement assistance administration. i urge my colleagues to support this legislation.* by mr. pres8ler:
am i also correct in viewing this as an issue in which busing is being dragged in. busing being looked upon as relatively unpopular. dragged in as a tool in order to remove the justice department from getting involved in any way in desegregation cases. am i correct in my understanding of what the senator was previously saying that when you prevent the justice department from being involved directly or indirectly in a desegregation case where busaig might be a tool. what you are really saying is that the justice department can get in at all because. indirectly. busing might be involved. am i correct in that.
i find it inconceivable that this congress could even give thought to such a proposition. if we do  like the underlying law. am i  correct in suggesting let us chanre the underlying law. if they do  like busing. if they do  like that which the supreme court of the united states has so interpreted. that there has to be desegregation and that this is a tool to achieve itif they do  like all that. i suppose there are other ways to change it.
that is a very interesting approach. the senator means an 18yearold who goes to vote. you deny him the vote. sure. he is 18. but he does  have the sense that those older people have. those old 21yearolds have. so he is denied the right to vote. he proceeds under his constitutional rights. where is he. he is left hanging there. the justice department can act on his behalf.
it is somewhat similar to what andrew jackson said. did  he say. "the court made the decision.  let them enforce it". you strip away the enforcement powers. which are the only things that we have to enforce the law. it is all right to have laws. it is all right to have equal justice under laws. but what protection is there if the justice department is  there to enforce that individuals right. am i correct in believing that it is an absolutely hollow victory.
that. as i mentioned in my remarks. applied to a very narrow class of habeas corpus cases which had only been given to supreme court jurisdiction in the prior year. that is a separate situation from this.
. ilam offering the amendment at the desk to section 7 of s. 708. which provides that criminal action may be brought pursuant to sections 1341 or 1343 of title 18 against a domestic concern or any of its officers based on the theory that the foreign official receiving the payment violated his fiduciary duty to his country. that is the existing language. the amendment would add language which would make it clear that actions could be brought under sections 1341 or 1343 based on a theory of a violation of a fiduciary duty by a foreign official or that the foreign official defrauded its government or citizens by receiving an illegal payment from a u.s. company or its agent. the current exclusivity provision excludes only one theory on which the justice department could bring a case under the wire and mail fraud statutes in a situation involving aln overseas bribery by a u.s. company. with this amendment that we are  considering. the exclusivity provision will make clear that only the foreign corrupt practices act will determine the extent to which u.s. persons are liable for any illegal payments to foreign officials. section 7 is intended to preclude the unprecedented application of the wire and mail fraud statutes to extraterritorial situations that are  precisely defined. additionally. the laws of foreign countries provide protection of foreign governments and citizens from the criminal misconduct of its government officials. therefore. the extraterritorial application of the wire and mail fraud statutes is  necessary.
the other question that i would like to ask the distinguished manager of the bill is as follows: one of my chief objectives in drafting s. 708 ecmber 2.3. 1981 was to insure that the enforcement of thc act took into account foreign policy considerations. one aspect of that coordination is the ification of the state department by the department of justice when it has decided to file a case. this is intended to enable the state departnment to anticipate potential foreign policy problems that might arise as the result of the filing of an action under the act. is it correct that it is the committees intent that the department of justice ify the state departmient when it decides to bring an action under the antibribery provisions of the act.
i will explain this further as we go along. but. at this point. let me say that it places the intent of the defendant under our language where it should be in a criminal acton the intention to perform the harmful act. the committee language focuses on the subjective intent of the defendant to do harm. the reasons for these differences risea out of the debate we had on this issue last year. i would like to summarize some of the background of the debate. in january of 1980. over 2 years ago. senator jackson and i joined senator moynihan in introducing the intelligence reform act of 1980 . that bill contained a section designed to protect agent identities which depended on a subjective standard of intentin other words. when we originally introduced this bill. we also had this subjective standard of intent. what did the person intend to do inside their breast. . when we had the hearings before the senate intelligence committee in june of 1980. a number of witnesses expressed concern with this language. for example.  reagans letter of february 3. 1982.
s letter to senator baker and senator robert c. byrd this mdith. dear senator baker: legislation to make criminal the unauthorized disclosure of the names of our intelligence officers remains the cornerstone for the improvement of our intelligence capabilities. a goal that i k we share. hing has been more damaging to this effort than the pernicious disclosures of the names of officers whom we send abroad on dangerous and difficult rssignments. unfortunately. these disclosures continue with impunity. endangering lives. seriously impairing the effectiveness of our clandestine operations. and adversely affecting morale within our intelligence agencies. last september the house of representatives overwhemingly passed the administrationsupported version of the intelligence identities protection act. the senate is soon to take up consideration of this legislation. and you will have before you two versions. while i believe that both versions are fully protective. of constitutional guarantees. attorney general smith and i firmly believe that the original version. first introduced by senator chafee and others. is far more likely to result in an effective law that could letd to successful prosecution. i strongly urge you and each of your colleagues to support the carefullycrafted chafeejackson amendment to 8. 391. 1 can overemphasize the importance of this legislation. sincerely.
 was for the chafeejackson language because i was republican. all weekend i am going to be pondering why the carter administration was also for this language. did they look at me as a potential convert. i can fathom in any way why they too would be supportive of my language. admiral turner was a democratic appointee. as head of the cia. attorney general renfrew was a democratic appointee of the justice department. i am still waiting to discover the answer. so i am looking forward to the debate on monday and hope i find out what particular appeal i might have had to the carter administration 2 years ago.
 carter. adm. stansfield turner. and the members of the justice department have all said the chafeejackson language is easier to prosecute. it is clear. so these gentlemen ought to discard immediately the argument that their language permits the easier prosecution of those who reveal names and that it provides better protection for our agents. it simply is  so.
i assure the senator that the language of the legislation we are considering today has been carefully crafted. it has been subjected to the scrutiny of some of the finest legal minds within the intelligence community. and the justice departments of both the carter and reagan administrations have studied this language and are of the opinion that the language strikes a proper balance between the need to protect civil and constitutional rights. while at the same time providing the government with a statute that is effective and enforceable. since we are dealing with our most fundamental freedom. that of speech. i do  feel that the burden placed on the united states is too difficult we have deliberately made it difficult in terms of elements of proof so as to insure protection of that fundamental freedom. classification alone would  provide the kind of insulation required. the mere fact that an intelligence relationship appears in a classified document does  necessarily constitute evidence that the united states is taking affirmative measures to conceal the relationship. it could mean that or it could . for instance. the document could be classified because of other information it contains. proof of the existence of a classified relationship would  be egh. the government must show in addition. that the person who made the disclosure knew that the united states was taking affirmative measures to conceal the covert agents classified intelligence relationship.
yes. . definitely. as i understand the proceedings tomorrow. as soon as we come in. we move immediately to the department of justice authorizations bill. there will be some votes on that at around 2 bclock.
that is indeed correct. and it is a major reason why i introduced this language in 1980. to replace the "intent to impa or impede" standard that the cia had originally proposed. the department of justice was very concerned that a subjective intent standard could have a chilling effect on public debate regarding intelligence. and i shared this concern. the intent standard in the bill as reported by the judiciary committee last year i. somewhat different from that in the bill as introduced in 1980. but i still feel that my language estab. lishes more clearly than theirs the crucial point that a persons views regarding intelligence policy can be used to convict him. his or her acts are what matter.
 of the united states. the justice department. or the intelligence community with respect to the chafeejackson amendment to this bill. the amendment we are  considering. they all prefer it. they want it to pass the senate. they want the chafeejackson language to be subsection 601(c) of s. 391.
the language in the senate judiciary committees version has already been rejected by the house of representatives. the language in 601(c) that we are considering here in the chamber came from the senate judiciary committee. it is the exact same language that came onto the floor of the house of representatives from committee. the language was changed on the house floor. it was rejected. and in place of it was substituted the very language i have in my amendment. that language passed overwhelmingly in the house. 354 to 56 last fall. if we want a bill and if we want to deal with this problem. then let us adopt the amendment i am proposing. make it part of the bill. pass the bill. and then the bills from the senate and the house of representatives will be practically the same. there will be long drawn out conference. there will be problems. we will have legislation. we will stop "naming names." if we reject my amendment and adopt the committee language. then we have problems resolving this difference with the house of representatives. then i could  make any prediction as to whether we will indeed have legislation on this subject this year or any year. all of us have seen situations arise where different languages are passed in each house. there are long delays. and sometimes the differences are never reconciled. i have been through conferences where conferees never came to a conclusion. so if we truly want legislation. i urge the support of my amendment. it is  true that the reason to believe standard is more likely to be declared unconstitutional. the supreme court has spoken on the issue in the agee case. the court specifically said that unauthorized disclosures of intelligence identities "are clearly  protected by the constitution." the carter and reagan justice department have both favored the objective reasontobelieve standard. the reason to believe standard is contained in a number of federal criminal statutes and had been upheld by the courts. at this point i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the following items: one. a listing of federal criminal statutes employing reason to believe. and we have here nine separate ones in which the reasontobelieve standard is there. i will  give the united states code numbers. they are all in 18 u.s.c. except for the last one which is 42 u.s.c. but they deal with gathering defense information. duplication of defense documents or objects. receiving defense information. transmitting defense information. unauthorized possession of defense information. providing defense information to aid foreign governments. destruction of defense facilities. obstructing defense production. and communication of restricted data. all these statutes have the language utilizing the reasontobelieve standard. sometimes it is prefaced by the phrase "with intent or reason to believe." it does  mean "and reason to believe." it means one or the other. the first statute refers to gathering defense information. the next one prohibits duplication of defense documents or objects. they have the intent or reasontobelieve language. the next statute refers to receiving defense information. the language talks about king or having reason to believe that it could be used contrary to the provisions of the statute. ice there is intent language whatever in there. king or having reason to believe is the language. the next statue deals with transmitting defense information and has only the reason to believe standard. there is intent standard. aher statute prohibits the unauthorized possession of defense information. which the possessor has reason to believe could be used to the injury of the united states. there is hing about intent. instead it requires the reason to believe standard for prosecution. the destruction of defense facilities legislation. 18 united states code 2153. section (a). states that the defendant must have the intent or reason to believe that his act may injure the united states. again. in 18 united states code 2154. obstructing defense production. there is the same standard: anyone with intent or reason to believe his act may injure the united states. in 42 united states code 2274(b). communication of restricted data. the act states that whoever communicates restricted data with reason to believe such data will be utilized to injure the united states shall be punished. the second group of documents is a review of federal court cases involving the reason to believe standard. i shall just quote one: schmeller v. united states (sixth circuit. 1944). schimeller and others were convicted of violating a federal statute which reads in pertinent part: "when the united states is at war this is in a war situation. but the pertinent point is the following language: * * * whoever. .rith reason to believe that his act may injare. interfere with. or obstruct the unitcd states the court of appeals affirmed the sufficiency of the indictment under the statute. quoting  the sixth circuit: under the latter part of this statute the specific intent to injure or interfere with the war effort of the united states or any associate nation need  be proved. there is necessity to prove intent. the act of willfully making war material in a defective manner. with reason to believe that the act may injure or interfere with governmental war measures. constitutes the offense. and the court continued: the appellants are clearly apprised of the specific offense charged. for the casting is identified and its heat number gives the appellants the precise date. . i ask unanimous consent that .those articles be printed in the record.
what i am advocating is that the existing language in the committee bill. namely. "whoever. in the course of identifying an agent. with an intent to impair or impede the united states" is chilling to the newsman who publishes a series of articles critical of the cia. or of u.s. intelligence activities. he has built up a background which would be indicative of his intent to impair or impede. when it would  really be germane to what he has done. in other words. when you go into somebodys intent in a matter such as this. it is harmful to the person. and it is difficult for the prosecution as well. it is difficult for the prosecution. because the defendant says: true. i disclosed the names of these agents. admittedly. i publish the "covert action information blulletin." i revealed mr. welchs name. but my intent was  to impair or impede the intelligence activities of the united states. my intent was to improve them. because these people are spoiling the reputation of the united states by what they are doing in nicaragua or athens. greece. or wherever it is. they are impairing the united states. thank goodness for me. the publisher of these documents. because i am helping our nation.  only is that a defense that could be undertaken. but. indeed. it is what they are presently saying. that is one side of it. that is looking at it from the standpoint of the governments perspective. look at . from the other side. from the side of a newsman who discloses the name of an agent inadvertently. but who has been extremely liberal. let us say. he thinks that everything the united states has done is wrong and that the cia has misbehaved. he has published a long series of articles on that. he also has pointed out that the justice department is crooked. they are for sale. they are bad actors. he is critical. critical. critical. then. inadvertently. he discloses the name of an agent. he is prosecuted. and the prosecution says his intent is clear. and they bring in all these articles from the past to show his intent. in my judgment that is chilling on writers and journalists. the reason to believe language is an objective standard. we ask whether a person would have reason to believe that the disclosure impedes the united states. rather than try to get within the breast of the defendant and ask what was his intent.
. i am cosponsoring a bill introduced by senator mitchell on march 11. 1982. which would amend the antidumping and countervailing duty laws in an effort to make the remedies provided under those laws more accessible to small and financially strained domestic firms. such as the fishing and jewelry industries. frequently. it is the smallest and most poorly organized industries in the manufacturing sector that are in greatest need of the relief provided under our antidumping and countervailing duty laws. unfortunately. it is usually the rule rather than the exception that these small industries can afford to avail themselves of the remedies provided under these laws. for example. the legal costs associated with the filing and prosecution of an antidumping case can be as high as $1 million. the bill introduced by senator mitchll makes several important changes in the provisions of the trade agreements act of 1979 which would eliminate some of the exorbitant costs involved in bringing a dumping or sub. sidies case. the bill would lower the injury standard to require "sufficient evidence of injury" rather than "reasonable indication of injury." this language is taken directly from the antidumping and subsidies codes that we negotiated during the tokyo round of the multilateral trade negotiations. thus. the amendment lowers the cost of bringing a case by lessening the burden of proof and yet keeps the legal standard for preliminary determinations in line with our obligations under the gatt. the bill also reduces litigation expense by transferring jurisdiction over final determinations and negative preliminary determinations from the court of international trade to the court of customs and patent appeals. finally. the bill improves the access of smaller industries to antidumping and countervatring duty remedies by establishing an ombudsman office in the department of commerce which would provide representation for qualified petitioners seeking relief.e
i thank the senator very much. . it is my judgment as well as my deepest belief. that this congress can and mustplace a criminal penalty on the pernicious activity of "naming names." we must protect the lives and missions of those men and women who serve this nation and this congress on difficult and dangerous missions abroad. i urge my colleagues to vote for this amendment.
. i would like to direct a couple of questions to the distinguished senator from new york. whose remarks i listened to. i appreciate the point that he was making. that indeed we are making criminal activities of citizens who use material that is  classified. that is the whole point of section 601(c) in the amendment we passed this aftern. as i understood the senators forebodings as he expressed them. they would apply both to the committee language and to the amendment that was adopted this aftern. on that point there is difference. does the senator agree with that.
i agree wholeheartedly with what the senator is saying. :ie has had a very distinguished career on the intelligence committee. in which indeed he has been vice chairman and acting chairman for some time at different periods. i agree. i think it is incumbent upon this administration. as indeed it is on any administration. to do everything it can to provide effective cover. we did have hearings 2 years ago on the subject in the intelligence committee. in which we had before us various witnesses. we worked hard on the cover matter. and we will continue to do so. i will support it and i hope we will continue our efforts. but. etheless. for a variety of reasons cover is perfect. and thus we get into this dilemma that truly exists. the senator recalls 2 years ago we passed legislation dealing with this problem. so that was to be a help. incidental. but it was to be a help. but cover is  perfect. and these lists go on. these lists are published. we have all seen them. those who "name names" work hard at it. and i just feel we can tolerate that. to throw up our hands and say. "the first amendment prevents us from moving in and protecting americans who are on these very dangerous jobs. the first amendment will  permit us americans from prohibiting other americans from publishing the names of american citizens sent abroad by this nation." why that is incomprehensible. maybe the solution is  perfect. the senator has indicated it is his belief it will  stand up in court. our information is that it will. the carter and reagan administration justice pepartments say it will. but i would iiate to think that the problem is so insurmountable that we would  tackle it.
i certainly agree with the senator. . i thank the senator. we are both working for a common solution. if my solution is  the right one. and the court in any way indicates this to be the case. we will take aher try at it.
. words can do justice to the travail and suffering of european jewry. victims of the most heis political crime of all time. the holocuast of world war but however inadequate our words we must continue to speak out in remembrancehowever painfulif only to insure that mankind will never allow itself to forget the horror that swallowed up twothirds of europes jews and millions of other european miities in the death camps of auschwitz. dauchau. majdanek. sobibor. bergenbelsen. and so many others. this week. in ceremonies large and small throughout the world. the holocaust will be remembered in countless ways. thousands will gather at secular events marking official commemoration of the tragedy. countless more will attend memorial services in synagogues or churches marking the occasion. for many. the memories will be personal: the remembrance of individual family members and friends long dead. in marking this occasion. we add our voices to millions of others in proclaiming "never again." that. ultimately. is our purpose. indeed our prayer. it can be less.
ial regulatory reform effort on section 404 of the clean water act. i am  introducing any legislation today to amend section 404. it is sound as written and provides a valuable federal role in determining the future of the diminishing wetland resources of the country. this reform effort has gone beyond the one that was described to me and others who have an interest in this area. our committee will be conducting oversight hearings on this exercise during the coming months. lastly. one area  addressed by these recommendations relates to the socalled federal common law. this is a very complicated issue and relates to a series of u.s. supreme court decisions. because of the complexity of the issue and the various issues surrounding it. i am  prepared to make recommendations on it at the present time. it is my hope to have a recommendation on this issue in the near future. i will make certain that my proposal receives wide circulation in advance of our hearings. one item i would like to urge my colleagues to review as we begin the process of amending the act is testimony presented to the environmental pollution subcommittee in december by pollster louis harris. mr. harris conducted a survey to determine american attitudes toward clean water. before dismissing this as simply aher survey that shows americans want clean water. please look carefully at the ratios in this poll. they are truly startling. i would ask that mr. harris testimony be included at this point in the record.
. april has been designated as "national child abuse prevention month." this is an effort to raise the consciousness of american citizens about the occurrence of child abuse and neglect. child abuse comes in all formsit include accidental physical injury. physical neglect. sexualand emotional abuse. child abuse is usually a pattern of behavior. it takes place over a period of time. and its effects add up. the longer the abuse continues. the more serious it becomes. the more serious is the injury to the child. and the more difficult it is to stop. the effects of child abuse are devastating. each year a million american children suffer abuse. between 2.000 and 5.000 of these children die each year. for those who live. the hurt inflictd on them as children influences their entire lives. in rhode island alone there was a 435 percent increase in the number of reported cases of abuse and neglect between 1976 and many adult criminals. juvenile delinquents. drug addicts and prostitutes admit to having been victims of child abuse. studies indicate that 60 percent of the prisoners incarcerated for murder were abused as children. abused juvenile delinquents are found to be more likely to engage in hostile assaults than abused delinquents. in aher study. nearly half of the families which were reported for child abuse had at least one child who was later taken to court as ungovernable or delinquent. society bears an emous price as a result of child abuse. a recent conservative assessment estimates that $8 billion nationally would have to be spent for optimal. effective treatment of child abusethis is a minimum of $7.000 per family. the cost of human suffering and wasted individual potential is equally emous but immeasurable. it is a sad irony that many abusers generally love their children. but find themselves caught in life situations beyond their control and in which they do  k how to cope. child abusers are usually ordinary people caught in situations beyond their control. it is a myth that child abuse is confined to miities or the poor. child abuse cuts across all ecoic boundaries. races. ethnic groups. and religious faiths. society must begin to deal with the complex problem of child abuse. as national child abuse prevention month draws to a close. let us continue to give this serious threat to our childrens lives our continued attention. public awareness will go a long way toward preventing the problem and its subsequent human suffering.
. i would like to take a moment of the senates time to call attention to work done by our colleague. senator bob packwood. with respect to the regulations proposed by the department of health and human services requiring that parents be ified within 10 days of their adolescents receipt of prescription contraceptives from a federally funded planning program. because of the importance of helping young people obtain needed family planning and pregnancy counseling. i oppose these regulations. already enjoined by two federal district courts. i do  believe they should be implemented. the plain language and legislative history of the statute we passed in 1981 require the "encouragement" of parental involvement in the family planning decisions of their adolescents. the law quite explicit does  mandate such involvement. the department of health and human services has appealed the march 2. 1983 ruling of the u.s. district court for the district court decision. senator packwood8 concern for both the adolescents involved and the legislative process prompted him to enter the case on appeal as a friend of the court. on monday. april 25. he. filed a brief setting forth his analysis of the legislative history and abuse of administrative authority on this point. so that interested persons may see the excellent case which senator packwood made. i request that the text of the brief be inserted in the congres-
. today. along with 14 of my colleagues i am introducing a resolution designating the week of april 16. 1984 as nationalchild abtuse prevention week. child abuse and neglect is defined as physical or mental injury. sexual abuse or exploitation. negligent treatment or maltreatment of a child by a person responsible for the childs welfare. there are estimates that over 2 million children suffer abuse and neglect each year. but the actual incidence of child abuse and neglect is acceptea as being greater because so many incidents go unreported each year. the national center on child abuse estimates that about 2.000 children die each year from abuse and neglect. child abuse and neglect is  a new phee. historically. children have been abused even in highly civilized societies. dickens has painted poignant scenes of child abuse in victorian england. exploitation of children in employment was widespread in the 19th century and well into this century. it was  until 1875 that the first society for the prevention of cruelty to children was established in new york. in 1974. federal focus on the problenm began with passage of the child abuse and prevention treatment act (fl 93247). the act provided federal leadership and ..ssistance in identifying. treating. and preventing child abuse and neglect. studies show that child abuse occurs in families of all socioecoic levels. races. nationality. and religion. however. more cases are reported among the lower socioecoic levels. data indicate that child abuse and neglect is caused by many interacting factors: physical and mental health problems. low intelligence. a lack of kledge about child development and parental skills. and the parents experience of abuse as a child. children may suffer physical. emotional. psychological and neurological damage because of abuse or neglect. abuse may also affee. the cognitive and language deveir pment of the child. there is evid. nee that some abused or neglected children are more likely to become juvenile delinquents or abusive parents. i believe the awful effects of child abuse make a strong case for greater federal focus on the problem and a reassessment of current programs directed at preventing or remedying child abuse and neglect. congress should also look at the level of funding currently being appropriated for these programs. public awareness and attention will  alone solve the problem. however. continued national awareness and congressiopal support for those programs aimed at its prevention and treatment can reduce the incidence and tragic consequences of child abuse and neglect. our children are both our most valuable and vulnerable resources. i urge recognition of this fact by designating the week of april 16 as national child abuse prevention week. by mr. humphrey: s.j. res. 162. joint resolution proposing an amendment to the constitution of the united states with respect to senlators and representatives and the number of terms either may serve. to the committee on the judiciary.
. as a cosponsor of the senate resolution designating april as "national child abuse month." i would like to take this opportunity to.draw the senates attention to a significant child abuse prevention program  underway in rhode island. three facts about the tragedy of child abuse are particularly disturbing. first. the incidence of child abuse goes up each yearincreasing in 1984 over the previous year by 19 percent. second. experts agree that the available statistics underrepresent the actual extent of the problem. third. there is every indication that the victims of child abuse in all too many cases grow up to become abusive parents. but in this seemingly bleak picture. there are some bright spots. the rhode island chapter of the national committee for the prevention of child abusethanks to a grant from the national center on child abuse and neglecthas launched a comprehensive program designed to get at the very root of the problem. and prevent child abuse before it takes place. this project will bring fullscale child abuse awareness and prevention programs to six of rhode islands school systems. combining its own resources with those made available by the rhode island chapter of the ncpca. each school system involved in the program has designed a program that best suits local needs. under the program. children from kindergarten right up through grade 12 are  learning how to protect themselves against abuse and what to do if it happens to them. teachers and other school personnel are being trained to spot possible cases of child abuse and to follow through appropriately. one aspect of this training will be the effective use of the new child abuse neglect tracking system [cants] developed by the rhode island department of children and their families in order to streamline the identification. reporting. and investigation of child abuse. concerned community members. along with parents and teachers. have been recruited and organized as volunteers to raise funds. organize events. and serve as lay counselors. often contributing particular professional skillsin public relations or in the graphic arts. for exampleto the effort. and. most importantly. parents are integrally involved in every aspect of the campaign. participating in parent education programs or joining one of the corps of volunteers that have been formed in each of the six school systems. this program demonstrates how. by taking full advantage of the access that local schools afford. we can mobilize entire communitiesparents. teachers. children. and concerned volunteersagainst the problem of child abuse. it offers real hope that the tragic cycle of abuse can be broken. thanks to similar contributions by thousands of committed individuals across the country. we have in large measure succeeded in breaking the silence that has surrounded child abuse for centuries. and have brought the problem to the forefront of the national consciousness. this is a significant and quite encouraging achievement. and the effort continues. in ever more inative ways. in setting aside the month of april as national child abuse prevention month. we have declared our commitment to building on these successes and stopping child abuse before it occurs. through concerted efforts like the one  in progress in rhode island. we are well on the way toward developing a truly effective national program to keep our childrer most precious resourceprotected from harm and in good health.e
. passage of the gun control act of 1968 was an important step toward effective control over the sale and trafficking of firearms in order to reduce the incidence of violent crime in the united states. the legislation before us today makes changes in the current law intended to reduce unnecessary burdens on lawabiding citizens with respect to lawful use of firearms. i support the bills goal of easing certain restrictions on the purchase and sale of guns for hunting and sporting purposes. however. this legislation does  do egh to halt the proliferation of handguns and could weaken existing laws designed for this purpose. the united states has more violent crime than other countries which have restrictions on handguns. i have consistently supported efforts to strengthen controls over the purchase and distribution of handguns. handgun control is an essential part of effective law enforcement. the ready availability of lethal. concealable handguns undermines efforts to protect citizens from violent crime. handgun deaths are a national tragedy. handguns.are used in more than 10.000 murders in the united states and aher 500.000 crimes of violence each year. small handguns are the overwhelming weapon of choice by street criminals and assassins. despite the need to strengthen controls over handguns. the legislation we have before us would have the opposite effect and weaken current law. under current law a state has the right to regulate gun ownership among its. residents. this legislation places that right in grave jeopardy. it would authorize dealers to make facetoface firearms sales to outofstate customers if the sale would be lawful under the laws of the sellers and buyers jurisdiction. since state and city gun laws vary widely. it would be a formidable task for dealers to insure that sales to outofstate purchasers conform to law. the potential for handguns to fall intothe wrong hands would be significantly greater should this provision be retained in the bill before us today. i believe we can move forward to protect the rights of lawabiding citizens who purchase firearms for recreation. law enforcement. and private security and at the same time. strengthen law enforcement efforts to prevent handguns from falling into the wrong hands. there are three amendments we will consider which will facilitate this goal. the first and most crucial amendment would relax the ban on the interstate sale of shotguns and rifles but retain the current prohibition on the interstate sale of handguns. failure to adopt this amendment would hinder the ability of law enforcement agencies to control the spread of handguns. aher important amendment would require a 14day waiting period for purchases of handguns. a waiting period would  only give police the necessary time to determine if a purchaser is prohibited by law from owning a firearm. but also deter individuals who in a moment of desperation purchase a handgun to use in a suicide or a crime of passion. limiting access to handguns for a period of time is an important intervention for crime prevention. . in addition an amendment to retain current. law with respect to surprise federal compliance inspections of federal firearms licensees will be offered. the opportunity to conduct surprise visits to check sales records maintained by federally licensed gun dealers is vital to insure that sales are made through regular channels and are traceable. instead of weakening federal compliance inspections we should ensure that enforcement authorities have the tools necessary to deal with those who criminally misuse guns or who recklessly make it possible for others to do so. we have an opportunity today to take this measure beyond the protection of the rights of hunters and sportsmen and to move toward reducing the incidence of crime in the united states. i hope my colleagues will join me in supporting the amendments before us.
. first. let me comment on the terrorism that has taken place just recently. of course. we have had it in the past. i just want. on behalf of myself and the constituents from my state. and i think i speak for all americans. to voice the shock and outrage which we feel at what has taken place in the mediterranean. especially at the loss of mr. leon klinghoffer. what we cry out for is an end to terrorism in this world. it is my hope that the united states will use every method and tool at its disposal to bring to justice those who have committed this most recent crime. namely. the killing of leon klinghoffer. it is my hope that those other criminals who have participated in hijackings and murders of americans and other nationalsit is  just restricted to americans. we have seen russians seized and killed and nationals from other countries as well. i hope those who have participated in each of these hijackings. murders. and terrorism will be sought out and prosecuted by those having jurisdiction.
 to encourage the polish government to treat humanely and responsibly all of its citizens. it is a plea for poland to comply with basic human rights agreements to which it is a signatorsuch as the helsinki accordsand would expect that all responsible for the murder of father jerzy popieluszko be brought to justice. in addition. it asks that all international human rights organizations be allowed to function in poland. along with my senate colleagues who have cosponsored this resolution. i applaud the actions taken by the brave polish men and women who risk their lives daily in order to promote the activities of the solidare trade movement. we will  be chided by the jaruzelski regime into believing that the polish people are truly free.  do we believe this regime deserves the international respect it is seeking.e
. the supreme court has ruled that in the absence of a waiver of public financing. total campaign expenditures can be limited. however. each component is s. ect to some congressionally prescribed constraint. except for pacs. personal contributions have been limited. individual contributions have been limited. contributions by political parties have limits. but pac contributions have such restriction. this is cause for concern because even if there is a trace hint of impropriety. of one contribution component wielding undue influence on incumbents and challengers. the citizens confidence in the election processindeed in our democratic systemis undermined. the measure before us takes a moderate and reasonable approach to a serious development which threatens the integrity of the election process. i am proud to support it.
 in my judgment. i can believe it is the policy of this administration to overrule the law of the land as set forth in the clean water act or to disobey the rulings of the court as set forth in case after case. my answer is to the senators question.
s commission on organized crime. in its newly issued report. recommends mandatory drug tests for all employees of the federal government and of federal contractors. i would like to state my firm opposition to this disturbing proposal. to state it plainly. this is sense. i am incredulous that a commission of u.s. citizens would make such a recommendation. the last time i checked. the u.s.a. was  a police state. there is  the slightest evidence that these workers are major abusers of illegal drugs. why should federal employees and those who work for contractors be singled out for this kind of humiliation and harassment. the administration would be well advised to reject this proposal and let it drop from sight.*
. i am pleased to be a cosponsor of s. 104. a bill to regulate the manufacture and importatioi of armor piercing bullets. easy access to cop killer bullets is endangering the safety of police officers in cities throughout america. these bullets serve purpose but to kill and wound police officers and federal law enforcement officers when they are wearing bulletproof vests. the legislation before us today would limit the manufacture. importation. and possession of armor piercing ammunition to the military and federal. state. or local government agencies which may have legitimate needs for such ammunition. additionally. the bill would provide for a mandatory penalty for the possession of armor piercing ammunition during the commission of a violent felony. this bill. generated by law enforcement officials. legislators. and the general public. rose out of a deep concern that certain types of armor piercing ammunition are too readily available on the commercial market. such easy accessibility to cop killer bullets poses a serious threat to the safety of our law enforcement officials. s. 104 addresses these concerns without restricting or interfering with the legitimate use of firearms for hunting. trap. or skeet shooting. and formal or informal target shooting. we all k that law enforcement is a particularly dangerous occupation. law enforcement officers are entrusted with the tremendous responsibility of protecting us from heis acts of violence. it is our duty in turn to protect the officers who. even with bulletproof vests. face the danger of being injured or killed each and every day. we have an opportunity today to offer our support to these public servants for their dedicated efforts to ensure our safety. this legislation is one way to let them k that we appreciate the dangers inherent in their work. i hope my colleagues will join me in support of this legislation.
. i am pleased to join senator dole today in offering legislation to ensure all americans are treated equally when they use commercial air carriers. a recent supreme court ruling allows airlines to discriminate against. the disabled and exempts them from the rehabilitation act of 1973. the decision reaffirmed the courts controversial 1984 ruling in the well celebrated grove city college decision in which the justices limited the scope of four major civil rights laws to those programs or activities that receive federal aid. in its most recent decision the supreme court ruled that commercial airlines are exempt from section 504 of the rehabilitation act because they do  receive federal aid directly. although they may benefit indirectly from aid to airports. between 2.5 and 5 million disabled travelers fly annually and they often face rigid or indiscriminate regulations. it is unconscienable that many handicapped individuals are called upon to accept as a condition of life that commercial airlines are in a position to treat them differently than handicapped individuals. an industry which receives even a single dollar of federal financial assistance directly or indirectly should  be permitted to practice any form of discrimination. in order for our nation to make continued progress in assuring equal treatment for all citizens. we must act promptly. the legislation we are introducing today would prevent commercial carriers from discriminating in the services they provide to handicapped persons. this legislation has the support of the paralyzed veterans of america. the american council for the blind and the american coalition of citizens with disabilities. july3y. 1986 i fully support this legislation and hope my colleagues will join with us in making air travel more equitable for handicapped individuals. by mr. grassley: s.j. res. 382. joint resolution to establish a u.s. commission on improving the effectiveness of the united nations. to the committee on foreign relations.
id answer it in two ways senator. id say first of all theres doubt that it is under fantastic pressure and i think thats because of that really geometric increase in response from the public on child abuse and protection problems. so i think it would be fair to say that we are just under tremendous pressure. we have to revise many of our internal systems really to take advantage of new thinking in child abuse programs. theres been a lot of stereotyping in the past that has to be changed. so id say a fair question would be that probably we were more comfortable five years ago and more successful. but successful in terms that probably were  germane at that time and certainly are  germane . i think we have a whole new mission and i wouldnt want to you k wax on about it as if it were a new call. but i think it is in many ways. in a time of retrenchment. ecoic retrenchment and supposed stabilization and topping of programs. weve opened up a public awareness in this area that is being responded to. so we are in a period of tremendous growth. tremendous expectations. fantastic expectations are being expected of child welfare staff. so this is the one time  to constantly talk about funding. but if we are to truly expand and make our program intelligent and responsive and involve all the various disciplines that we must in order to be successful. theres doubt in my mind that unless we support that with funding were going to  only disappoint the public. were going to disappoint the professional staffs of the nation. senator cranston. i thank the three of you very much. youve been very helpful. senator cranston. we  have a panel that -is an interagency group comprised of lt. richard wiley. los angeles county sheriffs department. michael durfee. m.d.. medical coordinator. child abuse prevention program. los angeles department of health services. herschel k. swinger. director. southern california child abuse training center. and deanne tilton. director. los angeles county interagency council on child abuse and neglect. who is also a member of the attorney generals commission on the enforcement of child abuse laws and president of the california consortium of child abuse councils. lieutenant wiley. i think you have heard from probably most of the speakers that what we are seeing here in california is literally an explosion in the area of reported child abuse casesboth physical and sex abuse of children. i would submit that this explosion that we are seeing here in southern california is also replicated throughout the rest of the united states. there are a lot of areas of need. some of which i think i would like to address briefly this morning. one is in the area of research. we need some longitudinal studies in the area of research basically dealing with program development. we have all seen what we think are excellent programs in the field in terms of community resources. but what makes an excellent program. an excellent program. what are the dynamics. what are the structures of that program that makes it truly successful. and how does it differentiate from those that are less successful in dealing with the families. the cycle of abuse. we have all seen children grow up to be adults that were battered as children and watched the cycle go on and on through generation after generation. but on the other hand. we have also seen those people that were abused as children who grow up to be caring. loving adults very cognizant of their responsibilities as a member of the family. what are the differences between those two. why does one turn into a loving. caring parent and the other continue that cycle of abuse. what are the real longterm ramifications of both physical abuse and sexual abuse. there have been some studies done in the area. some of them contradictory. we need to k if we are really going to impact the problem. in the area of education. and i hope im  stepping on herschels.
ial regulatory reform effort on section 404 of the clean water act. i am  introducing any legislation today to amend section 404. it is sound as written and provides a valuable federal role in determining the future of the diminishing wetland resources of the country. this reform effort has gone beyond the one that was described to me and others who have an interest in this area. our committee will be conducting oversight hearings on this exercise during the coming months. lastly. one area  addressed by these recommendations relates to the socalled federal common law. this is a very complicated issue and relates to a series of u.s. supreme court decisions. because of the complexity of the issue and the various issues surrounding it. i am  prepared to make recommendations on it at the present time. it is my hope to have a recommendation on this issue in the near future. i will make certain that my proposal receives wide circulation in advance of our hearings. one item i would like to urge my colleagues to review as we begin the process of amending the act is testimony presented to the environmental pollution subcommittee in december by pollster louis harris. mr. harris conducted a survey to determine american attitudes toward clean water. before dismissing this as simply aher survey that shows americans want clean water. please look carefully at the ratios in this poll. they are truly startling. i would ask that mr. harris testimony be included at this point in the record.
. april has been designated as "national child abuse prevention month." this is an effort to raise the consciousness of american citizens about the occurrence of child abuse and neglect. child abuse comes in all formsit include accidental physical injury. physical neglect. sexualand emotional abuse. child abuse is usually a pattern of behavior. it takes place over a period of time. and its effects add up. the longer the abuse continues. the more serious it becomes. the more serious is the injury to the child. and the more difficult it is to stop. the effects of child abuse are devastating. each year a million american children suffer abuse. between 2.000 and 5.000 of these children die each year. for those who live. the hurt inflictd on them as children influences their entire lives. in rhode island alone there was a 435 percent increase in the number of reported cases of abuse and neglect between 1976 and many adult criminals. juvenile delinquents. drug addicts and prostitutes admit to having been victims of child abuse. studies indicate that 60 percent of the prisoners incarcerated for murder were abused as children. abused juvenile delinquents are found to be more likely to engage in hostile assaults than abused delinquents. in aher study. nearly half of the families which were reported for child abuse had at least one child who was later taken to court as ungovernable or delinquent. society bears an emous price as a result of child abuse. a recent conservative assessment estimates that $8 billion nationally would have to be spent for optimal. effective treatment of child abusethis is a minimum of $7.000 per family. the cost of human suffering and wasted individual potential is equally emous but immeasurable. it is a sad irony that many abusers generally love their children. but find themselves caught in life situations beyond their control and in which they do  k how to cope. child abusers are usually ordinary people caught in situations beyond their control. it is a myth that child abuse is confined to miities or the poor. child abuse cuts across all ecoic boundaries. races. ethnic groups. and religious faiths. society must begin to deal with the complex problem of child abuse. as national child abuse prevention month draws to a close. let us continue to give this serious threat to our childrens lives our continued attention. public awareness will go a long way toward preventing the problem and its subsequent human suffering.
. i would like to take a moment of the senates time to call attention to work done by our colleague. senator bob packwood. with respect to the regulations proposed by the department of health and human services requiring that parents be ified within 10 days of their adolescents receipt of prescription contraceptives from a federally funded planning program. because of the importance of helping young people obtain needed family planning and pregnancy counseling. i oppose these regulations. already enjoined by two federal district courts. i do  believe they should be implemented. the plain language and legislative history of the statute we passed in 1981 require the "encouragement" of parental involvement in the family planning decisions of their adolescents. the law quite explicit does  mandate such involvement. the department of health and human services has appealed the march 2. 1983 ruling of the u.s. district court for the district court decision. senator packwood8 concern for both the adolescents involved and the legislative process prompted him to enter the case on appeal as a friend of the court. on monday. april 25. he. filed a brief setting forth his analysis of the legislative history and abuse of administrative authority on this point. so that interested persons may see the excellent case which senator packwood made. i request that the text of the brief be inserted in the congres-
. today. along with 14 of my colleagues i am introducing a resolution designating the week of april 16. 1984 as nationalchild abtuse prevention week. child abuse and neglect is defined as physical or mental injury. sexual abuse or exploitation. negligent treatment or maltreatment of a child by a person responsible for the childs welfare. there are estimates that over 2 million children suffer abuse and neglect each year. but the actual incidence of child abuse and neglect is acceptea as being greater because so many incidents go unreported each year. the national center on child abuse estimates that about 2.000 children die each year from abuse and neglect. child abuse and neglect is  a new phee. historically. children have been abused even in highly civilized societies. dickens has painted poignant scenes of child abuse in victorian england. exploitation of children in employment was widespread in the 19th century and well into this century. it was  until 1875 that the first society for the prevention of cruelty to children was established in new york. in 1974. federal focus on the problenm began with passage of the child abuse and prevention treatment act (fl 93247). the act provided federal leadership and ..ssistance in identifying. treating. and preventing child abuse and neglect. studies show that child abuse occurs in families of all socioecoic levels. races. nationality. and religion. however. more cases are reported among the lower socioecoic levels. data indicate that child abuse and neglect is caused by many interacting factors: physical and mental health problems. low intelligence. a lack of kledge about child development and parental skills. and the parents experience of abuse as a child. children may suffer physical. emotional. psychological and neurological damage because of abuse or neglect. abuse may also affee. the cognitive and language deveir pment of the child. there is evid. nee that some abused or neglected children are more likely to become juvenile delinquents or abusive parents. i believe the awful effects of child abuse make a strong case for greater federal focus on the problem and a reassessment of current programs directed at preventing or remedying child abuse and neglect. congress should also look at the level of funding currently being appropriated for these programs. public awareness and attention will  alone solve the problem. however. continued national awareness and congressiopal support for those programs aimed at its prevention and treatment can reduce the incidence and tragic consequences of child abuse and neglect. our children are both our most valuable and vulnerable resources. i urge recognition of this fact by designating the week of april 16 as national child abuse prevention week. by mr. humphrey: s.j. res. 162. joint resolution proposing an amendment to the constitution of the united states with respect to senlators and representatives and the number of terms either may serve. to the committee on the judiciary.
. as a cosponsor of the senate resolution designating april as "national child abuse month." i would like to take this opportunity to.draw the senates attention to a significant child abuse prevention program  underway in rhode island. three facts about the tragedy of child abuse are particularly disturbing. first. the incidence of child abuse goes up each yearincreasing in 1984 over the previous year by 19 percent. second. experts agree that the available statistics underrepresent the actual extent of the problem. third. there is every indication that the victims of child abuse in all too many cases grow up to become abusive parents. but in this seemingly bleak picture. there are some bright spots. the rhode island chapter of the national committee for the prevention of child abusethanks to a grant from the national center on child abuse and neglecthas launched a comprehensive program designed to get at the very root of the problem. and prevent child abuse before it takes place. this project will bring fullscale child abuse awareness and prevention programs to six of rhode islands school systems. combining its own resources with those made available by the rhode island chapter of the ncpca. each school system involved in the program has designed a program that best suits local needs. under the program. children from kindergarten right up through grade 12 are  learning how to protect themselves against abuse and what to do if it happens to them. teachers and other school personnel are being trained to spot possible cases of child abuse and to follow through appropriately. one aspect of this training will be the effective use of the new child abuse neglect tracking system [cants] developed by the rhode island department of children and their families in order to streamline the identification. reporting. and investigation of child abuse. concerned community members. along with parents and teachers. have been recruited and organized as volunteers to raise funds. organize events. and serve as lay counselors. often contributing particular professional skillsin public relations or in the graphic arts. for exampleto the effort. and. most importantly. parents are integrally involved in every aspect of the campaign. participating in parent education programs or joining one of the corps of volunteers that have been formed in each of the six school systems. this program demonstrates how. by taking full advantage of the access that local schools afford. we can mobilize entire communitiesparents. teachers. children. and concerned volunteersagainst the problem of child abuse. it offers real hope that the tragic cycle of abuse can be broken. thanks to similar contributions by thousands of committed individuals across the country. we have in large measure succeeded in breaking the silence that has surrounded child abuse for centuries. and have brought the problem to the forefront of the national consciousness. this is a significant and quite encouraging achievement. and the effort continues. in ever more inative ways. in setting aside the month of april as national child abuse prevention month. we have declared our commitment to building on these successes and stopping child abuse before it occurs. through concerted efforts like the one  in progress in rhode island. we are well on the way toward developing a truly effective national program to keep our childrer most precious resourceprotected from harm and in good health.e
. passage of the gun control act of 1968 was an important step toward effective control over the sale and trafficking of firearms in order to reduce the incidence of violent crime in the united states. the legislation before us today makes changes in the current law intended to reduce unnecessary burdens on lawabiding citizens with respect to lawful use of firearms. i support the bills goal of easing certain restrictions on the purchase and sale of guns for hunting and sporting purposes. however. this legislation does  do egh to halt the proliferation of handguns and could weaken existing laws designed for this purpose. the united states has more violent crime than other countries which have restrictions on handguns. i have consistently supported efforts to strengthen controls over the purchase and distribution of handguns. handgun control is an essential part of effective law enforcement. the ready availability of lethal. concealable handguns undermines efforts to protect citizens from violent crime. handgun deaths are a national tragedy. handguns.are used in more than 10.000 murders in the united states and aher 500.000 crimes of violence each year. small handguns are the overwhelming weapon of choice by street criminals and assassins. despite the need to strengthen controls over handguns. the legislation we have before us would have the opposite effect and weaken current law. under current law a state has the right to regulate gun ownership among its. residents. this legislation places that right in grave jeopardy. it would authorize dealers to make facetoface firearms sales to outofstate customers if the sale would be lawful under the laws of the sellers and buyers jurisdiction. since state and city gun laws vary widely. it would be a formidable task for dealers to insure that sales to outofstate purchasers conform to law. the potential for handguns to fall intothe wrong hands would be significantly greater should this provision be retained in the bill before us today. i believe we can move forward to protect the rights of lawabiding citizens who purchase firearms for recreation. law enforcement. and private security and at the same time. strengthen law enforcement efforts to prevent handguns from falling into the wrong hands. there are three amendments we will consider which will facilitate this goal. the first and most crucial amendment would relax the ban on the interstate sale of shotguns and rifles but retain the current prohibition on the interstate sale of handguns. failure to adopt this amendment would hinder the ability of law enforcement agencies to control the spread of handguns. aher important amendment would require a 14day waiting period for purchases of handguns. a waiting period would  only give police the necessary time to determine if a purchaser is prohibited by law from owning a firearm. but also deter individuals who in a moment of desperation purchase a handgun to use in a suicide or a crime of passion. limiting access to handguns for a period of time is an important intervention for crime prevention. . in addition an amendment to retain current. law with respect to surprise federal compliance inspections of federal firearms licensees will be offered. the opportunity to conduct surprise visits to check sales records maintained by federally licensed gun dealers is vital to insure that sales are made through regular channels and are traceable. instead of weakening federal compliance inspections we should ensure that enforcement authorities have the tools necessary to deal with those who criminally misuse guns or who recklessly make it possible for others to do so. we have an opportunity today to take this measure beyond the protection of the rights of hunters and sportsmen and to move toward reducing the incidence of crime in the united states. i hope my colleagues will join me in supporting the amendments before us.
. first. let me comment on the terrorism that has taken place just recently. of course. we have had it in the past. i just want. on behalf of myself and the constituents from my state. and i think i speak for all americans. to voice the shock and outrage which we feel at what has taken place in the mediterranean. especially at the loss of mr. leon klinghoffer. what we cry out for is an end to terrorism in this world. it is my hope that the united states will use every method and tool at its disposal to bring to justice those who have committed this most recent crime. namely. the killing of leon klinghoffer. it is my hope that those other criminals who have participated in hijackings and murders of americans and other nationalsit is  just restricted to americans. we have seen russians seized and killed and nationals from other countries as well. i hope those who have participated in each of these hijackings. murders. and terrorism will be sought out and prosecuted by those having jurisdiction.
 to encourage the polish government to treat humanely and responsibly all of its citizens. it is a plea for poland to comply with basic human rights agreements to which it is a signatorsuch as the helsinki accordsand would expect that all responsible for the murder of father jerzy popieluszko be brought to justice. in addition. it asks that all international human rights organizations be allowed to function in poland. along with my senate colleagues who have cosponsored this resolution. i applaud the actions taken by the brave polish men and women who risk their lives daily in order to promote the activities of the solidare trade movement. we will  be chided by the jaruzelski regime into believing that the polish people are truly free.  do we believe this regime deserves the international respect it is seeking.e
. the supreme court has ruled that in the absence of a waiver of public financing. total campaign expenditures can be limited. however. each component is s. ect to some congressionally prescribed constraint. except for pacs. personal contributions have been limited. individual contributions have been limited. contributions by political parties have limits. but pac contributions have such restriction. this is cause for concern because even if there is a trace hint of impropriety. of one contribution component wielding undue influence on incumbents and challengers. the citizens confidence in the election processindeed in our democratic systemis undermined. the measure before us takes a moderate and reasonable approach to a serious development which threatens the integrity of the election process. i am proud to support it.
 in my judgment. i can believe it is the policy of this administration to overrule the law of the land as set forth in the clean water act or to disobey the rulings of the court as set forth in case after case. my answer is to the senators question.
s commission on organized crime. in its newly issued report. recommends mandatory drug tests for all employees of the federal government and of federal contractors. i would like to state my firm opposition to this disturbing proposal. to state it plainly. this is sense. i am incredulous that a commission of u.s. citizens would make such a recommendation. the last time i checked. the u.s.a. was  a police state. there is  the slightest evidence that these workers are major abusers of illegal drugs. why should federal employees and those who work for contractors be singled out for this kind of humiliation and harassment. the administration would be well advised to reject this proposal and let it drop from sight.*
. i am pleased to be a cosponsor of s. 104. a bill to regulate the manufacture and importatioi of armor piercing bullets. easy access to cop killer bullets is endangering the safety of police officers in cities throughout america. these bullets serve purpose but to kill and wound police officers and federal law enforcement officers when they are wearing bulletproof vests. the legislation before us today would limit the manufacture. importation. and possession of armor piercing ammunition to the military and federal. state. or local government agencies which may have legitimate needs for such ammunition. additionally. the bill would provide for a mandatory penalty for the possession of armor piercing ammunition during the commission of a violent felony. this bill. generated by law enforcement officials. legislators. and the general public. rose out of a deep concern that certain types of armor piercing ammunition are too readily available on the commercial market. such easy accessibility to cop killer bullets poses a serious threat to the safety of our law enforcement officials. s. 104 addresses these concerns without restricting or interfering with the legitimate use of firearms for hunting. trap. or skeet shooting. and formal or informal target shooting. we all k that law enforcement is a particularly dangerous occupation. law enforcement officers are entrusted with the tremendous responsibility of protecting us from heis acts of violence. it is our duty in turn to protect the officers who. even with bulletproof vests. face the danger of being injured or killed each and every day. we have an opportunity today to offer our support to these public servants for their dedicated efforts to ensure our safety. this legislation is one way to let them k that we appreciate the dangers inherent in their work. i hope my colleagues will join me in support of this legislation.
. i am pleased to join senator dole today in offering legislation to ensure all americans are treated equally when they use commercial air carriers. a recent supreme court ruling allows airlines to discriminate against. the disabled and exempts them from the rehabilitation act of 1973. the decision reaffirmed the courts controversial 1984 ruling in the well celebrated grove city college decision in which the justices limited the scope of four major civil rights laws to those programs or activities that receive federal aid. in its most recent decision the supreme court ruled that commercial airlines are exempt from section 504 of the rehabilitation act because they do  receive federal aid directly. although they may benefit indirectly from aid to airports. between 2.5 and 5 million disabled travelers fly annually and they often face rigid or indiscriminate regulations. it is unconscienable that many handicapped individuals are called upon to accept as a condition of life that commercial airlines are in a position to treat them differently than handicapped individuals. an industry which receives even a single dollar of federal financial assistance directly or indirectly should  be permitted to practice any form of discrimination. in order for our nation to make continued progress in assuring equal treatment for all citizens. we must act promptly. the legislation we are introducing today would prevent commercial carriers from discriminating in the services they provide to handicapped persons. this legislation has the support of the paralyzed veterans of america. the american council for the blind and the american coalition of citizens with disabilities. july3y. 1986 i fully support this legislation and hope my colleagues will join with us in making air travel more equitable for handicapped individuals. by mr. grassley: s.j. res. 382. joint resolution to establish a u.s. commission on improving the effectiveness of the united nations. to the committee on foreign relations.
id answer it in two ways senator. id say first of all theres doubt that it is under fantastic pressure and i think thats because of that really geometric increase in response from the public on child abuse and protection problems. so i think it would be fair to say that we are just under tremendous pressure. we have to revise many of our internal systems really to take advantage of new thinking in child abuse programs. theres been a lot of stereotyping in the past that has to be changed. so id say a fair question would be that probably we were more comfortable five years ago and more successful. but successful in terms that probably were  germane at that time and certainly are  germane . i think we have a whole new mission and i wouldnt want to you k wax on about it as if it were a new call. but i think it is in many ways. in a time of retrenchment. ecoic retrenchment and supposed stabilization and topping of programs. weve opened up a public awareness in this area that is being responded to. so we are in a period of tremendous growth. tremendous expectations. fantastic expectations are being expected of child welfare staff. so this is the one time  to constantly talk about funding. but if we are to truly expand and make our program intelligent and responsive and involve all the various disciplines that we must in order to be successful. theres doubt in my mind that unless we support that with funding were going to  only disappoint the public. were going to disappoint the professional staffs of the nation. senator cranston. i thank the three of you very much. youve been very helpful. senator cranston. we  have a panel that -is an interagency group comprised of lt. richard wiley. los angeles county sheriffs department. michael durfee. m.d.. medical coordinator. child abuse prevention program. los angeles department of health services. herschel k. swinger. director. southern california child abuse training center. and deanne tilton. director. los angeles county interagency council on child abuse and neglect. who is also a member of the attorney generals commission on the enforcement of child abuse laws and president of the california consortium of child abuse councils. lieutenant wiley. i think you have heard from probably most of the speakers that what we are seeing here in california is literally an explosion in the area of reported child abuse casesboth physical and sex abuse of children. i would submit that this explosion that we are seeing here in southern california is also replicated throughout the rest of the united states. there are a lot of areas of need. some of which i think i would like to address briefly this morning. one is in the area of research. we need some longitudinal studies in the area of research basically dealing with program development. we have all seen what we think are excellent programs in the field in terms of community resources. but what makes an excellent program. an excellent program. what are the dynamics. what are the structures of that program that makes it truly successful. and how does it differentiate from those that are less successful in dealing with the families. the cycle of abuse. we have all seen children grow up to be adults that were battered as children and watched the cycle go on and on through generation after generation. but on the other hand. we have also seen those people that were abused as children who grow up to be caring. loving adults very cognizant of their responsibilities as a member of the family. what are the differences between those two. why does one turn into a loving. caring parent and the other continue that cycle of abuse. what are the real longterm ramifications of both physical abuse and sexual abuse. there have been some studies done in the area. some of them contradictory. we need to k if we are really going to impact the problem. in the area of education. and i hope im  stepping on herschels.
 reagan. gravely wounded james brady and managed to hit two law enforcement officers as well. currently. laws governing the sale of handguns make the purchase of guns a relatively routine act. for john hinkley or anybody else with murder on his mind. buying a handgun is as easy as going to the store for candy. there are delays. address checks. hassle and reason to change your mind. a prospective gun purchaser must only sign a form certifying that he or she is  a convicted felon. a mi. a drug addict. or adjudicated mentally incompetent. handguns purchased by criminals are used in the commission of thousands of crimes every year. a major contributing factor is the lack. of an effective procedure to verify the identity of gun purchasers. three of this countrys leading law enforcement organizations have come to congress to urge support of a bill that would help resolve the problem. these groupsthe international association of chiefs of police. the fraternal order of police and the national association of police organizationsare well kn for their backing of our nations police forces. their support for this legislation provides strong evidence of how seriously the nations law enforcement agencies view the proliferation of handguns. this legislation establishes a 7day waiting period during which gun dealers and private individuals are required to submit to local law enforcement agencies the names. addresses. and birthdates of prospective handgun purchasers. unless the police ifty the dealer within 7 days that the purchaser should  legally be sold a gun. the sale can proceed. in addition to permitting the police to conduct a background investigation. the delay will provide a cooling off period for those who might seek to settle heated disputes with handguns. this legislation is in the best interest of every honest and lawabiding citizen who is tired of the senseless spread of handguns to those who are using them to rob. rape. and kill. the requirement for a waiting period was one of the recommendations of the attorney generals task force on violent crime in 1981. and in those states and cities where waiting periods are required. the evidence indicates that fewer guns are falling into the hands of criminals. we are all aware the dangers that handguns pose to all of us. handguns are a major contributor to our nations alarmingly high rate of homlcidea rate far higher than any other industralized nation. the threat is real. i urge all of my colleagues to join in supporting this muchneeded legislation.
let me just. if i might. voice to the senator from missouri my deep concerns about this particular section. first of all. this is a very powerful section and great powers are given to these individual committees. they do  have to work in concert. they do  have to have the approval of the full body. it is a power that resides within the respective committee. the ways and means committee can do it without any approval from anybody else: passage by the congress. potential veto by the president. they can take certain actions and the finance committee can do likewise. let us just stick with the finance committee. which the distinguished senator and i are fairly familiar with. by resolution the finance committee can determine that an investigation should be initiated with respect to any barriers of any foreign country.
the second major objection is that the bulk of the claims made under this provision could  be verified by u.s. customs. in order to insure against false claims. because customs records prior to 8 years back have. under the mal course of procedure. been. destroyedwhy keep a group of records around when you do.  need them. customs has destroyed the great bulk of these. records. as .you would expect them to do. as congress encourages them: to do. and  they could  verify these claims made by these big corporations. i also would say that the whole drawback system has been fraught with fraud.  by the refiners but by others. and the industrywide investigation is  under way by customs. called operation bittersweet: 48 indictments. 40 convictions. over $15 million of fines and negotiated settlements so far. . i am  saying this is the sugar refiners. this is the others involved. but the whole thing is a business that is cloaked with difficulties and possibilities for fraud. . is  going to be a longterm solution for the sugar refiners. it is a oneshot deal. it is a one payment. it would prop them up for a while but it would  solve their overall basic problems. we will just be writing huge checks to some few refiners with assurance that the money is going to be used to make the industry more competitive. we have hing like that. hing like what is included. for instance. in this trade bill in section 201 that if you come forward for support. tariff. you have to submit a plan on how you are going to increase your competitiveness. hing of that is present in this. bill. there is oversight. planning for improvements. the companies will just come in: uncle sam. or should we say uncle sugar. please write *me a check for $146 million. it only applies to cane sugar. it does  apply to beet sugar much less it does  apply to any other product or commodity. it is purely a government handout of the most outrageous kind. going to a very few refiners and i urge my colleagues to support the amendment to strike this from the bill. i reserve the balance of my time.
. i think we ought to make it clear that this is  an amendment dealing with yarmulkes. the suggestion that this is solely to correct the supreme court case is  accurate. this deals with any form of dress or article that meets the specifications within the legislation. under this change. the serviceman or woman may wear any item of religious apparelthere is reference to headgear in this. and i think that is important to remember. so we could be talking about turbans. we could be talking about crucifixes. we could be talking about any religious apparel or symbol one can imagine. who ks which we are talking about. also i would like to make a point on the suggestion that new zealand is a nation that permits this same variety of religious apparel to be worn as part of the uniform. we checked with the new zealand embassy and such is  true with new zealand. finally. i would like to get back to the difficulties in the interpretation of this amendment. for example. is saffron a color that is neat and conservative. i pose that question. how about a saffron robe. is that neat and conservative. we get into all kinds of interpretations here and difficulties that all lead  only to litigation. like the supreme court case we have already seen. but also to divisiveness. i believe that whatwe are trying to achieve in the military forces is uniformity. and  divisiveness. for this and the other reasons i outlined. i hope this amendment will be rejected.
i appreciate that and any time the distinguished senior senator from maine is on a measure. or the distinguished senior senator from oklahoma is on a measure. that gives it tremendous momentum. as far as i am concerned. i mean that is where justice must lie. however. occasionally i find that i may differ. rarely. but sometimes.
. the last time we executed anyone in my home state of rhode island was on valentines day. 1845. for 143 years since that day we have shunned capital punishment as an option in sentencing. theres a myriad of reasons why we do  have the death penalty in rhode island. but one of the most compelling is that on that cold february morning in 1845. we hung a man who was inent. seven years later. in 1852. the rhode island general assembly abolished the death penalty. by that time. it was pretty clear that john gordon. a 20yearold irish immigrant. had been the convenient scapegoat for a community enraged at the death of a powerful. rich businesssman named amasa sprague. several years ago an excellent article appeared in the providence journal about the gordon case. and i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. withstanding any of the arguments i have just made against the death penalty in general. i urge my colleagues to oppose this bill specifically because of its numerous flaws. its dangerous precedent. and its intrusive nature. we have committees in the senate for many purposes. one of which is to make sure that bills are thoroughly scrutinized before they come before the senate for consideration. unfortunately. this bill did  get the benefit of a committee perusal. and it lays here before us riddled with defects that will. if s. 2455 is- passed. tie up our already flooded courts and increase our already skyrocketing criminal justice expenses. this bill does  clearly spell out who is subject to the death penalty. under what mitigating circumstances the penalty should  be used. or under which aggravating factors death can be imposed. this bill instructs the state prosecutor to ify the defendant in a reasonable period of time before trial of his or her intention to seek the death penalty. what does reasonable mean. and why couldnt the bill have spelled out exactly how much ice a defendant is due. this bill also sets a dangerous precedent. in an area of law that has for years been left to the judgment of the legislative and judicial branches of the individual states. this bill imposes the death penalty on those states which have already rejected the death penaltylike mine. . many argue that with a unique issue. of great federal interest. such intrusion may be warranted. but why is this unique. why are drug kingpins so much more compelling than child molesters or porraphers. this intrusion on the good judgment of state legislatures around the country is much broader than just requiring capital punishments in those states that have decided against it. even those states that have crafted their own laws concerning the death penalty will be affected. for instance. california. florida. and texas already have laws that could subject a person convicted of a drugrelated killing to the death penalty. our rules as to how. when and why the death penalty should be chosen will be imposed upon those states. after years of refinement and debate and consideration on the state level. the federal government is going to come in. in a 6 hour debate and with committee consideration. and say. "alright. we have decided to impose the death penalty in these specific situations. go to it." certainly. the people in my home state of rhode island do  want congress making that decision for them. they have already thought about it for 143 years. i urge my colleagues to oppose this legislation.
. i am pleased that the senate today approved an amendment expressing the sense of the senate that the soviet union should respect the human rights of armenians. i have deep concern about issues raised in recent months by demonstrations in the armenian capital or yerevan and other cities regarding the status of the nagorarabakh region of azerbaijan. reports surfaced last march of mr. gorbachevs decision to use militia and army forces aganst demonstrators. and possibly to impose martial law in armenia. last week mr. gorbachev made it clar he intends to make concesdons to the armenians. these reports have greatly disturbed me and many of my conslituents of armenian de..cent. and prompted me to write a letter to the soviet general secretary. armenian citizens of the soviet union who seek unification of naporarabakh with the armenian ssr have risen up for legitimate reasons that deserve the close considerat ion of the soviet leaders. the appropriate response to the unrest. which was included acts of murder and rape committed against numerous armenians. is  a military clampdown against armenians. but rather new policies that will give armenians the legal recognition and protections they deserve. the treatment of armenians under the ottoman turkish empire is a legacy of terrible violence. discrimination. and disregard for the human rights of a proud people. the division of armenia along arbitrary boundaries in 1923 was a policy implemented without adequate consideration for the national identity of armenians. at this time of newly constructive relations between the united states and the soviet union. with the implementation of the recently ratified inf treaty. i believe mr. gorbachev should take whatever steps are necessary to be responsive to the grievances of his armenian citizens. increased respect for the human rights of ethnic miities and dissidents in the soviet union is. in my view. an important prerequisite for further cooperation between our two goverments on other issues. i am pleased my colleagues have given their support to this important and timely amendment.
. as my colleagues k. one of the most highly charged debates in america is the one over whether to ban socalled militarystyle assault guns. since last januarys tragic killing of schoolchildren in stockton. ca. by a deranged man with a semiautomatic assault rifle. there has been a torrent of national and state legislative gun control proposals unparalleled since the passage of the 1986 gun control act. yet a central question in this controversy has remained: just how serious is the problem of assault guns in america. in a recent aticle. reporters jim stewart and andrew alexander employed a truly inative method to come up with what is  a highly regarded study on the prevalence of assault guns in crime. for nearly a month. aided by a small clerical staff. they examined 42.758 firearms trace request forms that were sitting in file drawers at the bureau of alcohol. tobacco and firearms tracing center in landover. md. information from the forms was put into computers. creating a base of more than 800.000 pieces of data from which to make tabulations regarding how often assault guns are used in crimes and what models of these weapons pose the greatest threat to society. the resulting stories have made a significant contribution to our understanding of this emotional and coniplex issue. i ask that they be inserted for the record. i also ask that a copy of an editorial entitled "assault guns as crime weapons" from todays washington post be inserted as well.
. to the interests of both countries as we strive to eliminate this illegal drug trafficking from both our landscapes. i am confident that our former colleague. senator hecht. will do a fine job in fostering and strengthening this joint effort. i wish him well in his new post. and i support his ination with enthusiasm..i thank the chair. and i thank our distinguished leader.
. today i am offering an amendment on behalf of myself. senator bidnz and senator damato to provide funding for states through the alcohol. drug abuse. and mental health block grant for state prisons. over the past year. and particularly the past month. the senate has avidly debated the drug problem. yet. there is one issue that congress has failed to address adequatelythe availability of rehabilitation programs in prison. congress has been working to solve the prison overcrowding problem by increasing funds for -prison construction. i agree that we need prison beds. and have been supportive of these efforts. etheless. we must recognize that part of the prison overcrowding problem can be attributed to repeat offenders. many are released from prison only to return again to patterns of criminal behaviora phee kn as recidivism. one of the primary causes of recidivism is crime directly and indirectly caused by addiction to drugs. thus. part of the solution lies in breaking this cycle of crime by providing comprehensive drug rehabilitation programs in state and federal prisons. drugrelated crimes have overwhelmed our criminal justice system. to illustrate my point. let me share some startling statistics: in washington. dc. in 1985. 25 out of 148 homicides were drug related. in 1988. 225 out of 372 homicides were drug related. that is a 43percent increase. in a 1980 study. on the average. heroin addicts committed crimes 178 days per year. primarily to support their habit. at least 60 percent of prisoners nationwide had substance abuse problems before incarceration. of 2.000 arrestees tested for drug use in 12 cities. between 53 and 79 percent tested positive for illicit drugs in the 2448 hours after their arrest. recidivism appears to be linked to drug abuse among many offenders. one study found that 62 percent of the approximately 100.000 inmates released in 11 states were arrested again within 3 years41 percent returned to prison. of those originally arrested on drug offenses. 50 percent were arrested again within 3 years of their release. several states have begun to implement drug rehabilitation programs in their correctional facilities. one program worth ing is the 13yearold "stayn out" program in new york which has been extremely successful in rehabilitating inmates and reducing the rate of recidivism. independent studies have shown an 80percent success ratethat means that 8 out of 10 inmates who complete the program are  rearrested. do  use drugs. and do  commit more crimes after being released. this amendment will allow states to use the alcohol. drug abuse. and mental health block grant for developing programs in state prisons and juvenile facilities. it is  our intention to replace existing funds in these programs. these funds are to be used to expand existing programs or to create new programs. i hope the conferees on this bill will concur in our intentions. the criminal justice system currently does little to rehabilitate inmatesmany just get out of jail. commit more crimes. and return to jail. . inmate rehabilitation by itself will  solve the prison overcrowding problem. however. programs that reduce the rate of recidivism must be an essential component of a costeffective solution. without drug rehabilitation programs in prisons we will continue to release hardened criminals into our communities to sell drugs to our children and rob our homes for money to buy drugs. i thank senator biden and senator damato for joining me in this effort to prevent transgressors from repeating crimes and overcrowding our prisons. in addition. i appreciate the efforts of senator hatch and biden for cosponsoring this proposal.
. i commend my colleagues for their work in bringing the issue of civilrights before this body. deeply entrenched in american culture is the belief that all individualsmatter what their color. race. sex. religion. or national origindeserve equal and fair treatment. that is the principle upon which congress has established civil rights laws. today. that principle is being reemphasized. congressional intent is one of the tools used by the courts to decipher the meaning of federal statutes. one of the purposes of the bill being introduced today is to make clear congressional intent regarding. and support for. civil rights. i applaud that goal wholeheartedly. currently. as my colleagues k. the federal government prevents discrimination in the workplace under two major statutes: the civil rights acts of 1866 and 1964. the 1866 statute. kn as section 1981. guarantees equal rights. regardless of race. in the making of employment and other contracts. title vii of the 1964 act prohibits discrimination based on race. color. religion. sex. or national origin. with regard to employment decisions and practices. last year. the supreme court handed down a series of civil rights and employmentrelated rulings that affectea the body of civil rights law that has developed from section 1981 and title vii over the past four decades. three areas of civil rights lawburden of proof of discrimination. courtapproved consent decrees. and onthejob discriminationwere significantly affected.. the civil rights act of 1990. as introduced. addresses to some degree each of those decisions. in the body of civil rights law. there are clear precedents or standards that served as the guidelines for this legislation. sections of this act do faithfully restore civil rights guarantees as outlined by court precedent. but the act also goes beyond simply restoring longstanding court precedents. first. the act would address those recent decisions in which clear precedent or standard had been established by the supreme court. second. there are sections of the bill that may loosely be referred to as compromise provisions: those that codify a position somewhere between the supreme courts ruling and the standard assumed prior to that ruling. third. and finally. the bill breaks what i consider to be entirely new ground in specific areas. while i support many of these provisions. i recognize that e are small steps. given the breadth. the importance. and the potential impact of this bill. i believe we must take the time for careful analysis. it is my understanding that 4 days of hearings on this measure have already been scheduled. the hearing process should prove invaluable. and the resulting discussion should produce more insight into how best to protect civil rights. should more hearings be necessary. i hope that they. too. will be scheduled.
. since that first day in 1790. our federal court system has blossomed from 16 federal judges and 6 justices to 710 federal judges and 9 justices. it has become one of the most important and vital elements of the american system of justice. and i am pleased to salute the federal court system on the occasion of its 200th anniversary..
the senator from connecticut has the floor. and i just want to make one comment. if i might. the senator from massachusetts has illustrated clearly the danger of arguing analogies. to get tangled up in what police forces do and do  do just gets us astray totally from the subject at hand. the subject at hand is how are we going to clean up the air in the united states of america. we have had a system that has clearly been a failure. we hear these senators say. "stick with it. it is great. it has provided wonderful things for wisconsin." and there was some talk about the reagan administration doing hing. the wisconsin case. as has been pointed out. was in 1985. but i will have my chance later. i thank the senator from connecticut.
why the senator has that provision. i do  k. his amendment says you can sue for past violations. if you go into the court and persist in your suit. the court will throw you out under the provisions of this amendment. then what will happen.. so the plant is stopped. so the plant starts up again. -. it might be inadvertent. they did  realize it. a little casual. they start polluting again. wh at does the citizen do. under. the law. he has to go and give them 60 days ice agajn. .goes so he goes back and says. "i told you once. i am telling ypu. again. stop that polluting." and the factory. says.. ".yes. that is r ight. and we wil stop it." the citizen would like to say. "and i am going to. nail yo. for what .damage you have done.  only the second
the senior senator eolutions and from wisconsin is correct. this legisla- resolutions signed tion does  require any new regula- the president pro tempore ( of the house: we recognize that motorcycles and s. 1091. an act to provide for the triking light duty vehicles. are two different of medals in. commemoration of the bicenclasses of vehicles. tennial of the united states coast guard. -let me emphasize. we do  require s. 1521. an act to provide for an increase tmotorcycles meetthe same stand.. in the maximum rates of basic pay .for the that police force of the national zoological park. ards that are required of light duty ye- h.r 3311. an act to designate the federal hicles in. this legislation. building located at 350 south maine street
. let us review the bidding. if we might. section 307(d)(9) is existing law. there is disagreement on that. that is the current clean air act of 1971. what that does. it authorizes the court of appeals to reverse an administrative action that is found contrary in several examplesthe constitution. in excess of statutory authority. arbitrary failure to observe the procedures of the act and. the point the senator from pennsylvania makes. an arbitrary. capricious abuse of discretion. we do  believe that particular provision overrides the explicit lan.guage in the new bill. in other words. that is from the 1971 law and it talks about appeals to the court of appeals. or authorizes the court of appeals to make these reversals. in the current law. the bill before us. we have specific language which the distinguished senator. who. i must say. is a very kledgeable lawyer and spends a lot of time studying these matters. so anybody who gets up and discusses with him does it with a certain trepidation. since the senator from pennsylvania is a very thorough legal scholar. but i point out that it is our judgment that on page 507 of the new act. which the senator referred to. beginning at line 22. the bill provides explicitly the conditions under which citizen suits are authorized. it says. "against the administrator" of epa "where there is alleged a failure to perform any act or duty under this act which is  discriminatory with the administrator." then it lists several examples of discretionary duty.
just to make certain. so everybody can follow this. this is amendment  1293. i am sorry. i was incorrect. it is the amendment on page 507. line 22. so there we are. the department of justice has. indeed. expressed concern that one of our examples refers to discretionary actions and that. in their view. our example has the effect of overriding the explicit language which we have in here. they are troubled by the phrase at page 507. line 25. and the next page. line 1 where it says. "including failures to act that violate one or more of the standards set forth in section 307(d)(9)." we do  happen to agree with the justice department there. we do  intend that this reference to section 307 overrides the specific language i talked to before. however. it is our intent. if that presents a problem. because this amendment 1293 deals. obviously. with a lot more than that simple provision. and. therefore. since we are perfectly prepared to straighten out a misunderstanding or varied reading of the language. we are prepared to strike those 14 words. we tl~ink we can do it with a simple amendment. if that would please the senate. and if that would clear up the problem that is facing the senator from pennsylvania. those 14 words would start right at the bottom of page 507. "that violate one or more of the standards set forth in section 307(d)(9) or". take that right out.
all right. so therefore he comes in and has a hearing. most likely i agree that would be before similar to an administrative law judge. after that the order becomes final. and there is preferential review after that. there is some suggestion that you then go to the court of appeals.   under our provision. that ends it. you might say. wow. that is pretty tough. but that is  as tough as existing law. furthermore. what is the objective. the objective is to end the pollution.
i am  trying to cause any difficulty here. but somehow the circuit court worked its way into this discussion. if you could point out to me on which line it talks about going to the circuit court. that would be helpful.
 banned the importation of 43 types of assault rifles. and he deserves great credit for doing so. an import ban. however. can stop domestic manufacture of assault weapons. and that means criminalsanyonecan still get these militarystyle guns. in fact. such weapons can be easier to obtain than a marriage license or library card. these are the same guns that can pierce concrete. that availability is frightening. we have seen terrible massacresstockton. in louisvillein the past couple of years by persons wielding assault weapons. those senseless deaths filled americans with horror and revulsion and a sense of loss. and every poll ive seen shows overwhelming public support for limiting the availability of these guns. one is trying to wrest hunting guns from lawabiding citizens. we are trying to keep military weapons away from criminals. assault weapons like the ak47 are designed for one thing only to kill human beings. the fraternal order of police. the national association of police organizations. and the international brotherhood of police officers are asking our help to get these military weapons off of our streets. i believe this amendment will be a major step foward in achieving that goal.
i will make this brief. . am i correct in understanding that the supreme court very recently. indeed. as late as june of last year. stated that impact statements were unconsitutlonal. the admission of the impact statements.
. i say briefly it is an odd way to do business. i agree with the senator from delaware that the portion of the amendment. senator nzclxz portion. i certainly agree with. and i think it is a laudable effort. i think the other part is clearly unconstitutional. it goes exactly contrary to what the supreme court has said. but. in order at least to preserve the nickles amendment portion of itit is one amendment. is it .
the cases we are citing here. where the supreme court said this particular type of language. and. namely. the victim impact statement. was against the constitution. whereas. in the other cases. you are dealing with statutes. interpretation of statutes. which is quite different than the situation as it is here.
. for those three reasons. it is irreversible. it does hing to deter. and it makes the trials that involve the accused where death penalty is a possibilityturns it into a roman circus frequentlyfor those three reasons. i think we should adopt the amendment.
. i would like to make a few comments about the vote on s. 1970. as my colleagues well k. i have consistently opposed the death penalty. i have spoken repeatedly on this floor against it. i have worked with my colleague senator hannxxw in offering amendments that substitute the sentencing option of mandatory life imprisonment for that of the death penalty. during consideration of the hatfieldchafee amendment to s. 1970. i pointed out that it seems we have applied the death penalty to everything except school truancy. i do  think this is wise. the death penalty is irreversible. it does  deter. and it frequently turns criminal trials into roman circuses. but time and again. a majority of the senate has indicated by rollcall votes that they do  agree with my view. this bill contains aher provisions that i feel strongly about: limitations on assault weapons. for the first time the senate has voted to limit the availability of nine kinds of assault weapons. on three separate occasions. this body voted to retain the assault weapons provisions of s. 1970. that is unprecedented. yes. we have voted to ban undetectable plastic weapons. and yes. we have approved bans on new machine guns. but never have we approved limitations on militarystyle assault weapons. this bill is a major step forward in that respect. the law enforcement community wants this ban. and they worked overtime to ensure that it would remain in the bill. the fraternal order of police. the national association of police organizations. the international brotherhood of police officers. the federal law enforcement officers association. the international association of chiefs of police. the major cities chief administrators. the national organization of black law enforcement executives. the national sheriffs association. the police executive research forum. the police foundation. and the police management associationall view such a ban as a crime control tool right . they are waging war against criminals who are stocked with firepower worthy of rambo. they need our help and we should give it. i therefore will be supporting the overall omnibus crime bill. i do  like the death penalty. but the senate has spoken repeatedly. and it is clear i can do hingat least for to change its mind. but the assault weapons provision is worth saving. for that reason i will support this bill.
. i would like to take a couple of moments to talk about the cloture vote that will occur. i am a longtime supporter of civil rights legislation. i would like to see a civil rights bill come out of this congress. i have been in constant touch with parties involved in this debate. and i have done what i could to bring the sides together. we have some real concerns about the decisions on civil rights handed down by the supreme court in 1989. and i think we should get on with it. frankly. however. i do  like see the need forthis cloture motion. cloture is a procedure of last resort. it is a procedure that the senate leadership uses. usually out of dire necessity. in order to keep some order when this body debates a particular bill. it ensures that we have some limits. some appropriate boundaries when we carry out our legislative work. but it is  a legislative tool of first resort. after other efforts have failed. cloture is filed. or at least threatened. we certainly do  enter into cloture situations lightly. that is why i am puzzled. to say the least. that cloture was filed in this situation. i do  think that it is justified at this point. i do  think that we have exhausted other possibilities. such as agreement. time agreements. votes tabling motions. discussions. et cetera. this situation just does  seem to warrant as extreme a solution as cloture. first. we have  started substantive debate on this bill. we have done a few opening statements. but thats it. instead we have gone on to finish up the crime bill. the ada bill. and the textile bill. clearly. cloture is  required at this point. second. there are negotiations with the administration going on right . they seem to be going forward. and agreements are being reached. this is  an administration that wants to veto this bill. and it is trying in good faith to work out a compromise. in fact. the senator from massachusetts was at the white house last evening. negotiating on this bill. third. cloture shuts out many who have amendments. many of which may be positive contributions to this debate. senators may  be able. to offer them under the strict rules of germaneness that apply once cloture is invoked. thats  fair. furthermore. limited amendments means that some questions will remain unansweredquestions that perhaps could have been laid to rest or resolved or otherwise disposed of during floor debate. for these reasons. i feel strongly that we could work this out without a cloture motion. cloture doesnt help anyoneafter all. a narrow victory is  a victory at all in this game. cloture at this time does more than engender bad feeling. in sum. this procedure is unwarranted. thus. for the above reasons. i will   support a cloture motion.
. i ask the senator from new hampshire a question. i agree with everything he said. one of the arguments he used is. well. you can police this. that the farm that has the father and two sons making $500.000 a year will just split it up. it seems to me that with the sophisticated equipment we have in this country we ought to be able to police this in some fashion. does he have any thoughts on that particular challenge to the proposal he made.
. madds past efforts have helped to improve the tragic plight of the victims of drunk and drugged drivers. on july 11. the senate passed the drunk driving victims protection act as part of the crime bill. this legislation would ensure that drunk and drugged drivers can avoid paying compensation to their victims by seeking refuge in the bankruptcy laws. the support of the 2.8 million members of madd should help ensure swift enactment of this legislation. madd can also focus public attention on new and inative means to fight impaired driving. madd has worked with aetna life & casualty co. to provide police officers with videotape cameras to record impaired drivers who weave across the road and can walk a straight line. this pilot project has increased the conviction rate of impaired drivers because the judge and jury can better appreciate the extent of the drivers impairment. i have proposed legislation that would expand the use of this effective enforcement tool by encouraging the department of transportation to help states acquire and use videotaping equipment. with the support of madd and others concerned about drunk driving. i believe this measure will become law. in conclusion. for the past 10 years madd has helped change the publics attitude toward drinking and driving and has helped enact tough laws to combat impaired driving. despite these efforts. drug and alcohol abuse remain a menace to the safety of the traveling public. thus. this anniversary should  signal the end of an era in the fight against substance abuse in transportation. instead. madds members can use this anniversary to mark the beginning of a renewed effort to prevent needless death and injury.
. why did the majority pull the bill. some of us who voted against cloture were very willing to continue debate. if the majority members were as committed to title x as they say. they could have continued. there is plenty of time. we havent done a thing in the senate today. failure to invoke cloture does  mean the bill can continue to be debated.  does it mean that cloture could  be invoked after further debate. it simply means that the bill remains open for amendment. there have been other times when the senate has been unable to invoke cloture on a bill and has continued to debate the bill. let me cite a few recent examples: in may of this year. when we were debating the omnibus crime bill. two
the savings provision was intended to ensure that there is backsliding on the implementation of adopted and currently feasible measures that epa has approved as part of a state implementation plan in the past. or that epa has added to state plans on its own initiative or pursuant to a court order or settlement. the situation you describe goes beyond that intent and would. i agree. create an unfair situation. if epa were to promulgate complete new plans based on requirements of the old act. the areas subject to those federal plans would be deprived of the opportunity to utilize the significantly revised and clearly more workable requirements of the revised act. this would be unreasonable. and clearly  our intent. epa has been provided significant discretion in applying the savings provision as it relates to pips in california. epa has the obligation. as i discussed earlier. to adopt control measure for sources which it exclusively controls when these controls are necessary to attain national standards and meet other requirements of this act. beyond that. epa should complete ongoing fip processes only for the purposes i have stated above.
. i make these points.  because i believe they are necessarily unique observations. but in order to forewarn the american public as to what possibly could occur. should there be shooting in kuwait and iraq. i am confident our forces have the training. the equipment. and the determination to prevail. and i am absolutely confident we will prevail. but our military actions will neither go totally smoothly  always successfully. there will be setbacks. the american public must be prepared for some shocks and some disappointments. we must also be prepared to show resolve and determination. our troops have that resolve and determination and so must the american public. i thank the chair.
. 1 week ago today i joined with my colleagues in reintroducing the brady handgun violence prevention act. it is a bill whose time is long overdue. and i believe that it will achieve success in this congress. at the close of 1990. we were inundated with reports about the recordbreaking homicide rates in nearly every major city across the country. as we all k too well. the homicide rate in our nation is far higher than virtually every other modern industrialized country. homicide is one of the 15 most frequent causes of death for all americans. in 1987. 7.800 americans were murdered by handguns. in 1988. over 8.000 americans were killeda terrible human waste. in my home state of rhode island. the number of homicides has increased by onethird in the past 5 years. and today guns are used in nearly half46 percentof all homicides in rhode island. the tragic element is that many of these deaths might have been prevented. many crimes are committed on impulse. by persons under the influence of drugs. in 1988. the bureau of justice statistics reported that 2 out of 5 offenders said that they were under the influence of drugs or were very drunk around the time of the offense. according to the bureaus survey. 35 percent of the homicides were committed by inmates under the influence of drugs or alcohol. many of these offenses were committed with handguns. a waiting period could help give potential criminals time to cool off and count to 10. in addition. some individuals unfortunately buy guns when they are feeling extremely depressed. each year in this country there are at least 12.000 handgun suicides. for those between the ages of 15 and 34. suicide is the third leading killer. right behind homicide. this bill means that those contemplating suicide would have to wait before committing a final rash act. using an all too accessible weapon. certainly the causes of crime are complex. i welcome this measure. because in the face of such uncertainty. it offers some proven effectiveness. across the nation. in those states and cities where waiting periods are required. thousands of felons have been prevented from purchasing guns. that is why law enforcement officials support the imposition of a waiting period overwhelmingly as an effective step in preventing violent crime and suicides. simply put. this bill makes sense. it is a reasonable effort to ensure that felons may  purchase handguns. a week of waiting is sacrifice compared to the grief of people who have had a loved one shot dead. i commend jim and sarah brady. and members of the police. health. and childrens communities. for their tireless work on this measure. largely due to their efforts. this bill is receiving national attention. and national support. it is time for congress to act.*
my next question has to do with the fact that a landlord can evict a service individual falling into this category. except pursuant to a court order. then in section 6 it says that the reservist can apply for a stay of all criminal judicial proceedings until june 30. 1991. am i correct in saying that since we are  in february. the landlord could  take any action against the reservists who is paying less than $1.200 a month. until 5 months from .
. i ask unanimous consent that an article from our providence paper. the providence journalbulletin. dated june 21. in connection with the fraud and bribery that was believed to be involved in the depositors insurance program that we have in our state. be printed in the record.
. i would like to take a few minutes to make a brief statement about the vote on s. as my colleagues well k. i long have opposed the death penalty. and have stated my opinion on capital punishment before this body many times. i have worked with colleagues in offering amendments that substitute the sentencing option of mandatory life imprisonment for that of the death penalty. on this bill. i voted against each and every death penalty amendment offered. and supported an amendment by my colleague from illis to substitute mandatory life imprisonment for the death penalty. to my mind. we in this body have begun to apply the death penalty to everything except school truancy. that does  bode well. and i do  think it is wise. the death penalty is irreversible. studies show that it does  deter. and i believe it frequently turns criminal trials into roman circuses. but this year. as it was last year. a clear majority of the senate has indicated by rollcall votes that they do  agree with my view. this bill does contain two other provisions that i feel stronglyand positivelyabout: limitations on assault weapons. and a national 5day waiting period for the purchase of handguns. with pasage of this bill. the senate will indicate its support for limiting nine kinds of assault weapons. last year. on three separate occasions. this body voted to retain the assault weapons provisions of s. 1970. that was unprecedented. yes. we have voted to ban undetectable plastic weapons. and yes. we have approved bans on new machine guns. but never have we approved limitations on militarystyle assault weapons. this bill is a major step forward in that respect. we also had extensive debate on the socalled brady bill. named after jim and sarah brady who have worked so long and so tirelessly on this issue. i am pleased that the senate voted down an amendment to replace the brady bill with an instant check system. i am also pleased that the members in this body were able to work out a compromise that i believe will strengthen the original brady measure. as i stated at the time. i would have preferred that a waiting period remain in place past the point when a check system is implemented. however. the senate did vote to drop the provision on preexemption of state law. and that means states such as my own retain the ability to craft the laws as they see fit. the law enforcement community wants these gun provisions and have lobbied long and hard for them. the fraternal order of police. the national association of police organizations. the international brotherhood of police officers. the federal law enforcement officers association. the international association of chiefs of police. the major cities chief administrators. the national organization of black law enforcement executives. the national sheriffs association. the police executive research forum. the police foundation. and the police management associationall view these bans as crime control tools. right . they are waging war against criminals who are stocked with firepower worthy of rambo. they need our help and we should give it. i therefore will be supporting the overall omnibus crime bill. as i have said many times. i do  support the death penalty and. indeed. i also have serious concerns about other sections of the bill. but the senate has spoken repeatedly. and it is clear i can do hingat least for to change its mind. the assault weapons ban and the waiting period are two provisions. however. that are major steps forward and are worth saving. for that reason. i will support this bill.
. the nea is making a goodfaith effort to implement its new guidelineswhy  give the agency a chance before we start changing things again. they are trying to do a difficult job. in fact. the ultimate irony of the situation is that the nea  is being challenged in court under the first amendment because of that decency standard. they are being besiegedfrom both sides. the nea has a challenging task to accomplish. let us  make it any tougher. let us give the agency a chance by leaving it alone. i thank the distinguished manager.
. before the senate today is the conference report for s. 1241. the omnibus crime measure. approved by the senate in july. i have mixed feelings about this bill. but i will give my support to it. i do so for one major reason: the inclusion of the provision. kn as the brady bill. that establishes a national 5day waiting period for the sale or purchase of a handgun. frankly. i am disappointed with many aspects of the conferences work. first. the lack of the provisions on firearms. i am disappointed that both the limitations on magazine capacity and the ban on certain semiautomatic assault weapons were stricken from the bill. to my view. these provisions make sense. i do  believe that gun controls are the sole answer to crime. but they can help. and it simply does  make sense to craft crimefighting measures that do  include stricter controls on guns. too many times this nation has heard what one witness to the recent slaughter in killen. tx. called "that terrible stillness of death." in oklahoma. kentucky. california. and recently in texas and in michiganall over the country we have seen senseless loss of life by guns. it is clear that we have a big problem in this country. and it is guns. we have far too many and they are too available. stricter controls on guns simply are sacrifice compared to the grief caused by such deaths. that is why i am sorely disappointed that the senate assault weapons ban was deleted from the final report. however. there is a bright e: the retention of the brady provisions. the brady provisions included in this bill take us closer to the goal of preventing the senseless loss of life by ensuring that guns do  fall into the wrong hands. pursuant to this measure. a national fivebusinessday waiting period before the purchase of a handgun will be established. during this time. local law enforcement will be required to carry out a background check on the prospective buyer to make sure that he or she is  a felon or other person prohibited by law from carrying a gun. meanwhile. the attorney general will set up a system for a national instant criminal background check that. once certified to be in place. will cause the national waiting period to be repealed. frankly. i would have preferred that the waiting period remain in place ad infinitum in order to provide a cooling off period for those buying a gun while in the grip of a strong emotion. or drugs or alcohol. many individuals commit gunrelated crimes in a moment of anger or rage. or when they are affected by drink or drugs. also. persons suffering from depression are often tempted by easy accessibility to a gun to do harm to themselves or others. so i would have preferred that the waiting period be permanently established. but this is a compromise measure. and it is still a significant one that will do a great deal of good. the fact that the waiting provisions are included in this bill is itself a tribute to the two people who have worked so hard and long for a national waiting period. and for whom the bill is named: sarah and jim brady. they have logged thousands of hours over the past few years chasing down legislators. talking to them. and getting attention focussed on the bill. and their tireless efforts have paid off. my hat is off to both jim and sarah.  to the other elements of the bill. clearly i have serious objections to the bills death penalty provisions. i do  support capital punishment. countless studies have shown that it does  deter wouldbe. criminals from committing a crime. furthermore. it is a form of punishment that can never be undone. even if the accused is later found to be inent of the crime for which he or she was put to death. while the conference report is better than the senateapproved legislation. in that it does  provide for the option of capital punishment for homocides involving firearms. and does  impose the death penalty on the district of columbia. it remains a bill chockfull of new deatheligible crimes. i ed during last years debate on crime that the senate seems to want to apply the death penalty to every crime but school truancy. there are 50odd new deatheligible crimes in this bill. and they include such socalled threats to public safety as murder of federal egg inspectors. they also include such rare crimes as geide and train wrecking. i fail to see how providing for the option of capital punishment for these crimes will stem street crime. i suspect that they wont. and that this exercise in toughness boils down to rhetoric. pure and simple. other provisions in the bill include those on the exclusionary rule. and on habeas corpus proceedings. during senate debate. i voted against extending the good faith exception of the exclusionary rule to warrantless situations. and am pleased that the conference report holds to this view. on habeas corpus. the reports provision is iceably different than the senate version. and has many imperfections. this is a difficult and complex issue: how to ensure that the great writ of habeas corpus is  weakened and constitutional rights  violated. while at the same time striving to prevent costly and timeconsuming abuses. in sum. this conference report is far from perfect. to my view. there is only one provision that i think will make a real difference to americans. and that is the brady billa bill we have been trying to pass for several congressional sessions and for that reason alone. i will support this measure.
it is very. very discouraging. and of those million who are born out of wedlock. a substantial percentage of them are born to teenagers. then it follows. as night follows day. that those families will live in poverty. as shown by the statistics i have pointed out. they will  just be temporarily in poverty. when they go on afdc. they stay there for 10 or more years. this is a tragedy in every respect. it is a tragedy for them. one living on afdc is living high on the hog. it is marginal living at best. and it .is a tragedy because of the expenditures for our nation. yesterday we had pointed out it is the entitlement programs that are forcing this nations debt constantly upward. afdc is an entitlement program. the reason that is going up is because of these very statistics. so the tragedy is. as teen pregnancy is going up. access to family planning is going down. and that is the real tragedy of the gag rule. .
madam president. i am totally dismayed with the jury verdict in the case involving rodney king. we who believe so strongly in rule of law and who believe in the inherent fairness of juries are dumbfounded. how can this be. how can a jury find four policemen inent of a beating which we all saw on videotape. can anyone believe that those four officers were frightened into taking defensive protection measures against a single man who is lying prostrate on the ground. the defendant was a black man. the police officers were white. the jury was black. so we ask ourselves. was racism an aspect in this case. and we can help but believe that it affected the verdict. i strongly believe that this case should be reviewed by federal authorities. madam president. and i commend the u.s. attorney general for initiating such a review. in addition. madam president. i would like to commend the actions of mayor bradley. the mayor of los angeles. and gov. pete wilson. the gover of california. for their efforts to attempt to restore calm following this dismaying case that has brought tragedy on top of tragedy.
if the law of the receiving state applies. but i am  sure what weight that is going to carry in some court case. but if they want to cite what took place on the floor of the senate on this particular day. that is splendid.
the senator is taking about our legislation. i was talking about existing law as quoted in the supreme court case that was shown him earlier today.  in that supreme court case. it points out that limitations can be made on an individual landfill. but they can be directed against outofstate trash. in other words. if a landfill last year took 10.000 tons. and the gover decreases it this year. and it will only take 5.000. he has that power. if the state law gives it to him. there is. and he can do that. but he can say it is restricted to 5.000 tons this year and only domestic. only statecreated trash is possible. so we proceeded. in crafting this legislation. to try to direct ourselves to the problems that have arisen that the senator is well familiar with. what we recognized is--and the senator mentioned that i had the privilege of serving as gover. and many others in the senate have likewise--any gover is under tremendous pressure to restrict all incoming trash. we all k that. there is group out there that is demanding that the state be a repository for garbage. -and. indeed. have heard the senator speak about the loveliness of his state and how some of its citizens deplore they are going to be a trash heap. we voted on this last night 60 to 30. if we just give the gover the unilateral authority to say  we k what will happen. that will end all interstate transfers of trash in this country very quickly. and we believe that will be detrimental to the nation. maybe someday we can work to that goal. but  straight out of the box. that is the first national legislation ever passed to deal with trash. that is what has been one of our guiding principles.
is there something in it that involves justice administration. one of the problems i have heard rooted about here is there is some problem with the judiciary committee. i am  sure that is so. that has been suggested. is there anything that would possibly become involved with that committee.
. dedication of any new federal building. let alone one of this magnificence. is a- special and rare ceremony. it is  something we do every day.  should we take it lightly. the words of senator moyn]han. chief justice rehnquist. and mr. mecham were dignified and celebratory. and should be shared with the full senate. accordingly. i ask unanimous consent that their statements be entered into the record at this point. 
 ronald reagan and his press secretary james brady. who was permanently injured by the wouldbe assassins bullet. it is jim brady for whom congress has named the brady handgun violence prevention act. legislation to provide. for a national waiting period before the purchase of a handgun. the brady bill is common sense legislation. and it will help slow the number of lethal handguns pouring onto our streets. yet for years it has been stalled. it is timelong past timefor congress to take action on this measure. it is time to enact the brady bill. today there are at least 67 million handguns in this country. more than twice the 31 million of 20 years ago. and 2 million more are added to the arsenal each year. handguns. so easily available and so easily concealed. are driving up our homicide rate to mindnumbing levels. particularly in our nations cities. in 1991. the most recent year for which the federal bureau of investigation has statistics. 11.411 american men. women. and children were murdered by handguns. compared to 7.847 in 1987a 45 percent increase in 4 years. in my own state of rhode island. just since the new year began. there already have been 17 serious incidents involving handguns. the tragic element is that many handgunrelated deaths and injuries might have been prevented. many crimes are committed on impulse. by persons under the influence of drugs. in 1988. the bureau of justice statistics reported that two out.of five offenders said that they were under the influence of drugs or were very drunk around the time of the offense. according to the bureaus survey. 25 percent of the homicides were committed by inmates under the influence of drugs or alcohol. many of these offenses were committed with handguns. a waiting period could help give potential criminals time to cool off and count to 10. in addition. some individuals unfortunately buyhandguns when they are feeling severely depressed. each year in thiscountry there are at least 12.000 handgun suicides. for those between the ages of 15 and 34. suicide is the third leading cause of death. passage of the brady bill will mean that those contemplating suicide would have to wait before committing a final rash act. using an alltooaccessible weapon. i welcome this measure because it offers some proven effectiveness. across the nation. in those statessuch as my ownand cities where waiting periods are required. thousands of felons have been prevented from purchasing guns. yet  every state has a waiting period. and that means that criminals need only travel to a nearby state to purchase a gun. that is why law enforcement organizations overwhelmingly support the imposition of a national waiting period as an effective tool to prevent violent crime and suicides. and frankly. a week of waiting is sacrifice whatsoever compared to the grief of people who have had a loved one shot dead. simply put. the brady bill makes sense. it is an important first step toward revising our current senseless firearms policy. which allows for such easy and immediate access to these dangerous weapons. as my colleagues k. i would like to go even further in controlling handguns. but i believe this legislation can. and will. do much to ensure that felons and other prohibited persons may  purchase handguns. and it has my full support. i commend jim and sarah brady. and members of the police. health. and child welfare communities. for their tireless work on this measure. largely due to their efforts. this bill has remained in the national spotlight and has received overwhelming national support. let us  let aher year go by without enacting this bill.*
i just wonder if the chairman of the appropriations committee gets the full import. or has thought of it. because i had an opportunity. and i am sure in his busy schedule that we have in the federal government. perhaps he has . the proposal is that the federal government pay for city and town police officers. that is the proposal.
madam president. in may of this year. i reintroduced my public health and safety act. which is legislation to ban the sale. the manufacture. and the possession of handguna. my legislation. which is senate bill 892. would establish a grace period of 8 months. during which time a handgun owner could turn in his or her firearm and receive the weapons fair market value or $25. whichever is greater. after the 6month period. one may possess a handgun. except for law en forcement. military. antique collectors. target shooters who belong to some club. and security guards. one in this country could have failed to hear about the grisly mass shooting that took place just 2 weeks ago this aftern in san francisco at a law firm. fiftyfiveyearold glan luigi ferri entered the building at 101 california street in downtown san francisco. took an elevator up to the 34th floor. and began shooting. he first shot into a glass conference room where lawyer jack brennani might say. madam president. .jack brennan went to brown university in my home state. so i feel some sort of a tie. i have never met jack brennan. never heard of him but he went to brown university in my statehe was in this conference room talking with a client. jody sposato. also present in the room was a defense attorney. a ms. oroke and a court reporter. deanna eaves. they were having a deposition in this conference room. brennan and sposato were killed in that first burst of gunfire. oroke and eaves were seriously wounded. the gunman. armed with three semiautomatic handguns. continued to go around the perimeter of the law office and killed a lawyer. allan berk. critically wounded a gentleman named brian berger. he then took the stairs to the 33d and 32d floors and stopped at each floor killing and wounding several more employees. when the slaughter was over. eight people were dead and six people were badly wounded. this is the largest mass murder in san francisco history. madam president. this incident is horrifying. but is it surprising. we have 70 million handguns in the united states of america. with 2 million being added every single year. what is happening across the country. let us listen. october 1992. watkins glen. ny. john miller walked into the county department of social services in the tiny town of watkins glen. shot four female employees with a 9millimeter semiautomatic handgun. all four were killed instantly. he said he was angry because he had to pay child support. january 1993. miami. fl. steve alford. a new employee at a&e aircraft. shot and killed with a handgun his former girlfriend and two coworkers at the company christmas party. february 1993. tampa. fl. paul calden. an insurance manager fired after a stormy 2year period with firemans fund insurance co.. walked into a cafeteria where five company executives were lunching and pulled a handgun out from under his coat. saying. "this is what you get for firing me." and shot all five. killing three. and wounding two of them. february 1993. houston. tx. after being fired for theft and harassment. fernando ruiz. an employee of dahns fresh herbs. went to his car. found his semiautomatic pistol. returned to his boss office. shot him several times in the upper body. then turned on a coworker and critically wounded her. february 1993. santa fe springs. ca. wanda rodgers. fired from her job as a social worker with the los angeles department of childrens services. disguised herself with a wig. walked into her former boss office. and shot her boss in the face. february 1993. el dorado. ar. thirtysevenyearold michael burns opened fire at his place of employment. prescolite co.. apparently because he was upset at being harassed by a coworker. he was stopped only after he was hit on the head with a pipe by aher employee. meanwhile. he killed one person and sent eight to the hospital with severe wounds. april 1993. dallas. tx. a former avis rentacar employee. fired after an altercation with a coworker who had also been his girlfriend. returned to the agency and shot her and two others with a .38caliber semiautomatic handgun. april 1993. burlington. nc.-a disgruntled employee opened fire at the local winndixie supermarket. killed a coworker and wounded two others. in post offices across the country since 1981. there have been 11 shooting sprees and 36 people have been killed. listen to this: today. murder is the  1 cause of fatal. onthejob injuries for women. and it is the number three cause for men. think about it. murder accidents with machinery or falls or poisonings or motor vehicle accidentsmurder is the  1 cause of death for women on the job. murder is a major cause of death for men on the job. . what does the national rifle association say about all this. after the san francisco shooting that i just described to youeight people killed. six woundedthe national rifle association said that calls for gun control were sideshows and that the debate should focus on the criminal justice reform system to keep violent people in prison. well. let us talk about that. the san francisco gunman had gone across the state line into nevada and bought three semiautomatic handguns. which was perfectly legal there. the fbi says he had criminal record. his acquaintances and even his exwife said he was a genial person who hated violence. there was outward indication of his violent intentions. criminal past. who would have said that he. as the nra said. was what they term a violent person. in virtually every case of a disgruntled employee. the gun used was a handgun. why . anybody can buy a handgun. we all k it. there are more than 70 million handguns in the united states. as i said before. with 2 million being added every year. anyone can get their hands on a handgun. and that includes people with criminal record who may be under a strain or disgruntled or angry or drugged and who may use that handgun to cause untold injury and suffering. madam president. this slaughter is going to continue across our country until we do something about it. and there is way of doing it until we get to a total ban on handguns. so i urge my colleagues to join in support of my public health and safety act. s. 892. madam president. i ask unanimous consent there be printed in the reoord with these remarks an articlefrom this weeks newsweek entitled "waging war in the workplace. how employers are struggling to deal with a rising tide of violence on the jobviolence in nearly every instance coming from handguns.
i am pleased that the senate today considers the religious freedom restoration act. introduced by my colleagues senator kennedy and senator hatch. if approved. this important legislation will restore the standard by which laws that burden ones free exercise of religion are judged. and as a nation whose beginnings are founded in great part on the principle of religious liberty. that standard is important indeed. the case before the supreme court that caused a disruption in the established jurisprudence on the exercise of religion was that of employment division. oregon department of human resources versus smith et al. it involved two oregon men. fired from their jobs for ingesting peyote as part of a native american religious ceremony. who sought to receive unemployment compensation but were disqualified on the grounds that under oregon state law. their actions constituted misconduct. the question that eventually came before the supreme court was  so much the actions of these two men. but whether or  the oregon law banning peyote regardless of use. violated the constitutions free exercise of religion clause. both justice scalia. who wrote the 1990 opinion. and justice ocon. who wrote a partial dissent. found that the peyote ban did  violate the free exercise clause. however. the standards they used to reach the same conclusion were completely different. and that is what this proposed legislation addresses. justice scalia argued that neutral and generally applicable laws--such as the oregon lawthat arent specifically directed at acts taken while practicing a religion. and that just happen to burden the free exercise of religion in the course of their general application. do  violate the free exercise clause. according to scalia. as long as the law meets the test of being neutral. and generally applicable. it may be safe from first amendment challenge. only laws that specifically seek to ban religious acts would automatically be unconstitutional. justice ocon strongly disagreed with this analysis. saying that it "dramatically departs from wellsettled first amendment jurisprudence. appears unnecessary to resolve the question presented. and is incompatible with our nations fundamental commitment to individual liberty." ocon took issue with scalias contention that a law need only be neutral and "generally applicable" to be exempt from first amendment challenge. she argued that instead. the first amendment requires a casebycase determination of the merits of each particular claim. ocon pointed out that the court always has asked the government to demonstrate that  providing an exemption is "essential to accomplish an overriding governmental interest." or represents "the least restrictive means of achieving some compellirfg state interest." the bill before the senate today would. as ocon would say. restore the vitality of the first amendment by reinstating the "compelling government interest test" for laws that burdenwillfully or inadvertentlyreligious acts. this may sound dry and technical. but it is . ensuring that each american has the right to exercise his or her religious beliefs goes straight to the heart of what this nation is all about. and as i mentioned. is one of the core principles upon which this nation was founded. without congress acting to restore the compelling government interest standard. the neutral. generally applicable standard set by the 1990 oregon case will continue to prevail. and that 1990 standard has caused considerable harm. one case directly affected by the 1990 oregon case took place in my state of rhode island. and involved the yangs. a hmong family in providence. neng yang was admitted to ri hospital for an unkn illness and died 1 week later. for rligious reasons. the family asked that autopsy be performed. and the doctors pledged that that request would be hoed. i want to e that this request is of great important to those who are hmong. for if hmong cultural rites and traditions are  followed. the surviving family is believed to be cursed. but at the funeral home. when the yangs went to carry out the traditional cultural dressing of the body. they were upset to find that an autopsy had in fact been performed. the yangs protested in court. and in january of 1990. u.s. district court judge raymond pettine ruled in their favor. in light of the oregon case. however. in ember judge pettine. with deep regret. recalled his original decision and reversed his ruling. agreeing with justice brennan that in the oregon case. the majoritys decision "effectuatee a wholesale overturning of settled law concerning the religion clauses of our constitution." clearly the yang familys religious beliefs were violated. but without congressional action to restore the pre1990 standard. they and many. many others like them are and will remain helpless to prevent similar violations. if the 1990 standard stands untouched. rhode islanders and other americans who are religiousbe they catholic. moslem. quaker. or buddhistmay find themselves subject someday to apparently neutral government restrictions that etheless impair their ability to practice their religion. religious freedom has deep roots in my state. and in this nation. it was to the members of the touro synagogue in newport. r.i.. that george washington wrote his famous thank you letter. in which he affirmed that "happily. the government of the united states * * * gives to bigotry sanction [and] to persecution assistance"--a direct reference to religious liberty. and at the time. words of reassurance to a hebrew congregation uncertain of states intentions on religious freedom. and the ultimate pledge of protection from religious persecution was incorporated as part of the very first amendment to our constitution: "congress shall make law respecting an establishment of religion. or the free exercise thereof * * *" . the legislation before the senate today is critical to reaffirm this nations historical commitment to the religious freedom of its citizens. similar legislation already has been approved by the house of representatives. with decisive action today. the senate can put this measure well on its way to becoming law. i urge our speedy action.
. today i will be voting in favor of s. 1607. the crime bill. in many ways it is a good bill and it incorporates a number of provisions which i support. first of all. the bill includes an amendment to federal firearms law that i authored. my amendment ensures that those persons who are subject to a restraining order for conduct such as stalking and harassing. and whom the court has deemed to be a threat to aher person. are prohibited from possessing or buying a firearm. it makes sense whatsoever for these dangerous persons to have a gun. and i am pleased my amendment was adopted. the bill also contains a number of other measures of which i am a strong supporter. and indeed a cosponsor. it includes the violence against women act. which i believe represents a good first step toward curtailing the terrible violence and fear that women endure every day. it includes the feinstein assault weapons ban amendment. which bans these lethal militarystyle weapons. which in my view have place in a civilized society. and it includes the kohl amendment. a commonsense measure to keep handguns out of the hands of children and teens. the bill also provides funds to help local law enforcement agencies put more police on the streets and to establish alternative incarceration facilities for firsttime violent offenders. i must say. however. that i vote for this bill with some real reservations. it authorizes the spending of billions of dollars to be drawn from savings which we have  yet achieved. furthermore. i am deeply concerned about amendments. adopted during the course of the debate. which are intended to curb various violent crimes simply by federalizing them. this seems to me to be an extremely unwise course to take and i hope that these amendments will be removed from the bill in conference. as an opponent of the death penalty. i also am troubled by the vast expansion of federal death penalty in this bill. about five dozen existing and new federal crimes specified in the bill.  will be punishable by death. and finally. i am concerned about the continued use of mandatory minimum sentences. these laws may sound tough on crime. but they tie the hands of our judges. waste the scarce resources of our court systems. and overcrowd our jails. often forcing the release of far more dangerous criminals. moreover. they can result in punishment which is grossly disproportionate to the crime. consider this example: a man could receive a mandatory 10year sentence without parole for growing marijuana for his own use. yet aher man apprehended for selling heroinalbeit in a much smaller quantitywould draw only a 3year sentence. in sum. i will be voting for the crime bill this morning. but with the reservations ed above.
. i would like to take a moment to express my concerns about the direction that this crime bill has taken in recent days. in our zeal to prove just how tough on crime we are. we have approved amendments which simply do  stand up to careful scrutiny. and. in my view. will be terribly damaging to our federal justice system if enacted into law. i would point to two amendments approved yesterday by substantial margins. each represents a sweeping change in the way we fight crime in this country and a radical departure from our longaccepted understanding of the appropriate duties of the federal and state governments. the first amendment was presented as a tough antigang amendment. that sounds very appealing. who could possibly oppose an amendment intended to deal with gangs and the terror which they inflict upon our society. but listen for a moment to what this amendment does. it makes it a federal criminal offense to commit a predicate gang crime. with the intent to promote or further a criminal street gang. it makes it a federal crime to participate in. or conspire to participate in a criminal street gang or to induce others to join the gang. furthermore. it establishes mandatory minimum sentences for the commission of gang crimes. the second amendment attempts to deal primarily with the terrible problem of gun violence. simply put. this amendment federalizes and establishes mandatory minimum sentences for all violent crimes committed with a firearm. let me repeatall violent crimes committed with a firearm.  just those which occur within federal jurisdiction. in addition. the amendment sets forth the following mandatory minimum sentences--10 years for possessing a firearm during the commission of the crime. 20 years if the criminal discharges the firearm. 30 years if a machinegun or a silencer is used. and the death penalty if a death results. i have objection to exacting swift and certain punishment on violent criminals. as has been pointed out numerous times during this debate. in some of our states. the sentences actually served by convicted violent offenders make a mockery of our criminal justice system. murderers are sometimes paroled from prison in a few yeas which is hing short of a travesty. understandably. we are all terribly frustrated by this sad state of affairs and want desperately to do something about it. but i think it is.time that we in the senate step back and reflect upon what our appropriate role should be and what the limits are of the federal governments jurisdiction. do we really want the u.s. department of justice to have jurisdiction over all gangrelated offenses and every violent crime involving a firearm. we are talking about hundreds of thousands. if  millions of crimes.  only would this place an emous burden upon our federal courts. but it makes sense from a public policy point of view. it is the local and state law enforcement agencies that are best equipped to address the crime in our streets. but listening to the debate on this bill. you would think that they dont exist. clearly. those agencies are having a difficult time. they need help. and that is precisely what we are providing in this bill421 billion and 100.000 new police officers to walk the streets. but it is one thing to help the states do their job better and quite aher to do their job for them. i do  think that most members would favor the establishment of a centralized. national police department anymore than they would support the federal government usurping local control of our nations schools. but if we continue down this path of federalizing crime after crime. i feel that that is exactly where we are headed. one of the supposed virtues of the senate is that through thoughtful. careful deliberation. we are able to set aside the passions which surround emotional issues like crime control and arrive at sensible. reasonable solutions. regrettably. as in years past. this debate often has been devoid of any rational discussion. rather than continue to allow this debate to focus solely upon who is tough and who is . i think we need to start asking ourselves some basic questions when we are asked to vote on these amendments: "does this really make sense. do we fully understand the implications of this proposal." it seems to me that by iging these questions and looking only at which is politically attractive. we do a real disservice to this body and run the risk of doing very serious harm.
. last thursday in providence. a terrible tragedy occurred: a fine young providence policeman was killed in the line of duty. shot by a suspect using a handgun. steven michael shaw and other officers were responding to a call involving a search for three men who were suspected of committing two robberies earlier that aftern. after entering the house where the suspects were believed to be. patrolman shaw was shot in the head by one of the suspects. who had hidden himself in a bedroom closet. patrolman steven michael shaw. just 27 years old. began his career with the providence police in january 1989. working in the patrol bureau and the community policing unit. steven shaw was an officer well recognized for his work: he had been involved in a 1991 capture of an armed man who at the time was shooting at him. in 1992 he also played a key role. at some significant personal risk. in securing the release of a hostage held by five armedand actively firingmen. these events and his work in handling armed robberies. breakins. and shootings made him a decorated officer: he received the police chiefs medal. given for "an outstanding act in the performance of duty." the city council medal. and the hostage situation medal. moreover. patrolman shaw was a member of the u.s. marine corps reserve. and indeed had served in the persian gulf war. steven shaw did  shy from dangerous situations in the course of duty. he had experience in dealing with armed criminals. he had the skills to handle a dangerous and tense situation. but on february 3. he didnt have a chance. how long are we going to allow our officers to face the kind of danger posed by the number of handguns out there in circulation. every year. dozens of police officers are killed while carrying out their official duties--and every year. the vast majority of them are killed by handguns. since 1982. a staggering 70 percent of the 802 officers killed in the line of duty were fatally shot by handguns. due to the 72 million handguns out there. our officers face the threat of death every time they leave the station. due to the presence of handguns. any routine police call can result in tragedy. providence police officer has been killed in the line of duty since 1928. more than 65 years ago. but regretfully. due to the growing number of handguns. it is becoming increasingly dangerous for our officers. in march of 1989. three officers were shot but thankfully  killed in a gunfight. and just last september. a providence patrolman was shot while investigating a disturbance. his life was saved when the bulletbounced off the bulletproof vest he was wearing. every day the men and women of our police force take their lives in their hands on our behalf. we can allow februdry 7. 1994 the proliferation of handguns to continue to needlessly threaten their lives. steven shaw. this young man of great courage. died in the act of performing his duties. he was a kind. thoughtful. and considerate young man. his friends and family say he had a zest for life. enjoying rafting. hunting. foreign travel.-and car racing. his partners say that he enjoyed a challenge. one described a training day where patrolman shaw tried to outdo his fellow officers. saying that shaw was a "150pound man with a 300pound heart [who] wouldnt quit." my deepest condolences go out to steven shaws parents. robert and judith shaw. to his five brothers and sisters. and to his other relatives and his many friends. my heart goes out especially to his young wife. mrs. maria angela conte shaw. to whom patrolman shaw was married just 1 year ago. on behalf of mrs. chafee and myself. i want to offer her and the entire shaw family my heartfelt sympathy. and on behalf of all rhode islanders. i want to convey to mrs. shaw and to steven shaws parents the thanks and gratitude that each and every rhode islander feels for the service that steven shaw gave wholeheartedly tb our state. flags are at halfmast in rhode island in ho of this brave young man. he deserves less. and indeed. much more. we must  lose aher steven shaw to the. slaughter arising from handcuns. i his name and the name of all those officers who have been gunned down. we must act. i thank the chair. i suggest- the absence of a quorum.
. i am pleased that the senate today is considering the ination of john james leyden. of rhode island..to be united states marshal for the district of rhode island. i am confident that the senate will confirm this highly qualified official and allow him to assume his formal duties for the state of rhode island. the position of u.s. marshal for the district of rhode island is a critical element in effective law enforcement in our state. responsible for the execution of all writs issued by authority of the u.s. government. the marshal is charged with the custody and transportation of all federal prisoners. as well as the security of federal witnesses. moreover. the marshal oversees all federal judicial and court security: and is responsible for asset seizure and forfeiture management. it is an important and tough job. and it is  for the fainthearted. we have been extremely fortunate to .have had a very able and effective u.s. marshal for the past 9 years in donald w. wyatt. marshal wyatt has -retired after having done a- superb job. with total service as a marshal. in several different periods. of 19 years. chief leyden. whose family has been involved with law enforcement for many years. has served as the chief of police for the town of th kingstown for more than 10 years. heading up an office of 49 fulltime officers and 11 civilians. he dame to that post after 28 years with the providence police department. where he retired with the rank of major. he has served these communities and indeed our state with great distinction for many years. and has earned the respect of his colleagues and community leaders. i have worked with him in the course of his career. most recently on efforts to highlight the problem of gun violence. and i have found chief leyden to be truly an individual of quality. of great standing and integrity. we in rhode island are proud of chief leyden. and i might e that.chief leyden will be the most physically fit 62yearold marshal ever: every week he plays basketball with local young people. i am confident that chief leyden will serve our nation and the people of rhode island with distinction.
. earlier today. the distinguished chairman and ranking member of the senate indian affairs committee. senators iye and mccain. introduced comprehensive legislation to amend the indian gaming regulatory act of 1988 [igra]. i want to join my colleague from rhode island. senator pell. in congratulating them for attempting to tackle this extremely complicated and thorny issue. as they said in their introductory statements this morning. literally hundreds of hours -of difficult negotiations -have gone into the crafting of this legislation. i am compelled. however. to let the senate k how very disappointed i am that the bill. as introduced. does  contain- language to remedy the terribleand unanticipated---controversy that the igra has created in rhode island. a little background for the benefit of my colleagues: rhode island has one federally recognized indian tribe. the narragansetts. in the late 1970s the narragansetts asserted claims to several thousand acres of land in charlestown. ri. when the state resisted. the tribe sued in federal court. fortunately. the tribe. state. and town of charlestown were able to reach a settlement: roughly 1.800 acres of land in charlestown were transferred to thetribe. at the same time. the tribe agreed that those lands would remain under the civil and criminal jurisdiction of the state. subsequently. congress enacted the 1978 rhode island indian claims settlement act. which codified the settlement in federal law. under rhode island law. if an entity wants to conduct casigambling. it first has to receive approval through both a local and statewide voter referendum. as my colleagues k. this isquite different from what the igra says. therefore. when the senate was debating the igra 6 years ago. senator pell and i wanted to make sure that the 1978 act would continue to be the controlling statute with respect to the rules that the narragansetts would have to follow if they wanted to enter the casibusiness. during debate on the igra. senator pell and i discussed this matter with chairman iye on the senate floor. he provided assurances that. even after the enactment of the igra. "the protections of the rhode island indian claims settlement act (public law 95395) will remain in effect. and that the narragansett indian tribe clearly will remain subject to the civil. criminal. and regulatory laws of the state of rhode island." in addition. language was included in the committees report on the measure to make it clear that the igra was  intended to supersede the 1978 settlement act. nevertheless. 2 years ago. the narragansetts annced their plans to build and operate a fullscale gambling casion their land. under the auspices of the igra. the state then petitioned a federal court to declare that the .gra was  meant -to apply to the narragansetts. to our dismay. however. both a district court judge and. most recently. the first circuit court of appeals have ruled that since the statute itself is clear on its face. their interpretation of the law can be swayed by legislative history. thus. they have ordered the state of rhode island to begin compact negotiations with the narragansetts. the state still has the option of appealing its case to the supreme court.. but. given the decisions of the two lower courts. i am optimistic about the prospects for resolving -this matter through the judicial process. the only way to redress this problem. in my view. is to amend the igra to make it absolutely clear that that law does  supersede the 1978 rhode island settlement act. and it seems to me that if ever there were an appropriate vehicle for such an amendment. it is the bill that was introduced earlier today. so. as i said at the outset. i am disappointed that for the time being. the chairman and ranking member have opted  to deal with this matter in their legislation. i recognize. however. that the introduction of this bill is only the beginning of a. long process. in the coming weeks. i will continue to press the indian affairs committee on this issue. i also look forward to working with senators from the three other settlement act states. as i understand that a lack of consensus among our states on this matter was a deciding factor in the decision to leave the settlement act question unaddressed. in sum. this issue is of profound importance to rhode islanders. and i intend to do all i can to ensure that their voices are heard.
i thank the chair any police officer anywhere in the (the remarksof mr. chapee pertain- country to access a national data base. ing to the:introduction of.s. 786 are lo- a fully - automated data base. data cated in todays. record under "state- bank. which includes information on ments on introduced bills and joint resolutions.")
i dispute the senators characterization of the congress or the senate saying thou shalt  engage in flow control. it is  us that is saying that. the supreme court has said. "you cant do it. and. indeed. if you try and do it. you are violating the constitution." but the supreme court goes on to say. "but if you. the congress. want to give them that power. then you have the ability to do so." i do  think it is us imposing a "thou shalt " on them. in effect. we are coming to their rescue. it is true. we could be a broader rescue mission than we are currently on. the senator aptly has pointed out. all we are doing is limiting our rescue mission. all we are saying is we will rescue those towns that have already made the commitment. they had imposed flow control saying everything had to go to this central landfill or central incinerator. and we are saying you can keep it up because you issued bonds thinking the law was the way it was. you did it fairly. and along comes the supreme court which says it is against the constitution. ok. we will come and help you out. that is what we are doing. we are  doing it. as the senator is aptly saying. in perpetuity. we are  saying whatever you want to do in the towns is ok. we are limiting it. but it is  us who said to them to start with.
that is a good question. but the answer is--and we have. had this raised. obviously.  only on the floor here but in calls from govers that come to us. the original plea of the govers is. "why cant we do what we want to do. who are you in washington. always telling us. yes/ " as the senator has pointed out. it is the supreme court that said  it is  us who said "" indeed. what we are doing is in effect coming to the rescue. if you would. of those communities that want to extend flow control or have flow control because. as the senator ks. it was declared unconstitutional. so we are stepping in. trying to fill a void. fill a problem that exists. but you say. ok. if you step in just step in for this limited period which is. as you say. the length of the bonds that are outstanding or what the contract requires between the facility and the communitywhatever it might be. but the answer is that in many of these states and communities they set up arrangements based on flow control continuing to exist. in other words. .they pass statutes that flow control be there. so we have some occasions where the length of time of the contract is  necessarily going to cover all the expenses and is going to be renegotiated for a variety of reasons. but all with the anticipation that the flow control statute that the municipality had entered into was going to continue to be there. so they say. "we made arrangements." the arrangements might be the original bonds. for example. and did  cover the total construction cost of the facility. or that they were dependent upon flow control to provide the flow of waste and the tipping fees for the rather high maintenance costs. they had it all worked out and they say. "why cant we continue to do that." that is the rationale that we have. when we have state a. or b. or c. or gover a. b. or c. calling us and saying this is what we want. so we have tried to juggle it around. leaving  everybody happy. as is apparent today.
thank you. i want to thank the distinguished senator from massachusetts for permitting me to go for 2 minutes. i would like to make a couple of points. one of the major objections to the johnston bill is the socalled judicial review. we have dealt with the language of the johnston bill and judicial review before. what is the language that is so objectionable. it is in section f. it says. "the reviewing court shall hold unlawful and set aside agency action findings or conclusions found to be without substantial support in the rulemaking file viewed as a whole." that is complicated. but it is a very high standard to meet. it is very. very difficult. and what it means for those who are implementing the ruleany of the agencies. whether it is epa or whatever it isit is very hard for them to have a rule that can be thrown out by the courts under this definition. we have done this before. in 1982. senator bumpers had an amendment that came out of the committee when we were doing regulatory reform in that year. which had exactly the same language that wei and others on this sideare objecting to. and that senator hatch and others put into this bill. so we had a republican administration. we had a republican senate. and that groupthe administration and the republican senatevigorously objected to the language that was in that bill. the socalled "bumpers language." which is exactly the same as the hatch language today. so senator bumpers came up with an amendment. he changed that objectionable language. and the vice president of the united states. on february 23. 1982. george bush. wrote the letter. dear dale: we have received your proposed amendments to s. 1080 and the explanation of those amendments. we believe that these changes. as explained by what would be legislative history. are significant improvements. on and on he goes. so the language that i am objecting to. and others who will  support cloture tonight. is the exact same language that a republican administration. that a republican senate. objected to in 1982. it was objectionable then. it is just as objectionable . i do hope that cloture will  prevail. i thank the chair. i thank the senator from massachusetts.
. it is my understandingand i would like to ask the senator from wyoming this--in the case of domestic violence inflicted by the "deemor." that has been taken care of. as i understand it. by the wellstone amendment.
it is my understanding that the agreement negotiated by the parties to the disinfection byproducts rulemaking does provide that the final stage i rule may include modifications if new information warrants those changes. the bill does  preclude changes that are within the scope of the agreement. however. these new standard setting authorities are  to be the basis for making changes in the rule as it was proposed.  was it our intent to require the administrator to repropose the stage i proposed rule to conduct additional risk balancing under new section 1412(b)(5). however. if subsequent to enactment. someone should discover an inconsistency. the bill specifically precludes a change in the proposed rule to resolve that inconsistency. furthermore. the bill insulates the rule from a court challenge on the basis of any inconsistency. should one be found. we do  intend to disrupt the results of the negotiation.
. is the reason people burn the flag. you make it against the law and they will be out there to- a far greater extent than they are  because that will get them attention. that is what they want. these are misguided individuals. most of all. they want the police to come and seize them and drag them off to jail because they burnt the flag. mr. gregory johnson is  famous. far more famous than if the situation had just been iged. this is what the supreme court said: the way to preserve the flags special role is  to punish those who feel differently about these matters. it is to persuade them that they are wrong. you courageous selfreliant men with confidence in the power of free and fearless reasoning applied through the processes of popular government. danger flowing from speech can be deemed clear and present unless the incidence of the evil is so imminent that it may fall before there is an opportunity for full discussion. we can imagine more appropriate response to burning a flag than waving ones own. better way to counter a flag burners message than by saluting the flag that burns. surer means of preserving the dignity even of the flag that is burned. than by. as one witness here did. [referring back to the situation in texas] according to the remains a respectful burial. we do  desecrate the flag by punishing its desecration. for in doing so we dilute the freedom that this cherished emblem represents. we have  discussed here today that the whole reason this is before us is that the supreme court of the united states has said this is a limitation on the freedom of expression when you pass statutes such as suggested by the senator from utah. so instead of expanding our freedoms. it is a limitation of our freedom. i think it should be rejected. i certainly hope it is.
. the united states plays a critical role in providing family planning services abroad. it has been certified over and over again that e of the funds are used to pay for abortions. as required by law. i feel strongly that we should continue our leadership role in this area. i urge my colleagues to defeat the mcconnell amendment and support the hatfield language in the bill.
we are told it is an "unwarranted intrusion on state authority." yet. the national govers association enthusiastically supports this measure. we are told thn bill would "encourage wrongful conduct because it abolishes joint liability." but joint and several liability. it has been pointed out. applies still to ecoic damages. the letter accuses the bill of "increas[ing] the incentive to engage in the egregious conduct of kingly manufacturing and selling defective products." i do  find this charge makes much sense. then it goes on to say that the "additur" provision the white house itself put in here. the provision being that the judge himself can increase the punitive damages--the white house had a hand in drafting that they say that is  adequate. so i do  think any of these three statements that the president has in his letter represents what this conference report really would do. i think that is very. very unfortunate. to my judgment. this bill is sound and reasonable. under the bill. those who sell but do  make productssell the products but  necessarily having made themare liable only if they did  exercise reasonable care. if they offered their own warranty and it was  met. or if they engaged in intentional wrongdoing. obviously they will be liable. but they can be caught up in a liability suit where they did hing wrong. i do  see much trouble with that. if the injured person was under the influence of drugs and alcohol and that condition was more than 50 percent responsible for the event that led to the injury. the defendant can be held liable. if plaintiff misused or altered the productthis is the one we see so often in the area i come from. people have altered machinery and equipment that they have purchasedin violation of the instructions or warnings to the contrary. or in violation of just plain common sense. then the damages are reduced accordingly. i just can understand why we ought to blame the manufacturer for behavior that everyone ks would place the product user at risk. that does  seem fair to me. does that  contradict our ion of an individuals personal responsibility. the person has to have some sense of responsibility here. the bill allows injured persons to file an action up to 2 years after the date they discovered or should have discovered the harm and its cause. for durable goods. the actions may be filed up to 15 years after the initial delivery of the product. these also seem to me to be fair. either party may offer to proceed to voluntary. binding. alternative dispute resolution. the most controversial element of the bill. i suppose. is the punitive damages. i remind my colleagues that these damages are separate and apart from compensatory damages. the compensatory damages are meant to make the injured party whole. the punitive damages are awarded where there is "clear and convincing evidence" proving "conscious. flagrant indifference to the right of safety of others." the amount of punitive damages may  exceed two times the amount awarded for compensatory loss or $250.000. whichever is the greater. again. i must say i have had trouble with punitive damages for a long time. i have great difficulty understanding the basis of that. certainly that the punitive damages go to the plaintiff instead of the state for retraining of those who are committing the errors. it might be manufacturers. it might be physicians. whatever it is. but i have great difficulty understanding why in the world punitive damages should go to the plaintiff. in conclusion. i pay my compliments to senators rockefeller. gorton. pressler. and lieberman for the work they have done on this. i certainly urge the president to reconsider his position and join the bipartisan coalition supporting this very important legislation. i urge him to sign this bill into law. exhibrr 1
. child welfare is  a cash or an inkind assistance to poor families. child welfare programs deal with abused children. it deals with neglected children regardless of their income. it does  have anything to do with a poor child. child welfare programs deal with neglected and abused children regardless of income. so. child welfare has place in a welfare reform bill. and i am pleased we were able to have those block grants removed. we stay with the present entitlement system in the child welfare program. the present welfare bill has also made more cuts to the childrens ssi program than i would have liked to have seen. that is the way it started off. with rather severe cuts. this bill is much less damaging in that area. it does tighten the eligibility for participation in childrens ssi programs. but retains cash assistance for those children who remain eligible. this is the right thing to do. these families are under emous strains. families with ssi children. and they need the benefits. the cash assistance that comes so they can care for those children. i want to pay special tribute to senator conrad. who worked with me and others to achieve this compromise. welfare. as we k. has always been a shared responsibility between the states and the federal government. that will continue under this bill. it is true that states ought to have a financial incentive to reduce the welfare caseloads. we all agree with that. however. when they are reducing these caseloads. they should benefit from it. but also the federal government ought to benefit from it. too. that is why we provide that. if the states reduce their spending below a percentage mark. federal dollars will be reduced likewise. in other words. the federal government will share in the savings. there is one thing that does bother me about this bill. and that is the denial of benefits to legal immigrants. i think the bill is harsh in that area. we made some improvements. in other words we made it less harsh. because we allow states to decide whether to extend medicaid coverage to legal immigrants. in other words. the states still have the option to extend medicaid coverage to legal immigrants. i had hoped during the legislative process. consideration here and the conference. we might have mitigated some of the harsher provisions. especially those affecting currently elderly and currently disabled recipients. i think it is very tough to take away some of the benefits of those individuals that they are currently enjoying. in closing. i congratulate those who worked so hard to reach this agreement. former senator dole deserves a lot of credit for laying the groundwork for this bill. senator roth picked up after senator dole left and helped steer this bill through the senate. on the other side of the aisle. my colleague from the centrist coalition. my colleague senator breaux. did splendid work to forge a compromise between the two parties. on the other side of the capitol. congressman shaw and congressman archer were dedicated to this cause for some time and deserve a lot of credit. so my congratulations to each and all. and to all here who worked hard to make this bill a success. the success i believe it can be. it is  perfect. we all recognize that. but there are a lot of very fine provisions in this bill
. i am pleased to introduce the promotion of adoption. safety and support for abused and neglected children act. the socalled pass act. this legislation will make critical reforms to the nations child welfare and foster care system and will go a long way toward improving the lives of the hundreds of thousands of abused and neglected children across america. these are chil_dren without a safe family setting. they are children who face abuse and neglect every day of theirlives. they are americas forgotten children. and. all too often. they are children without hope. this chilling picture has brought the sponsors of this bill together to take immediate action. the goals of the pass act are twofold: to ensure that abused and neglected children are in safe settings. and to move children more rapidly out of the foster care system and into permanent placements. while the goal of reunifying children with their biological families is laudable. we should  be encouraging states to return abused or neglected children to homes that are clearly unsafe. regrettably. this is occurring under current law. about 500.000half a millionabused or neglected children currently live outside their homes. either in foster care or with relatives. in rhode island alone. there are nearly 1.500 children who have been removed from their homes and are in foster care. the -rhode island department of children and families has an active case load of about 7.700 children who have been abused or neglected. many of these children will be able to return to their parents. but many will . too often. children who can return to their parents wait for years in foster care before they are adopted. in todays child welfare system. it has become a lonely and tragic wait with end. to us. that is an unacceptable way of life for any child to have to endure.
. i certainly appreciate the perspective my colleagues bring to this issue. clearly. we need to take into account the status of tribes and tribal court system and the children under their jurisdiction in determining ive payments. i will work with them to correct this inequity.
let me answer that quickly. there may be many arguments against the dbe. but i must say that your weakest one is this socalled unconstitutional argument. we all k about the constitutionality issue. in 1995. the supreme court handed down a decision in adarand v. pena. in adarand. the justices specifically said that federal affirmative action programs are  unconstitutional. as long as the programs meet a compelling governmental interest and are narrowly tailored. then they can pass constitutional muster. . us district judge kane. to whom the case was remanded. ended up holding that part of the dot regulations were unconstitutional on the grounds they were  narrowly tailored. but that is going to be corrected under the new regulations that are due out this spring. so as i say. of all your arguments. that really is the weakest. as a matter of fact. i will give you an opportunity to jettison that argument. if you want.
. i k the distinguished senator from illis wishes to speak. and i will be. very brief in commenting. i have listened to the learned senator from kentucky speak this aftern. he spent a lot of time on the adarand decision. the only thing we ought to stress about the adarand decision is that the adarand decision was a 54 decision that did  find that affirmative action is  possible to have in our country. indeed. i will give you a couple of quotes fromi like to go to the supreme court. i am  big on district courts and circuit courts. yes. they are nice. but i like to go to the top and see what the top people have to say. this is what justice ocon said: it is  true that strict scrutiny is strict in theory but fatal in fact. government is  disqualified from acting in response to the unhappy persistence of both the practice and the lingering effects of racial discrimination against miity groups in this country. later on. justice ocon stated for the majority: when racebased action is necessary to further a compelling interest. such action is within constitutional constraints if it satisfies the narrow tailoring test. so it can be done. and affirmative action is  unconstitutional. if that is the implication that is derived from the remarks of the senator from kentucky. i say it is just. plain  accurate.
. i ask unanimous consent on behalf of the governmental affairs committee to meet on thursday. march 5. 1998. at 4 p.m. for a business meeting. the agenda will be the approval of the committee report on the special investigation of illegal and improper activities in connection with 1996 federal election campaigns.
i am delighted that he has had a roll call of heroes of the country. but before he leaves i would point out one thing. it is  often that he is inaccurate. but i am afraid that he went overboard a little bit today when he suggested that the supreme court in the adarand decision had struck down as unconstitutional the provisions of the affirmative action program. what the supreme court said in the 5 to 4 decisioni am talking about the supreme court. i like to deal with .the supreme court. what it did is remanded that case. it did  say it was unconstitutional. any talk of unconstitutionality came by the lower court which then examined whether the provisions in the adarand situation conformed to the restrictions that the supreme court was applying. i just want to say to the distinguished senator from massachusettsand by the way. i am on my time .  sign this measure if the mcconnell amendment should pass.
yes: it is. we have made it clear to the secretary that while one can never predict with 100 percent certainty what language may pass constitutional muster. the committee expects the secretary and his legal staff to do their utmost to make sure that the new regulations closely follow the guidance set forth by the court in adarand.
. i share the senators view that advanced composites deserve further investigation for their applications to bridge construction. and are certainly inative materials that fall under the purview of the bridge research program.
. the united states plays a critical role in providing family planning services abroad. i feel strongly that we should continue our leadership role in this area. it is both humane and environmentally sound. this conference report contains provisions that would gut our commitment to international family planning. and i urge my colleagues to oppose this measure.
. i am pleased to introduce the promotion of adoption. safety and support for abused and neglected children act. the socalled pass act. this legislation will make critical reforms to the nations child welfare and foster care system and will go a long way toward improving the lives of the hundreds of thousands of abused and neglected children across america. these are chil_dren without a safe family setting. they are children who face abuse and neglect every day of theirlives. they are americas forgotten children. and. all too often. they are children without hope. this chilling picture has brought the sponsors of this bill together to take immediate action. the goals of the pass act are twofold: to ensure that abused and neglected children are in safe settings. and to move children more rapidly out of the foster care system and into permanent placements. while the goal of reunifying children with their biological families is laudable. we should  be encouraging states to return abused or neglected children to homes that are clearly unsafe. regrettably. this is occurring under current law. about 500.000half a millionabused or neglected children currently live outside their homes. either in foster care or with relatives. in rhode island alone. there are nearly 1.500 children who have been removed from their homes and are in foster care. the -rhode island department of children and families has an active case load of about 7.700 children who have been abused or neglected. many of these children will be able to return to their parents. but many will . too often. children who can return to their parents wait for years in foster care before they are adopted. in todays child welfare system. it has become a lonely and tragic wait with end. to us. that is an unacceptable way of life for any child to have to endure.
. i certainly appreciate the perspective my colleagues bring to this issue. clearly. we need to take into account the status of tribes and tribal court system and the children under their jurisdiction in determining ive payments. i will work with them to correct this inequity.
let me answer that quickly. there may be many arguments against the dbe. but i must say that your weakest one is this socalled unconstitutional argument. we all k about the constitutionality issue. in 1995. the supreme court handed down a decision in adarand v. pena. in adarand. the justices specifically said that federal affirmative action programs are  unconstitutional. as long as the programs meet a compelling governmental interest and are narrowly tailored. then they can pass constitutional muster. . us district judge kane. to whom the case was remanded. ended up holding that part of the dot regulations were unconstitutional on the grounds they were  narrowly tailored. but that is going to be corrected under the new regulations that are due out this spring. so as i say. of all your arguments. that really is the weakest. as a matter of fact. i will give you an opportunity to jettison that argument. if you want.
. i k the distinguished senator from illis wishes to speak. and i will be. very brief in commenting. i have listened to the learned senator from kentucky speak this aftern. he spent a lot of time on the adarand decision. the only thing we ought to stress about the adarand decision is that the adarand decision was a 54 decision that did  find that affirmative action is  possible to have in our country. indeed. i will give you a couple of quotes fromi like to go to the supreme court. i am  big on district courts and circuit courts. yes. they are nice. but i like to go to the top and see what the top people have to say. this is what justice ocon said: it is  true that strict scrutiny is strict in theory but fatal in fact. government is  disqualified from acting in response to the unhappy persistence of both the practice and the lingering effects of racial discrimination against miity groups in this country. later on. justice ocon stated for the majority: when racebased action is necessary to further a compelling interest. such action is within constitutional constraints if it satisfies the narrow tailoring test. so it can be done. and affirmative action is  unconstitutional. if that is the implication that is derived from the remarks of the senator from kentucky. i say it is just. plain  accurate.
. i ask unanimous consent on behalf of the governmental affairs committee to meet on thursday. march 5. 1998. at 4 p.m. for a business meeting. the agenda will be the approval of the committee report on the special investigation of illegal and improper activities in connection with 1996 federal election campaigns.
i am delighted that he has had a roll call of heroes of the country. but before he leaves i would point out one thing. it is  often that he is inaccurate. but i am afraid that he went overboard a little bit today when he suggested that the supreme court in the adarand decision had struck down as unconstitutional the provisions of the affirmative action program. what the supreme court said in the 5 to 4 decisioni am talking about the supreme court. i like to deal with .the supreme court. what it did is remanded that case. it did  say it was unconstitutional. any talk of unconstitutionality came by the lower court which then examined whether the provisions in the adarand situation conformed to the restrictions that the supreme court was applying. i just want to say to the distinguished senator from massachusettsand by the way. i am on my time .  sign this measure if the mcconnell amendment should pass.
yes: it is. we have made it clear to the secretary that while one can never predict with 100 percent certainty what language may pass constitutional muster. the committee expects the secretary and his legal staff to do their utmost to make sure that the new regulations closely follow the guidance set forth by the court in adarand.
. i share the senators view that advanced composites deserve further investigation for their applications to bridge construction. and are certainly inative materials that fall under the purview of the bridge research program.
. the united states plays a critical role in providing family planning services abroad. i feel strongly that we should continue our leadership role in this area. it is both humane and environmentally sound. this conference report contains provisions that would gut our commitment to international family planning. and i urge my colleagues to oppose this measure.
ial hide can hurt this country. the more we really want equality of opportunity the less the possibility of busing or any other contrived solution. what we can have is liberty and justice for all with our prejudices and wallets intact. to say otherwise is a commitment to mediocrity. i think that connecticut and america still enjoy the harder challenge of excellence.
. i want to commend the senator from tennessee for putting his finger on the real issue of the debate before us. because the real issue is credibilitycredibility insofar as the american people are concerned relative to any investigation that might be undertaken by this body. they will be asking questions. why is it important to have the amendment of the senator from tennessee providing that the committee be constituted on a 3to3 basis. why is that important. [ answer very simply this: so the result of the work product of that committee will be believed. that is why it is important. at the time of the watergate crisis. at the time of the itt case. at the tme of the charges and countercharges in the last campaign between the various candidates in the democratic and republican paries. polls invariably would be taken as to whether this was an issue in the minds of the american people. you all k the results of those polls as well as i do. as a republican. let me say i was aghast to lern that in fact these transgressions were  issue with the american people. why were they issue. because. in the mind of the average citiezm they all do it. it is done all the time by both parties. a plague on both houses. that is why it ought to be 33. so the committee can do its work. and so when it comes forth with the result of its work. it wvill be believed. but to go into the aftermath with this partisan approach is better than  to go ahead and investigate as far as the public is concerned. i am getting a little tired of being at the bottom of the totem pole as far as public esteem is concerned. i think mlembers on the other side should feel the same way. yet the way this committee is constituted. the way the whole affair is starting. the committee will do its work. and the result will be a partisan one. last time it was the republican party. this time let it be the democratic party. what will result is  the democratic process. ask the people. especially the young people. if that is  so. it would be nice to have some work done that had credibility to it. a 32 committee renders the work product of that committee a partisan one. i attribute motives to a 32 committee. but that is the way it is. it is partisan. and the work product is meaningless. and the members on that committee are involved in that partisanship on an individual basis. there is  one of us who sits in this body who did  share. at the time of our youth. the dream of reaching this lofty position in government. at that time it was a young mans dream. politicians. men in high public places were idols. that is longer the case. this system has been smeared and fudged around by everyone. by both parties. and by the press. i k the men and women i work with. they are men and women of ho. and their work product is good. because there are watergates and itts and whatever anyone wants to bring up does  in my mind change the gleam or shine of this government. if there is any rot in it. it ought to be rooted out. and it ought to be rooted out by both major parties in equal measure. this opportunity  confronts us. we have the opportunity  at hand.  to gain points one over the other. but to gain points for the american political system.
i thank the distinguished senator from virginia. . i will vote against the ination of dr. henry a. kissinger to be secretary of state of the united states. i do so for two reasonsone grounded in fact. the second in principle. at the outset of the senate foreign relations committee hearings. the committee demanded the fbi summary of the 17 wiretaps which are more commonly kn as the kissinger taps. that demand was never openly met. a song and dance given by the federal bureau of investigation to two senators is  a substitute for the tapes. the summaries. william sullivan and the policymakers appearing before the full committee. long before dr. kissingers ination. i had made a similar demand upon the federal bureau of investigation for information concerning activities of the bureau that related to improper or excessive intelligence operations directed at american citizens and groups. i requested this information at the suggestion of william sullivan. formerly of the fbi and supervisor of the kissinger taps. without taking the time of my colleagues. there is question that the kissinger taps were only one part of a pattern of improper and excessive use of power by government. there is question that facts which would establish that pattern are being withheld from senate committee and senator alike. this is generalization but rather a most specific personal observation since starting on june 4. 1973. i have gone from ruckelshaus to cox to ruckelshaus to kelly to richardson by phone. letter. and meeting in order to obtain the truth and have been denied that truth in each instance. those who hide the truth can say " only so long as those who are denied the truth say "yes" at times like this. that is why the " vote. lastly. the principle that should  be skipped over is the importance of how we achieve our ends in america. i do  want the united states to accept a little law breaking. a little spirit breaking in the name of security or the greater good. the state of our spirit is what truly determines the state of our union. .1 am  sure dr. kissinger understands this. i wish to dr. kissinger great success in his new venture as secretary of state. hopefully. he will understand that my action is  meant to demean his professional ability or a brilliant personality. it is merely giving expression to what i believe to be important in this coumtry.
i thank the distinguished senator. ial candidatesdo you think they would go to the federal government and ask them to supply $50.000 or $100.000. of course. they would . the reason they are going to the federal government is because of the amount of money involved. i suggest rather than shifting it to the taxpayers. why  reduce the amount. already we have passed good legislation. i want to compliment claiborne pell and those on the rules committee. frankly. i had my own bill which would have gone further. but i k when that legislation was presented it was with the idea that everybody knew we would back on a third goaround on campaign spending. after we had the results of the watergate investigation in hand. instead there are those who  say. "we can do it. it is too complicated. give the problem to the federal government." is that reform.  it is laziness. a lot of people on the floor of the senate are being abused here and at home. because somebody is demagoging something that just is  so.
. i ice in the memorandum distributed by the federal bureau of investigation to various members of the u.s. senate. a statement is made in opposition to the amendment of the senator from michigan. that the hart amendment would: destroy the confidence of the american people in the federal investigative agencies. i have been asked by many young people in my state as to what for me was the greatest surprise of watergate. i have responded by saying that the greatest revelation was the fantastic scope and quality of abuses committed by the federal law enforcement and intelligence community. that these various agenciesbe they the fbi. the cia. the military intelligence. or the secret servicehad escaped accountability for such a long period of time that it was only a matter of time before the little ackledgements and the little favors sballed into the types of massive abuses which surfaced before the senate select committee. there is hing stated in the constitution which places any of our law enforcement agencies in some special status separate and apart from either the executive. or congressional or judicial branches. yet there is  one senator who can attest to the fact that we have exercised the type of supervision and have demanded the type of accountability of these agencies as we do of other agencies of the government. slowly but surely. as our legislative processes mature. one after aher of the sacred bureaucratic cows comes tumbling down. and as they have. we have produced better government. how long ago was it. for example. that it would have been unpatriotic for us to question the defense department. . we are long over that hurdle. and we have better defense because of it. it was  too long ago that we could  question our foreign policy. we will have better foreign policy because congress participates. the time is long overdue to say that the intelligence agencies are performing a special function. and that we should  be a part of that function. abuses committed are our responsibility because there is hing in the constitution that says that we should  act. rather. it is our responsibility to achieve accountability. to exercise supervision over all agencies of government. so when the senator stated that it would destroy the confidence of the american people in the agencies and that that was a reason to be against the amendment. let me say that the american faith in those agencies has never been at a lower point. because we have never had the type of legislation as is contained in the amendment offered by senator hart this aftern. i have already made the statement to the senator from michigan and the senator from massachusetts that i consider the amendment too weak. my feeling is that supervision ought to be direct and  via the courts. when i am elected a u.s. senator from the state of connecticut. i have my security clearance. it could be that i am a crook or in the pay of a foreign government. sorry about that. that is one of the risks of a democracy. however. i have faith in that the democratic process minimizes that possibility. when a man or woman is elected. he or she represents the people. and he or she is the one who should supervise. that is the democratic way. we should make sure that we get into what every government agency is doing. otherwise. how can we tell whether they are performing their function under the constitution. i can assure my constituents that i am performing my duty if i am  allowed to look here or  allowed to look there. so by our action we have built up a new type of government. it operates under a new constitution. and that new constitution and that new type of government brought us watergate. let me say this insofar as law enforcement is concerned. i remember well an interview several years back justice black had with martin agronsky. martin turned to justice black and said: because of these recent supreme court decisions. doesnt it make it more difficult to convict an individual of any particular crime or. to put it in the words of others. arent you being soft on the criminal. justice black responded. he said: well. of course. it makes conviction more difficult. have you read the bill of rights. the fact that a man is entitled to counsel makes it more difficult to convict him. the fact that you have a right as an american to a trial by jury makes it more difficult to convict an individual. he went down the whole list of rights that we. as americans. had. and which makes it more difficult to close that prison door on any one of us. that is the view that he took upon our rights as american citizens. in making it more difficult. to incarcerate an american. i make bones about the fact that from a law enforcement and efficiency standpoint. ours is a very inefficient system of government because its whole emphasis is on the individual rather than society as a whole. i have heard this term. "whats good for society." if that is the focus. we have lost the greatness that is ours as a nation. for. we have achieved a strength way beyond our head count because each of us has been allowed to flourish. as an individual rather than as a dot in a mob. it is an inefficient form of government. but a very great form of government. so i correlate this to what sits before us insofar as this amendment is concerned. yes. it is going to make the job of the law enforcement agencies more difficult in that it brings them out into the open. but. let me assure you. the far greater danger lies behind closed doors and in locked files. e of the abuses that we have seen come out of this system would have happened if more people. more eyes. more ears. had been on the scene. i would hope this body would adopt the amendment of the distinguished senator from michigan because to sit and groan as to all the horrible things that have happened without action would be ludicrous. a fingerpointing exercise insofar as the executive branch of government is concerned is  good egh. congress has to have the guts to stand up and say. "we are doing something." we can do something by traveling the old ways. what is expected of each of us  is that we stand up and look where we have  looked before. and that is exactly what this amendment attempts to achieve. and why it is supported so wholeheartedly. it is  antilaw enforcement. and it is  antipatriotic. this amendment is democracy. this amendment is the patriotism that i stand for. i thank the distinguished senator from michigan.
i do  believe that the amendment of the senator from michigan involves throwing the fbi open to the mob. the amendment of the senator from michigan. as i understand it. employs regular court procedures. . and is very restrictive and specific. i repeat my question: how do we find out. how do we find out unless we have access to information as to the lawlessness that could take place or has taken place in the agencies. how do we find out.
i am glad to respond to the senator from nebraska. the fact is. there has  been a good job done in those areas of law enforcement where the agencies operated illegally. the problem is that in the quest for law and order. case after case after case after case has been thrown out because the law enforcement and intelligence communities acted illegally. so i do  think we attain any particular status of accomplishment in conquering organized crime. or any crime whatsoever for that matter. with illegal activities resulting in cases being thrown out of court. i would suggest that the record speaks for itself. frankly. i never thought the record of former attorney general ramsey clark was that good. but. comparing his record with that achieved by succeeding attorneys general. he looks like tom dewey in his prosecutorial heyday.
i thank the distinguished senator from arkansas. s. that is where the solution should take place. it should  ever come to a court in the first place. so if busing has occurred in a community and the community does  like it. let the community ask their senator what he has done to create equality of educational opportunity. the initial responsibility for avoiding the illegality of inequality of educational opportunity is on our heads. it is on the heads of local governments and state governments and the federal governmentthe legislative and executive bodies of our governmental structure. i respect and will respect the courts of this land. if we do  like busing. let us change the illegality  the courts. that means spending money on schools. on teachers. on personnel. on housing so that the matter never lands in court in the first place. i am tired of being accused of being for busing by supporting the supremacy of law in our land. it is those who offer this kind of legislation. which is negative. i blame. shifting who are responsible for courts acting in place of legislatures
so that in this situation. it is  to defy the court order but. rather. to make sure that the illegality does  come to pass. would the senator  consider that a far more preferential solution to the problem.
a marriage license. good forever. obviously. it is within the power of the proper political subdivision to rescind. to recall. and this has been duly done in this case. just one last comment. i would  like to be called an obstructionist to having this matter resolved and. therefore. i would  object to any unanimousconsent request if. in fact. that request brought to the immediate attention of the senate a motion to declare the seat vacant. any such request. any such action. would be. as far as i am concerned. a proper resolution of the matter and should be voted on and the matter can go where it belongs.
suppose we had exactly that situation in the oklahoma case at the present time. should the court in oklahoma come out in favor of edmondson. would henry bellmon have the advantage over edmondson. since he has been seated as a senator.
. a fundamental right of all americans is the right to face ones accusers. under the supreme courts ruling in the case of united states et al.. against biscoglia. however. irs investigators were given the right to rummage through an individuals bank records without informing him of this behindtheback action. we have all witnessed the massive attempts in recent years to use the vast powers of the federal government against the individual citizen. we do  need. and we do  want. a government that sneaks around. doing business in the dark. . the supreme court has upheld the dubious right of the irs to enter the bank vaults of any citizen. organization. or corporation. find out all about your personal transactions. use that information any way they pleaseand never tell you about it. without retelling the entire litany of watergaterelated abuses by the irs. let it be ed that misuse of the irs was the basis for the second article of impeachment voted by the house judiciary committee. last july 31. i introduced an amendment to halt government sping through bank records without ification. the amendment was adopted by the senate. but deleted in conference. in his dissenting opinion. justice stewart expressed deep concern over the "breathtaking expansion of the summons power." which has resulted from the courts decision. there are obviously thousands of transactions occurring daily throughout this country. which on their face. suggests the possibility of tax complications for unkn parties involved. these transactions will  be subject to forced disclosure at the whim of any irs agent. so long only as he is acting in "good faith." such broad and discretionary authority of the irs must be restricted in order to preserve the confidentiality of individuals financial records. as the washington post stated in a recent editorial. the decision of the courtillustrates again how limited and uncertain the rights of bank customers have become and how much protection against improper searches one surrenders by the ordinary act of putting money in the bank. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the editorial be printed at this point in the record.
i thank the distinguished senator from nebraska. . it is  up to me to prove the legality of a situation. it is  up to me to prove the propriety of a situation. it is up to those who allege illegal activity and improper activity to prove their case. that is the presumption in this country. and that is what has been so clearly violated in spirit time and time again by those who have spoken and acted against the govers ination. i was delighted to see both senators kennedy and hart disavow that aspect of the miity report which related to insensitivity to impropriety. indeed. they carefully drew the line. because there is proof. indeed. there was investigation of any substance by those who make those allegations. whether the american bar association or those who signed the miity report. i do  think it is too much to demand a certain precision of those who would allege such wrongdoingsa precision that dwells on facts and the building of a case a newspaper editorial here or uncorroborated testimony there. one appearance here. a quick trip there. if we are going to place upon ourselves a judicial function. then we have to place upon ourselves the same rules and practices of the courts of this country. and that has  been the case with congressional committees. we are allowed broad license. but along with that broad license comes the responsibility to use it with care. and certainly in the matter of this ination. insofar as too many people are concerned. it has  been used with care. i shall read for the record at this time a statement by . just briefly. is the matter of the american bar as-
 i contend that . that is lifted directly from the record. let me read you what the record said mr. sutro said so we get the whole picture. i will  quote mr. sutro. in this instance. over 30 judges and lawyers were interviewed by mr. connelly. and a very substantial number of those judges and lawyers were of the view that gover meskill does  have the legal background or experience as a lawyer to be a judge of the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit. that court has appellate jurisdiction  only in respect to the district courts within the circuit but also with respect to a variety of federal boards and commissions including the tax court of the united states. the civil aeronautics board. the federal communications commission. the federal power commission. the federal trade commission. the national labor relations board. and the securities and exchange commission.
 first off. i would like to state my admiration both for the senator from south dakota and the senator from michigan who have spoken against this ination. they are both decent men and good men. they have in way rendered personal judgments or judg- 1 ments other than what they have actu- c ally indicated here in the chamber as relates to the mans legal qualifications. but i do want to address myself in the main to some of the points raised. indeed. i think the function of the senate has changed quite a bit since 1965 insofar as the examination of those inated for judgeship. i agree with the distinguished senator from michigan that it is  eghit is  eghthat the two senators from the inees home state be for the man. and that further investigation or examination should take place. i think that change is for the good. i think it should continue. i am in complete agreement.
i would be glad to respond to the distinguished senator from nebraska. i would insist that the same precision that i demand from the senate judiciary committee be demanded of every lawyer if he is going to inject himself into this matter. . if we are going to take upon our-. selves a judicial functionand indeed we haveif the bar association is asking its members to take upon themselves a judicial function. of determining propriety. impropriety. legality. illegality. then there can be any loose talk. there can be any polling. they have to have the precise standards that we apply to justice in this country. that is what i find so ridiculous. apparently the leaders of the bar are asking men to make decisions on the basis of insufficient and. in fact. misleading representations. one can go around and say. "i think this person is a conservative. i think this person is a liberal." and that does  bother me. but when a mans reputation is on the line. when how he stands in the eyes of the citizens. how he stands in the eyes of justice. we should be precise. we should be careful. and we should have the facts. all the facts. and we should  go ahead and tarnish a man for life off the top of our heads. i agree. do you k where all of this started. one man. one man made a report on the gover for the bar association. a fellow by the name of concxxi709--part 9 nelly. one man made the report. he contacted a few lawyers in connecticut and elsewhere. one man made a report. accepted by his subcommittee and the whole bar association. it is  the indepth investigation which the committee on the judiciary made. or which the department of justice made. or which the fbi made. the attorney general and everybody else. it has sballed. as i pointed out. there was the american bar association letter. the times editorial. and then smear. somebody should put a stop to this business and demand the facts. it should  be incumbent upon me. i am accused in that editorial of  answering a subject i have personal kledge about
just to pursue my line of questioning. did the distinguished chairman consider. however. that in this instance the senate is very much acting as a court in deciding this very important question. and it does  fall into the mal category of committee activity where some things are done by a chairman without complete consultation. even though that ought to take place.
i think i k the chairman well egh to k that his dedication for fairness and to our system of jurisprudence is just as great as mine. i am  being critical in that sense at all. but clearly. and i am hoping sooner or later to give some remarks here. it seems to me that was a departure. if  from the law.  from senate custom. from a standard of fairness. i am just wondering in the matter of the investigation of new hampshire as to how many ex parte contacts there were either between the chairman and those that were a part of that investigation. or between majority counsel and those that were involved in that investigation. in other words. contacts without the presence of miity counsel and without miity counsel participating.
. along that line i would like to ask the distinguished ranking miity member a question. at the conclusion of this investigation in manchester. is it  true that this same majority counsel. mr. duffy. interviewed the two machine experts. mr. codie wimberly and mr. spooner hull. without the present of miity counsel. is that correct. is that the senators understanding. in other words. that these experts. who were supposedly acting on behalf of the committee and serving the committee as a whole. were interviewed outside the presence of counsel for mr. wyman.
does it mean that every time in this country from  on when somebody loses an election and there is allegation of fraud or corruption or illegality that they can come to the body which is controlled by their own party and say. "hey. i do  like the way they counted this back home. you fellows try it down here." i have trespassed on the time of the good senator from arizona. i will be glad. after the senator from arizona has concluded. to discuss this with the senator from rhode island.
i thank the distinguished senator from pennsylvania for his comments. which were very much in point and which show in clear fashion the difficulties confronting this body. and it speaks so eloquently for the best solution being put into place. that being the people of new hampshire deciding on their own representation. rather than 98 senators all of whom come from some other constituency. . it is  my intention to continue the debate much longer this aftern. i would hope that we have pointed up the discrepancies and the irregularities of procedure. which attended the counting or the examination of the machines in manchester. as has been stated. that in itself would constitute grounds for a mistrial. were this in a court of law. it is my intention and the intention of my colleagues to go to the second area of abuse by the committee. specifically the "skiplouie." "skipjohn" ballots. which will be discussed monday next i have further remarks at this time.
. i should like to direct a question or two to the distinguished senator from west virginia. in the document entitled "report of the committee on rules and administration"-i have the durkin position. although i imagine this might well be included in the wyman position. alsoin the introduction. on page 2. it is stated: the committee. after various attempts to reach a modus operandi to resolve the contest. voted unanimously on february 19. 1975. by 8 to 0. to adopt the following motion by mr. allen. as modified by mr. hatfields amendment. to extend the scope of its investigation to: (1) a recount of the approximately 3.500 ballol. before the ballot law commission 411 relation to the final results certified by the ballot law commission. (2) a consideration by the committee of all of the protests made by either party at any stage of the proceedings contemplating that the committee will take the appropriate steps on each protest to ascertain the validity of such protest and the accuracy of the count of the matter protested. my specific question to the distinguished senator from west virginia is to have him define for me. in relation to the amendment that he has here. the term "at any stage of the proceedings." in other words. would that include protests that were raised before the committee but were  necessarily raised in new hampshire.
that is right. i made a statement that they filled out an absentee ballot application. they testified before the rules committee that they did  vote. and yet those ballots in their names were cast. all i have asked in this amendment is that the matter be investigated because. in fact. the investigation was cut off at the pass by the panel which went to new hampshire. unfortunately we run into very much the same situation that we did on the machines. the "riddick" panel went to new hampshire. consisting of dr. ricdick. . senate office building: iay 9. 1975.
i will tell the senator again we  get into the area of fairness. unfortunately for the senators side the person who obtained the ballots came from democratic headquarters. if he had come from republican headquarters. and i was in a similar position as the senator. i would sure make certain that the miity. if that were the situation and it was reversed. had the opportunity for a full investigation. then at least you could say that you had done everything possible to ascertain what action had occurred. but that is  what was done. the fraud and illegality were established. and  even fairness has  been allowed to operate so as to find out what exactly happened. it could very well be that the fact of how they were cast might come up. i do  k. all i k is the investigation was stopped after the facts as i presented them. and. as i say. certainly from all the surrounding circumstances i think we have a fairly good indication or the presumptionlet us put it that waythat the ballots were cast for the democratic candidate.
without presuming to tell new hampshire what they should do. i think they probably would. the problem is. we are dealingvery frankly. we keep going down this route. and the senator will understand why i want this back in new hampshire. however. leaving that issue aside. that is a legal duty on the attorney general of new hampshire. we have today to decide an election. and by the last count. there was a separation of only a few votes. yet clearly here are two votes that most probably have been cast for the democratic candidate. and absolutely a fraud or illegality was involved. what if it hinges on just two votes. here are two votes in there and the presumption is they went to the democratic candidate. yet there has been hing but a surface investigation after the illegality. after the fraud was established. admitted by everybody. kn by everybody. and hing is done. maybe we can do anything. but a little bit in the way of investigation should be done. both for the absentee ballot application and the ballot itself. . we are  finding out what was done. the michauds did  vote those ballots. that went with the application.  even a handwriting analysis was taken. it was stopped cold. that is where we sit. all i am proposing isat least. in this instance it would have been the fair thing to do to avoid the controversy here on the floorthat the miity counsel be permitted to ask ellen michaud certain questions. as i say. gobetween. and two. to allow a handwriting analysis that we have requested. and that was denied.
all i can do is refer the distinguished senator from th carolina as to the actual proceedings themselves put forth by the court reporter. question. you are saying for the record you did  ever receive a ballot. answmn.  sir. question. and you did . therefore. vote a ballot. answer.  . what does the senator want.
incidentally. again in the record. the statement is made by . the senator from nevada. and asked if they could question - ellen michaud. the request was denied. as men of commonsense. do you think of this as though it was some extraneous party. this is absolutely a key person in the transaction. remember what happened by all accounts of the story. stanium goes to the michauds. gives them an application. they leave the application at ellen michauds. according to stanium the ballots are brought there and dropped off at ellen michauds. and yet a request is made to ask ellen michaud a question and it is denied. this in response to the question i forget whether it was from the distinguished senator from louisiana or the distinguished senator from th carolina. it is  a question of sending it back to new hampshire on this one item: should they have been able to question ellen michaud. incidentally. aher statement was madei can remember by which senatorwhether they wanted to subject a 77yearold man to take a lie detector test. they did . the request for a lie detector test was addressed to mr. stanium. the campaign worker of the democratic party. i have  tried to do anything but stick to the very facts which appear in the record. in any event. gentlemen. is there any question whatsoever that there is a great deal of confusion about this issue. i personally think it clear cut. regardless of trying to attach any criminal responsibilty. that there were two illegally cast ballots. mind you. there are two different functions. we are  the attorney general either of new hampshire or of the united states. our job is to go ahead and determine an election. their job is to get into the criminal aspects. whatever they may be. but in your own minds. leaving out the criminal side. are you satisfied that the right thing and fair thing was done in the case of these ballots. clearly the answer is  one can deny the fuzziness and the gray area that exists. that is our job to clear up
 i say to the distinguished senator from louisiana what is the purpose of my reading the record here on the floor. which i did 5 minutes ago. if the senator comes right back at me and says he never heard of it. i quoted page 1530 of the record where mr. van loan states. and i will repeat: this directly corroborates his own testimony that he never cast a ballot in this election. . if albert j. michaud is believed. it is fraud. we did  allege fraud. we did  have evidence of fraud. we knew there was a problem in nashua. and we have always been complaining about it. and we always requested that it be investigated. and we went up to nashua and we found what appears to be fraud in this particular case. . listen. to me it is very clear that. at the outset of this matter ody alleged fraud. once this committee was sent to nashua to take a look at the michaud complaint it became very clear. at least to counsel on this side that. yes. there was fraud. so this is  anything new here this morning. this is right in the record at page 1530.
 1. there was a general investigation because there were general allegations of difficulties with absentee ballots in nashua. as was indicated in the statement made by mr. van loan. then they went up to investigate and it is clear it was one of the matters gone into by the ballot law commission.
. i am prepared to vote on this matter. i do  want to prolong debate. i can only say this: i concede the fact that among these various issues in the resolution there can be a good deal of disagreement. votes. i repeat votes. should go both ways. i mean republicans and democrats mixing it up. i can see where we would disagree. it should  divide along party lines. gentlemen. on this issue there just is  any dispute. whether we want to term it illegality. whether we want to term it fraud. whether we want to call it confusion. we can name it what we will. but certainly the record.  what i say. the record established by the rules committee itself and by the investigation of the rules committee makes it clear that something went very wrong. it should  be resolved in a partisan way at all. but at least should be resolved in the sense of what the senator from connecticut is asking for. which is that a complete investigation be completed. yes. we run the possibility of reviewing 700 absentee ballots in nashua. that is a possibility. but with whatever reasonableness is required we should assure the country that we are  going to look the other way when a clear. at the least. gross act takes place. that we are  going to turn our heads. especially when we have had evolve upon us a quasijudicial duty to determine the results of that election. i certainly hope we do  get a tabling motion. i am prepared. as i say. to vote right . i would hope it is  a matter-
of course. there is question about it. but giving them less makes a far better deal for everybody that is left. it is  a very good deal for new hampshire. but it is better for every other state in the union. certainly. in my opinion. the unreasonable delay that has accompanied the execution of our constitutional duties. i think. very much flies in the face of the constitution. i think it would be subject to a court challenge.
i am  going to obviate that. justice department will continue to have access to tax information to insure the effective administration of the tax laws. with respect to tax criminal cases. justice department will be required to go through a court procedure to obtain such confidential tax data. remember each of us has a right. under the constitution. against selfincrimination. we have and can demand that right in court ourselves. i submit that when each of us fills out his tax return. we are. in essence. waiving. for a limited purpose. that constitutional right. if we extend this to the justice department. why should it  be available to the agriculture department. and it was. as was reported by representative litton in his investigations. why should it  be made available to the white house for any other purpose.
hing except insist that the justice department use our legal processes to do their work. john. for gosh sakes. they can go out there and avoid those legal processes and get convictions just like that. i remember the famous argument heard before justice black. in the supreme court decision which made it more difficult to close the doors. if you will. on a criminal. there is question about the fact that the provisions of the constitution make it more difficult to close the door on a criminal.
 what it will make the justice department doand the senator from colorado can correct me if i am wrongthe justice department can still utilize the irs. but they have to go through the court system. and  just walk across the street.
. that i am as tired as mv colleagues probably are of reminding them of the years past. in playing the constitutional "grump." in being the skunk at the confirmation garden party. but the fact is that it really does  do us much good to gain the kledge we have over the past several years if we do  make use of it. and i can assure you that that truth. much of which was brought forth by members of this body. is going to be iged with approval of this ination. we are  involved here in an historical review. the issue is  racial equality. the issue is  private schools. the issue which is the largest spiritual problem facing the country today is a lack of belief in the justice system. too many americans believe there are two standards of justice. one for the powerful and one for the weak. one for friends. one for enemies. such a belief. if allowed to continue. will be the cause of our own demise. i came to washington in 1968. at a time of violence and confrontation. here as in other parts of the country. i remember the establishment. be it the political establishment. the media establishment. or the educational establishment. trembling in its boots as to whether or  the nation was going to survive. and. as a final. last. desperate step. i remember that establishment turning to the nation and saying two things: "work within the system" and "believe in our system of justice." more so than the national guard. the d.c. police. the army. or anyone else. it was that reservoir of belief. which managed to right the ship of state in those violent times.  the ouestion has to be asked. in the light of what it is the country has learned since 1970. if confronted with such a crisis again. and the establishment once again turned to the american people and said. "believe in our system of justice." in the light of facts  kn. would there be a positive response on the basis of the condition of our justice system. or would the response depend on who it was that was asked. unfortunately. in the country today it probably would depend on the person being asked. because the fact is that individual after individualbased on kledge. longer on speculationbelieves that political friendship. personal friendship. ecoic status. political powerthat is what determines justice in the united states. you k. the significance of watergate for this body was  the guilt or the* inence of richard nixon. that was  our mandate. it was  our directive. the significance wasthe assault on our institutions and principles. and certainly one of those institutions was the justice department. let me read to the senate. if i might. the few pages that covered this point in my own report:
. today i am introducing legislation to make it an unlawful employment practice to discriminate against any individual who is physically handicapped. specifically. this bill would amend title vii of the civil rights act of 1964 to protect the physically handicapped from job discrimination in both public and private sector employment. by passing the civil rights act of 1964. the congress put itself and the nation on ice that discrimination based on race. color. sex. religion. or national origin would  be tolerated. and. since the enactment of that landmark legislation. many miity groups have made significant progress in achieving equal opportunity in housing. employment. and education. one group. however.  ineluded in that legislationthe physically handicappedcontinues to be the victims of discrimination. particularly in seeking employment. like all americans. the physically handicapped want to play an integral role in our society. to a large extent. this means having the opportunity to engage in meaningful employment. through such employment. they derive a sense of selfworth and dignity. yet. time and time again. they are denied the opportunity to make their contribution to society regardless of their skills or talents. americas physically handicapped deserve better than being treated like secondclass citizens. the handicapped do  want sympathythey do want opportunity. kking down the barriers to equal employment opportunities will allow every american to reach their potential. by mr. hatfield (for himself and mr. packwood):
. i wonder if i might direct several comments to the distinguished senator from th carolina in relation to his request. as the distinguished senator from th carolina ks. -there is a precisionlike investigation which goes into all of the determinations made by this subcommittee in regard to the various requests that come before it and. indeed. those investigations are what form the basis for the subcommittees decisions. it would be grossly unfair for the committee to say " to a request without having adequate facts to support such a "" likewise for an affirmative response to the request. quite frankly. i am  aware egh of the circumstances described by the distinguished senator from th carolina to pass upon this request. and i would  want to do so either affirmatively or negatively. i wonder if it might be sufficient for the purposes of the senator from th carolina if i give him my assurances that in this year ahead such an investigation will take place. specifically in relation to the matters which he has brought to the attention of the subcommittee at this time.
i would never want to agree to anything i can live up to insofar as the distinguished senator from th carolina is concerned. the matter of a supplemental is very much up in the air. i do  think we are going to have one at this time. i wonder if the senator from th carolina would allow me flexibility in this regard. i just can agree that such an investigation will take place at this time.
. the senator from south carolina correctly states the situation. every request that has come before the subcommittee on any department of the government which was a request for additional personnel to pursue certain activities. be it antitrust. illegal payoffs in the maritime industry. or whatever. we have tried to provide every cent that was asked for and every individual deemed necessary to pursue the ends of justice in any particular instance. apparently the confusion here is  as between the senator from massachusetts and the committees determinations. or on the appropriations committee. but rather within the administration itself. in its handling of this matter. apparently we are operating on two different paths with information we received in the course of our hearings. as related to us by the attorney general. apparently there has been a change of positions visavis the information the administration has furnished to the senator from massachusetts. i would suggest that we do have some time to try to resolve what the facts are. i would suggest that we accept the amendment of the senator from massachusetts. with the understanding that there be some additional discussions with the attorney general between  and the time the bill goes to conference.
. it is  our problem and i am asking what it is we expect of ourselves. an acceptance of corruption as a necessary part of government. ours  along with everybody elses. abandonment of our system of justice under law to the individual judgments of those primarily charged with enforcing the law. i do  want this speech to be one days news. there has been so much of that and so little acting on what we k. our job is to make certain. as best we can. that that which went wrong in the past will  happen again. that is a job belonging to all of leadership in this countryin and out of this chamber. if its idealistic. then for a change lets be idealistic.
. i rise to oppose the ination of mr. civiletti. i think i fairly completely set forth my reasons last week. i do  expect. from seeing the number of my colleagues that are in the chamber. that any more is going to be accomplished today than was accomplished then. apparently. few are as interested in the record or the facts of the situation as they apparently are in simply getting through a partisan ination. i think we are past the point where a nations system of justice can survive that type of approach to the second highest position in the department of justice of the united states. of prime concern to each one of us should be  the matter of getting through the inees of any particucxxiv--817part 10 lar administration. but. rather. the reestablishment of a belief in equal justice under the law among the american people. it should be of some concern that there is credibility in the justice system any more than there is very much credibility in the deliberations of this body. one is clearly linked to the other. we treat ourselves in so many ways as something special. and apparently justice in the united states treats itself as something special. this nation was conceived as a government of law.  a government of men. i think it can be truly said that whether it is a government of laws or a government of men is pretty much a 5050 proposition at this period in our history. matters which i referred to insofar as mr. civilettis qualifications were concerned related to his handling of the allegations of wrongdoing that have cropped up in the federal bureau of investigation during the past year. the commentary on his conduct in that matteri might add editorial comment. merely factual commentcame from members of his own departent. specifically where they recommended a particular course of action and where mr. civiletti agreed with those recommendations. a the time of pressure brought to bear by the attorney general of the united states. mr. bell. mr. civiletti wilted in the face of that pressure and. instead of insisting that the proper course of action be followed. concurred that the four members of the task force appointed by the former attorney general be relieved of their duties. that is a mighty sad commentary. i think. on the status of justice today. i wish that it were possible to recreate the scene in this chamber and. indeed. in this capitol a few years back. when every senator and congressman was insisting that politics be taken out of the justice department. was insisting that these men be professional in pursuit of their duties. and that we reestablish the faith of the american people in their system of justice. which apparently is longer a priority item. rather. it is to gr- back to a system that encourages ouiet. encourages special favor. encourages special treatment. anyway. when the votes are counted. i am sure that the position advocated by the distinguished senator from wyoming and me will.  get very far. i will tell the senate what is going to happen then. should this democratic administration  survive the 1980 election. the republicans will come roaring into the white house and they will say. "well. see the example the democrats set in 1978. so were just going to go ahead and do our thing." it will  be on the basis of professional competence but. rather. on the basis of party loyalty. on the basis of being able to take orders. and we will be back into that vicious circle of practice by both parties. which circle we hoped had been broken by the tenure of attorney general levi. and it will be business as usual.
department of the executive branch of government is more important at this stage of our history than the justice department of the united states. the survival of this nation depends upon the belief of the american people in that department and in the way that department accomplishes the task assigned to it. a government of laws will assure that everything we deem to be important and we deem to be of value will exist long into the future. a government of men will destroy all that in the twinkling of an eye
. i oppose the amendment of the senator from massachusetts. i think it is proper that we put this into perspective. all this great ranting and raving about how we are cutting back on attorneys and cutting back on the budget for the criminal divisionit is  true. even if the amendment of the distinguished senator from massachusetts is  adopted. there will be an increase in the number of attorneys in the criminal division. there will be an increase in the budget for the justice departmentincreases that have the approval of the office of management and budget. of the justice department. of the appropriations committee. as i recall the comments of the senator from massachusetts. he was berating his colleagues for voting through all these programs and then  supporting them in the way of personnel. that is  the case. the situation is simply that we are  supporting them in the way the senator from massachusetts believes they should be supported. the appropriations committee and the subcommittee have all voted increases in personnel in every one cf the divisions. the total number of positions in the 1978 appropriation was 2.486. the 1979 request was 2.727. and the committee recommendation was 2.727. what bothers the distinguished senator from massachusetts is that there was some shuffling around and that  as much emphasis was placed on criminal matters as was placed on the landnatural resources area. this is one of the determinations that the committee has to make. we are  lacking for attorneys. in the course of pursuing his requests in the criminal area it is indicated that we lack for professional help. whitecollar crime is mentioned. fraud is mentioned. political crime is mentioned. i ask the distinguished senator from massachusetts how many attorneys in the justice department right  are working on the a.t. & t. antitrust case.
the simple fact is that 704 positions in the criminal division were given in the 1978 appropriation: 717 is the number of positions agreed to by the committee for fiscal year 1979. that is an increase in positions anyway you cut it insofar as the criminal division is concerned. however. it does  come up to the 752 that were initially requested. the total number of positions. 2.727. has been agreed to by the appropriations committee. but it was felt that. due to the very eloquent and substantive requests made by other colleagues. other divisions of the justice department needed additional help. i think that. as much as i respect the distinguished senator from massachusetts. there are others seeking assistance. for example. the distinguished senator from arkansas pleaded for additional attorneys in the office of land resources. his request was met. we talk about organized crime. we talk about corruption. we talk about narcotics. but let us also understand that we asked for a number of new persons in the federal bureau of investigation. the various local law enforcement agencies. and 61 new u.s. attorneys. there has been an increased granted by this committee. we can go on and on and on. but i suggest that there are plenty of lawyers downtown. what we need right  are balances among those who are there and everybody working. that. i think. the committee has provided for in its apportionment of personnel.
. just to refresh the memory of my colleagues as to the budgets we are cutting across the board. we are. in effect. cutting the department of state. we are cutting the department of justice. and that includes the federal bureau of investigation. the immigration and naturalization service. the drug enforcement administration. the federal prison system. the law enforcement assistance administration. we are cutting the department of commerce. we are cutting the judiciary. and many other related agencies across the board. for reason. i might add. reason that has been offered at all. except it ought to be cut. the senator from delaware. i believe. in his comments has taken perhaps 5 or 6 minutes. five or six minutes is the reason why we should just cut it across the board. with respect to the drug problem in the united states. just cut it across the board. let us have a little less enforcement in that area. so far as organized crime is concerned. let us just cut it across the board. political corruption and that kind of crime. cut it across the board. so far as the adequacy of the supreme court of the united states is concerned. cut it across the board. the department of commerce and all of its activities relating to our ecoic viability and success at home and abroad. cut it across the board. i read:
madam president. the thrust of this amendment is to try and bring back into focus what has been to date a shamefully inadequate investigation of the korean influence peddling scandal by the senate ethics committee and which has been a shamefully inadequate piece of cooperation insofar as the government of south korea is concerned. unfortunately we were given a job to do. both the house of representatives and the senate. on a matter that related to the possible improper conduct of members of those two respective bodies. i can assure you as a former member of the senate ethics committee. as an observer of what has gone on over on the house side. and as a party to discussions between this branch and the executive branch of government. that here near the thoroughness and intensity of investigation that was demanded by these circumstances was applied in the instance of the korean influence peddling scandal. certainly here near the thoroughness and the intensity of a previous investigation of the executive branch of government undertaken by this branch and more particularly by this body in 1973. why this amendment on public law 480 funds. and it is a proper vehicle with which to insist on cooperation by the government of south korea. i think it must be clear to everyone that that cooperation has been here of the same quantity or quality that the cooperation of this country has provided to the government of south korea over the years: $13 billion since 1946 in military assistance. $13 billion. only second to our commitment to vietnam. and billions more insofar as food is concerned to that nation. i think that merited some form of cooperation. we k  that far from a situation of mutual trust and of assistance the government of south korea was in the process of bribing officials of this nation even while the people of this country. the taxpayers of this nation were giving of their generosity to the government of south korea. that is bad egh and that alone would warrant a complete review of our relationship. in any event. when the fact was discovered. then it seems to me that the least that was owed was total unrestricted. unqualified support and assistance in the investigation. that has  been forthcoming and  just by my evaluation. but by the evaluations of persons in the executive branch of government. later on the house side. later on the senate side. indeed. by that same senate ethics committee which in its report of may 22. 1978. said: a number of leads must yet be followed before the inquiry can be considered complete. for example. there is the on going investigation into charges that the former korean ambassador to the united states. kim dong jo. and possibly other korean officials or agents. made payments to some members of congress (though  necessarily to senators) or their families. efforts to obtain access to these officials has thus far proved fruitless. the korean government has  agreed to permit the committee to interview these officials on a facetoface basis. quite apart from granting permission to examine them under oath. thus. the inquiry to date. while substantial. is  yet complete. there are those who will say that the recent accession to written interrogatories is proof of such cooperation. and there is  one lawyer. including the special prosecutor over on the house side. leon jaworski. who would agree with that proposition. i will tell you what kinds of words you hear when you get written interrogatories without the opportunity of crossexamination. i have here the written interrogatories of the select committee on government operations of richard nixon. back in 1976. in interrogatory after interrogatory there are the words "i do  recall." "i do  recall." "apart from that incident. i do  recall." "except to the extent indicated. i do  recall." written interrogatories are worthless. so i want to anticipate the argument that will be used here on the floor that indeed we are getting cooperation. we have  gotten cooperation except for the limited appearance of tongsun park. and i will get to that in a minute. any steps which have been forthcoming have been under the most extreme duress. and i can assure you the government of south korea hopes the whole matter is going to blow over and go away. the difficulty with that. my colleagues. is that.  1. it strains our credibility as the appropriate body to investigate ourselves. and.  2. it invites such similar incursions into the integrity of this body in the future. the history of the matter demands that we act. and in the toughest possible way. i realize this is longer a popular subject in washington. d.c.. especially because it touches upon so many people. it is  one u.s. senator or one u.s. congressman. it involves both political parties. democrat and republican. it involves the national campaign committees of both political parties. it involves some of the better kn political legends of our time. it involves the executive branch of government as well as the congress. so ever since this matter started there has been the attempt to get it out of the way just as soon as possible and with as little trouble or as little se as possible. i hope here today that at least the senate will show it has the courage to insist upon the fullest possible type of an investigation. i said at the outset that the senate investigation was shamefully inadequate. and it was. to read from the same report. the report of may 22. 1978. let me read a statement. two paragraphs there. which are outright lies: special counsel determined at the outset to attempt to avoid broadening the inquiry beyond that necessary to accomplish the purposes for which he was retained. it was especially important to work as swiftly as thoroughness allowed because of the cloud hanging over the senate formed as a result of continually reiterated allegations and rumors in the press that widespread corruption in the congress had occurred as a result of the activities of tongsun parak and other koreans. special counsel opposed a suggestion that the committee include in its work an inquiry to determine to what extent. if any. highranking officials of the executive branch had kledge in the early 1970s of the activities of the korean central intelligence agency and tongsun park to influence the senate by improper means and. if so. whether those officials had failed to warn the congress. the basis for special counsels position was that the senate code of ethics prohibited senators from being improperly influenced or bribed whether or  they were warned of any plans to do so. he argued that there are  two standards of ethical conduct for senators: one for those who have been warned and one for those who have . ultimately. the commitee decided to leave this proposed aspect of the inquiry to the senate intelligence committee. which had already been working on it for a number of months. i have already had printed in the record verbatim the transcripts of march 23 and april 10. and it is absolutely clear in those transcripts that the only purpose for calling a group of witnesses. both korean and u.s. government officials. was to find out what kledge they had relative to the korean influence peddling scheme as it related to u.s. senators. that was the basis of the request. and that is  the truth in the report printed by the committee. let us talk about that request. we had just gotten through 1 weeks interrogation of tongsun park. is there anyone here who believes that he told anything other than that which we already knew by our investigations. as it related to agencies of the u.s. government. there was hing new that came forth during the course of that week. talk about blowing smoke. believe me. that happend insofar as tongsun park and that committee were concerned. i thought it essential that there be some form of other evidence. corroborative or otherwise. from sources which had within their kledge the very same information that  john] flynt has just said that in fact kims going to be in a position of answering committee questions. although he wont be under oath. apparently. is that sufficient in your mind. a: of course it isnt sufficient.... i will say it here. it is  sufficient. it was difficult egh dealing in front of the committee with that slime that kept on running through everybodys fingers called tongsun park. never mind about written interrogatories.
i thank the distinguished senator from missouri. this will be my final comment on the matter. the senator from illis keeps referring to that which a nation can do voluntarily. of their own volition. so far as cooperation is concerned. we are talking to the national equivalent of a felon. there is argument over the fact that the government of south korea bribed the government of the united states. ody is arguing that point. with that fact having been established. you do  go ahead and say. ". will you please give me your cooperation in the suit against you." indeed. the investigations against any one of the members of this body or the house are a further indictment of the government of south korea. the only way to produce the evidence is to hang on and squeeze. the vienna convention was mentioned. specifically. it is excepted in this amendment. may i point out that the vienna convention does  forbid testimony. it merely does  oblige the giving of testimony. to respond to the distinguished senator from kansas. this does  cut off $56 million of commodities to be purchased in this country. it means that $56 million is  going to go to the government of south korea. but it can go anywhere else. when this investigation started i introduced a similar motion within the committee. at that time the senator from illis asked that the consideration of that amendment be postponed. indeed. weeks went by until again consideration of such action did come up in the committee because the government of south korea was  cooperating. then all of a sudden because of the pressures brought by the justice department. the tongsun park arrangement was arrived at.  he wants to follow again the lead of the government of south korea. you k as well as i do. madam president. from having watched it. just as long as it drags out. everybody sitting around here and in the executive branch and in the government of south korea are hoping it is going to go away. "it has gone on too long. it is going to go away." the senator from illis asked for a resounding defeat. if members resoundly defeat this amendment. believe me. it adds to what so far has been a resounding cover up. witnesses  called before the committee. pressures  brought on the government of south koreathe story goes on and on in what i said at the outset was a shamefully inadequate investigation shamefully inadequate cooperation by the government of south korea. but at least it lies within each one of us to demand that the whole truth be put on the table. when the senator from kansas says that the price is too high. let us say that this meant that $56 million was  going to go into the pockets of americans. let us say that there was some retribution by the government of south korea. how do members think they will get the truth. the easy way. by sitting there and asking the nation that just bribed ours to give it to us on a silver platter. obviously. there is a price to be paid. a price to be paid in the sense of our harded investigations. letting the chips fall where they may. a price to be paid monetarily if they want to go ahead and engage in some sort of ecoic retribution. but then what are the priorities in this nation. ody believes this senate. ody believes the house or the president. i suggest of all the issues confronting us. this is the most important because until thit belief exists program can move forward. trust is the most important ingredient in a prospering united states. and certainly. trust has been engendered by the actions of the congress in the matter of the korean influencepeddling scandal. so i ask that it be resoundingly passed as one element of a oldsbarred investigation and as a condemnation of what went on in the past and a statement that we will  allow it in the future.
to be the conferees on the partof the senate. the message also annced that the senate disagrees to the amendment of the house to the bill entitled "an act to eliminate racketeering in the sale and distribution of cigarettes. and for other purposes." agrees to a conference with the house on the disagreeing votes of the two houses thereon. and appoints mr. eastland. mr. kennedy. mr. biden. mr. thurmond. and mr. hatch to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate disagrees to the amendments of the house to the bill entitled "an act to improve access to the federal courts by enlarging the civil and criminal jurisdiction of united states magistrates. and for other purposes." agrees to a conference with the house on the disagreeing votes of the two houses thereon. and appoints mr. eastland. mr. kennedy. mr.
. ed brooke can  hold his head high and never again be subjected to the innuendo associated with the investigation conducted by the ethics committee. i am happy with the committees decision to drop the probe but deeply saddened by the fact that the proceedings. and the manner in which they were conducted. cost the u.s. senate and the people of the great state of massachusetts a brilliant and compassionate voice which never shirked or wavered on key issues important to us all. the many years ed brooke served in the senate will testify to his legacy of ethical and moral standards of the highest order. equally important. ed brookes friendship and counsel will be dearly missed. ed brooke was subjected to a smear job. costing him his senate seat in the past election. in the final analysis. when he lost. we all lost.
i have to ask. is there a better argument on the need for a political attorney general or an independent special prosecutor. obviously. . i suggest. and indeed later today will introduce a resolution in the senate to provide. that in the absence of a special prosecutor. the senate establish a select committee. with full subpena and immunity powers. to offset this administrations justice by public relations. watergate was conceived in an igant apathy of the electorate and was executed in semiconscious apathy. but today. in the year 1979. the greatest danger of watergate is that it will be forgotten in an apathy of total kledge. of total kledge. there was a time when we could have excused our shortcomings as a matter of igance. but what goes on under our es today. if  acted upon. then. de facto. becomes the law of this nation. because we can plead igance. inaction by this body will only mean that congressional leadership has officially joined the nixon and carter administrations on the dark side of the governmental manhole.
ial financial transactions. to investigate the carter family businesses and related financial matters. i undertake this effort to reaffirm the principle that in this nation. we have one standard of justice which is beyond political or partisan approach. technicality in the law should stand in the way of a full and complete investigation of this matter to the satisfaction of the senate and the american people.*
. i say to my distinguished colleague that. in a conversation with the ranking miity member of the committee. the language has been suggested that the amendment read: funds appropriated under this act may be used for the purpose of providing for thethen add: licensing and approval of any disposal of nuclear wastes in the oceans. i think that will satisfy the point the senator raises. which is valid. that investigation of the consequences of such an act should certainly continue. at the same time. the point i am trying to raise is that i do  want somebody willynilly dumping in the oceans. what bothers me is that we are protected under the present law insofar as highly radioactive waste is concerned. but lowlevel radioactive waste is  covered. i think my amendment with new language would do it and cover both points. i should be glad to modify my amendment to include that language.
. first i concur with all the remarks made by the distinguished senator from south carolina. and to emphasize the point that if there is something to be done then it is  in the form of this amendment. rather let the senate repeal all civil rights statutes. we. try to strip the power of remedy away from the courts. we try to strip the powers of judgment and action from the justice department all because we are unable by legislative action to institute such an inane policy in this chamber. these end runs have to stop somewhere. and i hope they stop right here. the commitment of this government and all of its branches to equality. to equality of opportunity. to equality of education. is both demeaned and diminished by such end runs. important to all of us is the principle that when any appear before a court of law in this country we want to be able to obtain justice. we want independence for the judiciary. and whatever remedy is appropriate to our ill we want it applied. and for the legislative branch of government to come in after the fact and strip that type of independence. strip that power from the court. strip such judgment from the department of justice does  just demean situations as they exist today in this country relative to civil rights and equality of opportunity but guarantees that in the future the same could happen to the rights of any citizen of this nation. that is the danger of what we are tampering with. i will raise the parliamentary point as to this being legislation on appropriations bill and possibly the argument of germaneness will be raised. but that really is  the issue here today. if it were  for the fact that the committee itself is dedicated to preserving this principle of legislation on appropriations bills. i would be entirely satisfied to have this voted on up or down on its merits. and it has e. it has e. i think the time has come for all of us to understand that sooner or later each one of us is going to have our ox gored. and it does  mean we throw the whole system overboard because we lose one. more important than anything else in the nation today is acceptance every  and then under our constitutional system of everyone losing one. if indeed the system is independent that is the way it should be. so i hope that parliamentarily substantively and conceptually. this amendment will be defeated.
. i only respond on this issue by setting forth a hypothetical for my colleagues. if indeed you can restrict the options of remedy to justice. whether it be a court or whether it be the justice department and in this particular instance it takes the form of busing. why  any other recommendations. any other remedy. any other judgmentwhy  restrict them. there is end to it. as imperfect as some of the judgments might have been. or some of the remedies might have been. the fact is that the policy and the law of this land giving full meaning to the constitution and the concept of equality has been an unqualified success. and this is  a time to back off in the name of disagreement with a particular judgment or a particular remedy. there are apologies to be made. the condition of education for all of our children 40 years ago was much different than it is today. i do  yearn for the good old separate and unequal days. anything that is dared greatly will involve great mistakes. but never would i want to see remedies restricted insofar as the courts are concerned. judgments restricted insofar as the justice department is concerned or. the legislative initiatives restricted on this floor. this is what is at issue.  this particular complaint.
i thank the distinguished senator from washington. . may i ask the distinguished senator from washington to clarify the portion of the resolution dealing with the federal trade commission. i was initially concerned that the restriction on the use of funds "to initiate any new activities" might prevent the ftc from acting to investigate apparent violations of law during the effective period of the resolution. for example. suppose exxon and mobil suddenly annced a merger in october. will the senator confirm my understanding that the committee does  intend the proviso to prevent an ftc investigation of such a proposed merger.
. it is unfortunate commentary on our times that the larger the size of the business and the greater its wealth. the better able it is to make its voice heard. in the halls of government. it is a crime when justice is meted out according to who has the most expensive lawyer. it is a sin when clout goes to those with the largest lobbying and advertising budgets. the words on the supreme court building say "equal justice for all." should  there be equal treatment for all in the halls of congress.
. i urge my colleagues to closely examine this legislation which will reassure the american public that federal investigation into charges against top government officials will be carried out fairly and impartially. without even the merest possibility of deference to political office. we must take affirmative action to insure that the public trust in government is maintained. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill. together with a sectionbysection analysis of the bill and a comparison of it with the mechanism created in the ethics in government act of 1978 for the appointment of a special prosecutor. be printed in the record at this point.
. the federal trade commission was created by congress as an independent agency to protect against unfair trade practices and promote competition. congressional intent emphasized the need to create a regulatory body which would police the marketplace and thereby exempt the congress from daily deliberations on trade rules. i believe that to terminate these two proceedings "midstream" is premature and unwise. i urge my colleagues to support this important amendment.o
 carter to secure export licenses for military transportation aircraft. mr. heymann refused to answer any questions concerning this matter. relying on. among others. the provision of the ethics in government act which prohibits any documents supplied to the three judge panel from being disclosed without the courts permission. when asked why materials pertaining to the hamilton jordan investigation had been made public. mr. heymann observed that the justice department had asked the court to make that information public. thus. under present law. it is left entirely up to the attorney general to determine whether congress or the public will even k whether there have been allegations of highlevel misconduct. whether these allegations have been investigated. and the results. mr. heymann ackledged this fact in the following colloquy in which we engaged during the hearing: senator weicrex. but in effect what you are telling me ... is that the mechanism for the special prosecutor is totally within the hands of the administration and there is reason for anybody to ever find out whether or  the mechanism has even been contemplated or whether it has been used. or whatever.
. when the senate turns to the consideration of s. 2377. the department of justice authorization bill. i intend to propose. for myself and senators laxalt and hatch. an amendment which would modify the special prosecutor provisions contained in the ethics in government act of 1978. this amendment contains the provisions of s. 2625. which i introduced on april 30. my introductory remarks on the bill are found on page s. 4401 of the congressional record for that day. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the amendment be printed in the record.
 carter to secure export licenses for military transportation aircraft. mr. heymann refused to answer any questions concerning this matter. relying on. among others. the provision of the ethics in government act which prohibits any documents supplied to the threejudge panel from being disclosed without the courts permission. when asked why materials pertaining to the hamilton jordan investigation had been made public. mr. heymann observed that the justice department had asked the court to make that information public. thus. under present law. it is left entirely up to the attorney general to determine whether congress or the public will even k whether there have been allegations of highlevel misconduct. whether these allegations have been investigated. and the results. mr. heymann ackledged this fact in the following colloquy in which we engaged during the hearing: senator wecker. but in effect what you are telling me . .. is that the mechanism for the special prosecutor is totally within the hands of the administration and there is reason for anybody to ever find out whether or  the mechanism has even been contemplated or whether it has been used. or whatever.
. in response to the senator from arizona. i imagine that this is a problem that is confronted continually by the justice department. by those who are involved in the investigatory process. indeed. if the information was improperly disclosed. i think it would jeopardize an individuals rights. as the senator from arizona well ks. my difficulties with the abscam investigation have hing to do with the fact of the methods used and have hing to do with the fact that politicians were investigated. they had to do with the leaks and disclosures which jeopardize individuals rights. we all have the same rights. it does  make any difference whether it is a member of the executive branch. congressman. senator. or the man on the street.
 because my amendment does  affect the trigger -of the act. i do  see where the amendment posed by the senator from connecticut would in any way under the circumstances described by the senator from arizona create a burdensome situation such as he has described. again. the amendment reads: the attorney general shall ify the chairman and ranking member of the committees on the judiciary of the senate and the house of representatives whenever an investigation is initiated on the basis of specific information received under the provisions of subsection (a) of this section. it seems to me if there is new information sufficient to trigger the act. yes. the attorney general would have to ify the chairman and ranking member. if it is the same information. i do  see why he would. as the information would  trigger the act.
well. in addition. the amendment would prohibit the appointment of a person as special prosecutor who is involved in an ongoing matter with the federal government other than as counsel for a party. obviously somebody would be eligible there. but where that person is himself potentially involved as a target of a federal investigation he obviously is  in the position to be chosen as the special prosecutor. so that is also in there. as i cite it in the present case.
in effect. what the distinguished senator from south carolina is saying is that the proper committee of the senate. proper in the sense of dealing with this matter. is  going to deal with it and. therefore. the duty should fall on the appropriations committee. well. believe me. it is egh for the appropriation committee to do just to see to it that the proper moneys are expended in this country for the various endeavors and the various agencies without getting into the business of policy. as is properly handled by his committee. but i am going to go beyond that. if you want to raise the issue let us talk about the constitutional aspects of it. let us talk about the policy. very simply put. it is just a question as to whether or  the justice department of the united states is going to have the necessary moneys to enforce the law. it is as simple as that. . it is  an issue of forced busing. it is an issue as to whether or  the appropriate remedies are going to be applied. whatever those consist of. when and if. and only when and if. an illegality has been determined. if you let this amendment go through what you are saying is even though an illegality has been adjudicated "we are going to restrict the remedies at hand to deal with it." that is what is involved. it is as simple as that. the justice department is the one that appropriately has to bring the action. the justice department is the one charged with enforcing whatever it is. whatever determination the court arrives at. to say that funds will be used in effect says. "well. the court can say anything it wants to both in the determination of what is wrong and the remedy to what is wrong. but. believe me. as a de facto judgment of the court it will  go into effect." this is  an issue or is  a debate on whether busing is a good or bad remedy. that is  at issue. i am sure there are mountains of evidence that indicate it does  work. and other mountains that say it does. that is  the issue. it is merely the capacity of the department of justice to enforce the laws of this nation. to enforce the judgments of its courts. and on that basis i would hope that my colleagues would support the committee and reject any motion to table.
. i would only have to remark to my distinguished colleague from south carolina that the committee put language into the bill which raised the issue to one "group" or aher group in this country. the language was put in obviously plainly to one group or aher. the committee has said that the law ought to be applied equally to everyone. there was one singled out in the appropriations bill. it was the language put in there by the house which raises the issue. it is language being advocated by the distinguished senator from south carolina that raises the issue. indeed. as far as i am concerned. the action of the committee wipes out any language whatsoever. . as to whether or  there is a total lack of discrimination in the united states. i would hope there is. but i am certain in the state of connecticut there is discrimination and. indeed. if i am saying to the justice department "you have right to go into the state of connecticut in those instances where there are allegations of discrimination." it seems to me i am denying a segment of my constituency their constitutional rights. it is just as simple as that. it is the senator from south carolina who makes reference to the south. indeed. i think the south has done much better in the sense of obeying the laws and the principles of our constitution than have the thern states. so there is debate on that issue. but clearly what is being said here is that the law will be applied equally to all. you see. the trickiness of the language is interesting. and let me quote it: part of any appropriation contained in this act shall be used by the department of justice to bring any sort of action to require directly or indirectly the transportation of any studentwell. the minute you say "indirectly" that would mean technically they could  bring any action at all because it might result in a busing order. so. in effeet. their hands are tied on any sort of civil rights prosecution. i am sorry. but i think that goes a little bit beyond the pale that anybody on this floor would believe in. i am ouite preparedthere is point in our rehashing an argument which has taken place here for the past several years. i think you have eloquently stated your case. senator. and maybe i have  so eloquently stated mine. but why  make your motion and let us get to a vote.
let me just. if i can. recount briefly in a matter of 2 minutes exactly what happened. the bill came over here to the senate. it excluded rape and incest. i proposed language which was to continue the present law. which was the hyde language. which i have found consistently to be abhorrent. but i supported it and offered that as a substitute. and also eliminating the bauman amendment and the ashbrook amendment. if you will recall. in an effort to table my language that lost. whereupon the distinguished senator from nebraska. in conjunction with the distinguished senator from th carolina. offered language which. in effect. put the bauman language back in. but left rape and incest. left the present law as a part of the language. what we tried to do. in other words. was to accommodate the situation here on the senate floor. taking the hyde language in toto and adding the new bauman language from the house. when we walked into the conference downstairs our friends from the house said. "we still have got to have something more to go back with. even though you have given us the bauman language." so. in essence. what they tried to do was to take the section on rape and incest and make it meaningless. gentlemen and lady. i propose that certainly here we are right at the 1foot line on some rather basic concepts and some basic rights. in 48 hours somebody is supposed to report rape or incest. with the trauma and the shock associated with that in 48 hours. that must be done or you give up your right. so really you have at issue two situations here: first. the substance of the matter. i can believe that anyone of my colleagues feels that a woman should bear a child to term which has been conceived under circumstances of rape or incest. i can conceive of that by anybodys logic or philosophy. second. just as important. is the process. where indeed there was an accommodation on the floor. i do  assume. when i am talking to jesse helms. the senator from th carolina. or the senator from nebraska that i am talking in a vacuum. i assume there is some meeting of the minds on the other side of this issue of those who have been involved in the issue. be it in the house or be it in the senate. but the accommodation process has to stop somewhere along the line. i hope in this instance the senate will recognize how far it has gone in order that this will  stop the wheels of government. in order that all points of view can be accommodated. albeit in a manner that most of us would disagree with. as being legislation on this continuing resolution. so then i also say i hope it will go back to the other body as a matter of procedure. tecause what we are  going to have is a compromise on top of a compromise. there is senate language. it is all house language. it is the hyde language plus bauman. and  we have to have additional house language. so as to the integrity of this body and the appropriations committee. as a matter of procedure i hope that this body will send the matter back to the house in the terms of what has been spoken for here which. at least under the rape and incest 48 hours confirmation of pregnancy. halves the period established as defining "prompt" of 60 days to some 30. 31. 32 days.
. i support the modification because. for the first time. it sets matters in aher direction. in the sense that it removes incest from the reporting requirement. i am  satisfiedi still have the same arguments against 72 hours. but at least. it shows a willingness. i think. for this house to assert itself in the terms of forming the substance of legislation around here. without having it rammed down our throats by the house. in that sense. i think it is worthy of our support.
 . that has been taken away by the thurmond amendment. the thurmond amendment. which is section 607 of the bill. clearly restricts the latitude of what it is that the justice department can ask for in the way of remedies for constitutional violations. and it is necessary for the justice department. when it presents its case. to bring to the cognizance of the court. in addition to whatever violations of law are alleged. possible remedies. these things just do  pop up in the mind of the court in the absence of presentation by parties before the court.
again. we can go around in a circle on the issue of whether it might  be a remedy. there is point in our arguing. i might take it one step further to indicate that the justice department or the court can do whatever they want. willynilly. in the area of busing. that has been clearly defined by supreme court decisions. in dayton board of edue. v. brinkman 433 u.s. 406. 420 (1977). the supreme court reiterated what it had said earlier in keyes against denver school district that the remedial powers of the federal courts are called forth by violations and are limited by the scope of those violations. i quote from the brinkman decision. "once a violation is found. the federal court is required to tailor the scope of the remedy to fit the nature and extent of the constitutional violation." so it is  a question that. just willynilly. the court can order busing. a series of supreme court decisions makes that clear. the circumstances under which a remedy can be ordered are very carefully defined. what i am arguing against is limiting either the presentation to a court by the justice department or. in a sense. what can be ordered by the court. let us say that everybody decided that busing is good. let us say that it was felt that the remedy lay in the improvement of the education system. and to achieve such improvement would require a $1.000 tax on the head of every american. let us say that was the remedy. congress. following the example of what we are doing here. could say. "i do  like that remedy. i do  like busing. i do  like that change in lifestyle. but neither do i want to see any money go forward for such a requirement. so let us go ahead on the floor . of the senate and propose an amend.  ment that says such remedy can b( presented by the justice department of the united states and we shall do it b the indirect method of controlling the - justice department by virtue of the power of the purse." i might add on the last point. i think l the thurmond amendment is unconstitutional anyway. i do  think the legislative branch can. by the power of the purse. do what is constitutionally impermissible and control what is properly within the jurisdiction of the judiciary. let me read to you a letter i received . from the dean of theastern university school of law. michael meltsner: dear senator weicker: thank you for your letter of october 29th regarding h.r. 7584. you request my opinion of the constitutionality of the provision passed by the house of representatives and whether the proposed amendment would remedy any constitutional defect. in my judgment h.r. 7584 violates the equal protection guarantees of the fourteenth and fifth amendments for the simple reason that its purpose and effect remove from judicial cognizance what may prove a necessary remedy to eliminate illegal discrimination. the failure of the provision to mention race does  remove the constitutional infirmity anymore than the failure of the ordinance in the famous case of yick wo v. hopkins. to mention orientals. remedied the constitutional defect in that legislation.  does the use of the power of the purse convey on congress any greater power to bring about what would otherwise be unconstitutional. invidious discrimination. i believe the proposed amendment may very well save the constitutionality of the resolution. however. i see reason to restrict the violations exempted to those of the fifth and fourteenth amendments. while these are the provisions of law most relevant. the failure to exempt violations of any constitutional guarantee may cause mischief in the future should the nature of the constitutional claims involved in such litigation ohange. aher letter. from professor pollitt at the university of th carolina at chapel hill. echoed this opinion on the unconstitutionality of the thurmond amendment: dear senator weicker: thank you very much for your letter of october 29 inviting me to comment on the pending legislation regarding remedies in school desegregation cases. i enclose an article i wrote on the subject back in 1972. my observations are just as good  as they were then. in brief. i do  believe the legislative branch of government can control the outcome of cases and controversies properly within the jurisdiction of the judiciary branch.  do i think the legislative branch can achieve this result indirectly by controlling the purse of the department of justice.
the supreme court has stated very clearly that without the power to bring about busing to remedy constitutional violations. the brown against board of education decision is worth hing. that has been firmly established by the supreme court. i do  want to be dissuaded and i do  want my colleagues to be distracted from the shift to a discussion here of busing. that is  what is at issue. what is at issue is the capacity of the justice department of the united states to bring any action. request any remedy. without restriction by the congress of the united states. what is at issue is the independence of the courts in their power to adjudicate and in their power to fashion a remedy for a constitutional violation. i repeat. we can go down the checklist of all those things that are unpopular and. by using the power of the purse. prevent the issue from being brought before the judiciary branch. today it might be busing. tomorrow it might be taxes required to achieve equality of education. eventually. it would be impossible for the judicial system to remedy a violation. to return to the question of the senator from california. in th carolina state board of education against swann. the supreme court concluded that the prohibition against school assignments on the basis of race against the background of segregation in the case could  withstand constitutional challenge. otherwise. to quote the court it "would render illusory the promise of brown against board of education." the court concluded on this point: just as race. on balance. must be considered in determining whether a constitutional violation has occurred. so also must race be considered in formulating a remedy. swann. 402 u.s. 43. 46 (1971) that is the law of the land. for one aspect of the leadership of the united states of america to say. "we have had egh of this business of equality. we have had egh of this business of due process. it has become a little too long and a little too painful and a little too costly in the political sense"-believe me. this is a disgrace that the union can ill afford. there might be some bad judicial decisions. and some bad law might even be passed. but the inability to take or the willingness to abandon the mantle of leadership in the face of adversityparticularly political adversityis something that surpasses all in the evil it creates. what will the lesson be. during the past couple of months. when i discussed the inability of congress to come to grips with many problems confronting the nation. i used this amendment as a humorous example. where 27 senators of the united stateseven though i won the motion by a vote of 54 to 27said that the justice department can enforce the constitution. it would bring down the house every time. we do  need any more of that around this place. we need men and women to stand up and say. "yes. the law will be enforced." we need leadership from here
i thank the distinguished senator from south carolina. i will be very brief. . this body. the u.s. senate. never was intended to act with a big finger to the wind. we are  a bunch of poll takers here. we are supposed to provide leadership for the country. if we just want to have the polls tell us how to vote. there is point in any of us being here or spending time on the job. this is one of those times when leadership is called for. it is difficult to stand up. especially in light of some of the prevailing moods in this country. and speak loudly and firmly for all the rights contained in the constitution. it becomes more and more difficult as the country becomes more and more affluent and forgets its origins. i am  speaking for busing. i am speaking for individual rights and for the protection of those rights. for equality of opportunity. and for the effective enforcement of the law. that is what i am speaking for. i hear the words " desirable.  practical." i do  care about desirability. i care about what is legal. if the law of the land has been exceeded. as has been implied here. on the floor by other. in brown against board of education and subsequent decisions. then go ahead and say so in court. i am sure that if you are right you will be upheld. at least you will have an impartial hearing without a preordained result. but do  imply that something has been exceeded and that. in effect. what is going on  is illegal. it is  illegal. what is going on  is the law of the land. there has been reference to the bottom line. i believe that what the bottom line gets right down to. so far as the weicker amendment is concerned. is merely a reaffirmation of the constitution of the united states and the enforcement of that document. the senator from south carolina makes comments as to what the justice department can or can do under the weicker amendment. the way this amendment affects the weicker amendment is that if a court imposes busing as a remedy. then. under the helmsthurmond amendment. the justice department has to get out of the case. that is it. they must get out. justice is unable to participate. because the helmsthurmond amendment says that justice can initiate or participate "in litigation to secure remedies except busing." the minute the court raises the possibility of a remedy of "busing." the justice department has to get out of the case. it can participate. i realize that this helmsthurmond amendment raises the issue in its most inflammatory way and really puts the feet of the various members to the fire. i hope that when they walk in here. however. they are  misled. busing is  the issue. at issue are the rights of every american and the integrity of our courts and of our justice system. as well as the government of the united states. busing as an issue will be gone tomorrow or next week or next month. because we will become equal under the law. so it will be gone. it longer will be the issue. but then some other issue will occur. and the principal established here. as to the congress dictating remedy and method of enforcement. all of a sudden will take hold on that particular issue. the princinlethat is what is being voted on here today. i hope the helmsthurmond amendment will be defeated.
there is  much of a response i can give to that. at least. the senator from arizona speaks his mind. i suppose the best way i can put this into its proper context is this: let me change a few words in the amendment. senators will e that our subcommittee covers the departments of state. justice. commerce. the judiciary. and related agencies. we cover the federal judiciary. including the supreme court. what if i changed the words in the helmsthurmond amendment to say. "provided hing in this section shall be interpreted to prevent the supreme court from participating in cases to secure remedies except busing." there you see the real issue. in that language we have the appropriations process used to restrict the judgments of the supreme court. if you can do it here with the justice department. there is reason in this appropriations bill. which covers the supreme court. why the same reasoning can be. applied to the supreme court of the united states. that is why the principle is wrong. when my case is being decided by the supreme court. with due respectand i love you alli do  want you in on the case. i want an independent and free judgment made on the merits or demerits o.f my case. that would  be the case. under the principles which are established here. my good friend from south carolina states that busing is  required by the constitution. that is absolutely right. it is  required by the constitution. i do  see the word "busing" in the constitution. but i will tell you what is required by the constitutionindependence for the three branches of government. and most particularly that of the judicial branch. that is required. the fact that there is the ability there to uphold the rights of all the citizens in a free and independent way is in the constitution. the fact that there is due process for all is in the constitution. the fact that we are all equal is in the constitution. what good is it to have all those words if it can in practice come to pass. i saw initiatives by any political entity in this country that brought about the situation that exists today. imperfect as it is. except those that were required by the courts or the voting rights act and very few other pieces of legislation.
. i am convinced that the bumpers amendment language is a necessary plank in any viable approach to regulatory reform. a fundamental premise of our system of government is that the courts interpret and apply the law.. they aie the ultimate authority on -all legal questions. it simply makes sense for courts to decide independently whether an agency has exceeded its authority. without deference to the agencys interpretation regarding the extent of its aulthority. it is folly to expect an agency to be objective about the limnits on its authority. and many court decisions encourage federal bureaucrats to iabuse their power. a recent opinion of the u.s. supreme court presents a good example. in environmental protection agency as...nst national crushed stone association. decided only. 5 months ago. the court had this to say: when faced with a problem of statutory construotlon. this court shows great deference to the interpretation given the statute by the officers or agency charged with its adnistration. in my view. this is  the way congress intended the system to work. the court.  the agency itself. should decide whether the agency has overstepped its authorit. and -the language of section 5 of this bill makes this clear. here is a brief explanation of the provisions of section 5 of this bill. polwcy the amendments to section 708 of the administrative procedure act are premised on the basic constitutional principal that in a representative democracy. legisiativj power shall be exer3ised by elected representatives and  by unelected officials who are  directly responsible to the electorate. the delegation doctrine requires that there be mechanismrs for controlling the exercise of delegated regulatory power. the mechanisms are the requirements that when the legislature delegates power it must establish an "intelligible principle" to govern the delegate. and that the judiciary will hold invalid actions which are  authorized by the statutory delegation. in the words of mr. justice reedan agency may  finally determine the limits of its statutory power. that is a judicial function. sociat security board v. nferotlco. 827 u.s. 858. 809 (1948). the insertion of the word "independently" in the introductory sentence of section 706 reemphasizes this primar role of the courts.
 of the united states to speak out for the program. ody is going to deny the few abuses that can be pointed toand. i might add. are pointed to with relish by the opponents of the program. they have occurred in every program ever conceived by congress or the executive branch of government. the fact is that this program works because it takes the differences of our society and places them in the courtroom rather than on. the streets of the united states. and that. again. distinguishes our societythat everybody does have an opportunity to be heard. everybody has a right to the protection of those guarantees afforded them by the constitution of the united states. but all this takes place. in a courtroom and  on the streets. yes. there have been ltvo standards of justice in this countryone for the strong. whether in terms of politics or ecoics or race. and one of the weak. this society can survive under those circumstances.  can it survive if even the perception is one of two standards of justiceone standard of justice both in reality and in perception. that gives us the strongest possible type of nation. so i hope we will resoundly defeat this amendment. i can assure my cola leagues that  only will this amend--. mnent be defeated here on thi floor. but also. i can assure my good friend and colleague. senator hatch. that come next week. in conjunction with senator eagleton and others. it -will be my intention to see to it that the legislation is reauthorized. and that goes as a signal  only to my friends on this floor but also to the administration. in an earnest plea for their support. for too long. this subject has been demagoged and sniped at. without understanding of the basic rights that are involved. without understanding that the alternative is lawlessness. the alternative is violence. the alternative is the resolving of disputes in the streets. let us reject this amendment. and let us get on with the business of assuring that every americanevery americanhas the same standing in the eyes of the law and the laws of this nation
the senator is absolutely correct that though the buzzword "busing" is used. should this amendment pass. it establishes the principle of what it is the justice department can do. even there. i might add. it is very imprecise in the language used "require directly or indirectly the transportation." well. that means anything. what it effectively does. it removes the justice department of the united states from all discrimination cases. that is what it does. the senator is also correct when he asks. is there a pattern being established. yes. i say to the senator. there is a pattern being established.
the senator is correct. the senator is correct in asking the question: who will redress the grievances and the wrongs if there is justice department. if you restricted the jurisdiction of the courts. if you deprived the citizen of counsel. what then. good question. what then. colleagues. lawyer. justice department. court. the senator from maryland has brought it to its logical conclusion. its logical end. what then. the streets. every man becomes his own law. the rule of numbers. the rule of majority. in the physical sense. we can have all these agreeable endings. funding. rules of the game. traffic cop. we can have it that way.  in a government of laws. these are the issues that confront all of us here this aftern. it would be easy egh to let this go through. the bill is  of great import. i suppose what is done with the amendment in the justice department. in the executive branch. pretty much determines whether it has any meaning or . i suppose it would be possible to circumvent the senates will. but that just can happen anymore. it has happened too much and that is the reason why we are in this catch 22. we are  going to handle these delicate matters. these tough decisions. we are going to pass the buck. we pass it and when it comes back to us in a form we do  like. then we are going after the person who did make the decision. that is the reason. more. those of us my age and older remember that famous baseball umpire. bill klein. he used to stand out there at second base. you did  have sort of billy martin type incidents. with anybody coming up and poking at him or butting him. he would walk away. when he got to around second base. he would turn around and the manager of the player was following him. he would take his foot and draw a line in the dirt. if you went over that line. you were out of the game. that is what is being done here with this amendment and all that it embodies. we have walked away. we have walked away  for years on our commitments to the constitution. on our commitments to principle. we have asked others to go ahead and take upon their shoulders  our perks but our responsibilities. when we do  like the way they execute what was originally our responsibility. we even try to strip them of the ability to do what we should have done in the first place. the constitution of the united states and everything it says is never going to be easy for any generation. the very words themselves guarantee change and .s6286 turbulence. disagreement. but when we give up in those areas in terms of peace and quiet. we have achievedthis is  a promise but it is a statement of factwe have achieved the advancement of a lifestyle for an entire society. i want to make clear in these comments that this is  a regional issue. the hate. the discrimination. which so many people visualize in their minds as pertaining to the south pertains as much to my state of connecticut and new england. i remember as i was growing up and reading about u.s. senators how it was continually stated to me that the reason why we did  get any civil rights legislation was because "a few southern senators were filibustering." that was an excuse that an entire nation hung on. you see. we could point our finger at the other fellow and we never had to involve ourselves. so the excuse was "a few southern senators blocked the civil rights legislation." but it was  so. the nation did  want civil rights legislation. and when it did. when it was inspired to action. we got it. filibuster could stem the tide of commitment by the american people. so this never was a southern issue and it is  today. it is a constitutional issue. an american issue. an issue that should be near and dear to each one of us. but the time has  come to say what we have done has been wrong or has failed. it has succeeded mightily. in the area of education being touched upon here today. what has happened within our own lifetime. it used to be that a good education could only be had in a private school. that is  so today and it has  been so for a long time . education in our public schools is as good if  better than that in our private schools. the fact is that in job opportunities baed on education. black had any opportunity whatsoever unless it was in some sort of serving capacity.  look around you and see who have the managerial capacities. see who the senators. the congressmen. and mayors are and those who serve on our staffs. you k that came to pass by virtue of education. so it did  fail. but it is failing  if that goes through. then that is the end. we have admitted x percent to our society as equals and more. the club is closed. yofi can have it that way. the nation then closes. i would hope that this matter would come off the floor. it has place in this bill in the senate. what they do in the house is their business. my own feeling is if there is ever a time when we can step back and look at ourselves and the value of the constitution and of the laws of this nation in relationship to what it is we do. it is right . ody is up for reelection. if it does  happen . it can happen when you get close to 1982. i can assure you. if there is an ounce of courage out there. this is the time to go ahead and lay it on. . i will  resume my reading of the congressional research service document on civil rights.
. for the information of my colleagues i will review the parliamentary situation with regard to the pending measure. s. 951. the department of justice authorization bill for fiscal year 1982. when the first committee amendment to the bill was reported yesterday. the senator from th carolina offered an amendment to the committee amendment to add the followlowing new language: part of any sum authorized to be appropriated by this act shall be used by the department of justice to bring or maintain
s. i think he owes as much to the people of this country to assure that in terms of constitutional structure the house of state is intact. the policies and philosophies of his administration have hing to do with the argument that i  present to my colleagues. that is a matter that we can go up and down on hundreds of votes that will take place during the course of the next several years. we will agree and we will disagree. he will be adjudged or his administration will be adjudged on that basis also. i am confident that when he writes that record that reelection will be assured him. but as to the business of the constitution and the structure of this government. the checks and balances. the minute this becomes a partisan or a philosophical issue then the greatness of the nation is neither assured  will it be long lived. the supreme court reiterated in dayton board of education v. brinkman. 433 u.s. 406. 420. (1977) that the remedial powers of the federal courts are called forth by violations and are limited by the scope of those violations: once a constitutional violation is found. a federal court is required to tailor "the scope of the remedy" to fit "the nature and extent of the constitutional violation" . . . the remedy must be designed to redress that difference. and only if there has been a systemwide impact may there be a systemwide remedy. thus. the courts are limited to restoring the plaintiffs to the position they would have occupied had they  been subject to unconstitutional discrimination. limitation of the justice departments authority to litigatein any mannerto remedy unconstitutional segregation would be unconstitutional. in 1977. congress passed an eagletonbiden amendment which would prevent hew from administratively requiring school desegregation by transporting students beyond the closest school. however. it left intact the justice departments enforcement authority. a federal district court upheld the constitutionality of the amendment on the grounds that congress specifically left unaffected justice departments litigative authority: but the fact remains that the amendment leave(s) untouched the litigation enforcement option that permits the civil rights division of the denartment of justice. upon referral of a case from hew. to pursue legal action and obtain the full measure of appropriate relief. including student transportation. if warranted. against the offending recipients. brown v. califa 455 f. supp. 837. 840 (d.d.o. 1078). the district court emphasized that only the continued ability of the justice department to litigate effectively supported the constitutionality of the amendment: this conclusion (of constitutionality) however. embodies only a view concerning the facial constitutionality of the . . . disputed provisions . . . should further proceedings in this case reveal that the litigatioq option left undisturbed by these provisions can. or will . be made into a workable instrument for effecting equal educational opportunities.-the court will entertain a renewed challenge by plaintitfs on an as applied basis. (emphasis in original) brown v. califa 455 f. supp. at 843. in upholding the constitutionality of the amendment. the court of appeals also relied on the unbridled ability of the justice department to litigate violations of constitutional rights. to avoid constitutional doubts. we must proceed on the assumption that congress intended the department of justice to act with the greatest dispatch. brown v. califa  781864 (d.c. cir.. january 31. 1980). slip op. 25. as the amendments also leave in place the enforcement options at the department of justice. we can find that on their face they "restrict. abrogate. or dilute" the guarantee of equal protection.
senator. my position is that is exactly what the legislation does. let me try to answer the senators questions step by step. first of all. the senator says. "how is it that we are  having a voice vote on the weicker amendment. which merely requires the justice department and the courts to enforce the constitution".  i do  want to lose my right to the floor. but i certainly would like to have senator helms answer your question because i can conceive of how any member of the u.s. senate can vote against the constitution being enforced by the justice department or the judiciary. i do  k how anybody can go ahead and vote against that. unless they feel that. in the recesses of their heanrs. they really just do  want a judicial system. they do  want any independence of decision. i fail to see where any possible harm. ulterior motive. or deviousness could enter into the justice department and the courts in enforcing the constitution of the united states. i do . as far as i am concerned. i am willing to have it taken by a voice vote right .
fortunately. the constitution will be here long after the senator is gone. i might add. thank the lord that those words. those concepts are going to be here and they will be in place. regardless of what either of our philosophies are. parties are. regions. whatever. they will be here and they will guarantee the rights. the impartial adjudication of rights. for all americans.  the senators adjudication. on the second part of the question of the senator from rhode island. what. effectively. it does. to the justice department. if we take a look at the helms amendment where it says. "part of any sum authorized to be appropriated by this act shall be used by the department of justice to bring or maintain any sort of action to require directly or indirectly the transportation of any student to a school." how is the justice department going to k where a matter ends up. here they are saying you can appear in court. that is what they are saying. you can appear in court because this might directly or indirectly end up in busing. how do they k. it removes the justice department of the united states from effectively pursuing any matters of discrimination.
let me get my chroogy in order. the president threatened to veto. i will get the precise response. on december 4. 1980. president carter indicates he will veto the state. justice appropriations bills because of the collinsthurmond language. because it impairs the governments ability to enforce our constitution and the civil rights act. on december 10. 1980. the senate accepts a weicker amendment that eliminates the collinsthurmond language from the state. justice portion of the continuing appropriation bill. because the state. justice portion is effective for all of fiscal year 1981. it means. in effect. that it had effect. or the language was removed. in conforence on the continuing resolution. the collinsthurmond language was dropped from the final version of the bill. in other words. it was under the threat of a presidential veto that the congress dropped the language.
their position. very simply. is that they could  achieve a constitutional amendment through the. constitutional processthey k that. indeed. they could  go ahead and in regular legislative fashionthat is. regular hearing. committee hearings. and floor debate on the issuethey could  win that way. they are doing it endaround the supreme court of the united states and around the congress of the united states. i repeatso that ody has to worry. i might add. about being tarnished. about being probusing or antibusingwe are  even on a busing amendment. we are on a weicker amendment that says the justice department and the courts will enf~rce the constitution. that is bothersome. what in heavens name is going on on the floor here. when men can stand up and vote. i will tell you why they can vote. i will tell you exactly. do you k when this antibusing legislation was passed the first time. e the dateseptember 25. 1980. that was about a week or two before the election. i say to the senator. and that was the. threat hanging over the peoples heads. i am going to tell the senator from rhode island and the senator from th carolina: i will be proud. proud to stand as i am . on behalf of an undiluted constitution. and if thatmeans busing. i say to the senator. then i run on that. but what i will  do is to save my backside and go around here saying that life in this country is all roses and it is all pleasant. there comes some pretty tough times. both individually and collectively as a society. when you have to stand up for this doctrine.
the senator is correct. what is being proposed here. in effect. is that the realization of justice will then take place on the streets rather than become a matter of individual justice. in other words. the whole system of law disintegrates. i find it ironic that those who stand up in the name of god. country. and whatever else they wave around in the air. are the ones who. in effect. advocate an anarchistic approach toward the justice system of this country. the senator is absolutely correct when he says that it does  do much good to go ahead and have a right or. indeed. have that right determined. if the right can be enforced or the remedy can be enforced. that is  roughly what the amendment of the senator from th carolina says. that is what it says.
absolutely. what i object tothe senator does agree with the question of the distinguished senator from ohio. i suppose what bothers me is it is one thing to put the justice department on the sidelines as a matter of policy. it is aher thing putting them on the sidelines by virtue of taking an unconstitutional action.
i thank the chair. the seminal cases of ex parte mccardle. 74 u.s. (7 wall.) 506 (1868). and ex parte yerger. 75 u.s. (8 wall.) 85 (1838). are certainly  to the contrary. since they together establish only that congress may extinguish one avenue to the supreme court court for appellate review of a constitutional claim when other avenues for bringing that claim to the court for review remain open. 2. congress jurisdictiondefining powers with respect to all article iii courts are also internally limited by article iiis implicit concept of the "judicial power." and by basic principles governing the separation of powers among the three branches of the national government. the judicial power described by article tit. chief justice marshall declared in marbury v. madison. is the power to "decide . . . icases) conformably to the law. jincludingj the constitution. this is of the very essence of judicial duty." this duty is. in turn. inherently incompatible with congressional authority to direct an article iii court to arrive at the outcothe desired by congress whether or  regarded by such a court as consistent with the constitution and laws of the united states. the supreme court so held in united states v. klein. 80 u.s. (13 wall.) 128 (1872). ruling that congress may  dictate the rule of decision for a particular case. even in the guise of a jurisdictional regulation. the nub of the matter is that courts sworn to uphold the constitution in their discharge of adjudicative responsibility can be required. in deciding a case otherwise properly before them. to ige any question they regard as crucial to a correct decision under law. and certainly can be forced to "close their eyes on the constitution. and see only icongressj law." marburu v. madison. 5. u.s. at 178. yet just such a requirement would be imposed. for example. by h.r. 2365 and h.r. 2791. both of which purport to strip the supreme court and the lower federal courts of jurisdiction over all questions going to the constitutional validity of statutes that treat males and females differently in military registration. induction. training. or service. whenever an article iii court endowed with subjectmatter jurisdiction over a controversy deems any such militarypersonnel statute relevant to the correct outcome. these proposals would in effect instruct that court automatically to proceed as though the statutes constitutional validity made differenceto "close lits[ eyes on the constitution. and see only the law." such an instruction violates both article iii and article vi. that congress may control the timing and the context for federal judicial review of its own statutes does  imply that congress may place its favorite laws behind a shield wholly impenetrable by federal judicial review. for congress to do so would impermissibly condemn those federal judges before whom such enactment become relevant in pending cases to serve as instruments of constitutional disregard and defiance. authorized to decide a case. an article iii court must decide it constitutionallyor  at all. see united states v. nixon. 418 u.s. 683. 70405 (1974). beyond this internal requirdment of adjudication according to a courts best effort to address all questions necessary to decision. to do so in accord with law. and to regard the constitution as the "supreme law of the land"-beyond this. both the supreme court and all inferior courts created pursuant to article iii are charged to resolve only actual cases or controversies. and are concomitantly barred from merely offering "opinions in the nature of [legall advice." muskrat v. united states. 219 u.s. 346. 362 (1911). see also correspondence of the justices. letter from chief justice john jay and the associate justices to president george washington. august 8. 1793. to "constitute a proper controversy. " an "assertilonil oft a right (must be l susceptible of judicial enforcement." maryland v. louisiana. 49 u.s.l. week 4562. 4565 (u.s. supreme court. may 26. 1981). it follows that congress may  so truncpte the jurisdiction of an article iii court footes at end of article. as to empower it to "decide" a local controversy while denying it any means to effectuate its decisio even. as in the ordinary declaratory judgment. at least to alter the concrete situntion of the parties or the range of options open to them. congress broad authority to regulate the paly of available remedies. in other words. stops short of the power to reduce an article iii court to be a disarmed. disembodied oracle of the law lacking all capacity to give concrete meaning to its decision that one party won and the other lost. this much. at least. is implicit even in article iiis bar to adjudication at the behost of a party lacking any concrete stake in the outcome of the proceedings.* for a party advancing a legal argument in a court that has been rendered impotent in any meaningful degree to remedy the wrong complained of lacks. by definition. any stake beyond a citizens purely theoretical curiosity about how the case turns out. thus. for example. h.r. 73 and h.r. 900both of which would unconditionally deprive inferior article iii tribunals of authority to "issue any restraining order" or "temporary or permanent injunction" (and. in the case of h.r. 900. of authority to issue any "declaratory judgment" as well) in any case arising out of a law restrictinq abortionsseem inconsistent with article iii. for an article iii tribunal thus defanged. but etheless seized of jurisdiction to "decide" a pregnant womans anticipatory challenge to the validity of an abortion ban under which she is threatened with a criminal fine if she exercises her rights as defined by roe v. wade. 410 u.s. 113 (1973). is reduced to whistling in the wind: if it rules the ban invalid and the threat unconstitutional. as it should. it might as well send the woman its regrets. for the tribunal is forblddun to come to her aid in an anticipatory waywhile there is still timeeven without any showing that the state courts would. or even might. provide timely relief in proceedings of their own. on thet contrary. the expectation quite clearly is that the states will  do soeven though the pending statutes. h.r. 73 and h.r. 900. would at least leave open the possibility of the supreme courts appellate review of such state court refusals. the point. it should be emphasized. is  that h.r. 900 and h.r. 73 guarantee that the pregant womans rights will be rejected in every court to which she goes for preventive relief. the point is that these restrictions would leave article iii tribunals with way to compel the timely vindication even of the rights such tribunals find to be unconstitutionally jeopardized. and they in way link this power vacuum to grounds for supposing that state courts will vindicate the rights on their own or will be forced to do so by the supreme court before it is too late. a federal court placed in such a predicament has been emptied of the essential attributes of judicial power contemplated by article iii: (for) congress . . . to confer the jurisdiction and at the same time nullify entirely the effects of its exercise are  matters heretofore through. when squarely faced. within its authority. similarly. h.r. 869. h.r. 1079. and h.r. 1180 would purport to strip all article iii courts of jurisdiction to "require the attendance at a particular school of any student because of race. color. creed. or sex." and h.r. 761 would extend this ban to an ouster of jurisdiction "to make any decision. or issue any order. which would have the effect of requiring any individual to attend any particular school"-evidently for any reason. this latter provision. insofar as it tells federal courts what "decision[s]" they may and may  make regardless of their view of the applicable law and facts. plainly contravenes united states v. klein. supra. and all four provisions. insofar as they purport to rule out various pupilassignment remedies regardless of whether any other decree could give effect to the courts constitutional determination.. appear to violate the requirement that decisions made by article iii tribunals  be doomed to futility from the start. the same may be said with respect to h.r. 114. which attempts to strip all inferior federal courts of jurisdiction. directly or indirectly. to "modify" the effect of nny state court order so long as that order is or was reviewable by the states highest judicial body. if a federal court concludes that such an order was entered in violation of the constitution. that opportunities to challenge and modify it within the states jtdicial system were and remain constitutionally inadequate. and that tile individual whose rights the order violated.  a part. properly before the federal court. will continue to be unconstitutionally prejudiced by the order unless it is promptly modified by that federal court. then following the mandate of h.r. 114 would render the court powerless to give its conclusion any ellect whatever. the view has at times been expressed that congress is bound  only to equip whatever federal courts it creates with subjectmatter and remedial jurisdiction suicient to satisfy the implicit demands of article iii but also to create such lower federal courts in the first instance (how many. where.) and to vest them with all the jurisdiction that article iii allows. see martin v. hunters lessee. 14 u.s. at 33031. at least to tile degree that the effective protection of constitutional rights under modern condiltions so requires." tile consistent rejection of this positiona position perhaps rendered more plausible by the civil war amendments than it was when justice story annced it in hunters lesseemight be thought to preclude its adoption . but such rejection of the story view should  be permitted to obscure tile underlying principleone never rejected by any courtthat article iii tribunal that congress elects to create. whether under constitutional compulsion or otherwise. may be crippled from birth with a defect of design fatal to the tribunals capacity to fulfill a function indispensable to the "judicial power of the united states."
. i  wish to read the statement of telford taylor on behalf of the american civil liberties union before the subcommittee on courts. civil liberties. and the administration of justice oi the committee on the judiciary of the house of representatives. my name is telford taylor. i am a lawyer. admitted to practice in the district of columbia. new york state. and various federal courts including the supreme court of the united states. i have been at the bar for 47 years. first as a federal government attorney (193342). and since 1982 as a private practitioner. in recent years i have been principally occupied with law school instruction. and have conducted classes and seminars at the yale. columbia. harvard. university of colorado. and benjamin cardozo law schools. i am presently nash professor emeritus at the columbia law school and kaiser professor of constitutional law at the cardozo law school. throughout these years i have been primarily concerned with federal. including federal constitutional law. and i have conducted classes in constitutional law at all of the abovenamed institutions. and in every year since 1963. i am appearing here on behalf of the american civil liberties union. in order to discuss the extent of congressional power over federal court jurisdiction. i am aware that there are a number of pending bills. in both the house of representatives and the senate. which withdraw federal court jurisdiction in a variety of ways. i share with the aclu the view that most of these bills. if enacted into law. would be unconstitutional. but i am  a member of or bound by the views of the aclu. and the particular contents of this statement do  necessarily reflect their opinions.
absolutely correct. it inhibits onehow can a court hear something that can be brought before it. that is why they can be removed. if. indeed. the justice department can seek the remedy. then a court can make an adjudication of something that is  before them. i have never seen. as long as i have been in the house of representatives. 2 years. and the u.s. senate. 11 years. anything so unconstitutional as this amendment. except when it was previously raised by the senator from th carolina last year. it is unconstitutional. and if that falls harshly upon anyones ears here. the fact is that that is the case.
the answer to the senator from oregon is in the affirmative. this raises an interesting question. first of all. there is doubt in my mind it is going to be struck down as being unconstitutional. there is doubt. and then we can all sit down here and say. "oh. oh. we made a mistake." there is only one thing wrong and the senator ks what that is: it is probably going to be several years before that determination is going to be made and the lives of how many children would have been cut to ribbons in the meantime. believe me. when you take that education away for whatever it is. 5. 6. 7. or 8 years. you set the course for years to come. so this tinkering around with the constitution of the united states by whomever it is who proposes this type of legislation is  without consequence. so we can all run around and say. "we won our election." we won our election at a cost of how many children. point  2: who is to say to the senator who sits as chairman of the appropriations committee that if the supreme court says this is unconstittitional. that at whatever time they say that we will then have a rider on the appropriations bill. i am the chairman of the subcommittee on state. justice. commerce. and the federal judiciary. we will have a rider on the appropriations bill cutting off the funding of the supreme court that said this was unconstitutional. there is the problem on both of its counts. both as to how it affects those who will have action on their behalf for years and also once we establish this principle to go after the court itself by cutting off its money.
it is . the senator raises the very interesting point that this issue is raised by members of the party of abraham lincoln. if ever there were a contradiction. i would say that is it. i should like to read to the senator. in response to his question. the quotation that i believe is on target as to the issue he raises. this is quoting chief justice marshall in marbury against madison: the very essence of civil liberty certainly consists in the right of every individual to claim the protection of the laws. whenever he received an injury. one of the first duties of government is to afford that protection. the government of the united states has been emphatically termed a government of laws. and  of men. it will certainly cese to deserve this high appellation. if the laws furnish remedy for a violation of a vetvd legal right.
the senator is absolutely correct. and he raises in the question the fact that everyone likes to ige where they paint with a broad brush the evils of busing. et cetera. which is that court can order any more of a remedy in the situation than the illegality demands. it is  a question of just throwing busing orders out willynilly. the law. the same supreme court that passed brown against board of education and charlotte against mecklenburg. et cetera. said the remedy has to be specifically tailored to the illegality. the answer is whether in terms of permitting the school district to receive federal funds if indeed they are doing their best or in terms of how the remedy is tailored. the fact is that whatever it has done under the law is also done with comlsense. what you can have is the leadership of the united states of america saying that we are clearing out. it is every man for himself. if you have the dough. sure. you can go ahead and bring the case. but the justice department is what represents all of us as a nation and as a society. they are longer in the ball game. is that  great. is that  just great. we are clearing out. every mal for himself. let me tell you i fear as much for what would happen in my state of connecticut as i do anywhere else in the country so i am  sitting here pointing a finger. the answer- is i want the justice department there to go ahead and stand up for every americans civil rights and that may  necessarily be a racial matter. and yet as a matter of principle if you remove them here you can get them out anywhere else.
.  jeffersons first year in office. congross eliminated the august term. doubts were expressed about the constitutionality of that change. but the issue was  littgated. suppose. however. that congress should provide for only one term every 10 years. like a total abolition of appellate jurisdiction. i believe such a measure would be unconstitutional. but. once again. how are we to draw a line. learned commentators have suggested such formulations as that congress must  exercise its powers under article iii in such a way "as will destroy the essential role of the supreme court in the constitutional plan." that is a commendable principle. but fortunately. the supreme court has never had occasion to articulate it or anything like it. since congress has. over the years. acted with due restraint. well. i will tell you. mr. taylorand i guess his testimony was on june 3. 1981we can forget the days when congress acted with due restraint. congress is in the process of going ape. hog wild. any other term you want to go ahead with and applyhardly due restraint or hardly with regard to the constitution of the united states: equally fortunately. we do  need to wrestle with this particular dilemma in appraising the constitutionality of the several bills which ars presently the focus of discussion. in qluantitatve terms. e of them accomplishes a significant impairment of federal jurisdiction. in either the supreme court or the lower courts. it is indeed the very particularity of these bills which accounts for what i believe to be the constitutional finw that afflicts all of them. whether they relate to the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts. or the supreme court. or of both.
this amendment. the way it is drafted. would prohibit the justice department from being involved in any discrimination case whatsoever. never mind schools. the answer is yes. and i will tell the senator why. listen to the language: part of any sum is authorized to be appropriated by this act shall be used by the department of justice to bring or maintain any sort of action to require directly or indirectly the transportation of any student to a school ... i do  k who the grammarian is-"any sort of." that is  exactly the precision i think one requires from lawmakers. when the justice department brings the action how do they k what is going to happen. obviously. they could bring the action and. obviously. all of a sudden the court could make a determination that the transportation shall be required. and all of a sudden they are out of luck. they do  k what is going to happen. this is very broad. as soon as you put the word indirectly in there they run the risk. and they are out of luck. that is the way i interpret it. with the lack of any further precise language. believe me. that is the way i interpret this. i do  want to take a chance on it. my answer to the senator is that i do  think the justice department. under this. can effectively have them sitting still. i believe it would be declared unconstitutional. i have tried to answer the question the best i can.
i can see the scenario. the justice department goes to court. presents its case. and they are all sitting there for the court to respond. the court responds. "we are going to have a transportation order." at which point all the justice department lawyers close up their briefcases and walk out of the courtroom. that is what it says to me. all of a sudden. you have triggered it. albeit indirectly. maybe they go in there asking for it. maybe they ask for appropriate relief. but all of a sudden they are confronted with an order that says transportation or busing. they can sit in the courtroom. and who is going to enforce. to see that it is done.
we have been all through that. this is what we call the trickle down private sector theory. that what is  done by government is going to be handled by the private sector. the people involved in this do  have money for attorneys. for heavens sake. i do  understand that. the senator from louisiana and i certainly can be in defense of our rights under the constitution. we have both the power and resources to do it. but that is  the criteria as to the ability to avail ourselves of the constitution. the justice department of the united states is the one that is supposed to stand in for all of us as a society on these matters. by god. it is one thing when you were going to gut legal services because you do  think poor people should have the same kind of lawyers we have.  you are saying that our society. in the broadest sense. can have the justice department. if there is justice department. legal services. what good. in gods name. does it do to have a constitution. unless you are a u.s. senator or someone who. as i say. either in terms of power or resources. can avail himself of the lawyers necessary to do the job.
i am saying to the senator that the president and the justice department as part of the executive branch has the obligation to see that the laws are faithfully executed. and i have doubt in my mind that means the power to enforce the 5th and 14th amendments of the constitution. to me what holds this nation together is our system of justice. the belief that matter how badly things go for us either in our private lives or in terms of what the congress does or does  do or the president does or does  do. still in the ultimate the courts and justice system of this country mill stand beside us regardless of who we are. i do  think there is one of us who would  categorize the last several decades as tumultuous. as turbulent. if indeed in the world as a whole there is a third world emerging. so it is also true that within our own nation there are those emerging who in the past had been left off in the dark corners of our society either in terms of opportunity or in terms of ecoics or in terms of physical or mental condition. let me describe a recent experience as to the importance of the litigious process. and remove it from the area of race. is there anyone here who doubts for 1 second that it was through the justice process. through our courts. that those miity elements of our society that were either mentally retarded or physically disabled achieved their rights. we did  give it to them. they had to fight for it. they are still fighting for it. the senator ks as well as i do that congress as a whole in public law 94142 only recently enacted legislation. architectural barriers are included in recently enacted legislation. these things had to be fought for principally through the courts.  we all pat ourselves on the back and say how proud we are to extend our hands to those of our brethren who had that particular deficiency. but we did  do it gratuitously. we did  do it spontaneously. we had to get a quick kick in the tail because the justice system operated. one is sitting here and pointing a finger and saying they k that discrimination and segregation of our school system was a matter for the south. it was a matter for the whole country. we k that. maybe the most blatant examples of discrimination  exist in thern states. that very well might be true. that is  the issue here. the issue is. and the senator ks as well as i do. that unless our legal systems and the personnel associated with it are available to those elements of society. we are all going to rest on our oars. it is easier  to do anything and say in your own mind that the things will naturally sort themselves out. i am 50 years old. and it has been in the last 40 years. well within this short lifetime. that the circumstance of education in this country has changed so it is  a question of any great long history. we can count on fingers on one hand the blacks who went to college. never mind the ones who got a decent public school education.
. i thank the distinguished senator from pennsylvania for his remarks. coming from one who has spent a great deal of his life in the area of justice and probably ks it as well as any member on this floor. i very much appreciate his support and his perceptive remarks.
the senator is absolutely correct. the supreme court has spoken. that is  the law of the land. brown against the board of education. charlotte against mecklenburg. and so is the civil rights act of 1964. and the president is obligated. "he shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed." i would suggest. by virtue of the helms amendment. that becomes an impossibility. with the absence of money necessary to see that the law shall be faithfully executed. i might add the helms amendment is  a issue here right . but clearly. the helms amendment is an end run of the constitution.
i do  in any wpy want to interrupt my distinguished co:..league from new york. believe me. his eloquence far surpasses mine or anyone elses in this chamber on this subject. i wvant to be able to precisely respond to the question that was raised. there is question in my mind that subsequent generations are going to look upon this as one of the most important debates in our constitutional history. i want the answers to be on the mark when the issues are raised. that there be loos2 response. specifically in response to the senator from louisiana. section 5 of the 14th. amendment authorizes congress to maintain or extend the protections of the 14th amendment.  to restrict. abrogate. or dilute those guarantees. the supreme court. in katzenbach v. morgan. 384 u.s. 641 (1966). with justice brennan writing the opinion for the majority. emphasized the distinction between the power to expand and the power to restrict the reach of equal protection: section 5 does  grant congress power to exercise discretion in the other direction and to enact "statutes so as in effect to dilute equal protection and due process decisions of this court." we emphasize that congress power under section 5 is limited to adopting measures to enforce -the guarantees of the amendment. section 5 grants congress power to restrict. abrogate. or dilute these guarantees. thus. for example. an enactment authorizing states to establish racially segregated systems of education would  beas required by section 5a measure "to enforce" the equal protection clause since that clause of its own force prohibits such state laws. 384 u.s. at 05152.  10 (foote by j. brennan). the supreme court expanded the guarantees under the 14th amendment holding that section 4(e) of the voting rights act of 1965. which invalidated a new york literacy requirement for voting as applied to puerto rican residents educated in americanflag schools. was appropriate legislation under section 5. there is direct judicial precedent to support the johnston amendment. as it involves the power of congress versus the federal courts rather than the states as in katzcnbach v. morgan. and oregon v. mitchell. 400 u.s. 112 (1970). the remedial standards in the amendment directly implicates the equitable power of the federal courts. as one commentator has ed: whatever the reach of section 5 as a vehicle for augmenting~the power of congross to regulate matters otherwise left to the states. it provides authority for congress to interfere with the execution or enforcement of federal court judgments or to overturn federal judicial determinations of the requirements of the fourteenth amendment.
. i think it important at this juncture to read the letter that was sent june 22. 1981. by the american bar association over the signature of herbert e. hoffman. first of all. let me make it very clear. it in wise gets into the issue of busing any more than busing -is the issue of this whole debate today  has it been in the 3 weeks past. busing is  the issue. the letter was addressed to the hoable howard h. baker. jr.. u.s. senate. washington. d.c. dear senator baker: i am writing to urge your opposition to the johnstonhelms amendment to the justice department authorization bill. this amendment would drastically restrict the jurisdiction of the federal courts to issue remedies in school desegregation cases. even when such remedies are the only available means of vindicating consti. tutional rights against deliberate and intentional violations of the equal protection clause of the fourteenth amendment. the american bar association opposes this amendment because of one overriding conviction: the necessity to protect the integrity of the courts of this nation from misdirected legislative efforts to achieve something that can be done only through constitutional amendment. the issue is  busing. the issue is whether as a matter of policy and of constitutional permissibility. this nation is going to adopt a device whereby each- time a decision of the supreme court or a lower federal court offends a majority of both houses of congress th~e jurisdiction of the federal courts to hear that issue will be stripped away. we do  believe that is a system the framers intended or one that we should strive to institute. the american bar association has long opposed efforts. from whatever spectrum of the political scene. to alter constitutional interpretation through means other than constitutional smendment. we stood in opposition to the "courtpacking" plan of the late 1930s. which would have altered prevailing law by stacking the courts membership. more than thirty years ago we called for the adoption of assurance that jurisdictional manipulation would  and could  be used to work substantive changes in the constitution. in 1058. the association opposed bills pending in congress that would have denied the supreme court review of decisions involving alleged subversives in various fields. that policy is association policy today. because the policy considerations are sc substantial and because the constitutional propriety of these bills is open to such serioui reservations. we urge the senate to oppose the curtailment of the jurisdiction of tho federal courts for the purpose of effectinj constitutional change that is properly the province only of the amending process irrespective of the subject involved and re. gardiess of our individual beliefs with respeci to any of them. the overriding consideratior is that we support the integrity and inde. pendence of federal courts. whether we agrei with particular decisions or . and that wi support the integrity and inviolability of thi amending process. in view of the above. i urge you and you: colleagues to reject the johnstonhelm amendment. sincerely.
of course. again. according to case law in the klein case. the decision in that stated: we think the congress has passed the limit that separates the legislative from judicial power. the vital importance that these powers be iwpt distinct. . i do  want anybody to get the wrong impression here. both by virtue of the law and by virtue of decisions rendered. i do  think the senate of the united states. through some legislative action on an authorization bill. is going to be able to go ahead and. in effect. state the authority of the supreme court of the united states under the constitution. it is  going to happen. if the senator wants to go ahead through restriction of funds and come around the side of the constitution on a particular remedy that has been ordered in a court case. that is one thing. but he is  going to alter the constitution or the separation of powers by virtue of this type of legislative action. if you want to do it. ody objects. if. indeed. this is what the senator wants to accomplish. it can be accomplished. but let us have an amendment to be passed by twothirds of the house and senate and threequarters of the states which amends the constitution. clearly setting forth the fact that the legislative branch of government is superior in the determination of laws to the supreme court of the united states. it would be one dickens of a day. . i can tell you that. i do  want politicians deciding my fate on any given day of any given year. but if you want to go ahead and do it. it is fair egh to present it to the people of this country. maybe they do have more faith ii senators and congressmen than they have in supreme court justices. but you are  going to establish it by a piece of legislation here on the floor of the senate. that is the issue. i have difficulty in the correctness of the senators attempt to alter public policy in this country. there is problem with that. that is exactly what this chamber is for.
first of all. i do  concede because i am  privy to the facts which would allow me to arrive at that conclusion. i am  sitting in that court in new orleans being given the fact situation upon which i could make that kind of a judgment. and neither are my colleagues.  are we sitting in a courtroom in hartford. conn. we are  there. the case is  being presented to us. factually or in terms of the law. how can i go ahead and say. "well. i think there are abuses taking place." i can say that. it is hearsay. we do  operate a justice system based on hearsay. indeed. we might legislate on the basis of hearsay. but i do  think that is a good way to legislate either. but. certainly. that is  part of the justice system.  i do  concede it. i do  particularly care to get caught in the snare of this busing argument because busing is  the isstie. but i am fully prepared to put into the record statements -that are directly contrary to the ones you are making against busing. i do  k whether they are true or are  because i am  here* to argue that particular point. i want to make certain that.  1. the powers of the executive branch of government are  inhibited by the legislative branch. i should  be on the floor making this argument. do you k who ought to be here. ronald reagan. he ought to be here. this is his job. i do r care as a matter of policy if he says he is against busing. that is fine. that is the reason why this whole controversy is a silly waste of time because i k and you k that as a practical matter he is  going to go ahead and seek these orders through his justice department. that. indeed. they are apparently going to soft pedal it.
in a few minutes. . i look upon the courts as being the ultimate protection for any one of us. that has been the history of this country. i do  want senators seeking reelection to tell the courts what they can or can do. i want those courts to make their decisions. certainly the men and women that sit on that bench. the majority of them. come from a political system. and chances are. at least at the time of their appointment. they represent a particular philosophy or a particular partisanship. but that is the swing we get at the pitch. you do  sit there. any more than you do in baseball. unless you have faster wrists and arms than i have ever seen or heard about. and take two cuts at the ball. that is what this body is trying to do. to say that we are going to go ahead and participate in the confirmation process but if we do  like it. then we are coming back at it again. someday. my ox is going to be gored and i am going to be standing in that court. and i do  want that court manipulated from this chamber or from the house of representatives. or. indeed. even from the white house. once the judiciary has been put into place by the executive. . apparently. it is unpopular to be black. again.  in the 1960s.  in the 1950s. these were the heydays. this was the great time for the civil rights movement. -and we all took prideblack. white. and brownin the fact that we had thrown over our prejudices and we were starting a new leaf. believe me. to. espouse this kind of sense back in 1960 would have been political suicide. and ody did it. because we were on the righ track.  it is politically popular to do it again. i do  want the courts of the united states of america or the justice department of the united states of america to sit there with fingers to the wind. this whole town is one big finger to the wind. this whole town is like a willow treeat the slightest movement of air. bending here and bending there. this has to remain constantthe constitution of the united states and the principles espoused therein. and the fact that each of us has access to justice and that justice is going to be independent. there are going to be many times when we are dissatisfied with what justice does. you win some. you lose some. but when we lose it. i do  fear the loss of an issue but the loss of the institution and of the principle. that is something that will never be retrieved. indeed. more harm has probably been done to the constitution and how it is viewed by our citizenry by what has transpired on this floor in the last several weeks. precisely because it was done by the brightest and the best. supposedly. by the most powerful. certainly. so irreparable and irretrievable damage already has been done on the policy but. rather. to the law unless the senator wishes to speak.
i think the innuendo there is a little bit strong. and i am afraid in this area. on i r3s basis of intimate kledge over many. many years. i think i k the man who is being talked about better than the senator from louisiana. i would  deign to speak for justice powell on either of these points.
 the question has to be asked of the distinguished senator from louisiana how does that jibe with the statement in the preamble of facts in his legislation: "(b) the congress finds that(1) court orders requiring transportation of students to or attendance at public schools other than the one closest to their residences for the purpose of achieving racial balance or racial desegregation have proven an ineffective remedy and have  achieved unitarypucschool systems... here is the landmark decision. senator. swann v. chzarlottemecklenburg board of/education (402 u.s. 1 (1971)).
here are the two men being hoed and the fact situation described by those who are reporting and the leading newspapers in that state and in that town. one of the leading newspapers in the state. describing a fact situation that is totally at odds with what the senator is trying to tell my colleagues out here on the floor. i do  consider myself competent to comment upon the fact situation in. charlotte. n.c.. and i do  figure myself competent to comment on the fact situation in radipes parish. la. i do  k whether -the senator from louisiana is competent to comment on the fact situation in hartford. conn. the point is we can do that job here. it is the job of the court and the jury.
let mequote from brown against califa the fact remains that the amendment leaves untouched the litigation enforcement option. it permits the civil rights division of the department of justice upon referral of a case from hlfw to pursue legal action and to obtain the full measure of appropriate relief. including student transportation. if warranted against the offending recipients. in other words. what they v ere saying is that they were referring to she test of the eagletonbiden amednment.. that if the justice department were  left alone to pursue the remedyi that would have been declared unconstitutional. of course. that is what is being attempted here. and the eagletonbiden amendment applied only to administratively required busing by hew. here we go way beyond that in the terms of the johnstonhelms amendment. in terms of legislative intrusion on the judicial and executive branches. i would speculate that justice powell would say  and on the matter of the commitment to equality of educational opportunity. i think the record speaks loudly that justice powell is a man who has always pursued that principle. so. . discrimination can be in ternms of color. it can be in terms of physical or mental capacity. it can be in terms of sex. it can be in terms of ecoics. it can be in terms of jobs or of region or of language. and this. one of the highest exercises in leadership in this countrythis body to respond excellently to the chalyhge. if we do . then what fault can we find with the rest ofour citizens who do  enjoy the power of the office that we. hold. why expebt anything more from those who do  share in the power given to us by our constituencies. so. yes. i am  going to duck the issue on fridays cloture vote as to discrimination and as to the painful approach that has to be taken to get rid of it. it is very much at issue here. also. and if somebody wants to come up during the course of my reelection campaign and say. "well. yes. he voted for busing." so be it. i am  going to say.. " i didnt. i just voted for the independence of courts." i am going to say. "i voted for the independence of courts. and yes. where somebody is in violation of the law. and where somebody is discriminated against. the courts should come down whichever way is appropriate. the sooner we all understand that. the sooner all discrimination is going to go away." the more we intimate that there is an easy way out. either by way of committee or by way of restricting the. judiciary. or by way of doing an end run on an authorization or an appropriations billthe more we engage in this type of misty and intangible and faraway suggestion of solution. the longer the discrimination stays with us. for the constitution and for what we stand for as a nation. i hope cloture is  voted on friday.
the section i wish to emphasize. and this is a good point i think with which to lead off the debate on this amendment. is that paragraph which states as follows: the committee recommends to the association the adoption of this resolution because of one overriding conviction: the necessity to protect the integrity of the courts of this nation. federal and state. from misdirected legislative efforts to achieve something that can be done only through constitutional amendment. the issue is  abortion. it is  busing. it is  prayer in the public schools. it is  any of a number of things that may occasion dissatisfaction. with particular decisions. we are sure that the members of the association have many various positions on these substantive questions. as we do. but the real issue. the only issue. is whether. as a matter of policy and of constitutional permissibility this nation is going to adopt a device whereby each time a decision of the supreme court or a lower federal court offends a majority of both houses of congress the jurisdiction of the federal courts to hear that issue will be stripped away. we do  believe that is a system the framers intended  one that we should strive to institute. that states as eloquently as is possible the argument against adoption of the johnston amendment. the american bar association has stated clearly the case on behalf of the independence of the courts of this country.. the other individual who should be in this chamber is the president who should state equally forcefully and with equal clarity the case on his behalf for preserving the powers of the executive branch of government. preserving the powers of the office of president. he is already achieving what he wants as a matter of policy in having a goslow on the whole subject of integration as it relates to the school system in this country. but the powvers of his office are of his office. they are  his. so he should also be here making the argument that the legislative branch of government has right via the johnston amendment to diminish those powers. . it is my hope that at the end of this. my second term in the senate. this will  be law
. in the darkened lands where tanks and rifles rule. the flame of freedom in the human spirits must never be allowed to die. we must continue to send the message to the people of hungarythat we have  forgotten them. we care about their plight and pray for their future. the flame must be kept burning until the hopeful day when it explodes across the night like roman candles in a blazing light of freedom. i would like to quote a poem  from the collection entitled "from the hungarian revolution." edited by david ray. the title is "october twentythird." the earth is in pain and the walls lie down and the earth is a blue trumpet of victory. because from the stone of the deep moist prison man is born again under the suns glory. our wrirlued bodies grow supple with new sense. our drained faces burn in the sunlight. our fainting steps march every way at once. our freedom grins in our hands like a birthright. our hearts rise out of darkness. opening. the purple flower clambers- out of the earth. out of dark slavery our light is ripening. weaponless. the conquerors come forth. today. we ho the hungarian freedom fighters. we remember their courage and their cause. we remember october 23. 1956. and we will never lose hope of such moments triumphing again.0
. on behalf of myself and senator hollings. i offer an amendment which amends the appropriations for the federal bureau of investigation and the national institute of corrections and the deparfinent of state. i send the amendment to the desk and ask for its immediate consideration.
i appreciaite the concerns expressed by the senator from florida regarding the responsibility of the departments of state and justice to pursue negotiations with foreign nations regarding improved law enforcement cooperation. during our subcommittee hearings" with the drug enforcement administration officials. we discussed efforts to conclude treaties which wvould permit our law enforcement officials to move against the assets of drug dealers. i can assure my colleague that. in conference with the house. i will raise these issues for possible inclusion in the statement of managers.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a letter from the u.s. department of justice dated october~ 27. 1981. addressed to the hoable mark hatfield. chairman of the committee on appropriation of the u.s. senate.
. i thank the distinguished senator from maryland for his very perceptive remarks. if. indeed. this is  the easiest of language. that is because i am  the one who devised the language that went into the bill from the house. i had to deal with what was brought over here. make mistake about what i intend to do by the addition of the word "constitutional." first. let me correct one impression among my colleagues which they might have. based on the debate. today. this has hing to do with the courts. i am talking about the justice department. so let us understand that this is  in any way restricting the courts. the stricture is on the justice department. point  2: this body. with all the wisdom that is resident here and all the deep feelings for the constitution and thiti country. can and should  legislate constitutional change. if you want to change the first amendment. change it. but change it via the constitutional process. i can understand the thickets that many of my colleagues get into insofar as human emotion is concerned when it comes to ongoing issues. such as busing. we have been through that exercise here. but on this issue we are  talking about something that is a reality in this country. the proponents of the house language are prospectively trying tolegislate a change in the constitution. i think we have more on our. plate than we can handle . without getting into that kind of activity. there is justice department action ongoing at the present time which needs to be reined in. as to the word "constitutional" and as to its meaning and the objections of the distinguished senmetor from th carolina and others as to what the supreme court has done. there is question that when it comes to constitutionality. the supreme court is going to be the last word. do  try in any way to shy away from that position or try to dilute it or try to put it in any other clothes.
i agree with the senaators suggestion. i would hope that the department would consult with appropriate district of columbia officials prior to submission of any reprograming request. i would also stress a point which the senator from new york has raised. this is more than a local problem. it is a matter which affects the marshals service and the federal judiciary across. the country. for a number of years. my colleague. senator hollos and i have expressed our conce m and the concern of the subcommittee that discussions take place between the judges and the department to satisfactorily resolve the issue of security provided to the courts. we have here an aalous situation where the marshals are required to provide the judiciary with positions and funds necessary for court security. over the years. the number of judges has increased but the number of deputy marshals is decreasing. quite naturally. the judges are* concerned whenever omb and the department of justice take their budgetreductions out of marshals budget because it impacts courtroom security. it may very well be that the administration and the appropriate committees of the congress should consider a reorganization 6f the marshals functions. it may also be that the attorney general and the chief justice should discuss the possibility of reimbursement from the judiciary for this service. it is my hope that by the time we hold hearngs on the 1983 budget that the department and the judiciary will have some answers on how they ptopose to addressthis problem.
on february 2. 1982. an article in the washington post entitled "state justices reject sole power over social issues." states as follows. in part: the chief justices of the state supreme courts. in an unusually strong and unanimous resolution. have condemned the many bills before congress which would strip the federal courts of power to rule on controversial social issues such as abortion. busing and school prayer. they also served ice on conservatives that turning these issues over to the state courts. as these bills would do. will  pro. duce the intended result of overturning supreme court rulings on busing. legalizing abortion or banning prayer in public schools but will. instead. probably cast them in concrete. the bills "give the appearance of proceeding from the premise that state court judges will  ho their oaths to obey the u.s. constitution." the conference of chief justices said. " their obligations to give full force to controlling supreme court precedents. "if the proposed statutes are enacted." the resolution said. those rulings "will remain the unchangeable law of the land ... beyond the reach of the u.s. supreme court or state supreme courts to alter or overrule." i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record at this point.
i shall just read an excerpt. and this will be the conclusion of my remarks: we believe that. when faced with proposals to divest the federal courts of jurisdiction or to undermine their independence. congress should be guided by the example of selfrestraint exhibited by the 75th congress when it rejected president roosevelts courtpacking proposal. as the senate judiciary committee put it in 1937: "shall we . after 150 years of loyalty to the constitutional ideal of an untrammeled judiciary. duty bound to protect the constitutional rights of the humblest citizen even against the government itself. create the vicious precedent which must necessarily undermine our system. . . . ". . . let us  set a salutary procedent that will never be violated. let us. of the seventyfifth congress. in words that will never be disregarded by any succeeding congress. declare that we would rather have an independent court. a fearless court. a court that will dare to annce its honest opinions in what it believes to be the defense of liberties of the people. than a court that. out of fear or sense of obligation to the appointing power or factional passion. approves any measure we may enact. we are  the judges of the judges. we are  above the constitution. ". . . exhibiting this restraint. thus demonstrating our faith in the american system. we shall set an example that will protect the independent american judiciary from attacks as long as this government stands."
i thank the chair for the response to my parliamentary inquiries. . i ask unanimous consent at this time to have printed in the record a letter dated februa-. 4. 1982. from the american bar association to the hoable strom thurmond. i ask unanimous consent that three editorials. one of february 8. 1982. entitled "the court strippers." in the new york times. aher of february 8. 1982. entitled "running the bus backward." from the washington post. and a third dated february 8. 1982. entitled "aher senate halfstep." from the hartford courant. be printed in the record.
first of all. let me state that i appreciate the remarks of the distinguished senator from louisiana. since he and the majority leader are on the same side of the issue. however. they lost a little bit of credibility. point  2. this only becomes a losing cause when this bill becomes law. at that point i have lost. unlike others of my colleagues who febl that all wisdom and all lawmaking capability resides in thjs chamber. i understand the full constitutional process which requires this chamber and the house and a presidential signature and supreme court review. s 1152 co which eventually well might be lost if the attempt of the distinguished senator from louisiana and the senator from tennessee is successful. i think it should be made clear that i did riot set the times of the senate last night. i was willing to stay here all evening. and for my good friend from louisiana i have already indicated to the senator from tennessee that i think we should have a friday session. i think we should have a saturday session. if they are bankers hours they must be the hours of the distinguished senator from louisiana. they are.  the hours i have suggested. we can stay here as long as he wishes to stay here. the only point i make here is if i stay here i would like to be accorded treatment by virtue of the rules and customs of this body in order to accomplish the most successful presentation of my point of view. if indeed we want to go ahead. the senator from louisiana wants to go ahead. and cut short the constitutional powers of other branches of government that is bad egh. but to do it within this body sets a precedent that. believe me. i do  think you or your colleague from louisiana will want to live with. i repeat. i went outside the mal philosophy of my region to defend your right when you were a miity.  at least the senior senator from louisiana is intellectually honest in terms of saying he would do the same thing. well. all right. when that time comes i will stand up there. senator. and raise my hand when you want the yeas and nays. beyond those comments i have little else to offer. i think the senator from tennessee should also say that last night i agreed automatically to the elimination of many amendments. 20. 30. 40. without any opposition whatsoever because i had been informed they were germane and there was point in carrying forth that kind of debate. i only debated those kinds of amendments where there was some reason for doubt. under those circumstances. i would just suggest then that we get on to the debate. however. i want it truly understood that the manner in which we bring this debate to an end is a precedent for all of us that some day in the future others might  want to live with.
. i am concerned with the constitutionality of both versions of the bill. however. i am convinced that the looser "reason to believe" standard. represents an unwarranted assault on first amendment rights under the constitution. both the house and senate bills will adequately protect american intelligence agents. however. the senate bill allows prosecution of those who disclose agent identities with the "intent to impair or impede" intelligence activities. in adopting the intent standard of proofthe traditional criminal testthe judiciary committee has acted responsibly to provide a legal sanction against those who intentionally blow agents cover. the administration agrees that this bill will reach the philip agees and other unprincipled individuals who seek to disable the cia around the world. the justice department and the cia have indicated that this bill is acceptable to it. i strongly oppose any effort to substitute the house language establishing a "reason to believe" standard of proof. such a loose standard is a dangerous assault on the first amendment in that it could affect conventional reporting by legitimate journalists. the narrower committee provision. adopted in response to serious concerns raised by many constitutional scholars. is clearly the responsible alternative. and i urge its adoption.
. i appreciate the senators interest in the location of the detention center for which funds are provided under chapter ii. as you are aware. there has been considerable opposition to locating the center in petersburg. va. there have also been some questions raised about the suitability of el re okla.-the other proposed site. the appropriations committee recognized these concerns and directed the department of justice to give an equal priority to oakdale. la. however. i do  believe it responsible to dictate the selection of any particular site for this facility. there are too many issues to be considered. first. the department must carefully weigh the location in light of the .fact that we are approving funds for only one detention center. access to highways and airports for ease of transporting detainees is aher matter. the size of the facility and cost of land acquisition and construction are other factors. obviously. there are some advantages to location of the facility at the site of aher federal installation. however. to my mind this is  necessarily the most important criteria and. it should  disqualify consideration of any particular place.
. i want to join my distinguished colleagues in ing this milestone in the career of man a. carlson. the director of the bureau of prisons. outstanding. indeed. are mr. carlsons contributions to the nation. a member of the career service since 1956. he became director in 1970 of the bureau of prisons. his service is distinguished by a genuine dedication to high standards of care. advances in corrections. and a true understanding of the needs of the employees of the prison system. as well as the inmates. mr. carlson appears each year before the subcommittee on state. justice. commerce. the judiciary. and related agencies which i chair. he is a forthright witness who speaks frankly of the needs of the prisons. i wish him well and look forward to continuing to work with him in the future.
 of the american bar association. morris harrell. attorney general william french smith there tomorrow on behalf of every one shares that concern. he maintains that con- of the citizens of this nation. the sengresss power over federal court jurisdiction- ator from montana has spoken elocan interfere with the hcore functions" quently to this point and with great courage. i did  want to let this opportunity go by without saying so on the floor. without commending him while. at the same time. including his written words on this particular subject.
. i am  disposed personally toward having any votes on any of these matters. there is  much i can do about a cloture vote. but certainly. i do  feel that these are matters that should be addressed . should be voted upon . let the new congress in january of 1983 come to grips with these issues. the substance. it has been said time and time again. is what it is that is. being done out here if the courts are stripped of their jurisdiction. i would like to addresr aher aspect of the problem that might be somewhat new to the debate that has taken place heretofore. that is the matter of describing the courts as if they were truly something dropped from above or. i am sure in the minds of some of my colleagues. something ascended from below. i refer to the idea that they are something separate and apart from all of us. the fact is that these courts clearly come out of the political system. indeed. my colleagues on the floor have their imprimatur upon every single federal judge who sits. they were all subject to confirmation by the u.s. senate. including the supreme court of the united states. indeed. most of those who are sitting at whatever level of the federal judiciary were proposed by members of this body to the then sitting executive. i have one from the state of connecticut who sils on the supreme court but certainly i can assure you that i k each. member of the fed. eral judiciary. whether it be federal district court or the circuit court of appeals. i did  inate them all. i inated some of them. but i surely approved all of them and had the opportunity to block them. my friends who propose this type of legislation  only want to inate. they want to confirm. and then they want to have a leash on the subject of the confirmation. i do  think the american people want that sort of justice. i think they expect. once we have done our work. that the judiciary is independent of politics. that it is independent in philosophy. it is independent of religion. they expect the judiciary to blindly serve in the sense of impartiality. blind in the sense of impartiality in the cause of justice. but this legislation. this courtstripping legislation. is in effect a senatorial leash law. we want our judges on a leash. if they do  say what we want them to say. if they do  believe what we want them to believe. then they longer have their jobs or. indeed. they have their jobs but in name only. is that the justice that everybody wants regardless of their points of view on individual issues. is that the kind of justice you want. because. indeed. impartial justice is what we speak for. be it black schoolchildren or women or be it those youngsters that go to schoolthat pretty much covers the people i am talking about in the sense of school prayer. abortion. and busing. if you adopt this principle. then. believe me. the leash law is  restricted to those persons but. rather. it applies to all of us. maybe it will come to pass that it is very onerous and expensive on the part of government to take care of the elderly. and so there will be men and women on this floor to try to excuse government of its obligations to that segment of our society. maybe it will be very onerous and expensive to be disabled or retarded and there will be those on this floor who would try to excuse government from its obligation to that segment of our society. maybe it will be very expensive and very onerous to be a businessman and there will be those on this floor trying to excuse government of its obligation to that segment of the society. and so on and so on. there is end to the mischief that is being proposed here. it does  relate simply to the discrimination against black schoolchildren which results in a court remedy. it is  simply a matter as to whether or  there is going to be a christian society foisted upon schoolchildren. that is  the issue. the issue is  what the choice of women is going to be. the issue here today is whether or  the right of each of us to be ourselves and to live in freedomthat is truly the issue. freedomis going to be diminished in any sense by a point of view held by either a miity or majority that happens to wield the power of a u.s. senator.
. we needed the 13th amendment to abolish slavery in this country. today ve need the equal rights amendment to rid our laws and practices of those vestiges of discrimination against women. we need it. because there simply is substitute. court decisions have fallen short of the job and so have the civil rights statutes passed by congress. the equal rights amendment is the only practical solution and that is our sides secret weapon. speaking of the fight for womens suffrage. susan b. anthony said. "failure is impossible." the same is true of the drive to ratify the era. anything so ultimately fair and just. anything so much in keeping with our lasting values as a nation. must ultimately come into being. the fight for it has been long and hard. doubt it will be longer and harder before it is done. but we must all take heart in the fact that "failure is impossible." i urge my colleagues to swiftly pass this amendment and all my fellow citizens to apply a fullcourt press for its ratification by the states.
 to sign our work product. we will. for the first time in 5 years. have a bill that addresses itself to matters of education. health. science. and job training. and. let me add. we will have acted in a manner that is far preferable to the continuing resolution process. i k the temptations. as well as anybody else. in terms ofadding to appropriations bills in order to highlight and accentuate our commitments to various national priorities. but senator can take any satisfaction from the fact that the work of the u.s. senate. in effect. is being dictated by the executive branch or by our inability to make the process work. there is abortion language in this bill. it is the language proposed by senator eagleton in committee. in effect. it reiterates the present law. or what is referred to as the hyde language. when this bill was passed on the other side. abortion~ language was added which eliminated even the exception for saving the life of the mother if it is endangered by a pregnancy. for the last week. i have explored the possibilty of reinserting. as an exception. rape and incest. which i thought was a travesty when it was deleted on the floor of the senate. my latest vote count shows that i can probably have that exception for rape and incest reinserted into the bill language. however. i have to discipline myself conceptually. matter how strong my feelings. just as i ask everyone here to discipline themselves monetarily if we are to reassert our authority in the legislative process. i disagree with hing that has been said by the proponents of this amendment. maybe i even could rise to the occasion and make as good a speech.
. i would like to read the words of justice benjamin n. cardozo. cardozo says: the death penalty will seem to the next generation. as it ocems to many even . an anachronism too discordant to be suffered. mocking with grim approach all our clamorous professions of the sanctity of life. let us vote to bring that about.
i thank the senator men and women of doubt. but those this. however- is where the corts have from iowa. who hold the greatest pride in the his. gone too far. because the leaue of schol . i ask add on the floor of the u.s. senate ly. the court did  realize that there is unanimous consent that there  be nat makes god more real or more neutral position in this issue. because in  i ~~~~~~~~~~allowing children audibly to pray togetherapridfthernsconfruie powerfulhing. and indeed it is to in school. the court has given preference to moring business to go later than profane god to elevate this body to te with agli( or atlicislic beliefs 6:30 p.m. in which senators may speak his position. as justice jackson said in rhe extent to which "tegal secularism lot  more lhan 3 minutes each. one of his dissents. "it is possible to has rome to dominate judicial opinions can the presiding officer. withhold a faith with egh confidence to be seen in the case of stein v. oshinski out objection. it is so ordered. oeiieve that what should be rendered h1965. where the supreme court allowed to stand a u.s. appeals court ruling that chlio god does  need to be decided dren could  even voluntarily say giace mes1actes prom the and collected by caesar." before lunch in pubuie school. rhe developso. this is an outline. then. of the ing attitude of the court was one uas in issues confronting us.  between effect concluded there could be religious messages imm tne pvesiuent of the yen and women of great faith and activity upon public propdrdy. unea stanes were communictthed to the senate by mr. saunders. one of his secretaries.
i thank my distinguished colleague. the majority leader. . as i indicated at the outset of the debate. i do  think any such sleightofhand parliamentary maneuvers are in order on a subject. as crucial as this. and i do  intend to take any. i am  the one who. less than 24 hours after the debate began. requested a whip check for a cloture motion on this constitutional amendment. that. was instigated by the office of the majority leader. so i am the one who really is a little nervous at this point. however. the majority leader should be assured that i have such parliamentary maneuver in mind. indeed. i believe. for example. that the senator from missouri wanted to speak to the issue. rather than have a quorum call. if it seemed perfectly acceptable to all concerned. under circumstances would i propose to make a tabling motion. i should like to make two comments in relation to the majority leaders comments about the supreme court decision.  1. i ask the distinguished majority leader what this does to the condemnation of supreme court rulings visavis the matter of prayer in schools. this one. apparently. is acceptable to the majority leader. he likes this particular decision of the supreme court. i wonder if what we are going to do on the floor of the senate is to accept the supreme court decisions we like and reject the ones we do  like. i accept the decision of the court in the sense that it is  the law of the land. the second thing i would like to point out is that this decision should put anyone of the christian faith on guard as to what happens when government gets into the business of dictating our faith. i e that in part. the decision as it relates to the nativity scene was passivepassivetherefore. acceptable. i do  k how those of you who are christians feel about the nativity. but i never looked upon the nativity as being a passive event or a passive scene. what the supreme court has done in this case is to interpret my faith in a way that is totally unacceptable to me. so. i am delighted that the majority leader is apparently satisfied. i believe the decision renders the nativity as a commercial event . it belongs to folklore. this is a very interesting description of the nativity. but if that is what the majority leader and others are willing to accept in the cause of victory. fine. i find that to be demeaning to my particular faith.
we do  want to be too hard on our brethren across the waythe supreme court. certainly. it has been part of the rhetoric of my colleague and those that are aligned with him philosophically over the years. does the senator like the latest supreme court decision on the pawtucket case.
it is a very good case. but that is the same bodythe supreme courtthat rendered decisions that the senator finds objectionable. should we spend our time on the senate floor examining the supreme court docket and. whatever we like. we accept. and whatever we do  like. we go after. i do  understand how this works itself out.
let us go to the n(xt topic just for a minute. because it is one that i hear time and again. about the large majority that wants state prayer. i thank god that the supreme court of the united states. and later congress. showed tolerance for the racial discrimination that was the tradition of this country for over 100 yearswhen the majority wanted it. it was the court that said  it is  consistent with the constitution.
i am  going to try to overturn it by a constitutional amendment even though i am disappointed as to how it demeans my faith. the other disappointing part of the decision was. however. at the very end of the decision. the following statement was made: the ( ourt has aickledied that the fears antd political problems" that gave rise to the refligion clauses of the 18th cent iry are of far less concern today. we are unalle to plereive the archbishop of caniterbury. the vicar of rome. or other powerful reli. giotus lfeadeifs behind every public ackleiient of the religious heritage long offioild recognized by the three constitutional branhce of government. i interpret the court as saying we are exempt from history. i ask the senator: how long ago was 1 it hat the act of persecution of the mormons took place in the united states. how long ago was it.
 i want their values. the values of today. as we indeed strive for the ideals set forth in that constitution. and where one day in this nation we truly will be without prejudice in any form and where truly all men are equal just the promise of it. but the actuality of it. my tradition teaches that. as j. b. phillips puts it in his translation of the new testament. "the new life is  a matter of outward show." . 2.000 years ago. there wk . such religion as christianity. it did  exist. we are only a speck of time insofar as this nation is concerned. but if we hold true to our principles. then even if it is only one person espousing a particular faith. then there will be cross for that person to bear in the united states of america. rather he or she will come here. as this country remains a beacon to the rest of the world. and have the opportunity to say to the rest of the world what it is that lies in that individuals heart and mind. what signal do we on the floor of the u.s. senate send if we move backward. if all of a sudden we become a symbol of a little less tolerance. a little less freedom. the issue really is  prayer in schools for our children. they have that right today. court case. law.  supreme court ruling prevents any individual child or any adult in this nation from praying wherever or whenever they wish. so freedom to pray is  really the issue. however. i think the issue is that we. our generation. those that are going to vote this aftern are trying to absolve our shortcomings by imposing our ideals on a young and a pure generation and one that. like us. will make the amtican ideal come closer to reality.
. we needed the 13th amendment to abolish slavery in this country. today ve need the equal rights amendment to rid our laws and practices of those vestiges of discrimination against women. we need it. because there simply is substitute. court decisions have fallen short of the job and so have the civil rights statutes passed by congress. the equal rights amendment is the only practical solution and that is our sides secret weapon. speaking of the fight for womens suffrage. susan b. anthony said. "failure is impossible." the same is true of the drive to ratify the era. anything so ultimately fair and just. anything so much in keeping with our lasting values as a nation. must ultimately come into being. the fight for it has been long and hard. doubt it will be longer and harder before it is done. but we must all take heart in the fact that "failure is impossible." i urge my colleagues to swiftly pass this amendment and all my fellow citizens to apply a fullcourt press for its ratification by the states.
 to sign our work product. we will. for the first time in 5 years. have a bill that addresses itself to matters of education. health. science. and job training. and. let me add. we will have acted in a manner that is far preferable to the continuing resolution process. i k the temptations. as well as anybody else. in terms ofadding to appropriations bills in order to highlight and accentuate our commitments to various national priorities. but senator can take any satisfaction from the fact that the work of the u.s. senate. in effect. is being dictated by the executive branch or by our inability to make the process work. there is abortion language in this bill. it is the language proposed by senator eagleton in committee. in effect. it reiterates the present law. or what is referred to as the hyde language. when this bill was passed on the other side. abortion~ language was added which eliminated even the exception for saving the life of the mother if it is endangered by a pregnancy. for the last week. i have explored the possibilty of reinserting. as an exception. rape and incest. which i thought was a travesty when it was deleted on the floor of the senate. my latest vote count shows that i can probably have that exception for rape and incest reinserted into the bill language. however. i have to discipline myself conceptually. matter how strong my feelings. just as i ask everyone here to discipline themselves monetarily if we are to reassert our authority in the legislative process. i disagree with hing that has been said by the proponents of this amendment. maybe i even could rise to the occasion and make as good a speech.
. i would like to read the words of justice benjamin n. cardozo. cardozo says: the death penalty will seem to the next generation. as it ocems to many even . an anachronism too discordant to be suffered. mocking with grim approach all our clamorous professions of the sanctity of life. let us vote to bring that about.
i thank the senator men and women of doubt. but those this. however- is where the corts have from iowa. who hold the greatest pride in the his. gone too far. because the leaue of schol . i ask add on the floor of the u.s. senate ly. the court did  realize that there is unanimous consent that there  be nat makes god more real or more neutral position in this issue. because in  i ~~~~~~~~~~allowing children audibly to pray togetherapridfthernsconfruie powerfulhing. and indeed it is to in school. the court has given preference to moring business to go later than profane god to elevate this body to te with agli( or atlicislic beliefs 6:30 p.m. in which senators may speak his position. as justice jackson said in rhe extent to which "tegal secularism lot  more lhan 3 minutes each. one of his dissents. "it is possible to has rome to dominate judicial opinions can the presiding officer. withhold a faith with egh confidence to be seen in the case of stein v. oshinski out objection. it is so ordered. oeiieve that what should be rendered h1965. where the supreme court allowed to stand a u.s. appeals court ruling that chlio god does  need to be decided dren could  even voluntarily say giace mes1actes prom the and collected by caesar." before lunch in pubuie school. rhe developso. this is an outline. then. of the ing attitude of the court was one uas in issues confronting us.  between effect concluded there could be religious messages imm tne pvesiuent of the yen and women of great faith and activity upon public propdrdy. unea stanes were communictthed to the senate by mr. saunders. one of his secretaries.
i thank my distinguished colleague. the majority leader. . as i indicated at the outset of the debate. i do  think any such sleightofhand parliamentary maneuvers are in order on a subject. as crucial as this. and i do  intend to take any. i am  the one who. less than 24 hours after the debate began. requested a whip check for a cloture motion on this constitutional amendment. that. was instigated by the office of the majority leader. so i am the one who really is a little nervous at this point. however. the majority leader should be assured that i have such parliamentary maneuver in mind. indeed. i believe. for example. that the senator from missouri wanted to speak to the issue. rather than have a quorum call. if it seemed perfectly acceptable to all concerned. under circumstances would i propose to make a tabling motion. i should like to make two comments in relation to the majority leaders comments about the supreme court decision.  1. i ask the distinguished majority leader what this does to the condemnation of supreme court rulings visavis the matter of prayer in schools. this one. apparently. is acceptable to the majority leader. he likes this particular decision of the supreme court. i wonder if what we are going to do on the floor of the senate is to accept the supreme court decisions we like and reject the ones we do  like. i accept the decision of the court in the sense that it is  the law of the land. the second thing i would like to point out is that this decision should put anyone of the christian faith on guard as to what happens when government gets into the business of dictating our faith. i e that in part. the decision as it relates to the nativity scene was passivepassivetherefore. acceptable. i do  k how those of you who are christians feel about the nativity. but i never looked upon the nativity as being a passive event or a passive scene. what the supreme court has done in this case is to interpret my faith in a way that is totally unacceptable to me. so. i am delighted that the majority leader is apparently satisfied. i believe the decision renders the nativity as a commercial event . it belongs to folklore. this is a very interesting description of the nativity. but if that is what the majority leader and others are willing to accept in the cause of victory. fine. i find that to be demeaning to my particular faith.
we do  want to be too hard on our brethren across the waythe supreme court. certainly. it has been part of the rhetoric of my colleague and those that are aligned with him philosophically over the years. does the senator like the latest supreme court decision on the pawtucket case.
it is a very good case. but that is the same bodythe supreme courtthat rendered decisions that the senator finds objectionable. should we spend our time on the senate floor examining the supreme court docket and. whatever we like. we accept. and whatever we do  like. we go after. i do  understand how this works itself out.
let us go to the n(xt topic just for a minute. because it is one that i hear time and again. about the large majority that wants state prayer. i thank god that the supreme court of the united states. and later congress. showed tolerance for the racial discrimination that was the tradition of this country for over 100 yearswhen the majority wanted it. it was the court that said  it is  consistent with the constitution.
i am  going to try to overturn it by a constitutional amendment even though i am disappointed as to how it demeans my faith. the other disappointing part of the decision was. however. at the very end of the decision. the following statement was made: the ( ourt has aickledied that the fears antd political problems" that gave rise to the refligion clauses of the 18th cent iry are of far less concern today. we are unalle to plereive the archbishop of caniterbury. the vicar of rome. or other powerful reli. giotus lfeadeifs behind every public ackleiient of the religious heritage long offioild recognized by the three constitutional branhce of government. i interpret the court as saying we are exempt from history. i ask the senator: how long ago was 1 it hat the act of persecution of the mormons took place in the united states. how long ago was it.
 i want their values. the values of today. as we indeed strive for the ideals set forth in that constitution. and where one day in this nation we truly will be without prejudice in any form and where truly all men are equal just the promise of it. but the actuality of it. my tradition teaches that. as j. b. phillips puts it in his translation of the new testament. "the new life is  a matter of outward show." . 2.000 years ago. there wk . such religion as christianity. it did  exist. we are only a speck of time insofar as this nation is concerned. but if we hold true to our principles. then even if it is only one person espousing a particular faith. then there will be cross for that person to bear in the united states of america. rather he or she will come here. as this country remains a beacon to the rest of the world. and have the opportunity to say to the rest of the world what it is that lies in that individuals heart and mind. what signal do we on the floor of the u.s. senate send if we move backward. if all of a sudden we become a symbol of a little less tolerance. a little less freedom. the issue really is  prayer in schools for our children. they have that right today. court case. law.  supreme court ruling prevents any individual child or any adult in this nation from praying wherever or whenever they wish. so freedom to pray is  really the issue. however. i think the issue is that we. our generation. those that are going to vote this aftern are trying to absolve our shortcomings by imposing our ideals on a young and a pure generation and one that. like us. will make the amtican ideal come closer to reality.
. i rise today to e the 67th anniversary of the proclamation of independence in ukraine. although the communist overthrow in 1921 sought to extinguish the flame of freedom. that flame still burns in the hearts of all ukrainians. all ukrainianamericans. and people everywhere who cherish liberty. indeed. we must rise to combat infringement of human rights wherever and whenever it occurs. apathy and silence are friends only to tyranny. we are proud to again recognize the anniversary of the ukrainian independence declaration. but at the same time. we are saddened by the present day reality that reflects the very antithesis of such independence. we see discouraging attempts to deprive the ukrainian people of the last vestiges of their culture and tradition. we see unjustifiably harsh treatment. we see lengthy prison sentences ordered for the mere espousal of the same democratic tenets we hold sacred. let us stand today in solidarity with the ukrainian american congress and ukrainians everywheretheir struggle is our struggle. it is a struggle that permeates the globe from the appalling apartheid policies of south africa to soviet encroachments in europe and asia. we must continue to speak. and whenever possible we must act. history has already revealed the consequences of passivity and silence. the flame of freedom must continue to bum.e
. the proof of our sincerity and our resolve is that we are willing to pay a price for the protection of universal ideals of justice and human dignity. to be an american is to do less. i urge my colleagues to support this measure.e
. abraham lincoln. that made the statement that "what is morally wrong can be made politically right." what goes on in south africa today as a matter of law can be made right in any sense of the word. i think the time has come to stand up and get counted. let us be very clear as to what we are talking about when it comes to the blacks of south africa. we are talking about a police stateless. more particularly. what we are talking about is the elevation of racism. segregation. bigotry to the level of law. what we are  talking about is deficiency of human character. we are talking about law. many people shrink away from the comparison between what the government of south africa and the regime of adolf hitler visavis the european jew. they say there is comparison. certainly. in the matter of numbers killed there is comparison to the holocaust. although it seems to me we should all be concerned with the sanctity of one life. there is comparison. but in the sense of elevating the suppression of humanity by virtue of law. the two regimes are exactly the same. i commend to my colleagues an article written by elie wiesel which appeared as an oped piece in the new york times last week and i ask unanimous consent to include it at this point in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on the judiciary be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on tuesday. march 26. in order to receive testimony concerning the department of justice authorization.
. i rise today to introduce legislation to create an additional federal district judgeship for the district of connecticut. accepting this muchneeded position would bring the total number of district judges in connecticut to seven. a number supported by the administrative office of the united states courts subcommittee on judicial statistics in its 1984 biennial survey of judgeship needs. i am joined in this legislative endeavor by my colleague from connecticut. senator dodd. and by the entire connecticut congressional delegation. which has cosponsored similiar legislation introduced today by representative stewart mckinney. i recently had the opportunity to address many of our states judicial and legal community in bridgeport. ct. at that time i commented on the great pride the citizens of connecticut take in the integrity and experience of the states federal judges. the men and women fulfilling the awesome responsibilities of the bench in connecticut apply  only their substantial legal scholarship to the task. but also long hours of hard work. hours that increase each year. despite this dedication. connecticut is faced with- a dilemma as illustrated by the 1985 u.s. district court judicial workload profile compiled by the administrative office of. the united states courts. the district of connecticuts overall workload has increased by 40 percent since 1980. in formulating its recommendations for new judgeships. the subcommittee on judicial statistics considered the level of new case filings. the case mix. the level of weighted filings. pending cases. and the length of trials. the subcommittee employed 400 weighted filings per judgeship as the level at which a court deserved consideration for additional judgeships. weighted filings are those deemed to involve unusual complexity. requiring substantial court time. in connecticut. weighted filings per judge were 512 in 1985. 633 in 1984. 569 in. 1983. and 560 in 1982. so the district of connecticut has well exceeded the level of 400 for all of the past several years. trials have risen correspondingly as have the number of triable defendants in pending criminal felony cases. therefore. at all levels considered by the subcommittee. the conclusion reached was that the district of connecticut fully deserves an additional judgeship. i urge the committee on the judiciary to expeditiously consider this legislation. i am confident the committee and later the full senate. will grant connecticuts district judges and our fine courts the additional judgeship they need to sustain the outstanding record of administering justice that we have come to expect. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this legislation be printed in the record at this point.
. as was the case a few years ago. i rise to oppose the amendment of the distinguished senator from th carolina. i hope that the debate will  take 9 months once again. but if that is necessary then so be it. i think it should be clearly understood that what is at issue in this amendment is  the remedy of busing or. to use the term of the drafter of the amendment. "forced busing." that is  the issue. the issue is the independence of the judicial system of the united states of america because. indeed. if the senate of the united states can dictate what court remedies are going to be as applied to black schoolchildren. then the senate of the united states has the right to dictate to the courts as to what the remedies should or should  be when it comes to other elements of our population. busing is a world that is  popular in many quarters. black. white. or whatever. but please understand this: it just did  arise of itself. rather. it was the remedy. the sentence. if you will. that was imposed after an institution. and entity. or individual was found to be in violation of the law. as much in violation of the law as if murder were committed. as if rape were committed. just as much in violation of the law. and that guilt was adjudged either by a judge or a juiry. do you mean to tell me that if an individual has been found guilty of murder. we have .the right as the u.s senate to say what the penalty will or will  be. after the fact. the matter of busing came to pass as the judicial redress to the great wrong of discrimination and segregation perpetrated by this country for too many years. and unfortunately we in the senate and the house and in the white house never had the courage to do what was called for by the constitution. what was called for both by law and by ideal. we did  have the courage to do it. and so. as is the situation in many other cases. it fell upon the courts to enforce the rights of americans. in this case miity americans. black americans. we did  like the sentence. we did  like the remedy. i dare say the convicted criminal. convicted murderer. does  like to be imprisoned for life or indeed lose his or her life. or the convicted rapist does  like to be sentenced to jail. i am sure we did  like it when we were told to do the right thing in terms of educational opportunity for all of our citizens. we did  like it.  the cause seems to have lost some of its political popularity. i am talking about the cause of civil rights. and so this is the time to strike. this is the time to turn the clock back. blacks are  politically popular.  so much as they were in the 1950s and 1960s. and so this is the time to take away from them that third branch of government. an independent judiciary. well. maybe one day it will be unpopular to be old. how popular were the retarded and the disabled in this country.  very popular until the courts and the congress stepped in. maybe it will be unpopular to be retarded. disabled. or handicapped. maybe it will be unpopular to be poor. maybe it will be unpopular to be rich. but why should i as an american citizen settle for two branches of government rather than three. i have three working for me : the legislative. house and senate. the executive. and an independent judiciary. but if you pass this amendment. then congress can go ahead and put itself in the stead of the judicial branch and therefore we longer have three branches of the government to protect our rights but two. . this is an election year. and i am sure that ody wants to be on record as being "for forced busing." that is what this is all about. it is so much more difficult to explain why you are for the constitution of the united states in a short election campaign. it is so much more difficult to exlain the three separate but equal branches of government to the con-
. the future of south africa is on the horizon. we can approach that horizon. that place where majority will rule just as surely as the sun rises and sets. as a friend to the people of south africa or a friend to racist and temporary occupants of pretoria. the choice is ours. several years ago. in testimony before the house of representatives. bishop tutu said: america is a great country. with great traditions of freedom and equality. i hope this great country will be true to its history and its traditions. and will unequivocally and clearly take its stand on the side of right and justice in south africa ... we shall be free. and we will remember who helped us to become free
 and his policy on the contras. that we are voting for cloture in order to have the issue of south africa come up for a vote and be passed into law. we are  doing it because we want to go on recess. . 2 years ago i spent 1 day of my recess going to jail as far as south africa is concerned. i am perfectly willing to stay here all during the recess. the reason why some of the republican senators are voting for cloture is to enable south africa to come up as an issue and be acted upon by the u.s. senate and for that reason and that reason only. certainly this is my motivation. it absolutely galls me to have to vote for cloture on the contra issue. i think that is the most wrongheaded policy i have very seen in that part of the world. but i also realize that we have had day after day after day in court on that issue. whereas south africa has been standing outside the door. we have  had 1 days debate. we have  had 1 days worth of vote and the people in south africa are daily losing their lives and being subjected to the most abject misery in every sense of the word while the issue is never spoken for insofar as the united states of america is concerned. . that is the reason for the cloture vote that is going to come up. to enable that issue finally to be debated in the u.s. senate. but. more important.  just to be debated but acted on. and. more important. acted on in such an overwhelming way that it can become the law of the land. it is  to enable us to take a recess. this is  the vote on contras. the vote cane on the sasser amendment. which was defeated. and in which i supported the distinguished senator from tennessee. that was the vote. or. more iptant. the vote came over in the democratcontrolled house of representatives. and hing happened over there. so if we want to get our act together here. believe me. the majorities are present in one body or the other to determine the policy in nicaragua. it was necessary for some senators on both sides of the aisle to cast their vote for cloture even though they did  want to do thatin order that the cries of south africa finally might be heard by the united states senate and the government of the united states. i hope we will  move on and invoke cloture on the contras for the reasons i have stated. i think there might be indirect criticism of those who would seem to be at odds with our stated position. but we can at least  move on to this issue. that we can have the kind of cloture vote that represents the united states senate and gives us the best chance of putting a new policy on south africa. rather than the press conferences of others who give an entirely wrong picture of how the american people feel on that tragic situation thousands of miles away.
. i rise in opposition to the amendment. principally on the basis that it tries to equate the violence and the hurt imposed by apartheid with the activities of resistance by those to whom the hurts are being done. let us get some things straight which have been bandied about.  only by the introduction of this amendment. but by statements made by others in our government who keep on referring to the african national congress and the fact that it is communistdominated. that is just  so. that is  my opinion. that is the opinion of the eminent persons group. are there communists in the movement. the answer is yes. i want to read the following. which is from the eminent persons group who visited nelson mandela in prison this year.
thank you very much.  of the united states these words would be gratuitous and my vote of little consequence. the job is chief justice of the united states.  only is the operative word justice the end must be justice. despite the brilliance of justice rehnquists mind. his abilities have been used to weave plausible logic suited to a philosophical end rather than a beginning of justice. such exercises in sophistry abound these days both in congress and at the white house. they are  needed from a chief justice. therefore. my vote is to this ination.
. i rise to urge the passage of the conference report on h.r. 4021. the rehabilitation act amendments of 1986. the agreement reached by the conferees on this legislation both ensures that the programs currently authorized by the rehabilitation act will continue to sefve thenations disabled individualg.& and makes significant- im- provements to the act to reflect the state of the art with respect to the provision of vocational rehabilitation services. an important component of the senate bill. which i am pleased that the house accepted in its entirety. authorizes grants for states to develop supported employment services for severely disabled individuals. we k that severely disabled individuals can work. given appropriate support. the new supported employment program authorized in this bill will require state agencies to develop supported employment services in order to expand existing rehabilitation services to many severely disabled individuals who have been underserved or unserved by these agencies. states will be expected to organize their supported -employment services in a flexible manner. in orderto respond to the individual needs ofpersons eligible for services under this program. whilethe bill calls for traditionally timelimited october . .1986 postemployment services under the supported employment program. i want to make it clear that it is the individual needs of clients that should guide the delivery of services. and any arbitrary time limitations placed on these services are inappropriate. aher provision contained in the senate bill and adopted by the conferees relates to the intent of congress concerning violations of section 504 and other federal statutes prohibiting discrimination. the conference agreement provides that states shall  be immune under the 11th amendment from suit in federal court for violations of section 504 and other statutes. this provision will ensure that individuals will be able to enforce their rights in federal court when state or state agency actions are at issue. the rehabilitation act. amendments also include an increased emphasis on rehabilitation engineering as it relates to employment. an increased role for the national council on the handicapped as a policy advisory body on issues of national scope affecting disabled individuals. and important refinements in projects with industry and independent living programs. the federal government has long recognized its responsibility to assist disabled citizens live independently as taxpaying citizens. i believe the rehabilitation act amendments of 1986 represent a significant contribution toward the realization of that goal. in these times of fiscal constraint. the investment in the future of disabled individuals through rehabilitation programs is one of the most prudent investments we makewith an $11 return to the ecoy for every dollar spent. further. i am particularly pleased that the conferees have addressed the issue of how to calculate the entitlement amount under the basic state grant. an amendment included by the conferees to the authorization of funds for the state grant provision will ensure that the state grant program will be guaranteed. at the very least. a costofliving increase over the previous years funding level. this is essential when we k there are waiting lists in virtually every state for rehabilitation services. and that on average. only 1 in 20 eligible individuals are currently getting the services they need. finally. i want to thank all the conferees on the senate side for their perseverance in arriving at the agreementwhich was unanimously adopted by all confereesand also representatives williams. hawkins. and jeffords on the house side for their support of the final conference agreement on this important legislation.
forget for a minute the politics of something that has involved our national reputation. i am  worried about the reputation of the republican party or the democratic party. i do  care much about the reputation of ronald reagan or the reputations of jim wright. bob .byrd. or bob dole. i care about the reputation of the united states of america. you k as well as i do that we derive a strength  from our numbersbecause there are many nations larger than we arebut because of our belief in our moral rectitude. and there is moral rectitude to this policy and certainly  in light of the facts which are  well kn to everybody. sometimes. they say. the bigger the lie and the more it is repeated. the better the chance for success. i remember when we used to get into a hullabaloo around here over covert activities. that was when the mining of the nicaraguan harbors was supposedly covert. i can just see it . some ge in the white house basement figured: "well. lets do it the other way around. lets do it openly. lets do it overtly." i mean. does anybody just stop to think how bizarre it is that the united states is overthrowing a government that it openly recognizes with mercenaries. give me an historical equivalent of that in anyones lifetime. regardless of how young or how old. we have never done it.  we have  only done it. we continue to do it. and with this vote we are saying. "keep going." so what is at issue here is very much a matter of national security and our strength as a nation. people say to me during our domestic debates. "well. it is  so bad. really. that we have these deficits and our children are going to have to pay for them." and. as much as i oppose that train of thought. i can accept. i suppose. certain facts of political life. but then. when they try to alter the constitution of the united states. i said: look. if you want to leave your kids in hock. as far as the deficit is concerned. that is your business. i vote against this approach and indicate it is wrong. but there is  much i can do to change it. but at least let us leave the constitution intact and  burden it everyday by coming to the senate floor and offering some cheap amendment that is going to change that great statement of idealism and human value. i am saying the same thing in this debate. if you want to squander the $40 million or $100 million. go ahead. be my guest. but lets  squander a heritage of ho. one of compassion. one of rising up to fight when the cause is worth it. why sacrifice that for this grubby. sleazy little operation involving a bunch of exsomoza lieutenants who have their particular ax to grind. they do  care about communism. we should care about communism and combating it throughout central america. south america. and the caribbean. this is only the beginning. we do  have egh troops. we do  have egh mercenaries. we do  have egh money to engage in this kind of a policy as being an effective means to eradicate the causes that bring in communism to our part of the world. you think this is a tough piece of duty. how about brazil. how about all the other south american countries. how about the caribbean. we do  have adequate resources to do that. the people of nicaragua must begin. to believe that there is a better way to a quality of life through democracy and what this nation stands for than going the route of communism. they are looking for our doctors and our medical teams. how many medical tems do we currently have in central america. south america how many of these needs are we actually addressing. e. oh. we provide a little support for a particular peace corps effort here. a little aid over there. or little eximbank in between. this is the real nature of the conflict visavis communism. there was a day when all crime was solved by the fbi in the united states at the end of a thompson machine gun. more crime is  solved in the laboratories of the fbi. times have changed. it is  the armed conflict i worry about in south america and central america and the caribbean. it is the battle for mens minds. for the futures of their children. and we are  even in the ring. we gave up on cuba a long time ago. and  apparently we think a little. armed conflict run by mercenaries in nicaragua is going to achieve the greatest ideals of this nation. well. as i started to say. this is much more than an accounting problem as to how the money was spent. it is much broader than any investigation undertaken by the senate select committee or the house select committee on the irancontra matter. what is at issue here is the ho of the united states. and the proper expression of its ideals. the issue is the direction that we intend to go and the willingness to admit that we are going to try to eradicate those causes that have fostered communism in central america. causes that have brought the communists into our hemisphere and resulted in the degradation of our national policies and our standing in the world. this is a great nation. the political systems of this nation have served man in a way that has never occurred before in the history of the world. but the united states did  get there by mining harbors and having swiss bank accounts and diverting funds and having officers of the armed forces take the fifth amendment. i repeat this is  the u.s. policy that is going to go ahead and lick totalitarianism in whatever form. so it is much more than $40 million at issuewe are going to lose $40 million to this cause. that is gonebut what is at issue is how each american citizen feels inside. and that eventually finds expressions as to how we as americans are viewed throughout the world. you lose that and. believe me. our problems will  just be in central america. they also will be here at home. so i urge my colleagues to do the right thing.  by virtue of having been persuaded politically or philosophically. but by virtue of seeing the results of this sleazy policy. there is result whatsoever to show for all the money that has been spent. horror and tragedy exists as a direct result of our tax dollars. view that and decide whether $40 million more is going to alleviate the problem. ask the question as to whether $40 million more is going to have us standing tall as americans. our greatness as a nation does  lie in the continuation of this policy. rather it lies in a rejection of that policy to do directly by vote what needed to be done a long time ago. to say to the american people that there is a price to be paid. right  that price is courage on this vote. to say to the american people that democracy and its ideals will never come cheap. they will  be achieved by mercenaries. they will  be achieved by skulduggery. in the final analysis it is our money. and it is our lives. and if those two things are  present together. chances are the game is  worth the candy. this game certainly is . hopefully when tomorrow dawns there will be a new policy. and it will involve our doctors. it will involve our educators. it will involve our builders. it will involve our teachers. all of whom will be in nicaragua and that part of the worldrather our mercenaries
. i rise today in support of s. 1663. the child abuse prevention and treatment act amendments of 1987. this legislation will reauthorize for 4 years the child abuse prevention and treatment programs established under the act to identify. prevent. and treat child abuse and neglect. the bill will also reauthorize both the adoption opportunities and family violence prevention and services programs. these programs have been successful in assisting states to respond to the needs of vulnerable children. youth and families by strengthening overall prevention efforts within state child abuse protection systems and enhancing adoption opportunities. several significant changes have ben made in the programs continued by this legislation. for example. the. billmodifies the adoption opportunities program to assist adoption agencies to increase the placement of miity children inio miity families and increasepostlegal adoption. services for families who adopt. special needs children. especially those from outofhome placements. in addition. i want tocommend my. distinguished colleague from connecti. cut forhis reco nition in the legislation of the special needs of children withdisabilities.: specifically. the bill includes a study to examine the prevalence. of child abuse and neglect among children with disabilities. testimony during the reauthorization hearings indicated that disabled children are at substantial risk of abuse and neglect. whether residing at home. or in outofhome placements. this -study will be conducted under the auspices of the director of the national center on child abuse and neglect. and will provide congress with needed information regarding the correlation that exists between child abuse and the presence of a disability. the bill also provides the authority for a demonstration project to foster the coordination between child abuse agencies and protection and advocacy agencies for individuals with disabilities. these entities are both concerned with ensuring that children are protected ftrom abuse and neglect. and it is appropriate that they begin to work together to improve their capabilities of meeting the special needs of disabled children. particularly those in residential facilities. . children are this nations most precious resource: they are our future. and we have a responsibility to ensure that they are  victimized by their families. or others charged with their care. by expanding the availability of protection services and emphasizing the importance of prevention of child abuse and neglect. the reauthorization before us today strengthens the act. and reaffirms our commitment to the children who need our special care. finally. i commend senator dodd. the chairman of the children. family. drug and alcoholism subcommittee. and senator thurmond. the ranking miity member of the subcommittee. for their leadership on this legislation.
 kennedy said. "requires that public funds 1 0 *  be spent in any fashion which encourages. entrenches. subsidizes or results in racial discrimination." it has  been simple. but justice has been done today.
to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate agrees to the report of the committee of conference on the disagreeing votes ot the two houses on the amendment of the senate to the bill "an act to provide drought assistance to agricultural producers. and for other purposes." the message also annced that the secretary inform the house of representatives that the senate is ready to receive the managers appointed by the house for the purpose of exhibiting articles of impeachment against alcee l. hastings. judge of the u.s. district court for the southern district of florida. agreeably to the ice communicated to the senate. and that at the hour of 2 p.m. on tuesday. august 9. 1988. the senate will receive the hoable managers on the part of the house of representatives. in order that they may present and exhibit the said articles of impeachment against the said alcee l. hastings. judge of the u.s. district court for the southern district of florida. the message also annced that the senate had passed a joint resolution of the following titles. in which the concurrence of the house is requested: s.j. res. 350. joint res9lution designating labor day weekend. septeraber 35. 1988. as "national drive for life weekend."
the senator speaks of the numbers involved here. is the senator aware of the latest statistics on this point. which would be 1979. regarding the number of medicaidfunded abortions for women pregnant by rape or incest.
ial veto. we have to overcome filibusters here on the floor. and we have to get into conference and get tied up into ks over a whole bill. there is magic to this. this is  an isolated principle. what is expressed in the amendment of the senator from nebraska happens to be the will of the american people. so let us understand that if we back away from this. we do so for whatever reason. but in taking that course of action we have allowed parliamentary procedure to take precedence over substance. i have  spent my time in emphasizing the terrible tragedy that is involved here because i think we have discussed that time and again. i cited the numbers to my good friend from oklahoma. the last time statistics were kept on the number of medicaidfunded abortions for pregnancies that resulted from rape or incest was in 1979 and there were 72 such medicaidfunded abortions. it certainly is  the expense of the matter involved here. rather. it is how we view the tragedy inflicted on the human being. whether by incest or whether by rape. and  we are going to get into arguments as to whether it is forceable or . even though the exon amendment requires reporting to a law enforcement agency. this is a very real tragedy. a very real human tragedy. i have seen moralizing go on day after day here. whether it is on this matter or whether it is on aids. i do  think any one of us in this chamber can in any way comprehend the tragedy of rape and incest. certainly  the male members of this body. yet. it is our values that we impose. we are  even going to get to a vote up and down on this issue. instead there will be a tabling motion. but make mistake about it. those who vote to table the exon amendment feel that a poor woman should  have a medicaidfunded abortion if she is pregnant as a result of either rape or incest. that is what this vote is about. and i repeat what i said earlier. in my party platform. it goes beyond this. even when the life of the mother is in danger. a poor woman would  be able to get a medicaidfunded abortion. that is the next step. that is the final moralistic judgment to be imposed upon a nation that disagrees. the only way to settle this issue. because i have  been able to get it settled on the floor of the senate and i have  been able to get it settled in committee. is to have the american people settle it in this election. that is what this vote is about. it is stand up and get counted time. and let each one of us be accountable. i am up for reelectionlet us each be accountable to our constituency on this issue. and let the american people stand up then and get counted so when we convene again. if this amendment does  pass here . the body will truly reflect what every poll has told us about where the vast majority of the american people stand. what has been thrust upon us is the narrowest of morals. it imposes a harsh judgment on those who have control over their destiny in this matter but who have been violated physically once and  are being violated twice by the inequity of the laws passed by this body
. the success of these reforms. as is the case with any federal program. will only be as good as the ability of the people who implement it. sba personnel resources in this program have been scarce. to address the excess workload. we have authorized additional sba employees for the program as well as. funding to train personnel to be able to carryout their jobs. a number of other provisions in the act are intended to ensure smoother and more efficient operation of all aspects of this business development program. revise the arbitrary and often inconsistent decisionmaking in the agency and render stiff penalties and fines for fraud and abuse. again. i give high praise to both house and senate committees. the conferees and all of the respective staffs. including my own. for a very thorough and necessary overhaul of this programone that should benefit all that are concerned. i am pleased with the outcome. again. i ask that my colleagues vote in favor of the conference report.
. today i have joined 24 other distinguished members in support of a resolution which would transfer any function the present house committee on unamerican activities might possess vital to. u.s. internal security to the judiciary committee. i have been keenly aware of the house committee on unamerican activities socalled investigations that often result in exposure to the merciless glare of publicity of inent individuals. the house committee on unamerican activities work with regard to u.s. internal security could be carried out with greater effectiveness and appropriateness by the judiciary committee. which traditionally works with a proper regard for the rights of individuals and for other safeguards of the american system of justice and civil liberties. there is presently before the federal courts a case. the stamler case. that gives promise of silencing the activities of the house committee on unamerican activities on the grounds of unconstitutionality. just recently. the u.s. court of appeals. sitting en bane. rejected by a 6to2 margin a petition by a u.s. attorney in the stamler case. the government attorney sought to have the entire eightman appeals court sit for a rehearing of a decision by a threejudge panel of its members last ember. that decision last ember set aside a u.s. district court judges dismissal of suits challenging the constitutionality of the house committee on unamerican activities. rejection of the u.s. attorneys petition  sets the stage for either a further petition to the supreme court--within the next 90 daysby the government on the appeals court decision. or a hearing by the threejudge panel of the suits by stamler and others on the first amendment and bill of attainder aspects of the case. however. it would seem to me there is egh clear evidence for the house of representatives to take care of its own housecleaning. especially in light of the recent revelations about the house committee on unamerican activities using paid witnesses. in order for the house to act. i believe the rules committee should hold hearings on this matter. i respectfully urge my colleagues to address a request to the chairman of the rules committee calling for public hearings on this pending resolution. at this point. i would like to share with my colleagues a number of editorials and newspaper articles that are of significant related interest. i therefore insert this material in the record herewith:
 pro tempore. in each case more than four members would be of the same party. the committee would be empowered to investigate and study crimeits elements. origins. and effects. and measures for crime control and improvement of detection of crimes. law enforcement. and the administration of justice. . i believe that  is the time for the congress to take this needed step in safeguarding our nation from crime. i urge prompt passage of this resolution so that congress can assume a primary responsibility in combating this great national problem.
. it is an ho for me to present. on behalf of myself and the senior senator from massachusetts. a resolution adopted by the massachusetts general court and a resolution adopted by the massachusetts senate. i ask unanimous consent that the two resolutions. be printed in the record.
the charges against senator dodd and the recommendation for censure are very serious. although this matter is probably in the nature of a civil rather than a criminal proceeding. nevertheless. the result could be very grave. certainly the censure of a u.s. senator can be compared with a death sentence. but it could be compared with a life imprisonment sentence. if it were a criminal matter.
the senator from massachusetts certainly understands what the senator from utah is saying. as a member of the bar. i have never served on a jury. and i am finding the experience of sitting in the capacity of a juror an unhappy one. what the senator says is unquestionably the truth. but. on the other hand. it seems to me that the senate must base its finding on the evidence.  on conjectme.  on circumstantial evidence that is presented to it. certainly. there must be a presumption of inence in favor of senator dodd. it is my opinion that the burden of proof is upon the ethics committee which has submitted the resolution to the senate for adoption. i would like to k what evidence the committee has that there were persons who contributed to senator dodd and who stated to the committee. either verbally or through written affidavits. that they had made their contributions purely for political purposes. is there any evidence in committee to counter the evidence submitted in affidavits by senator dodd. we can go beyond the affidavits. they speak for themselves. presumably they are legal. considering the total number of contributors. i agree that 400 affidavits is a small number. but the committee has introduced affidavits or testimony in rebuttal. what evidence is before us then that there were persons who contributed to senator dodd with the understanding that the funds would be used for purely political reasons.
but the resolution has to be read in its entiretyfunds from the public through political testimonials and a political campaign. it says: (a) to obtain. and use for his personal benefit. funds from the public through political testimonials and a political campaign. and (b) to request and accept reimbursements for expenses from both the senate and private organizations for the same travel. my point is that you can read the resolution without reading it in its entirety. and you can divorce it. in order for us to come to a conclusion. and to pass favorably upon the resolution. we have to find. one. that the senator received moneys from the public through political testimonials. and used them for his personal benefit. or two. requested and accepted reimbursements for expenses from both the senate and private organizations for the same travel. we are  here called upon just to censure the senator from connecticut because of impropriety. we are called upon to censure him for some specific acts of wrongdoing that he has committed. and they are set forth in the resolution. i do  see how we can say we are simply called upon to censure him because of impropriety.
i thank the senator from new jersey. i think the distinguished chairman of the committee. the senator from mississippi . very clearly stated in the beginning of the proceedings that this was  a criminal proceeding and that criminal charges were  being preferred. i was merely stating that impropriety is  in the air. it must be tied up to some specific action alleged to have been committed by the senator from connecticut. we must find whether the specific acts have been committed by the senator from connecticut. however. i do  wish to imply that we are arbitrarily trying to charge the senator from connecticut with any criminal violations of the law.
it is misrepresentation and fraud upon the public. if you go to the public and say. "contribute money for my political campaign." or. "contribute money to pay off political expenses which i have incurred." and the public makes a contribution. and then you take that money and use it for your personal use. you have perpetrated fraud upon the public. and it is wrong. it is illegal. frankly. it is a criminal action.
i tried to get this answer at the beginning of the proceedings. my answer is that the burden of proof is upon the persons bringing the charges. in our system of jurisprudence there is always a presumption of inence on the part of the person charged. he need  prove himself inent. he must be proved guilty. i keep using this criminal law language. as the distinguished senator from tennessee has said. i liken this proceeding to the nature of a disbarment procedure. which our supreme court has called civil action. but the penalty is so severe that it is practically a criminal action. i hope the senator will bear with me when i say guilt and inence. but there must be a presumption of inence on the part of senator dodd in this case or anyone else charged. and the burden of proof is on those making the charge. the committee. i am trying to find an answer. and i say it respectfully to the committee because it is a distinguished committee and i have high regard for its members. as we all do. my comments are meant to imply criticism of what they have done. but by taking the responsibility to serve on this committee they were the ones to hear and sift the evidence and ultimately to determine whether there was sufficient evidence to bring about charges. they found unanimously that there was sufficient evidence to bring about charges. i say that the burden of proof is on the committee. and i think the committee has been trying the best that it can to sustain that burden of proof.
i think that in considering the question of the weight of evidence. it is almost like that of a man who does  take the witness stand in defense of himself. one is  supposed to say anything about that under our criminal law proceedings. but if a man fails to explain when he gets the opportunity. that is something one can help but take into consideration. if given the opportunity. in this case. we do  have that. because the senator from connecticut has made a presentation before the senate and did appear before the committee. the committee said he did  give all the evidence at that time because he raised the question of jurisdiction. as i understand it. he had rested his case on the question of jurisdiction. until subsequently when he did come forth with additional information.
. may i say to the senator that hing that the committee has been authorized to do has  been done by his distinguished committee. one is criticizing what has been done by the committee. the senator has referred to u.s. senators who were censured for fighting on the floor of the u.s. senate. at least the senate had to find out that they were fighting on the floor of the u.s. senate before they censured them. all we are trying to say is that in order to censure senator dodd in accordance with this resolution. we must at least find that. what he has been charged with. he actually did. in addition to that. we must also remember that the committee questioned the witnesses. looked into their eyes. and were in the position to determine the credibility of the witnesses. mr. ohare has never appeared before the senate. i have never seen mr. ohare. i can judge the credibility of mr. ohare. i have to take it upon the basis of the committees findings as to the credibility of mr. ohare. when the statement is made that the senate would act as a trial court. that statement is  accurate because the senate does  have the opportunity to crossexamine the witnesses who appeared before the committee. the senate did  have. as a body. the responsibility to go out and get affidavits and support the charges made against senator dodd. we had to rely upon the ethics committee which. as i said before. did a good job. one is criticizing what has been done by the committee. the committee has had its investigation and questioned the witnesses and. as i said. looked into their eyes and made a determination as to whether it believed or disbelieved the witnesses. credibility is an essential element here. we might have a situation in which all of the witnesses are disbelieved. the supreme court said there is still a burden. the senator from th carolina may correct me. but i believe that the supreme courts position is that you still have to put in a prima facie case even if you do  believe any of the defense witnesses. you still have to put in sufficient evidence to make out a case. we need to have before the senate sufficient evidence. and it must be directed toward the specific charges listed in (a) and (b) of the senate resolution.
with all due respect. i think i said yesterday that i would. for myself. consider this to be in the nature of a civil procedure. the test i would apply would be the preponderance of the evidence. rather than proof beyond a reasonable doubt. which is required in a criminal proceeding. i wanted to correct the senator with respect to what i believe i stated yesterday.
. if i understand the distinguished senator from texas . correctly. one of his reasons for offering this amendment is that he feels that several senators are in doubt as to the sufficiency of the evidence against the senator from connecticut. it appears to me that if there is serious doubt as to the sufficiency of the evidence. we would do the senator from connecticut a great injustice by merely lessening the reproach. if there is  sufficient evidence. the senators in good conscience and in justice must find senator dodd  guilty. we do  sentence an accused murderer to a few years in jail because there is some evidence of his guilt but  egh to warrant a death sentence. if some senators do indeed harbor doubts about the sufficiency of the evidence. the proper action for such senators to take. it occurs to me. would be to vote for acquittal on the particular charge or charges involved. to lessen the reproach from censure to reprimand under the circumstances would  do justice to senator dodd.
i k that the senator has the proper motives in suggesting that the penalty be changed from "censure" to "reprimand." certainly if the sefhator feels that we ought to mitigate the penalty. it would be proper to offer such an amendment. my opposition to the amendment was based upon the statement of the senator that he was offering it because of a lack of evidence or an insufficiency of evidence to warrant censure. my point is that you can base the question of the penalty on an insufficiency of evidence. if there is insufficiency of evidence. then senator dodd is  guilty as charged. if you merely want to say that he may be guilty as charged but you wish to mitigate the penalty. that is aher subject. and certainly there could be valid argument against that. but i certainly do  believe that we should use insufficiency of evidence as a basis for mitigation of the penalty. that is my point. i assure the senator. as i said the other day. that i have intention to use legal language in the senate or to turn the senate into a courtroom. but i do believe that we have very valid rules and regulations in the lawand i am very proud to be a lawyer. let me say to the senator from texasand by using these rules and regulations. these safeguards. we can proceed with more efficiency and more justice to the accused than in any other form or fashion. my objection. i wish to reiterate. was merely based upon the statement of the senator from texas of insufficiency of evidence as a reason for mitigating the penalty. other.
is the senator saying that there are affidavits of which the department of justice has kledge. to the effect that union funds were given to individuals to make contributions for political campaigns. which was obviously an indirect contribution made by the union. and yet the department of justice found insufficient evidence to prosecute under the existing law.
does the senator agree that we have the department of justice. the attorney general. and the federal bureau of investigation. and the entire judicial system of this great nation to do exactly what the board was authorized and created to do. the names which have been called off by the distinguished senior senator from illis are names which appear in the files of the department of justice and the federal bureau of investigation.
in our system of jurisprudence. is it  the position of this nation that it should provide sufficient evidence to bring about the public indictment of an individual or organization. and is it  true that our justice department operates under that great american tradition. the fact that it has information in its files and does  expose the concerned individual may very well mean that it does  have sufficient evidence to bring forth such an indictment.
of course. when the plaintiff goes to the attorney he must say. "if we are successful. the court may award fees." he can say. "the court will award fees." but must say "may." because it is still up to the determination of the court. is it .
i am sure there are other senators who feel the same way. but i should like to ask the senator to consider amending his amendment on the merits and justice of the issue alone. the date set forth in the amendment is august 1. that leaves precious little time for states to make the transition involved.
. punishment of the criminal will  soothe our conscience or dispel our sorrow. for the death of martin luther king leaves our nation inconsolable. we can assuage the loss of martin luther king. we can only redeem it by rishing the spirit with which he imbued millions of americans. both black and white. that spirit is one of conciliation and good will. of brotherly love and mutual respect. of fervent dedication to the violent struggle for equal justice. the mood of america today is necessarily confused and troubled. from it we must extract a new sense of direction and determination. if we are to be true apostles of this godly man. if we are to avoid the perils of division and civil strife. we must keep faith with the vision of martin luther king. we must  allow that vision to be shrouded in the bitterness and bigotry which moved the assassin. this is a time for all americans to look inward and to measure themselves. with whom will we stand: the man who fired the gun. or the man who fell before it. the honest rage of this day must  be spent in outbursts of the violence spawned by the murderer. the pain felt by americans of all races over this terrible event will purify our nation only if it generates a sober and profound commitment to relieve the injustice which martin luther king so valiantly opposed. the ancient words of aher land are a fitting proclamation for us: "the king is dead. long live the king." the king who lives and who must be followed is the man of peace. the spokesman of violence. the preacher of tolerance. the advocate of human progress through love and cooperation. this is the spirit we must preserve. the legacy we must cherish. raucus voices  annce the death of violence in america. it is up to us to prove them wrong. bitter men declare their contempt for the doctrine of a man struck down by one igant of that doctrine. it is up to us to demonstrate the lasting strength and decisive value of what the victim proclaimed.  to mimic the viciousness and futility of what the villain did. violence is  dead and we must  allow it to perish. as dr. kings life and works so vividly show. it is a powerful and vibrant force for good. it has brought this nation far. though  yet far egh. it has added new dimensions to social justice in this land. though other dimensions remain neglected. it will carry us forward to that promised land which martin luther king glimpsed. and which he wished us all to share. his sacrifice in the service of this great ideal calls us to accept the burden he has  laid down. as americans we can receive greater gift. as americans we can pursue higher goal.
. 14 years after the u.s. supreme court declared that racially segregated educational facilities were inherently unequal. many of the schools in some of our largest urban centers are attended overwhelmingly by students of one race. sixtyfive percent of firstgrade negro children attend schools which are at least 90 percent negro. 80 percent of firstgrade white children attend schools which are at least 90 percent white. and these figures are reflected throughout the educational spectrum. as a result. education in the united states tends to reinforce the very negative social factors which education is supposed to eliminate. the u.s. civil rights commission has found that racial imbalance in the public schools is increasing. in its report. "racial isolation in the public schools." it es the existence of "marked disparities in the outcomes of education for negro and white americans." the commission further observes that programs of compensatory education have  had lasting effects upon the achievement of negro children. and that they are  likely to do so as long as such children remain segregated by race and social class.
so there remains only the writ of habeas corpus to guarantee that the constituional question will ever get into a federal district or a circuit court of appeals and then ultimately to the supreme court of the united states. is that  correct.
. block grants can make an essential contribution to improved law enforcement. at the same time they can do much to create a new and vital role for state government in our federal system. for both of these reasons. i believe the better part of wisdom calls for us to endorse this important concept. but there are other factors to consider as well. there is an obvious insensitivity to the varying needs of different states in a block grant scheme which is tied exclusively to the relative populations of the states. this single criterion. though it has the virtue of simplicity. has the vice of iging a central truth: that population alone is  a sufficient measure of the needs of any state for assistance in this field. crime rates vary. the capabilities of police vary. the financial capacities of states varyand all these and many other factors affect the relative needs of different states. moreover. there are cases in which a sound case can be made for direct assistance by the federal government to local units of government. considerations such as these have led me to devote much time to devising a suitably flexible system of grants to meet these diverse requirements. these factors are recognized in the text of amendment 715 by its provisions for most funds to be spent at the local level. even when channeled to the states as block grants. in addition the amendment offered by the distinguished miity leader reserves 15 percent of total funds under this program for allocation by the law enforcement administration at its discretion. this is an admirable attempt to build certain flexibility into the grant mechanism. however. in my studied opinion. somewhat more flexibility is desirable. i have been a law enforcement officer and i believe there may well be cases in which direct federal grants to local units of government would be helpful. as the distinguished senator from illis ks from my discussions with him and the able senator from nebraska. i have tried to devise a new set of criteria to permit greater flexibility in the administration of this program. while retaining a builtin preference for grants to encourage development of state capabilities for law enforcement. there have appeared certain problems with adding more criteria to the single standard of population proposed in amendment 715. for this reason i have concluded that the most effective way to meet the mixed and divergent requirements in this field is to allocate most of the funds to the states according to their respective populations. but to reserve a substantial portion to be allocated either to the states or to local units of government according to the discretion of the administering body. to accomplish this. my amendment to the pending dirksen amendment provides that 66% percent of the action funds should be allocated as block grants to the states. but that 331/3 percent of the funds would be reserved for allocation as the lawenforcement administration shall decide. this is a goodfaith attempt to reach common ground for all of us who are interested in expanding the nations investment in sound law enforcement. i believe that the allocation formula which i advocate fairly serves the interests of both the supporters of the block grant amendment offered by my respected leader and the supporters of title i in its present form. i urge that the senate follow its customary instinct to approve reasonable and workable compromise. i hope that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will recognize this proposal as such a compromise and that they will pass it with a solid majority.
s recent decision to appoint abe fortas as chief justice of the supreme court and homer thornberry as associate justice. i believe the editorial is a worthy contribution to the dialog which has taken place regarding these appointments. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record
. efforts to achieve fair and adequate firearms regulations have advanced in a cooperative atmosphere of bipartisan endeavor. in recent months. i have consulted with many of my colleagues and other informed persons who have offered their views on the concept of a national inventory of firearms. with these discussions in mind and after considerable thought. i introduced s. 3637 along with eight of my distinguished colleagues. essentially. the measure seeks to establish a national inventory that would receive minimal information relevant to the transfer and/or possession of firearms. such information would be filed initially with the principal local law enforcement officer in each locality. it is  primarily a preventive measure. it does  guarantee by itself that tragedies similar to those we have witnessed in the recent months will  occur. but it does provide for an informationgathering system that can be used as a tool by all lawenforcement officials in their efforts to trace the ownership of particular firearms. more specifically the measure calls for the filing of statements by manufacturers. importers. dealers and pawnbrokers of all future commercial transfers of firearms. the ffiing of statements by transferees of all firearms acquired by private transfer. and within a year the filing of statements on firearms acquired prior to the enactment of the bill by any person. ample time would be allowed for the proper authorities to publicize this requirement in order to insure that all individuals presently holding firearms could comply without difficulty. the bill would permit any state to exempt itself from coverage at any time by creating its own inventory system. however. in the interest of maintaining the integrity of a national inventory. the secretary of the treasury would be empowered to enter into agreements with any exempt states to pay the costs of incorporating their inventory information into the national files. such agreements would. of course. depend entirely on voluntary cooperation by the states. because this system is explicitly con6eived as a supplement to other state. local. and federal regulations. it contains regulatory provisions of its own. it places significant burdens on those owning or acquiring firearms. and it provides only light penaltfesimprisonment at all and only a staged series of optional fines. beginning with a maximum of $100 for the first violation. these provisions clearly recognize that most. owners of firearms are lawabiding americans who should  be exposed to undue risk of punishment for the mere fact of possessing firearms. in developing this concept since it was first introduced on may 7. my cosponsors and i have tried to be responsive to the thoughtful suggestions that have been brought to our attention. we have  modified the bill in a number of particulars. in order that the senate may consider the more refined text. i ask that it be printed in the record immediately following my remarks. at the appropriate time. i intend to offer this version as an amendment in the nature of a substitute to s. 3637. to emphasize the fact that the proposal is strictly an informationgathering device intended to aid enforcement of firearm laws at all levels of government. we have retitled the legislation the national firearms inventory act. i would like to explain briefly the more significant alterations and additions. section 2(a) (4) would  enable the transferee to retain for his own records a copy of the statement filed under the provisions of that section. section 2(b) would  require"the filing of a statement by a private transferee within 10 instead of 30 days. when weighed against the need for uptodate information. the shorter period does  appear to be at all unreasonable. section 2(d) has been renumbered as section 2(g) and three new sections have been added and numbered as 2(d). 2(e) (1) and (2). and 2(f) (1) and (2). section 2(d) would  require a private person who has changed his residence to any locality subject to the provisions of the act. to file a new statement with the principal law enforcement officer of the locality to which he has moved. he would have 30 days within which to do so. in recognition of the fact that 20 percent of our urban population shifts each year. a workable information source must. of necessity. reflect these changes. section 2(e) (1) would require the sending of a ification to the principal local law enforcement official within 10 days of any loss. theft. recovery. or destruction of a firearm recorded under the provision of the act. section 2(e) (2) would require a private transferor to ify the principal law enforcement official of the locality wherein he resides of details relevant to the transfer. section 2(f) (1) would permit the filing of statements directly with the secretary of the treasury in situations where the secretary has determined that it would be impracticable for most persons within the given locality to file such statements with the local authorities in that jurisdiction. section 2(f) (2) would require the secretary to ify the principal law enforcement official of a locality as designated under this subsection of any statements filed pursuant to the section. the need for this provision is based on the fact that geographical limitations may exist in a given locality which would impose an undue burden on those seeking to comply with the act. additionally a local law enforcement official may. for any number of reasons. be unable or unwilling to receive the information sought under this act. section 3(d) would place a ceiling of $2 for each fee paid by private persons. in addition the secretary could authorize each local law enforcement officer designated to forward statements to retain a portion.  to exceed 50 percent. of each such fee. an important feature has been added as section 5(c). it would prevent the use of the recorded information in any prosecution for crimes committed either prior to or concurrent with the filing of a statement. thus. any person filing a statement would  be incriminating himself. however. it is important to point out that the immunity would  extend to any future criminal activity. it follows that the local law enforcement official should inform any person who files a statement and who is in possession of a firearm in violation of some other state or federal statute. that the information could be used against him. as an example. a felon who possesses a firearm in violation of title vii of the recently enacted safe streets and crime control act. could file a statement without having the information used against him relevant to his possession prior to and concurrent with the filing. but this felon would have to divest himself of the weapon in order to avoid the use of the information in a prosecution for possession subsequent to the filing of the statement. section 8 has been added to allow time for the implementation of the provision of the act and to insure that the details of administration would be worked out. the changes that i have suggested do  alter the underlying concept of s. 3637. they merely take cognizance of some of the practical aspects of its administration. as such. it represents our continuing effort to achieve a coordinated national program that is responsive to the needs of all communities across the nation and that is responsive to the justified concern expressed by the american public.
. i would just like to answer the point of the senator from alabama. i think. since the saxe case has been mentioned by the senator from new jersey. we ought to k what test was applied by the court in the saxe against brady case. it was  just gross abuse or gross misconduct. the court said: when the stockholders ratify a transaction. the interested parties are relieved of the burden of proving the fairness of the transaction. the burden then falls on the objecting stockholders to convince the court that person of ordinary. sound business judgment would be expected to entertain the view that the consideration was a fair exchange for the value which was given. if that is the test that was applied by this court. that certainly is  the test of gross abuse or gross misconduct. as the distinguished senator from alabama has pointed out. i would agree with the senator that the law as stated does mention gross misconduct and gross abuse.
. i thank the senator from ohio for his contribution to the colloquy. i intend to vote for confirmation of the ination of abe fortas as chief justice of the supreme court. hing i have heard today changes that intention. but that is  the issue. as i hope all senators have understood. that i intended to raise on the floor of the senate today. the only issue i have sought to raise is the issue of that unfortunate statement made by the attorney general of the united states. indicting senators for allegedly being anticivilrights. merely because they have been in opposition to the ination of mr. abe fortas as chief justice of the united states
. i trust that hing that has been said on the floor relative to the attorney generals statement will reflect adversely or in any way upon the ination of mr. abe fortas as chief justice of the united states.
this point was raised yesterday. i referred to the investment company act of 1940. section 36. and i believe that is what the senator has referred to. this is authority given to the commission. authorizing the commission to bring action in the proper district court of the united states. and if the commissions allegations of gross misconduct or gross abuse of trust in respect of any registered investment company are established. they are enjoined "from acting in such capacity or capacities either permanently or for such period of time as in its discretion shall deem appropriate."
they have that right. and. in addition. under the socalled bennett amendment. they have the right to go to court and prove the preponderance of the evidence only. that there was  100 percent approval of the board of directors and twothirds approval of the stockholders.
as i said. the $500.000 a year would be the estimate of the cost of data systems. the senator is correct about the additional cost which i referred to. this cost would come from a fee of $2 per individual guner. on an appropriation. and i have so amended my proposal. but it still would  be more than about $2.5 million annually. i say that is considerably less than the $22.5 million which the justice department had called for for the administration of a registration system.
. i rise in support of the motion to conclude the present debate. it is. in my judgment. an unjustified and unnecessary diversion of the senates attention and energy from the only real question of concern: is mr. justice fortas qualified to be chief justice of the united states. weighing the evidence considered by the judiciary committee and the arguments presented here on the floor. i believe that the answer to that question is emphatically "yes." but regardless of the senates opinion on the final issue of confirmation. surely we should be permitted to reach that issue and to vote upon it. let us then. in good conscience and on full reflection. invoke the rules we have made for ourselves. let us conclude this procedural discussion and move on to the weighty matter that should properly be before us. i urge the senate to support the cloture proposal.
. it is  for us to judge the nature of the movement which was led by eduardo mondlane. one of the deepest tragedies of the colonial system is that a man with the talents and abilities of dr. mondlane found legitimate outlet for his leadership in his own country. but the dream of eduardo mondlane is one which we can fully share. he fought and died for the principle of selfdetermination. he sought freedom and justice for his people. he believed. with most of the peoples of the world. that e are truly free until all are free. the world will be a greater place for all if the dream of eduardo mondlane lives on.
. i rise today to address a subject which is of increasing concern to methe preservation of newspapers in cities where pressures are great to merge them with their closest competitors. on april 29 of this year. i submitted a series of amendments to senate bill 1520 which was introduced by my very able colleague. senator iye. i have carefully reviewed the iye bill and my amendments in light of their effect on the newspaper industry as a whole and have concluded that additional amendments are necessary and would be in the best interests of the newspaper industry and the public which it serves. present antitrust laws prevent the merger of two or more newspapers when the effect of such a merger would be to lessen competition. an established. judicially created exception to these laws permit a merger when one of the newspapers involved is deemed to be a "failing company." the latter term has been carefully defined in court decisions. beginning with the landmark international shoe decision. the latest case. citizen publishing company et al. against united states. prompted the introduction of s. 1520. the rationale for the "failing newspaper" exception is that it is better to permit a declining newspaper to merge. than to allow its demise. the iye bill would alter established court doctrine defining a failing newspaper and would permit newspapers to enter into joint operating arrangementswhereby certain activities of the two newspapers involved could be combinedunder circumstances that would  be permitted by the citizen case. my original amendments were designed to codify established antitrust principles set forth in the international shoe decision by the supreme court. the amendments which i submit todayin lieu of the amendments which i submitted on april 29would retain the iye bill definition of a failing newspaper. i have concluded. after lengthy consultations with industry representatives and justice department officials. that the definition contained in s. 1520 is adequate. provided the bill clearly specifies the scope of such joint operating arrangements. newspapers which are  failing in the international shoe sense would nevertheless be able to join together for certain limited purposes. a complete merger would only be permitted where the criteria set forth in international shoe were satisfied. i believe that certain limitations must be placed on the activities which newspapers utilizing joint operating arrangements are permitted to pursue. more specifically. the amendments which i introduce today would preclude such newspapers from engaging in price fixing and profit pooling. the first activity is a per se violation of the sherman act. and. therefore. my amendment merely incorporates existing law. to permit price fixing by participants in a joint operating arrangement would be to sanction anticompetitive behavior by one sector of our ecoy when it has been effectively denced in other sectors. the justice department has indicated its view that price fixing and profit pooling can be condoned and i share this belief. what then are the activities that newspapers would be permitted to engage in if the iye bill were passed with my amendments. first. a joint sunday edition would be permitted. as well as certain joint activities which are presently performed by each newspapers business department. examples of the latter would be timesharing on a single computer. and. under certain circumstances. the joint use of advertising sales. there would also be the opportunity for shared printing and distribution facilities. as well as a costjustified combination advertising rate provided that each newspaper initially establishes its advertising rate independently of its competitors. certainly. the activities enumerated above enable participating newspapers to achieve ecoies of scale far beyond those which are presently realizable. to go further would be tantamount to permitting mergers where the requirements of international shoe had  been met. i am confident that the congress will  endorse a dilution of these fundamental. established antitrust principles. my amendments would also exempt existing joint operating arrangements which violate the provisions of the amended act from civil suits under sections 4 or 16 of the clayton act. itis my feeling that newspapers which have entered into joint operating arrangements in the past and which do  comply with the guidelines set forth in the amended act. should  be subjected to treble damage litigation. they proceeded in good faith. on the understanding that such arrangements were legal and they should  bear the burden of such damages. my amendments would also declare a 6month moratorium on suits by the justice department. thus giving newspapers presently engaged in joint operating arrangements an opportunity to bring their operations within the scope of permissible activities. in conclusion. i believe that the amendments intended to be proposed by me which i submit today will permit joint activities where ecoies of scale can be realized and adverse anticompetitive consequences do  arise. by retaining the established antitrust principles in the area of mergers. further ecoic concentration in the newspaper industry can be prevented and the goal of preserving a healthy national press can be furthered. my amendments are in accord with the concerns of the justice department and i hope they will receive careful consideration in the development of any legislation in this area.
. the first week in august the city of boston. mass.. will host the national convention of the shorthand and reporters association. all of us who have practiced in court. or spent much time in meetings of congressional committees or in other meetings where witnesses are heard and crossexaminations conducted. are well aware of the vital work performed by shorthand and steype reporters. they truly are the silent transcribers of progress and effective government. without them. the entire legislative process. our ecoy. and justice as we k it today would surely falter. society has ever had a greater need for accurate and prampt recordings of its proceedings. and society could ever be more ably served than by todays highly trained and skilled shorthand and steype reporters. in recogntion of their invaluable services. i introduce. for myself and senator kennedy. a joint resolution. and ask that it receive the prompt consideration of the senate. i ask unanimous consent that the joint resolution be printed in the record.
. discrimination in employment is a fact. we do  like to admit it. but it exists. it is widespread. and it must be corrected. in some cases. to be sure. employment opportunities are denied for reasons other than race or color or creed. discrimination can be used as a catchall excuse in such cases. it is the task of the eeoca task which it has performed admirably to dateto distinguish such cases and advise the parties concerned as to whether a court suit is justified. the commission has in fact found that in a little over 50 percent of the cases brought to its attention there was violation of the law. in all too many cases. however. charges of discrimination are justified. in such cases justice must be done. and justice is  done when men and women are required to wait as much as 2 years just to find out from the commission if they have a case. and may file suit in court. it is  my purpose here today to discuss the problems of our entire judicial system. but one of the most significant findings of the eisenhower commission on the causes of violence has particular relevance here. according to the commissions report. a major cause of the growing disrespect for law is the idinate length of time required to secure punishment or redress. an individual may believe he has been unjustly denied the most basic right of allthe right to work. he takes his case to the eeoc and he expects aid will be granted within a reasonable time. if he is then told he must wait 2 years or more before being advised on whether he may file suit in court to seek redress. the ingredients of frustration and despair are readily at hand. frustration and despair need  be a part of the process. eeoc offers a systematic administrative process by which this most urgent problem can be handled. it can be handled efficiently. but only if sufficient funds are provided to do the job which congress has defined. having recognized the immensity of this problem. both ecoically and morally. by enacting title vii of the civil rights act of 1964 and establishing the equal employment opportunity commission. we must at long last give the full support to the enforcement procedures. the most constructive opportunity before us is immediately to restore the eeoc appropriation to the requested $15.9 million. i. therefore. fully support the proposed amendment. and hope that my colleagues will also support it
 to safeguard the third branch of our government. the courts stature is too precious to jeopardize. and that stature depends largely on the confidence our people have in the wisdom and integrity of its members. here in american government is it so essential for the superior competence and fairness of a public official to be demonstrated and recognized. it does  take a professional student of the court to understand this. it is the common insight of most americans. the recent tumoil surrounding the court has only underscored the need to apply this stringent test rigorously. this. then. is the context in which judge haynsworths ination must be viewed. the question of confirmation transcends the specific concerns which many have voiced about his record on labor cases. or civil rights cases. or even his questionable financial activities while sitting on the bench. the judgment must be made in the whole. and i think it must be based on answers to the questions i posed some weeks ago: is judge haynsworth the man to restore the nations confidence in the utter integrity of the supreme court. and is judge haynsworth the man to maintain the faith of that vast majority of fairminded americans.  to mention the disillusioned miity. who look to the court as the indispensable instrument of equal justice under law. i have concluded. reluctantly and sadly. that he is . the rejection of this ination would be a personal tragedy for judge haynsworth. i regret that deeply. but his confirmation could be a collective tragedy for the nation. and that risk is simply too real and too grave to accept. we can afford to fill the ninth seat on the court with a man who enjoys anything less than the full faith and respect of those whom he serves. we can afford to weaken the reverence on which the courts power is ultimately founded. the events of recent months have given us a new appreciation of our duties in the vital process of confirmation. as the senate looks forward to future inations. i believe the present proceedings will play a singular role in establishing the scope of this bodys prerogative and the seriousness with which it views its duties in these matters. the result. i trust. will be a supreme court of even greater influence in american life. an influence founded on the merited confidence of our citizens. that is the paramount consideration which ought to govern our action. weighing it. i am sure the senate will act wisely.
i thank the distinguished senator from new york. i am very grateful to him for his understandhig of the deliberation and the consideration that i had to give to this ination. i assure the senator from new york that. as he has said. i considered the ination with the benefit of my legal training and with the strong convictions that i hold concerning this nation and the problem of race relations in this nation. i think it is regrettable that there has been sent to the senate for confirmation to the highest court in the land the ination of a man who. by his own public proncements. demonstrated that he harbored racist views. i think it is even more regrettable that at time during his relatively long public career has he showed any indication of having changed. i looked. as i have said. to find this change in his mind and in his heart. but i found evidence of change which would enable me in good conscience to vote for confirmation of his ination. i k that this particular ination is one which all our colleagues will have to consider with great thought. it comes behind aher ination which the senate felt it had to reject. i k that each one of the 100 senators had hoped that the president would submit a name for confirmation that. frankly. all of us could in good conscience support. the statement of the junior senator from new york. given much earlier after his careful review. and the additional statements which have been made by some of our other colleagues. certainly  indicate that there will be far from a unanimous vote on this inee. i expect that the debate will be somewhat lengthy. i am sure that it will be one in which both sides will be given equal opportunity to discuss the cases. the deeds. as well as the words of judge carswell. i hope that that will be true. i believe that man in the senate. regardless of where he comes from. objects to voting for a southerner. or a westerner. or a therner. or an easterner. or for strict constructionist. i am certain that those of us who are lawyers have great respect for a strict constructionist. but. again. let me say that it is an unfortunate circumstance that the president has seen fit. in his attempt to find a southerner and a strict constructionist. to inate g. harrold carswell. whose statement. in my opinion. went far beyond the bounds of political rhetoric. we are all politicians in this body. we make speeches and sometimes we say things that. perhaps. in quieter or saner moments we might  have said. but i read that 1948 statement closely. as did the senator from new york. i tried to put myself in the position of this man as best i could. under the circumstances prevailing at that time. to see if these were just political words or whether they went deeper. i found that they were deeply felt words. then i examined the age of the inee at the time the statement was made. he was 28 years old. i k we are considered to be men at 28 years of age. at that age. i had spent 5 years in war. in many respects. judge carswell and i were passing through a similar period. since we were both coming out of military service and had both gone to law school at the same time. i think thati was pretty much a man at 28 years of age. today the question of lowering the voting age to 18 is being considered in this country. so that the young people can anticipate decisions. and vote in federal. state. and municipal elections at the age of 18. we  believe that young people are mature and responsible. certainly they are intelligent and aware of their surroundings. and i do  believe the times were so different 20 years ago. thus. i do  believe a man is or was immature at 28. there may be some exceptions. but harrold carswell was a man who had been trained in the law. then i said. "well. a man can change." men do change. great social changes have taken place in this country. the spirit of the time of pope john xxiii and the ecumenical council changed the minds of many people in this country as well as in the world. i said. "let us look for that change." as i am sure the senator from new york did. i searched the record looking for that change. but i must confess. regrettably. that i did  find any. in fact. i found considerable evidence to the contrary. i found that in periods along the way in judge carswells public career. he had made statements and had acted and conducted his court in a manner which indicated to me that there was change. that he still harbored racist views. then i thought about our country. where is our country going today. many things that have been happening in this country recently. including the statements of some of our highest political leaders made me think. are we really moving. as the kerner commission report suggested. toward two societies. one black and one white. do we really want war between the races of this nation. did president nixon really mean it when he said he would bring us together. i had taken great hope from the president. who is a member of my political party. because if there is anything more important in this nation than bringing people together. i do  k what it is.
i appreciate very much the statement of the distinguished junior senator from indiana. i certainly would like to support my president. as i am sure he is well aware and has so intimated. i voted for president nixon. i campaigned for him. i certainly would like to support his inee for the supreme court of the united states. but i have been very much concerned and deeply burdened in recent months by many things. this ination is one of them. the senator from indiana mentioned the divisions in the country. they are  all racial divisions. the conflict of the young versus the old seems to be getting deeper and deeper. sectionalism is beginning to reappear again. religious bias seems to be coming back a little bit more. although we enjoyed a beautiful period. as i said. at the time of pope john xxiii. and the ecumenical council. thus. it seems to me the most inappropriate time in our history for a man to be presented to the senate for confirmation of his ination for the supreme court who has at one time in his life admittedly spoken out publicly for white supremacy. i have fought separatists. black separatists. at every step along the way. i am in great disfavor with those in the black community who favor separatism and militance and violence. i do  believe there is any master race. black or white. we went to war once about a master race. thank god we won that one. here we are called upon to confirm a man to sit on the highest court in this land. who will be sitting in judgment and giving supposedly equal justice to all. who has the record that g. harrold carswell does. i do  k the man. i have never met him. i have personal animosity toward him. but i do  think this nation can afford g. harrold carswell on the supreme court of the united states. my colleagues may think differently. i do  k. but i think it would be a great mistake. i certainly understand that sometimes a man changes in a job. i think the president. in a press conference in response to a question from one of the reporters. likened this ination to ralph mcgill of georgia. in my opinion. that is  a valid comparison. mcgill changed under very different conditions. if we recall the facts. he did change. he harbored these views i am sure at one time in his life. but he outgrew them. social change took place in the country. and he became more kledgeable. he used to have the kind of prejudice and bias that comes from igance. but as he grew older he changed. and he gave clear evidence of that change. g. harrold carswell was  an igant man in 1948. he was  an igant man when he sat on the district court. he certainly was  an igant man when he sat on the court of appeals.  was he an igant man when he served as u.s. district attorney. and took an oath to uphold and defend and enforce the federal laws in this land. that facthis behavior while he was u.s. attorney in floridagave me the greatest difficulty. i understand the situation. i am  naive. i remember that period during the 1950s after the supreme court decision came down that there would be integration of public facilities such as golf courses. and so forth.  only in the south. but also across the nation. there cropped up these private clubs which were created for the sole purpose of circumventing the law of the land. and i understand that some politicians joined in this endeavor. and some private citizens did. though i can condone it. i understand it. but here is a federal lawenforcement officer sworn to enforce the law of the land who joins in a devious move to circumvent the law that he is sworn to enforce. if he had been a mayor or some other officeholder. perhaps it would have been somewhat different. but he was a federal officer. if he goes  to the supreme court of the united states and he writes a decision which. in effect. becomes the law of the land. would he then expect and would he then understand u.s. attorneys. federal lawenforcement officers. circumventing that law. this matter is very difficult for me to understand. perhaps as difficult as any of the decisions i had to read concerning his handling of litigation or his alleged hostility toward counsel or various litigants who appeared before him. then. i take very seriously a writ of habeas corpus. his handling of the habeas corpus cases. in my opinion. was reprehensible. and so. my colleagues. it is because of all of this that i have formed my opinion. and let me point out very clearly that in judging judge carswell. i tried as best a human being can to divorce the matter from the other things that were happening in the country at the time. i did  judge judge carswell on the basis of the statement made by my vice president in chicago. i did  judge him on the basis of the voting rights act or any of these other things which i have mentioned this evening. i judged him solely on the record which the senator from indiana. the senator from maryland. and the other very distinguished members of the judiciary committee brought out in the hearings. i must presume that judge carswell made his strongest case before the judiciary committee. i did  read all 4.000 cases. but i can conceive that his best opinions were  presented to the committee for its consideration. i have to presume that. i think it is a fair presumption. the best cases were certainly considered by the committee. together with the worst cases. and perhaps the  so good. or  so bad cases. that consideration also enabled me to arrive at my findings. i thank the distinguished members of the judiciary committee that carried on the investigation. and i understand the sacrifice which the senator from indiana personally makes.
s have shown an inclination to inate to the supreme court only those membersor at least some memberswho have served in one of the lower federal courts. it would appear to me that in the pastand i do  want to make this an indictment of our systemmany times u.s. attorneys have passed pretty swiftly through the committee. after a look into their basic qualifications and into their honesty and integrity. the judiciary committee certainly has egh work to do. i am sure. and perhaps to a mi degree more is done with federal district court judges and circuit court of appeals judges. when it gets to the supreme court. it seems to me that we say. "wait a minute. let us really take a look." i think that perhaps in this colloquy we are pointing out the necessity to say. "let us really take a look at the u.s. attorney level and at the federal district court level and at the circuit court of appeals level as well as the supreme court of the united states level." then. of course. we would have more of a record to go on if someone is elevated to the high bench. there was very little in the carswell case for the senate to go on in previous confirmatory procedures. because very little testimony and evidence had been brought to light. i would hate to feel. even as important as the supreme court is. that we felt that any of our federal courts were unimportant to the degree that we might pass judgment on inees for those courts with very little indepth investigation and scrutiny and hearings before the committee and debate before the senate. i k that we have so much to do that we can debate as fully every federal district court judgeship that comes before us for confirmation. but we might want to look more closely at what the justice department does in its investigation. we reply pretty heavily upon the justice department for information on inees for the federal judiciary and for the u.s. attorney offices. we in the senate do  have any investigative staff to look into this ourselves. other than individual staffs. and. of course. the staff of the judiciary committee. which certainly is  a large staff large egh to send out investigators all over the country for the many posts we have to fill in the justice department and in the judiciary. but we might want to take a closer look at our practices and our procedures in the future. to forestall the circumstances with which we are laboring at the present time in the g. harrold carswell case. i just bring this matter up to the senate in this form because of the statements made by the distinguished senator from alaska which provoked this thought.
. the senator refers to the statement of judge carswell in 1948.  this statement was never revealed by the justice department. it was revealed by arm of government at all. in fact. to the best of my kledge. the statement came to light only because of theshall i say. digging in by a member of the press who went down into the records in florida in the fifth circuit. and in the morgues of newspapers for that year. and came up with this statement. are we going to have to rely upon the perseverance and ability of the press totally for informationand very important information. i might addconcerning a judicial inee. is that going to be the basis upon which we make our judgments. can we  have an independent investigative source of our own that would be thorough egh to reveal such information as this reporter came up with. which has created such doubts in many senators minds. which you and i have already indicated we find offensive and which even judge carswell himself has said he finds obious. i can believe that judge carswell would volunteer that information. but. when he was confronted with it. he could  quite recollect whether he had made the statement or . i think the record indicates that.
. the tide of opinion against confirmation of judge g. harrold carswell to be a member of the supreme court has mounted steadily. thoughtful members of the senate of widely varying persuasions have felt growing doubts about this ination. illustrative of this trend is the report by roscoe and geoffrey drummond in fridays philadelphia inquirer. as the drummonds make clear. there is a grave apprehension on the part of many senators that confirmation of this ination would impair the supreme court and weaken its stature in our national life. the extraordinary frequency of reversals of judge carswells opinions is one distressinig measure of the degree to which he has been out of step with modern constitutional practice. i believe that all members of the senate will be interested in the perceptive commentary of the drummonds and i ask unanimous consent that be printed at this point in the record.
i think there are others who are also members of the american bar association. it has always appeared to represent the pinnacle of the legal profession. therefore. for a long period of time this association has been called upon to make investigations and make recommendations to the president of the united states relative to his appointments to the supreme court. let me back up for a moment. before the ination of clement haynsworth. and the most recent ination to the supreme court. to the promotion of  was asking for a recommendation for a chief justice of the united states from this highly legal body. the american bar association. and they oblige with a conference telephone call at 7 oclock in the morning in order to make recommendations. as the distinguished senior senator from maryland pointed out in colloquy on the floor of the senate this aftern. little or investigation was made into qualifications of the inee  before us.
i have one comment on the point which the senator from maryland just raised relative to those judges who sat with the proposed inee. i submit that the. supposed recommendation of those who practiced with judge carswell on the fifth circuit court of appeals is also open to question. there are 15 members of that court. of which he is one. five letters of recommendation appear in the transcript of hearings. of which one. the letter of judge elbert b. tuttle. has since been modifiedand i might add by virtue of the investigation of the senior senator from marylandit has been modified so significantly as to indicate a withdrawal of support. according to judge tuttle. he indicated to judge carswell in a telephone conversation of january 28. 1970. while the confirmation hearings were still in progress. that: "i could  testify in support of his ination." since then it has come to light. primarily through press reports that judge miner wisdom. also of the fifth circuit. also withheld his endorsement. and that it was two other judges on the court who objected to the circulation of a joint letter endorsing the inee. therefore. of the 15 judges on the court. the record stands at four and four with six judges. excluding judge carswell as an interested party. uncommitted. given the natural reluctance of many members of the bench to comment on a matter that is constitutionally within the province of the legislative and executive branch to decide. this is a remarkable record.
did the senator k that the american bar association generally rates inees "highly qualified." "exceptionally well qualified." and "qualified". and that it is my understandingi may be corrected if i am in errorthat this is the first time that a person inated to be supreme court justice has been recommended simply as "qualified." without the use of the adjectives "highly qualified" or "exceptionally well qualified".
so it seemed to me that this would be a perfect opportunity for the judiciary committee to conduct .a hearing. at which time they could call mr. wilson before that committee. under oath. and question him as to the purpose for which the letter was writtenwhether pressures were brought to bear on him at the time he agreed to sign the letter. which was written by someone in the administration. as the senator says. and whether in fact he does endorse this inee for confirmation to the supreme court of the united states. does the senator agree with this.
yes. i think the question of mr wilsons integrity has been raised. this is the sort of question i think could and should be resolved by the committee on the judiciary. i think that by raising the issue as to his motives. stating publicly and on the floor of the senate that mr. wilson was  motivated by anything other than his desire to tell the truth to the committee. one does raise a question as to the mans integrity. i think that. whether it is raised directly or indirectly. the effects are the same. mr. wilson is an employee of the justice department. and as such was appointed by the present administration. he has given testimony in the form of a letter to the judiciary committee. the distinguished senator from california says that that letter was drafted by a member of the justice department in the present administration. and that it was signed. after some mi corrections. by mr. wilson. if the facts are as the senator from california states them. it certainly raises a doubt in my mind. and as the distinguished senator from kansas well ks. i try to be as fair and as objective as i can. as i say. i do  k the facts in this case. i do  k mr. wilson. i do  k whether he would be motivated by career considerations. whether he feels his job may have been in jeopardy had he  signed the letter. i do  k that. i do  make any such charge. i do state that the best way to resolve the question is by letting the judiciary committee conduct hearings on this issue. let members of the committee ask mr. wilson questions. let them sit. look into his eyes to judge whether he is telling the truth. whether he really believes mr. carswell is the man to sit on the supreme court of the united states: whether the statements he signed were. in fact. truth and fact. i think that question can best be resolved by giving him the opportunity to testify. i do  k of any impediment-
i made my speech relatively soon after the committee on the judiciary had reported the ination. and the report had been completed. i studied the record as best i could. and based my decision upon the record and my own personal inquiries. but since that time many things have come to light which i. frankly. did  k of. and i think many other senators did  k of. take the matter of judge tuttle. there is certainly some question as to judge tuttles endorsement or withdrawal of his endorsement. about how. in fact. the judge stands on this ination. things of that nature could be cleared up. once and for all. if the ination goes back to the committee. questions were raised by the senator from california yesterday and today about the letter of mr. wilson. mr. wilsons credibility and the credibility of judge carswell himself have been questioned. those are important things to consider and i think the judiciary committee should consider them. one wants to have sitting on the supreme court a man whose credibility has been challenged. unless that issue has been resolved. i do  make such a charge. i do  say judge carswell did  tell the truth to the committee on the judiciary at the time i believe my distinguished colleague from massachusetts was interrogating him as to whether he knew when he signed the incorporation papers that he was setting up a device to circumvent the law of the land as determined by the supreme court. but there is a questiona doubtin my mind. i would like to k whether judge carswell was or was  telling the truth. i do  think the interrogation was exhaustive or complete. i think that certain things which have happened since the hearings have raised doubts in my mind and have raised doubts in the minds of other senators. i am looking for a means to resolve those doubts. it seems to me that if i were in judge carswells position and my name were before the senate for confirmation. and if some doubt had been raised as to my credibility. and i were about to sit on the supreme court of the united states. i would want any and all doubts resolved promptly and decisively. i would want them resolved by the official body that should resolve them. i do  think the senate has all the facts before it at the present time.  has it an opportunity to get those facts. the senate itself does  take testimony. the committee on the judiciary does. i think that a further hearing by that committee is the only way these doubts can be resolved.
would  the senator agree that the whole question of the weight that should be given to the american bar associations endorsement is one that should be resolved. certainly the american people have been led to believe that when the american bar association gave its approval to . and to the nation for that association to say that judge carswell was qualified. considering the minimum of investigation which the abas committee conducted. i think the same thing applies to the department of justice. i think it is a shame. some would say a scandal. frankly. that the justice department did  k or did  report to the committee on the judiciary the statement which some television reporter discovered. by happenstance or through diligencewell.  by happenstance. but by diligencethat created some serious doubts in my mind and in the minds of other people across the nation as to this inees fitness to serve on the supreme court. many of these things came out after the judiciary committee had made its report. if these were just more things that had already come before the committee on the judiciary. then. as the senator from kansas has wisely pointed out. we could  keep the record open for an indeterminate period. the hearings have to be ended at some time. all i say  is that serious questions of doubt have been raised since the senate began to consider this inee. we can resolve those doubts and the way to do that is to vote favorably upon the motion to recommit and thereby give the committee on the judiciary an opportunity to conduct further hearings. which conceivably and hopefully could resolve those doubts. is that  a logical argument.
i just can presume that a democrat is going to come before the senate judiciary committee and. under oath. is going to give testimony which is  truthful. merely because he is a democrat. i have to presume that he would be honest and forthright. the senator is a distinguished lawyer. he ks that there is a presumption 6f truthfulness. and we have to go on that presumption. i have traveled all my life on that presumption. and i have been very happy with it. i have never presumed a man to be wrong until he is proved wrong. and i think that is what this country stands for. mr. horsky should be called. then i think mr. wilson should be called before the committee. i will  repeat the reasons. i think mr. carswell should come back before the committee because of the question of credibility which has been raised. i think very serious questions have been raised about his credibility. i would call before the committee some of the incorporators of the golf course in florida. i think they should come before the committee so that the committee might question them. i think our judicial system is the best that has ever been devised by man. although i k that under our system of laws at times we have to use affidavits. i think the best system is to have a man appear before a committee so that its members can look into his eyes and make a determination as to whether that man is telling you the truth or the untruth. you can always tell by this method. but. generally speaking. judges and juries have been very successful. they might convict the wrong man occasionally. or a convicted man might escape occasionally. but. generally speaking. our system of examination and cross examination. as i have said. is pretty reliable. i do  think we should change that system insofar as making a decision on the confirmation of a inee for the supreme court of the united states. so i just want to say to the senator that i k he has some serious doubts as to the reason for a motion to recommit. and generally his doubts might be very valid. he has served in the house. and he has said that generally in the house a motion to recommit is a motion to kill. but i merely am trying to point outand i hope i havethat sufficient questions have been raised since the judiciary committee reported this ination that would justify recommittal of this particular ination to the judiciary committee for the purpose of resolving those doubts. . i do  think i could make any stronger statement than to say that i think that in the end mr. carswells interests will be better served if the senate. in its wisdom. votes favorably upon the motion to recommit. i do  say this in any threatening manner at all. i do  mean by that that if it is . he will be denied confirmation. i frankly really do  k that. but i think the senator would agree that at this moment the senate is so divided. there are some who still do  k how they will ultimately vote. the issue hangs in the balance. but we have the opportunity to resolve the doubts and i think the way to do that is by voting favorably upon the motion to recommit. i hope that the motion carries when it is voted upon i understand that the senator intends to make a motion. prior to that vote. to table the motion. he invited my support of that motion to table but i will have to say that unless i hear more convincing arguments than i have heard so far. i would be disposed at this moment to vote against the motion to table and vote for the motion to recommit and hope that these questions can then be favorably resolved. i thank the distinguished senator from kansas for joining this colloquy. which i hope will set the tone for the few remaining days of debate. i think that we have practically exhausted all the arguments on the evidence that we have before us. and fear that we soon may get into the area of speculation. charges. countercharges. innuendoes. guilt by association. and all of that murky area. which would make our decision even more difficult. i think that we can avoid that pitfall if we direct the few remaining days to intelligent and exhaustive debate on why we should or should  vote favorably on the motion to recommit. again i thank the distinguished senator from kansas.
. the debate thus far has shown that the senators who oppose judge carswell do so because their study of his record has compelled the conclusion that he lacks the basic intellectual qualifications necessary for service on the high court and that he is hostile to the precepts of the 14th amendment. the discussion has largely dealt wtih the totality of his record. which is. of course. of vital significance in setting the basic theme of the debate. but i believe a further insight can be achieved by examining in depth the judges performance in a single proceeding. for this purpose i have analyzed judge carswells handling of the case which was most thoroughly discussed in the judiciary committee. county of gadsden against wechsler. in my view. judge carswells performance in the wechsler case graphically illustrates his judicial deficiencies. at the outset. i shall summarize the significant aspects of this episode. first: a fee was required to remove civil rights prosecutions cases to the federal court despite a square holding by the fifth circuit that such fee was to be charged. lefton v. city of hattiesburg. 333 f. 2d 280. 285. reprinted in the hearings 460. 465. second: judge carswell insisted that petitions for habeas corpus be filed on a special form designated by the court. although the rule which prescribed the form was adopted for an entirely different class of cases. so that form called for information which was entirely irrelevant since mere filing of the removal petition entitled the defendants to habeas corpus. third: defendants attorneys were directed to obtain the signatures of the defendants on the petition. which further delayed their relase. although it is universal practice that court papers are to be signed by attorneys rather than the parties whom they represent. fourth: judge carswell criticized the defense attorney because he was from out of the state. although local lawyers were available to represent the civil rights workers. he did so despite the recent opinion of the court of appeals in lefton which. in the clearest terms. instructed district judges in its circuit to permit outofstate attorneys to represent civil rights workers who would otherwise be without counsel. see 333 f. 2d 285286. hearings. 465466. fifth: judge carswell refused to permit his marshal to serve the writ of habeas corpus and required defendants attorney to do so themselves. although 28 u.s.c. 1446 provides that when the court issues its writ of habeas corpus "the marshal shall thereupon" take the defendants into custody and deliver a copy of the writ to the clerk of the state court. sixth: judge carswell permitted his marshal to ify state authorities of the order of remand by telephone. although 28 u.s.c. 1447(c) provides that such ice shall be given by mail. by this violation and that of 28 u.s.c. 1446(f) judge carswell enabled the state to rearrest the civil rights defendants immediately after their attorney served the writ. seventh: judge carswell remanded the case to the state court without affording the defendants a hearing on the question of the propriety of the removal. he did so. although that question was. at the very least. one of considerable complexity and although the only authority which judge carswell cited was  even remotely in point. finally. judge carswell denied a stay pending an appeal. although such an appeal was expressly granted by congress. the question raised on the appeal was substantial. and there was danger that the defendants would flee or commit any illegal acts. before discussing these matters in detail. it is appropriate to describe the context in which the wechsler proceeding arose. a group of civil rights workers came to thern florida. as they did to some other areas in the south. to engage in a voter registration campaign among negroes. the activities of these civil rights workers were in the finest tradition of democracy for they recognized. as congress recognized in the voting rights act of 1965. that negroes would remain secondclass citizens as long as they were denied the franchise. for precisely that reason the white community and more particularly the incumbent government officials who benefitted from the retention of the status quo and the denial of suffrage to the -negroes resisted these efforts. the atmosphere which greeted the civil rights workers was well described by man kf who at that time was a law student but who presently is an attorney in the department of justice and appeared before the judiciary committee pursuant to subpena:
i thank the senator from indiana for that kind expression. on occasion the question has appeared to be  whether one is opposed to the qualifications of g. harrold carswell. but rather whether one is opposed to the president of the united states. most certainly. i am  opposed to the president of the united states. the distinguished senator from indiana has said he is  opposed to the president of the united states. he has said that. as a democrat. he respects the president. who is his president as much as he is my president or the president of any other american. but i think it is unfortunate that the issue  is. are you going to back the president and vote for g. harrold carswell. or are you going to live up to your obligation and responsibility as a u.s. senator and make a judgment and decision based upon the qualifications of g. harrold carswell. the presidents qualifications are  at issue. g. harrold carswells qualifications are. our duty and our obligation is to examine those qualifications and to make a decision. we are  supposed to make a decision based upon whether one is a liberal or a moderate or a conservative. a republican or a democrat. but based upon our individual responsibility as u.s. senators. each of us. in his own mind and conscience and heart. must ask is this a man to sit on the supreme court. there is hing else. a vote against g. harrold carswell should  be interpreted in any form or fashion as a vote against the president of the united states. and a vote by a republican u.s. senator should  be interpreted in any form or fashion as an act of disloyalty to his party chief. the president of the united states. i think it is shameful that the issue is taking this turn in the waning days of the debate. it is getting so  that the question is . "are you going to vote for or against carswell." the question is. "are you going to vote for or against the president." that is most unfortunate. it troubles me. it is a misleading. and indeed an untrue. distortion of the issue. i certainly want to commend the distinguished senator from indiana for giving us the opportunity to discuss this specific issue. i want to commend him for his leadership and his courage. he has had a great personal family tragedy. and i think he comes back to the senate at this time  because he wants to defeat g. harrold carswell.  because he wants to .oppose president richard nixon. but because he has such dedication to his responsibility as a u.s. senator and such great reverence for the high tribunal of the supreme court of the united states that he could do hing less. i think hing else would have brought him back here today to stand on the floor and to work for what he believes is in the best interest of this country. i think that is also true of those of us on this side of the aisle who are in opposition to this ination. some senators have said. "well. the presi-" dents inee was rejected once. and therefore it would be an act of supreme disloyalty for a member of the presidents own party to vote against the second inee." . because certainly the members of the committee on the judiciary and of the senate relied upon the fbi investigation. as they should be able to do. if in this case the fbi did  do its job thoroughly. exhaustively. and intensively. and some part of the routine investigation was omitted. either by oversight or by designand i do  make such charge. for i do  kthen it would seem to meseveral senators addressed the chair.
. the senator from florida has performed a very useful service. i am very grateful. i asked the proponents or opponents of this ination alike if they had any information that might be helpful. the information that the distinguished senator from florida has given is very helpful. he has stated that. of his own kledge. in the investigation of a u.s. marshal in the state of florida this year. the fbi did make an inquiry into the racial attitude of the prospective candidate.
. i think that is a rather serious indictment of the fbi. they are able to find out things that certainly are more obscureif that is the word we are going to usethan a statement made by a prospective supreme court justice in a political campaign before an american legion forum in the state of georgia. it did  seem to be obscure to the newspaper reporter who found out about it. does the senator mean there are things that the fbi can find that a newspaper reporter can find about a candidate for the supreme court of the united states. i just can believe that our fbi is this inadequate. i shudder to think that that is true.
that is certainly one of the questions i raised. as i said in response to the senators question. it is my understanding that for some time there had been an established practice and procedure in the fbi which required them. in the mal conduct of their business of investigating judicial appointments and others. to make inquiries into the racial attitudes of prospective inees. that i understand to be the practice. that practice has been supported. or at least established. by the distinguished senator from florida. who says he ks that is an established practice and. in fact. it had applied last year to a u.s. marshal in his own state of florida. if that is true. i ask: was the same practice used in the investigation of g. harrold carswell. if it was used. does it mean that they did  do their work as extensively as they should have and could have. or. if they did . why . did they change the practice. or did they just disregard the practice. those are my questions. and i am earnestly looking for some answers to those questions.
the senator has been most indulgent. i do k that he has a speech to deliver. but i want to be sure i am clear in my own mind as to the last remarks of the distinguished senator from indiana. certainly. we can all agree that after the carswell ination is history. we should look more closely at the practices and procedures of the fbi insofar as investigations are concerned. but would  the senator agree that prior to that time. and most relevant to the carswell case. we should find out the extent of the investigation conducted by the fbi in the carswell case. and the practices and procedures that existed in the fbi prior to the carswell investigation. and whether there was any change in the practices and procedures in this particular case. if . what did they do. if so. why did they  do it. is that  a logical and relevant series of questions that should be answered.
i thank the senator from indiana. i think that the senator from florida. in his zealand i can understand that zeal. and respect it. has mislabeled my question as speculative. i think it is rather unfair to say that these are speculative questions. i want to impress upon the senator from florida the earnestness of those questions. i am concerned. i want to k the answers to those questions. the senator was most kind and helpful in giving me one answer. when he knew and i did  k the answer to that question. i asked all my colleagues on the floor to give me these answers. if they had them. i certainly have objection to asking the fbi what their investigation consisted of in the carswell matter. and what the practices and procedures were. whether they have changed them in this case. and if they did. why they did it. i think. when i asked the questions. i pointed out to the senate that the fbi had already said in a public statement that it did  come up with this information concerning the statement made by carswell in 1948 in georgia. as i recall their statement. it was because they did  look into the racial attitudes which might be revealed among other sources. by the newspaper morgues. if that is true. then it would appear to me that the questions. one of which has been answered already. if i am to believe the senator from florida. is that there is such an established practice and procedure. if i am to believe the fbi. that they did  look at the newspaper morgues for racial attitudes. then obviously there has been some change in procedure. or they failed to observe the practices and procedures that existed in the past. but. my answer to the distinguished senator from florida is. yes. i would be pleased to ask the fbi. i want to k the answer. but more important than my king the answer. is the senate should k the answer. and the nation should k the answer.
it should be a part of the letter. i think that is important to us. i think we ought to ask  only what their investigation consisted of. but we ought to find out why it is that they did  come up with the information which was found by some of the other people who. presumably. have here near the investigative resources and talents of the fbi.
i think the senator from indiana and the senator from maryland have been trying to point out that the credibility of judge carswell is at issue here. we have the fact that the night before he knew. and the next morning. under oath. he denied. that he was an incorporator of the club. my distinguished assistant miity leader has said: but minutes later he corrected the error that he made earlier. as i read the record. the first senator to interrogate  who appointed him. to the senate. and to the nation. we ought to resolve these questions of doubt. i think it is unfair to send a man to the supreme court as long as these clouds are above him. as long as these suspicions are there. as long as these questions about his credibility exist. time after time after time  evidences of doubt have appeared in the record. i think this is as proper and as valid and as strong a case for recommittal perhaps we have ever had. i k that some have argued that recommittal is a subterfuge just to get rid of judge carswell. we have been debating primarily the case for an upanddown vote on confirmation. but since that time many issues have come to light which we did  have before us before. which  fully justify a motion to recommit. all i am suggesting to the proponents of the ination of judge carswell is that the senate has a right to k. and the people have a right to k. whether judge carswell is telling the truth. if he is telling the truth. perhaps he is qualified to sit on the supreme court. taking into consideration other qualifications. if he is  telling the truth. i do  care what other qualifications he has. then i say he is  qualified to sit on the supreme court of the united states. if he comes before a senate judiciary committee. sitting on his ination. and deliberately tells them an untruth. how can we expect respect for order. how can we expect respect for law and justice in this country. if we confirm the ination of a man whom we believe to be telling an untruth. we can only k that he is  telling an untruth if we go back to the judicialy committee. bring in these witnesses. and clear up the doubts that have been raised against him
. and let me add i hope he serves for 2 terms. long after most of my colleagues have left the senate. this man will still sit on the supreme court of the united states. we have to ask ourselves the question. "is g. harrold carswell qualified to sit on the supreme court of the united states." hing else. whether he comes from the th. whether he comes from the south. whether he comes from the east. or whether he comes from the west. whether he is a republican or whether he is a democrat. whether he is a liberal or whether he is a conservative. is unimportant. it is irrelevant. the only relevant issue goes to the qualifications of this man to serve as a supreme court justice. there is very little in the record which would indicate that this man has the requisite legal qualifications. even though he has served as a district court judge and has served on a circuit court of appeals. all the people who testified did so  on the basis of political philosophy or ideology. they testified on the basis of the qualifications of this man and this man alone. i do  say that this man is a racist. all i say is that if he meant what he said in 1948. i. for one. could  vote for him to sit on the supreme court of the united states. i have searched and searched the record to find any evidence of any change in this man. either in act or in deed. and i have searched in vain. i have found change. to the contrary. i have found evidence which would indicate that he has  made a change and did  make a change until he came before the committee on the judiciary. at the time of his appearance before the committee. the question of his credibility was raised. do we want a man to sit on the court whose credibility is put in question. i think this issue has  been resolved. if we want respect for law. if we want to have respect for the supreme court of the united statesand we all dowe certainly can. in good conscience. vote for a man to sit on the supreme court who came before the senate judiciary committee and did  tell the truth. he said he made a mistake. all right. we all make mistakes. but he did  voluntarily change that mistake.
s ination for the supreme court of the united states. many arguments have been made about the qualifications. about credibility. about racial views. and about a myriad of other things concerning this man. i have spoken out in opposition to him. it is somewhat of an unnatural role for me. because all my lifetime i have preferred to be for something rather than against something. it is a very painful duty for me to be so strongly opposed to this mans ination. i do  k him. i have personal animosity against him. i wish him well and his family well.
. the district of columbia crime bill. s. 2601. which passed the house and the senate. is  on its way to a conference committee. there has been much discussion on certain sections of the bill. it passed the senate by a voice vote without much opportunity for careful scrutiny. certain provisions raise grave constitutional questions. which william raspberrys column of april 5. 1970. points out. his column entitled "district of columbia crime bill is a can of worms." pays tribute to the senator from th carolina for his careful legal analysis of various provisions of the bill. i ask unanimous consent to have mr. raspberrys column of april 5. 1970. printed in the record. i hope the conference committee will review the bill with these criticisms in mind.
s crime commission. when that commission completed its work. charles rogovin returned to massachusetts where my able colleague and successor as attorney general. elliot richardson. appointed him assistant attorney general in charge of the criminal division. in may 1967 the decision was made to create a special organized crime section within the criminal division. and charles rogovin was appointed to head this section as well. those who worked with him and those who followed his efforts from the vantage point of their involvement in law enforcement activities around the country are virtually unanimous in their praise of his expertise and administrative qualifications. the loss of charles rogovin will be deeply felt. at a time when crime is on the increase throughout the nation and new. inative methods are desperately needed to cope with the growing threat. we. can ill afford to lose the services of one of our most qualified and experienced citizens. i ask unanimous consent that the article published in the washington post be printed in the record.
. i am very pleased to endorse the ination of harry a. blackmun to be an associate justice of the supreme court of the united states. i have reviewed with care the hearings and the final report of the judiciary committee. and i am convinced that mr. blackmun meets the high standards of judicial excellence that are essential for service on the supreme court. in addition to the committees recommendation. the american bar association. under a new improved system. stated that judge blackmun "meets high standards of professional competence. temperament. and integrity." the judge also received the unanimous support of his colleagues from the eighth -circuit. and endorsement by the state and county bar associations.  a single witness appeared in opposition to his confirmation. a survey of judge blackmuns judicial work indicates a range of opinions that are written in a scholarly manner and with a keen sensitivity to current trends of the law. in civil rights matters. judge blackmun has a moderate record. where substantive points of law have allowed. judge blackmun has ruled in favor of civil rights litigants. in bailey v. henslee. 287 f. 2d 936 (1961) judge blackmun wrote for the court in reversing the decision of the federal district court and holding that a negro defendant had made a prima facie case that negroes had been systematically excluded from the state court jury which tried him. however. in neal v. system board o1 adjustment. 348 f. 2d 722 (1965). judge blackmun followed the precepts of strict construction in upholding the contention of a railway labor union that negroes claiming racial discrimination on the part of their union were  entitled to prosecute their claim in the federal courts because they had  exhausted their remedies within the union. in other cases regarding civil liberties. judge blackmun has been cautious  to overstep what he considers the bounds of the law. in kemp v. beasley  19.782 (march 17. 1970) judge blackmun wrote for the court upholding part of the arkansas district courts judgment. but remanded the portions which had permitted continuation for four "racially identifiable and completely black" elementary schools. in jones v. mayer 379 f. 2d 33 (1967) judge blackmun wrote that a civil rights statute passed during reconstruction days was  a nationwide openhousing law prohibiting private as well as public discrimination. the supreme court reversed the eighth circuit (392 u.s. 409). holding that the old civil rights statute prohibited even private discrimination in the sale or rental of property. in criminal law decisions. judge blackmun showed a greater readiness to anticipate the direction of the high court. in jackson v. bishop. 404 f. 2d 571 (1968) judge blackmun wrote for the court of appeals in holding that any use of a strap on convicts in the arkansas state penitentiary was a cruel and unusual punishment under the constitution. in reversing a conviction under the national firearms act. judge blackmun wrote for the court of appeals in deckard v. united states. 381 f. 2d 77 (1967). that the registration provision was unconstitutional because it required selfincrimination in violation of the fifth amendment. the supreme court a few months later reached the same conclusion by a vote of 7 to 1 in hayes v. united states. 390 u.s. 85 (1968). i believe that judge blackmun has clearly demonstrated the kind of sensitivity and awareness that will allow for constitutional change within a constitutional framework. for these reasons i endorse the ination of judge harry a. blackmun and will support his confirmation by the u.s. senate.
. i am a lawyer by pros down the fession and served 4 years as my states imately 100 attorney general. i k the frequently hering that intolerable pressures which are placed lege dormi- on men charged with the responsibility ening when for enforcing the law. in the area. but i also k that law enforcement iere to view. officials are under the strictest obligation ow of force to use only such force as is necessary to treet. other cope with any situation. i k that the first obligation of those responsible for public order is to safeguard the lives of inent bystanders. both of these obligations were callously iged in the events which occurred at jackson state. utterly excessive force was used on campus. far from protecting the lives of inent. those lives were grievously endangered by the law enforcement officials themselves. i believe that we as a people must face directly the racial dimension of the heartbreaking developments at jackson state. many members of the black community feeland have long feltthat white americans are less aroused about the death of black men than about the death of white men. events like those at jackson state and augusta only serve to strengthen already bitter memories. such events can be allowed to recur. the challenge which jackson state lays before this nation is critical. and immediate. we must. of course. determine promptly and effectively the course of events which led to the two tragic deaths. and we must be prepared to bring suitable action against any and all offenders. but the need far exceeds the events at jackson state. our country is being torn in two. and we must save it. we must create a climate in which justice is equally dispensed. we must guarantee that calls for law and order mean protection of black lives as well as white ones. we must bring the full moral and political authority of the federal government to bear on the question of racial injustice and racial intolerance. for only with firm leadership at the highest levels will old prejudices be exposed in all their sham and weakness. and public faith and confidence be revived in americas ideals and institutions. the tragedies of our past can be undone. but they must  be allowed to recur. the present challenge is to leave doubt that black lives are as precious as white lives. and that indiscriminate force. whether by demonstrators or officials. will engage the full and equal power of american justice.
. at a time when crime and civil disorders are primary concerns of every american. i believe it is most helpful for us to understand the role which the media can play in building our image of these pheena. a particularly useful study in this regard was recently concluded by miss terry ann kf. of the lemberg center for the study of violence. at brandeis university. miss kf has presented some of her findings in an exceptionally "readable" article in the spring edition of the columbia journalism review. through the use of some lively examples. the author demonstrates how misconceptions arise and how the use of "code words" can shape and often distort our understanding of an event. the article offers some suggestions for readers and the working press alike. i commend it highly to the attention of senators and. indeed. of all americans. i ask unanimous consent that the text be printed in the record.
. the decision we face regarding the conference report on the district of columbia court reform and criminal procedure act is a grave one. one of the most telling measures of the values of any society is the manney in which it treats those who violate its laws and standards. this nation aspires to a. justice rare in human .society. a justice which recognizes the precious rights of every individual and which accords humane treatment even to those convicted of the most serious crimes. in seeking to maintain a civilized system of justice and to protect our citizens against the dangers and injuries inflicted by those who flout the law. we must strike a complex and delicate balance. in deciding the fate of this legislation. we are once again obliged to weigh that balance carefully. all of .us. k the long and arduous efforts which many senators and congressmen have devoted to producing this conference bill. its provisions for court reorganization and other improvements in the law enforcement mechanisms of the district have justly won the approval of the community and of both houses of congress. these elements of- the bill ought to be approved forthwith in order to relieve the critical situation which has persisted for too many years in our crimeplagued national capital. i favor most of the provisions of this bill. in the interests of the people of the district. i think we should enact the most effective anticrime program we can devise. i emphatically agree. as a former law enforcement officer. that inations are required to curb the growing pattern of criminal behavior in this city. coupled with longterm programs of social reform and development. more potent lawenforcement techniques can reverse the swelling tide of crime which afflicts us all. yet the bill before us includes a number of sections which properly invite close scrutiny and which have provoked bitter controversy. the conference committee has certainly made an earnest attempt to meet the objections raised against such provisions as those regarding pretrial detention and the socalled k entry by police. nevertheless. serious questions ofpolicy and of constitutionality remain. particularly in regard to pretrial detention. the concept appears so el and its potential implications are still so dimly understood that it is difficult to render a confident judgment on precisely what effect such procedures would have. it may be that this procedure would do less damage to our traditional principles of the presumption of inence in criminal cases and of the requirements of due process. than the procedures which are  being applied through devices like highmoney bond and extraordinary delays in trials. but it is possibleand the possibility is too threatening to be dismissedthat this provision would open the way to abuses that are worse than those we seek to correct. in my opinion. it is quite possible that a suitable procedure of this kind can be drawnindeed. it is even possible that. if properly interpreted. the present proposal could prove both constitutional and helpful to the twin goals of effective law enforcement and individual liberty. however. doubts remain and i am  personally satisfied that this is the appropriate vehicle for this purpose. given these doubts and the extreme importance of the issues at stake. i believe the sound course for the senate is to reject the conference report and to seek passage of the principal features of the :bill which command the support of wide majorities in both houses. surely we are agreed that the substantial upgrading of the districts law enforcement and judicial capabilities will. in and of itself. do much to alleviate the intolerable delays in processing criminal cases. speedier trials will themselves contribute immensely to -that expeditious justice which is the heart of an effective program to combat crime. i think we should reserve for fuller study such concepts as pretrial detention. by severing them from the bill and addressing them through additional hearings and debate. we may be able to satisfy our concerns and to design provisions of this sort in which this cominunity can have high confidence. at the moment. however. so intense is the division on these issues and so widespread the misunderstanding of the provisions of this bill. that passage of this legislation in its present form would  be wise. let us instead take one step at a time. let us move to provide facilities and resources to assure prompt disposition of the heavy caseload in the district and to improve the law enforcement systems overall capacity to meet the challenge of crime in this troubled city. but let us  further undermine confidence in the system of justice we seek to serve by prematurely introducing procedures which are poorly understood and which could surely benefit from more extensive analysis by the senate and its standing committees. in casting my vote against this conference report. i profoundly hope that its rejection will  result in a deadlock between the senate and the house. i can believe that reasonable men on both sides. recognizing the vital need to pass potent anticrime legislation. would sacrifice the essential and accepted provisions of this bill in a senseless contest over debatable proposals which obviously affect the most fundamental realms of individual liberty and constitutional government. should the bill pass in its present form. we can expect important court tests in the near future. e of us who questions one or aher aspect of this bill should assume that todays vote will settle the issues in any final way. the judicial review to which many provisions of the bill will be subjected affords important reassurance to the community and to the congress that constitutional rights will be safeguarded. on this occasion. as so often in the past. the splendid strength of our system of checks and balances should encourage all of us to rely on forthcoming judicial evaluations of the dubious provisions of this bill. men may well differ on the merits and effects of this legislation and we do well to view this measure.  as an inflammatory act of repression. but as exactly what it isa controversial approach to the problems of criminal justice which we all seek to resolve. i am sure that. should the bill be enacted. the courts will be quick to correet any features which flout the constitution. on the basis of my own analysis. i urge the senate to reject the conference report and to adopt a new bill built principally on the major provisions previously enacted by this body.
. i am indeed pleased to join with my distinguished colleague. the junior senator from west virginia. in proposing the creation of a joint congressional committee on prisoners of war. it has long been a serious concern of ours that so little attention is paid to the plight of these men. we are additionally disturbed that so little factual information has been made available to the american public. in an organized way. about the conditions under which they and their families are forced to live. it is our belief that if the american people were aware of the facts. they would make their voices heard from here to ha in an overwhelming demand for humane treatment. better communication. international inspection of prison facilities. and an assurance of eventual release. we believe that a joint committee of the congress. by focusing continuing attention upon the plight of our pows. can help to achieve these goals. we urge its creation by this congress.
. i urge that the soviet union begin to restore the confidence of its own people and of the people of the world by commuting the sentences which have been imposed. and i urge that the government of the soviet union provide fair and equitable justice for its jewish people and all others who live within its borders.
. let me distinguish at the outset two issues. the question of u.s. policy regarding herbicides and riot control agents. and the question of a proper interpretation of the protocol itself. my proposal. which i shall offer as a senate resolution. addresses both issues. so far as policy is concerned. i believe that the testimony before the foreign relations committee. along with other evidence  available. will persuade most senators that the united states ci should refrain from using herbicides and st tear gas in warfare. such agents have n proved to be of dubious military value. ti indeed. the administration has already r ordered a termination in the use of her- p bicides in southeast asia and is tightly constraining the use of tear gas. agents n of the latter type had come to be used t in tandem with lethal weapons. for ex- n ample. as devices for flushing suspected t vietcong into the open. where they could a be shelled and bombed. in such use. a the lethal character of tear gas itself ti is of significance. since the effect is i actually to enhance the deadliness of s other weapons. there is. of course. valid comparison between that kind of a employment of tear gas in combat and p the. customary riot control applications d of such agents in certain civil disorders. i in weighing the use of tear gas in war- t fare. strictly as a matter of policy. one i. must recognize the hazards posed for us c if some potential adversary should use these materials against our troops in the future. use by both sides would deprive t either of any advantage. and more im- 1 portantly. such use could open the door to the employment of other gases and chemicals. further experience in southeast asia has made clear that riot control agents are of value militarily against adequately equipped troops. since th vietnamese and vietcong soldiers have acquired gas masks. the initial utility of tear gas in vietnam has declined to near zero. these facts are forceful reminders that the u.s. interest lies in discouraging the military use of such materials. rather than facilitating it. clearly. the advantages of retaining the option to use tear gas in warfare are outweighed by the disadvantages of risking such use against ourselves and of eroding the barriers against gas warfare in general. the administration has continued to evaluate these issues. i think it is fair to say that. as implied by secretary rogers. the administration is open to persuasion with regard to future policy in this area. an expression of senate opinion could well be influential in shaping the administrations own conclusions. the administrations review of this issue has been complicated by the special situation in which it has found itself. the united states has used herbicides and tear gas in southeast asia. the government is understandably reluctant to invite charges that it has violated international law by doing so. one surmises that concern on this point has had substantial bearing on the administrations reluctance to interpret the protocol as banning the use of these agents. one may offer several comments on this point. to begin with. since the united states is  presently a party to the protocol. even if the agreement is interpreted to ban tear gas and herbicides. this country could  properly be charged with an actual violation. secondly. and more significantly. the protocol is quite ambiguous on these issues. until it is clarified. either through appropriate judicial interpretation or a declaration of. understanding by our own government. one could reasonably conclude that the united states has violated the provisions of the agreement. while some unfriendly states may hoose to exploit these awkward circum- ti ances politically. the united states a eed  and should  feel that its ac- s vities in southeast asia bind it to a s elatively narrow interpretation of the c rotocol for the future. i on the merits. i believe that the ad- b iinistration and the senate are gravi- p ating toward a common policy position. a amely. that there are decisive mili- v ary advantages in the use of tear gas t nd herbicides. that such use adversely s ffects our efforts to establish interna- i tonal controls over chemical and bio- c ogical weapons. and that such agents 1 hould be prohibited for use in warfare. i there are. however. major questions s to how we might best approach this c olicy objective. and here we need to t teal carefully with the issue of a proper i nterpretation of the protocol. even hose who agree that the right policy s to ban the use of tear gas and herbiides may well disagree as to whether .he protocol was actually intended to )rohibit them. most students of the mat.er ackledge. as does the foreign reations committee. the profound amblvuity of the protocol on this point. herbicides were  in widespread use at the time it was drafted and there is divided legal opinion as to whether the signatories intended to cover various kinds of lethal riot control agents. under the circumstances the united stotes and other members of the international community badly need an agreed interpretation of what the protocol actually proscribes. the united nations general assembly has already expressed the view. in an 80 to 3 vote. that tear gas and herbicides should be prohibited by the geneva protocol. i have considerable sympithy for the procedural objection which led the united states to oppose that assembly resolution: a political body is  usually the appropriate forum for an objective judicial interpretation of a legal contract. nevertheless. the assemblys action does indicate overwhelming support among the signatories of the protocol for the policy goal of banning such materials. long reflection has convinced me that our present dilemma affords the united states an opportunity to advance both the policy goal of controlling chemical and biological weapons and the procedural goal of building viable institutions of world law. it can do so. in my judgment. by seeking through u.n. channels an interpretation of the geneva protocol by the international court of justice. this might take the form of an advisory opinion to the general assembly. in soliciting the courts opinion on whether herbicides and tear gas are actually within the purview of the protocol. the united states should make clear that it is prepared to accept the courts finding as authoritative and binding prospectively with regard to other states which offer similar undertakings. since the court would be examining an admittedly ambiguous and uncertain aspect of the protocol. the united states would in way be ackledging any violations for actions in southeast asia. indeed. the best measure of our good faith in this matter would be our very inititive in seeking clarification from he international court. furthermore. nd i consider this an important reaon for proceeding in this manner. reort to the court would be a helpful ontribution to strengthening the infant stitutions of world order. this would *e entirely compatible with existing u.s. olicy which reserves to this country fny decisions regarding the issues on vhich it will accept the courts jurisliction. since we would be involved in eeking an advisory opinion. rather than )resenting an actual case before the lourt. the u.s. reservation of rights inder the socalled connally amendnent would in way be affected. if the court interprets the protocol to cover herbicides and riot control agents. the united states will have made clear ts willingness to abide by the standard n the future and on a reciprocal basis. if the court rules against this interpretation. then it will be apparent that further negotiations are required if effective prohibitions are to be extended to these agents. either way the unfortunate ambiguity of the protocol on this point will be resolved and all parties will have a solid foundation on which to gauge their adherence to it and their activities under it. the resolution i am offering today will permit the senate to fulfill its obligation to tender advice and consent in a timely and beneficial way. it will enable the majority of the senate to make kn its policy recommendations. namely that herbicides and tear gas should be banned in warfare. and to recognize that the disputed provisions of the protocol deserve precise judicial interpretation. the text of the resolution is largely selfexplanatory:
what the impact would be on the entire nation is in dispute. the testimony was certainly in dispute on that issue. the senator raised the question as to national defense. i have great respect for the secretary of defense. melvin laird. i have great respect for the deputy secretary of defense. david packard. i think david packard is perhaps one of the best business brains in this nation. i remember when i served on the armed services committee and david packard came before us for confirmation of his ination. he was most impressive. and i believe since he has been in the pentagon he has been running it in a very businesslike manner. i certainly would rely on the testimony of david packard and the statement of the secretary of defense that the lockheed loan guarantee is  essential for national defense. i have been getting some mail. which seems to be organized. coming in the form of printed forms of cards and letters which say. "in the interest of national defense. save lockheed." i think that is a misrepresentation. i think it is a fraud on the american public to say the lockheed bailout bill is essential for national defense. it just is  so. according to the secretary of defense and the deputy secretary of defense.. the men on whom we should be relying for this evidence. so i rule out the argument that we need lockheed for national defense. if we needed lockheed for national defense. then perhaps a strong argument could be made for the governments coming in with a guarantee. irrespective of who was at fault in lockheed.
 nixon inated mr. powell on october 21. i have had the opportunity to meet with him and to carefully review his record. i find mr. powell to be exceptionally well qualified to serve on the nations highest court. he is unquestionably a man of great intellect and integrity. but i believe he is much more. i believe he is an intensely human man. aware of and concerned about changing social tensions. during the confirmation proceedings on past supreme court inees. i have said i could vote to confirm a conservative though i am a moderate. a southerner though i represent a thern state. and a strict constructionist though i favor a liberal interpretation of the constitution. i meant what i said then and i mean it . and i shall vote to confirm mr. powell. i do so with the confidence that he will uphold the sacred dictum of the supreme court: equal justice under law.
. it is incredible to me that any man did  k how strongly miities felt about their rights. miities feel just as strongly about their rights. if  more strongly about their rights. than majorities feel about their rights. that is what is happening all over the world today. people are claiming and crying and fighting for their rights. miities who have been oppressed for centuries are fighting for their rights. how can an intelligent manand mr. rehnquist is an intelligent man have kn in the 1960s that miities felt so strongly about their rights. then in 1971. when he came before the senate committee on the judiciary to be confirmed for the supreme court of the united states. our highest tribunal. he said that  he understands how strongly miities feel about their rights.
. i certainly am very much concerned about mr. rehnquists insensitivity in this area. i am very much concerned at the thought of confirming the ination of a man for the supreme court of the united states who. after making the statement he did in 1967. comes before the senate judiciary committee in 1971 and asks the members to vote favorably upon his ination and report his ination to the full senate. yet even then does  feel strongly egh about basic human rights to say categorically. without any equivocation whatsoever. that he  thinks differently. i searched the record: i read it thoroughly. i find such language contained herein. i can interpret what i have read in the record to mean that he has changed his view. matter how much i may stretch that record or that language. i can find it anywhere in the record. let me just read the words again: i think the ordinance really worked very well in phoenix. it was readily accepted. and i -think i have come to realize since. more than i did at the time. the strong concern that miities have for the recognition of these rights. i would  feel that same way today about it as i did then. here there in those words i have just read do i find a rejection of the philosophy of his statement in 1967here.
to go on. . i speak in the belief that all the people of the united states must have confidence in their system of government. we are charged with sustaining that confidence. thus we must also ask: will the confirmation of william h. rehnquist serve to bolster the confidence of the people in our system of laws. mindful of the four words inscribed on the court. i have concluded that mr. rehnquist is  the right man at this crucial period in our history to reassure the people that the court will hold true to its sacred dictum of "equal justice under law." i respectfully ask my colleagues to review my reasons.
i thank the distinguished senator from indiana for his very generous comments relative to my remarks on the rehnquist ination. i k how deeply the senator feels about the need to have only the best men and women serve on the supreme court of the united states. i k how zealously he has guarded the rights of the people of the united states in the selection of supreme court inees. i feel. as does he. that the senate has a grave responsibility in the authority vested in it to advise and consent as to supreme court inees. i k the job he has done on the judiciary committee in trying. in all fairness to the inee and in keeping with the high responsibility of the senate. to investigate. to inquire. to ask and to search for all evidence he could find. favorable as well as unfavorablebecause. certainly. my colleague wants to find favorable evidence. as we all do. i k how painful it has been for him. i certainly would have hoped that in filing the vacancies on the court. our presidentbecause he is the president of the senators from indiana as well as my presidentcould have sent us two names that we could have proudly endorsed and whose inations we could have confirmed. one of his inees. obviously. was a man that at least 89 out of 90 of those who had the opportunity to vote for confirmation believed was an outstanding appointment to the court.  we have the second name. which gives us very serious concern. so. . i will conclude by saying that i have great faith in the intelligence. the integrity. and the insight of my colleagues in the senate.
. the confirmation proceedings on the ination of william h. rehnquist to be an associate justice of the supreme court appear to have narrowed to the actual intent of the inees 1952 memorandum to the late justice jackson. in a letter to the chairman of the judiciary committee . mr. rehnquist has set the memorandum into a narrow context of a statement for justice jacksons tentative use in conference. without attacking mr. rehnquists candor in regard to this memorandum. i believe that serious questions can be raised as to the actual context in which the memorandum was drafted and for which the memorandum was to serve. i ask unanimous consent that the memorandum be printed in the record.
on mr. rehnquist sen. edward w. brookes opposition to asst. atty. gen. william h. rehnquist could be a determining factor in the soontoberecorded senate vote to confirm or reject mr. rehnquist as an associate justice of the united states supreme court. mr. brooke was right in all of the reasons for his opposition to mr. rehnquist. but there are other reasons. too. mr. brooke does  oppose mr. rehnquist because he is a conservative. a southerner or a strict constructionist.  do we. his opposition is based on his determination. after long study. that mr. rehnquist is lacking in commitment to an integrated society. it is unfortunate that some of the senators colleagues are inclined to excuse this as unimportant. mr. brooke has ed the inees opposition to a public accommodation ordinance in phoenix. ariz.. in 1964. his opposition to a phoenix school desegregation plan in 1967. and his comment at that time that "we are more committed to an integrated society than we are to a segregated society." mr. brooke finds this view "unsupportable." such a view is  only unsupportable. it is a denial of the meaning of the constitution which the inee would be pledged to support. and it is hazardous at this time in particular when the lack of commitment to the brotherhood of all men threatens to tear the nation apart. mr. brooke. himself a lawyer and himself supreme court material. is more kind to mr. rehnquist than he perhaps has any right to be. if mr. rehnquist were to be confirmed. mr. brooke hopes that he might serve in the great tradition of the late justice hugo black. at one time a member of the ku klux klan. and that he might demonstrate on the court. as mr. black did. "a capacity to grow and change." this might be. but to confirm a inee in the hope that he might change would be  only a foolhardy gamble. it also would amount to the ludicrously untenable assumption that. in this nation. replete with great legal talent. mr. rehnquist is the only available candidateconfirm him. for there is other. mr. brooke did  suggest. as we wish he had. that mr. rehnquists vulnerability is manifest in the administrations insistence that his and the almost unassailable lewis f. powell jrs ination be considered as a kind of package deal. as though they were one of baseballs double play combinationstinker and evers. say. or was it chance. there scarcely could be a franker ackledgment that mr. rehnqulst can stand scrutiny on his own.  is it egh that he is generally ackledged to be "a fine gentleman." as one of his senate supporters has put it. mr. brooke. weighing his own heavy responsibilities as a senator. has asked pertinent questions and reluctantly found that the right answers are still wanting. mr. rehnquist may be every bit as brilliant as he is said to be. but how can his supporters rationalize their support for him so long as they quite literally have way of fully king his views on matters on which he steadfastly has refused to be questioned and on which the administration will  permit him to be questioned. mr. rehnquist. hiding behind a dubious lawyerclient relationship. has. in effect. "taken the flfthunprecedented and intolerable in confirmation proceedings. sen. brooke was one of the leaders in the haynsworth and carswell rejections. it is to be hoped that his senate colleagues will listen to him  as they listened to him then. [from the chicago suntimes. dec. 5. 1971]
i can assure the senator from kentucky and the distinguished manager of the bill that it is the intent of the senator from colorado who is a cosponsor of the amendment and me that the presiding judge would have flexibility "to assign the case for hearing at the earliest practicable date." if a presiding judge has a case. such as the senator from indiana suggested. a hijacking case. he could give that case precedence and. of course. that would be within his right to do so. by this amendment we are trying to assure that where firearms are used in the commission of a crime in felony cases. that these cases  take 4 and 5 months to be disposed of. and that there be swift and sure justice. i think under the language of the amendment that the problem the distinguished senator from kentucky referred to and that the distinguished senator from indiana referred to. would be dealt with.
. i believe we in the senate are agreed that crimes committed with firearms are particularly menacing to society. that is the basic premise and intent of s. 2507. to reinforce this intent. the senator from colorado and i have introduced an amendment to provide priority treatment in the federal courts for all cases involving the use of firearms. our amendment will make it clear to offenders and wouldbe offenders that justice in the case of crimes committed with firearms will be particularly swift and sure. while this amendment affects only federal courts. it should serve as an example to other courts in our nations judicial system. i believe a clear expression of this priority by congress would echo through the courthouses of our nation. to mandate such a priority is  to reflect adversely on the present handling of cases involving thj use of firearms. rather we seek merely to assist the federal courts in establishing their priorities. ample precedent exists in this regard. the public accommodations section of the 1964 civil rights act mandates "expedited treatment of civil rights cases." in addition. the es of the advisory committee on rule 40 of the federal rules of civil procedure list numerous examples of statutes. which establish the precedence of certain cases. facts as well as precedence compel the extension of priority treatment to cases involving firearms in 1971. 46.674 individuals were prosecuted in the federal courts for criminal acts. record exists as to how many of these cases involved the use of firearms however. it is kn that carrying a firearm was the principle charge in 1.983 of these cases. which represented a sixfold increase in such charges from 1967. in 1971. on the average 4.3 months elapsed from the filing of the complaint to the final disposition of an illegal firearms case. even in cases where a guilty plea was entered this interval was an extraordinary 3.5 months. let me repeat. 3.5 months were required to adjudicate the typical federal firearms case involving a guilty plea considering that 52 percent of all firearms cases are disposed of by a guilty plea. this fact compels a prompt remedy. early in 1969. the justice department made kn its intention to accelerate the processing of criminal cases. the results have been successful. most ably in the dramatic reduction in the backlog of criminal cases in the district of columbia. however. neither the courts  the u.s. attorneys have had the requisite authority to expedite the litigation of firearms cases. senator allott and i believe that this authority should be granted to federal court officials and should apply to all cases involving the use of firearms. congress must take strong steps to stem the alarming increase in the number of deaths and injuries caused by gunrelated incidents. the pending bill to prohibit the sale and distribution of all handguns. except those used for law enforcement purposes and for legitimate sporting activities. is an important step in establishing meaningful limitations on the trafficking in firearms. but the effort to limit and regulate the distribution of firearms must be accompanied by a clear and effective policy of prosecuting those who violate firearms statutes. if the potential criminal realizes that the penalty for his action will be promptly imposed. then we can begin to reverse the frightening 100 percent increase in violent crimes since 1965. by reducing the incidence of crimes of violence. we can lessen the fear that pervades so many american homes. absent this fear. millions of wellintentioned americans may longer believe that they need firearms in their homes for selfprotection. it has been said many times that the increase in the number of firearms in our nation is a cyclical phee. enactment of this amendment will mark an important step in extricating ourselves from the dizzying pace of our domestic "arms race" i urge my colleagues to accept this amendment as a clear expression of congressional intent that individuals charged with any crime involving the use of a firearm should be prosecuted with all deliberate speed.
i do  k if the senator from colorado would disagree. but i strongly support the proposed amendment of the senator from new hampshire. i certainly would be willing to accept that change in the language because it is my intention. and i assume the intention of the senator from colorado. that if there is a gun in the possession of the offender at the time he commits the crime. then that case should be given priority on the calendar. even though the offender may . as the senator said. show the firearm or use it. yes. i would agree to that. . i ask unanimous consent o modify my amendment by adding. on line 6. page 1. after the word "use" the words "or possession". so as to read. in subparagraph (e) : a trial of any crime involving use or possession of a firearm shall have priorityand so forth.
the whole issue raises a serious constitutional question. i am  going to address myself to that. but i do see a constitutional question involved. however. for clarification purposes. does the senator from louisiana mean the felon would have had to use a firearm in the commission of a felony for him to be denied the right to carry a rifle. say. at any time in his life after he had been convicted of that felony. is that the state of the law as the distinguished senator from louisiana sees it.
i have voted for all gun control legislation. and shall continue to do so. but as i interpret what the senator says. just for hitting a man with a rock. a man could then be denied the right to go hunting for the rest of his life.
. i am pleased to report that a member of my staff played a leading role in the negotiations process. miss ann cunningham has a long history of experience and involvement in the corrections field. her letter to the editor. printed in tuesdays washington post. makes a number of points which we all must heed if we are to find a solution to the problems of crime and violence which plague our society. i ask unanimous consent that her letter be reprinted at this point in the record.
to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate proceeded to reconsider the bill entitled "an act to abolish the offices of director and deputy director of the office of management and budget. to establish the office of director. office of management and budget. and transfer certain functions thereto. and to establish the office of deputy director. office of management and budget." returned by the president of the united states with his objections. to the senate. in which it originated. it was resolved that the said bill pass. twothirds of the senators present having voted in the affirmative. the message also annced that the senate had passed bills of the following titles. in which the concurrence of the house is requested: s. 514. an act to amend the act of june 27. 1960 (74 stat. 220). relating to the preservation of historical and archeological data. s. 1016. an act to provide a more democratic and effective method for the distribution of funds appropriated by the congress to pay certain judgments of the indian claims commission and the court of claims. and for other purposes. s. 1201. an act to amend the act of october 15. 1966 (80 stat. 915). as amended. establishing a program for the preservation of additional historic properties throughout the nation. and for other purposes. and s. 1385. an act to amend section 2 of the act of june 30. 1954. as amended. providing for the continuance of civil government for the trust territory of the pacific islands.
. the battle against the impoundment of congressionally authorized and appropriated funds is being waged increasingly in the federal courts. the "power of the purse" is our foremost power and it is imperative that it be fully restored to us. i am encouraged by recent court decisions. which significantly limit the power of the executive branch to thwart spending decisions of the congress. on friday. july 27. judge oliver p. gasch. of the u.s. district court for the district of columbia. ordered -the release of impounded funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization under title hi of the national defense education act. judge gaschs decision is in part a victory for the plaintiffs. the commonwealth of massachusetts and the district of columbia. but more significantly. his ruling represents aher positive step in the restoration of congressional power to set spending priorities. i commend judge gaschs opinion and order to my colleagues and ask unanimous consent that the opinion and order be printed in the record.
. this issue has a great deal of appeal. i think all of us in the senate and in the house and many members of the public are aware that there have been abuses in the use of limousines by federal agencies. the senator from kentucky. in the colloquy this morning. mentioned that every morning he saw a little black limousine. with a light in the back and some man sitting there. reading his newspaper as he comes to work. while the senator is behind his wheel. as all of us are. traveling here to our business. the senator said he did  even recognize the man. he was  a cabinet member. he did  believe the man was even a second echelon federal official. we do  k how far this has gone. when the distinguished senator from wisconsin brought this matter up before the subcommittee. he very eloquently pointed out that there have been flagrant abuses in the use of federally owned and leased limousines. we in the committee supported him. i argued very strongly for him. senator pastore. senator mathias. and senator mcclellan. the chairman of the full committee. voted for the senator from wisconsins amendment. that subcommittee has jurisdiction only over hud. space. science. and veterans. it does  cover the waterfront at all. the distinguished senator from th carolina immediately asked for a gao investigation into all agencies and departments of the federal government with respect to the use of limousines. that investigation is presently in process. on the floor this morning. the distinguished chairman of the appropriations committee said that he will immediately appoint an ad hoc committee to look into the whole question of the use of federal limousines. i. for one. strongly supported senator proxmires position. and i still support it. i think he was right. i think he was right then. and i think he is right . but we can overlook the fact that we are  only talking about the secretary of hud and his agency. which is denied certain use of limousines. the secretary of hud would be denied the use of his limousine from his home to work and back. but e of the other secretaries. in any of the other cabinet posts. would be denied theirs. i think that is discrimination at its worst. why should the secretary of agriculture. the secretary of state. the secretary of defense. any of the other secretaries  be included. if we are going to do it. it should be done wholeheartedly. it should  be done piecemeal. this is legislation which should be done in the proper manner and it can be done in the proper manner if the ad hoc committee is appointed that the senator from arkansas will appointhis word is as good as law. we all k thatand the committee will report back to us in this session and we can study the whole problem. i am  arguing on the question of abuse. i k it exists. i am opposed to it. we all are opposed to it. and we want to do something about it. my point is we are  doing it so that it will cover all the agencies and departments of the federal government. and to single out hud alone and other agencies under this particular appropriation subcommittee is  the manner in which to do it. my second point is that this is important legislation. the house is locked in. we will delay the appropriations for hud. for veterans. and others. we do  k for how long. perhaps 2 weeks and maybe more. i do  k how difficult it will be to get together with the house. but i understand they are locked in. the senator from wisconsin said there will be real delay in money and that money will be forthcoming. that is  my understanding. my understanding is to the contrary. so i think we have two reasons for delaying this. i have spelled them out to my colleagues and i hope the senator will reconsider. if he does . i shall move that the senate recede on amendments 44 and 45.
. it seems to me. further. that it is pennywise and poundfoolishthat is an old clichebecause what happens to the child is that he gets involved in crime. then that child has to be dealt with later on in the criminal courts. the child generally will end up either in some prison in the nation. after having committed some heis crime. such as we read about day after day. so it seems to me that we are  saving money. if saving money is our main purpose. it seems to me that we are defeating the purpose by  trying to give the child some education and some training. rather than merely to let him go without any standards established at all. this research was a most exhaustive study and indicates that there are just  egh standards. and that where there are standards. they are  being lived up to.
. shortly the senate will vote on the ination of senator william b. saxbe to be attorney general of the united states. i am pleased to be able to speak in support of the confirmation of senator saxbe. i believe senator saxbe is eminently qualified to serve as the nations attorney general. the highest law enforcement official in the country. a candidate for this position must possess many qualifications for the job. but the two most important are competence and integrity. and bill saxbe has them both in abundance. senator saxbe has had a distinguished career as a public servant. he was the attorney general of the state of ohio for 6 years. in this office. he attained a reputation as one of the finest law enforcement officials ohio ever had. as the senior senator from ohio. bill saxbe has continued to perform outstandingly. he has demonstrated considerable legislative skills and his opinion on issues vital to the country are carefully listened to. but in addition to the reputation for competence that he has so justly earned. he has also achieved an enviable reputation for independence. and this quality. above all. will serve him well as attorney general of the united states. perhaps never before in our history has our country suffered from such a crisis of confidence in its leaders and its political institutions. this loss of faith has especially affected our legal institutions. many americans whether our concept of equal justice for all is applicable in this day and age. to help restore the confidence of the american people. the senate must give the american people someone they can trust. this man is william saxbe. his independence will insure that the department of justice will once again pursue the cause of justice thoroughly and relentlessly. the challenge is great. but i believe that bill saxse is the person who can meet and conquer this challenge. the only regret i have in voting for the confirmation of bill saxbe is that the senate is losing an excellent senator. but weighed against the advantages the country will soon gain. i am happy to have to make this sacrifice. goodby and good luck. bill.
. the passing of earl warren fills us all with great sorrow. few individuals have so profoundly affected the course of american history. in a succession of public posts. earl warren demonstrated consistently the wisdom and foresight that made him one of americas finest national leaders. during his 16 year tenure as chief justice. the supreme court handed down some of the most important decisions in the history of our country. these landmark rulings reflected the warren courts reverence for the civil liberties of all americans. the nation will sorely miss the leadership of earl warren. especially in these most difficult times. but americans can be proud that our country produced a man who was so right for his time and whose accomplishments will continue to serve as a beacon for future generations.
s current consumer adviser. mrs. virginia knauer. is working hard to protect the consumer interests of america. but she and her staff can watch everything. and. it should be pointed out that she wholeheartedly supports s. 707. this frightful lack of strong consumer advocacy in the federal government is a situation that must be changed. with the passage of s. 707. the consumer would finally have an advocate within the federal government. that representative would be the agency for consumer advocacy. too often in the past. the interests and concerns of the productandservicebuying public have been lost in the bureaucratic shuffle involved with the proposal. debate. passage. and implementation of new legislation. the aca would act as an advocate for these formerly unrecognized consumer inteiests. as a cosponsor of the agency for consumer advocacy bill. i believe it is excellent legislation. it would benefit all concerned. it would focus consumer concern in one agency for the first time. right . when consumers are faced with unsafe or shoddy merchandise. or a service that does  live up to its promise. they are unsure of who to write to for assistance. letters of consumer concern have been scattered among the members of the house and senate. and among the various federal agencies and commissions. often little or action is taken in behalf of these worried consumers. with the establishment of the aca. consumers would have people who are working specifically on their problems. the sometimes weak. halfhearted consumer efforts by agencies which are mainly concerned with other areas would become concerted efforts that would produce results. section 10 of this bill covers the manner in which the aca would handle consumer complaints. this would be a very important function of the proposed agency. and a major reason why we should take affirmative action on this bill. the agency. if established. is bound to receive thousands of letters a year from consumers who are unhappy with certain foods or services. the administrator is instructed to follow up on these letters. which. in effect. would become the consumers link to the federal government. the aca administrator would: first. keep a tally of letters directed at specific businesses and then. at certain times. pass these complaints along to that business along with suggestions to prevent future complaints. second. pass along all relevant complaints to the proper federal agency and. again. submit suggestions for the protection of consumer interests. third. watch for any complaints that seem to point out a violation of federal or state law in relation to consumer interests. and then to take the appropriate action to end this unlawfulness. fourth. make sure other federal agencies also "follow up" on complaints submitted to them by the aca. and fifth. to make available for public inspection all complaints and replies to these complaints. the administrator may also. under his informational powers. authorize the research and publishing of a report in a particular area of consumer complaint. establishing an agency for consumer advocacy would help insure that federal agencies are familiar with the views and interests of the consumer. thereby enabling such agencies to carry out responsibly their statutory obligations. aher important function of the aca is its ability to represent the consumer in the courts. as described in section 8. the administrator would be able "to obtain judicial review of any federal agency action reviewable under law." critics of the aca have charged that the administrator would be "meddling" in many court cases and holding up important court decisions. this is an unjust charge. i believe that this judicial function would simply mean that consumer interests would be properly represented for the first time. this would. hopefully. prevent any court decision from being overly protective of business interests. and. through its informational function. the aca would inform the public of all relevant decisions affecting consumers. of course. this agency and its administrator would have authority to enact any regulations or enforce any sort of a decision. i also believe the informationgathering and dissemination powers of this new agency would benefit the consumer. the surveys. investigations. and conferences that the aca would initiate in the field of consumer affairs would provide important information to other agencies on the concerns and needs of consumers. critics of the proposed structure of the agency for consumer advocacy argue that the establishment of independent regulatory. special interest agencies is a poor way to run the government. however. this country has traditionally relied on the adversary system to produce governmental and judicial decisions that are as fair and as consistent with the public interest as possible. this act does more than to make this adversary process more complete by including representatives of interests heretofore largely neglected. neither federal agencies  businesses can fairly object to permitting all sides to be heard. other critics feel that the agency will create interagency confusion and interfere in affairs that are irrelevant to consumers. i believe that the ability to participate in the socalled "informal" activities. as well as the "formal" proceedings of federal agencies is absolutely necessary to the effectiveness of this agency. the presence of the consumer advocate would  create any confusion in the federal government. it would only help to make an important voice be heard. we all k that a great number of important decisions are made in the informal activities of federal agencies. it is often said that as much as 90 percent of all agency activities are "informal." if this consumer advocacy agency can participate in these informal activities. its power would be greatly reduced. the consumer of this country should longer have to "beware" of products and services in this country. many businesses have already found that consumer efforts on their part help create satisfied customers and employees. giant foods. a large supermarket corporation has found that both sales and earnings went up to record levels in the first year of a consumer program. this example. and there are many others. points out the fact that the businessman also does  have to "beware" of the consumer. our laissezfaire ecoic system works best when it is founded on a basic trust between the buyer and seller as well as between the businessman and the consumer. the establishment of an agency to advocate the interests of the american consumer would  in any way disrupt our ecoic system. on the contrary. i think the businessman will be pleasantly surprised to find that the public will take a much greater interest in his company when consumers feel their interests are  being misused by the company. the consumer wants to trust the people who are providing goods and services. and i believe the establishment of an agency for consumer advocacy would go a long way toward establishing that trust. we have debated long egh on this bill and i urge the senate to invoke cloture on s. 707 and to get on to a final. positive vote on this bill. the ideas involved in enacting an agency for consumer advocacy have been debated publicly for a dozen years . congress has debated the possibility of this type of agency for 5 years and we have debated this particular bill for weeks. at every step along the way. this measure has received strong support from the public and its elected officials. the house has passed a similar bill by a vote of 293 to 94. it has been the doubt and efforts of the few remaining opponents of consumerism that has kept a consumer agency from becoming a reality. the time for this bill has arrived. the people have asked for it. concerned legislators have initiated it. we have held lengthy debate. and  the time has come to vote on an agency for consumer advocacy. i urge all senators to vote to invoke cloture on s. 707 and then to vote favorably on its passage.
apropos of what the distinguished senator from new york has saidhe certainly has been a leader in the fight for equal justice in this countrywe are  talking about the busing amendment . we are talking about the fact that we are  saying to hew. "you can comply with the law under this appropriations bill." but they still are. pursuant to title vi of the 1964 civil rights act. under the order to desegregate the public schools in the country. but they can. if this amendment passes. compile statistics. if they do  do that. how do they achieve their purpose. how do they comply with the law. in addition. this amendment would cost the u.s. government millions of dollars. hew would have to put thousands of people into the schools to determine how many blacks. jews. mexicanamericans are in the schools. they would have to go into the federal courts. because they would be under suit if they failed to implement title vi of title ix. and this would cost a tremendous amount of money for litigation. it is  a question of whether we have busing. that has been decided and watered down. contrary to our wishes and equal justice. casper weinberger is strongly opposed to this amendment because he would  have the facilities with which to work.
. rhetoric is the stock in trade of every politician. but amount of rhetoric can do justice to the need for this nation to care for its lands. we are after all the stewards of these lands. if we abuse them. we will sufferso will our children. all of which begs the question: if we will  care for our lands. who will. i ask unanimous consent that mr. pages article be printed in the record.
well. i am going to ask the senator. why does he  give me the facts. the senator has had three complaints. the senator has an investigation in anne arundel county. they have  complied and. therefore. hew has had to do something. and the case is  in the courts. why does the senator  say that. it is in the courts. is it . the senators time is up.
 has had a consumer adviser for some years . but this person has never had the legal authority to take action on behalf of aggrieved consumers. establishment of the proposed consumer protection agency would provide that authority. too often in the past. the interests and concerns of the productandservicebuying public have been lost in the bureaucratic shuffle involved with the proposal. debate. passage. and implementation of new legislation. the aca would act as an advocate for these formerly unrecognized interests. as a cosponsor of the agency for consumer advocacy bill. i believe it is excellent legislation. it would benefit all concerned. it would focus consumer concern in one agency for the first time. right . when consumers are faced with unsafe or shoddy merchandise. or a service that does  live up to its promise they are unsure of who to write to for assistance. letters of consumer concern have been scattered among the members of the house and senate. and among the various federal agencies and commissions. often little or action is taken in behalf of these worried consumers. with the establishment of the aca. consumers would have people who are working specifically on their problems. the sometimes weak. halfhearted consumer efforts by agencies which are mainly concerned with other areas would become concerted efforts that would produce results. the agency. if established. is bound to receive thousands of letters a year from consumers who are unhappy with certain goods or services. the administrator is instructed to follow up on these letters. which. in effect. would become the consumers link to the federal government. the aca administrator would: first. keep a tally of letters directed at specific businesses and then. at certain times. pass these complaints along to that business along with suggestions to prevent future complaints. second. pass along all relevant complaints to the proper federal agency and. again. submit suggestions for the protection of consumer interests. third. watch for any complaints that seem to point out a violation of federal or state law in relation to consumer interests. and then to take the appropriate action to end this unlawfulness. fourth. make sure other federal agencies also "follow up" on complaints submitted to them by the aca. and fifth. to make available for public inspection all complaints and replies to these complaints. the administrator may also. under his informational powers. authorize the research and publishing of a report in a particular area of consumer complaint. establishing an agency for consumer advocacy would help insure that federal agencies are familiar with the views and interests of the consumer. thereby enabling such agencies to carry out responsibly their statutory obligations. aher important function of the aca is its ability to represent the consumer in the courts. the administrator would be able "to obtain judicial review of any federal agency action reviewable under law." critics of the aca have charged that the administrator would be "meddling" in many court cases and holding up important court decisions. this is an unjust charge. i believe that this judicial function would simply mean that consumer interests would be properly represented for the first time. this would. hopefully. prevent any court decision from being overly protective of business interests. and. through its informational function. the aca would inform the public of all relevant decisions affecting consumers. of course. this agency and its administrator would have authority to enact any regulations or enforce any sort of a decision. i also belicve the informationgathering and dissemination powers of this new agency would benefit the consumer. the surveys. investigations. and conferences that the aca would initiate in the field of consumer affairs would provide important information to other agencies on the concerns and needs of consumers. critics of the proposed structure of the agency for consumer advocacy argue that establishment of independent regulatory. special interest agencies is a poor way to run the government. however. this country has traditionally relied on the adversary system to produce governmental and judicial decisions that are as fair and as consistent with the public interest as possible. this act does more than to make this adversary process more complete by including representatives of interests heretofore largely neglected. neither federal agencies  businesses can fairly object to permitting all sides to be heard. other critics feel that the agency will create interagency confusion and interfere in affairs that are irrelevant to consumers. i believe that the ability to participate in the socalled informal activities. as well as "formal" proceedings of federal agencies is absolutely necessary to the effectiveness of this agency. the presence of the consumer advocate would  create any confusion in the federal government. it would only help to make an important voice be heard. we all k that a great number of important decisions are made in the informal activities of federal agencies. it is often said that as much as 90 percent of all agency activites are "informal." if this consumer advocacy agency can participate in these informal activities. its power would be greatly reduced. despite its potential effectiveness. however. the consumer protection bill is relatively modest in size and cost. the cost would be $15 million the first year or 1/60th of the budget of the department of commerce. the department charged with promoting commerce and industry. the agency would cost approximately 171/2 cents per person. it would be a wise buy. yet. despite all these benefits. congress has  spent more than half a decade trying to enact an effective consumer advocacy and protection agency. last year the house of representatives passed the consumer protection act of 1974 by an overwhelming vote of 293 to to 94. but in the senate. we fell one vote shy of cutting off a filibuster and bringing the issue to a vote. however. with the continued endorsement of progressive business concerns. the recent change in the filibuster rules. and increasing consumer awareness. the prospects for passage of a consumer protection agency are considerably brighter this year. i hope that the cor gress vill procrastinate longer in passi::g this elsential legislation. i urge all senators to vote for the passage of s. 200.
. the senate has acted twice. overwhelmingly. to invoke cloture. those votes indicate the senates desire to take up and to resolve this question of the extension of the voting rights act of 1965. we have heard a rather lengthy. sometimes very spirited debate on this issue. and  the distinguished senator from new mexico. who has indicated already. by his votes. that he favors an extension of the voting rights act of 1965. has raised some valid questions. he is concerned as to whether the repeal of section 4 would make this act unconstitutional. lawyers will disagree as to the constitutionality of the act. that is why we have the supreme court of the united states. i can tell the distinguished senator from new mexico any more than the distinguished senator from florida can tell him whether this act will be unconstitutional or . i personally believe that if section 4 is repealed the act would be unconstitutional. the senator from florida personally believes it will be constitutional. but the distinguished senator from new mexico will have to decide the question on his own. i respect him for having raised that question and i hope some assistance will be given to him as to whether it is constitutional or .
i think the senator from new mexico has arrived at a very understandable conclusion. i think the senator from new york unquestionably is one of the most able lawyers in the country. and i think the senator from florida is a most able lawyer. i think the senator from new mexico is right. we are going to have to wait for the supreme court to decide on the issue of constitutionality.
. what the senator from georgia and the senator from connecticut in their brief colloquy had to say is very appealing. but i caution that this is a wolf in sheeps clothing. i do  charge the senator from georgia with having created this wolf. but whether he ks it or . that is exactly what it is. it would effectively destroy the voting rights act of 1965. we had this debate for several hours yesterday. this provision was included in the amendment by the distinguished senator from mississippi . we discussed it. and we discussed it at great length. it was brought out in that debate that it would be impossible for the attorney general to go to court and preclear all the districts. all the counties. and i think the senator from georgia ks this. the effect would obviously be that it would be impossible for the attorney general to do it. and we would  even have a voting rights act. we sat by and allowed the senator from georgia to get unanimous consent to bring it up. we could have objected to it. but we wanted to be fair. we wanted to be equitable. we wanted to give everyone an opportunity to call up his amendments. i think only the distinguished senator from th carolina was deprived of his right on a point of order.
 at that point.  the court has said further that busing is only one of the constitutional tools that can be used for the desegregation of public schools. other remedier should first be applied. but if compliance with the law can be achieved without busing. then busing must be one of the available desegregation remedies. . that the senate will act as it has heretofore. and vote against this amendment. because this is  a wolf in sheeps clothing. this is a wolf in wolves clothing. it is exactly what it portends to be. exactly like it looks. and let there be doubtit is a wolf
i am  aware of any poll which shows that the majority of the american people favor or disfavor forced busing. i am. however. aware that there are many people in this country. if  a majority. a great number of people in this countryas has been said by the distinguished senator from west virginia in his argumentsblack and white. who are  in favor of forced busing. i do  interpret the supreme courts decision to say that there must be widespread busingas has been claimed on the floor of the senatefor the balancing of public schools. this is a red herring. court has ordered the balancing of races in public school systems. as i understand the supreme court decisioni have read it. read it. and reread it. and i think i understand it wellthe supreme court has said that busing is a constitutional tool that can be used in order to bring about the desegregation of public school systems that have been segregated by official act by racial. residential patterns or anything of that nature.  to balance one race with the other race. but when public officials deliberately segregate public school systems in this country. the supreme court has held that it is unconstitutional. and i believe it is morally wrong as well. and the supreme court has said that busing is a tool that can be used to remedy constitutional violations. the distinguished senator from kentucky is in the chamber at the present time. the court ordered busing in louisville. ky.. was a last resort. that federal district court judge did  go out of his way to order busing. judge garrity. of boston. did  go out of his way to order busing. judge garrity is opposed to busing. does  like busing. but judge garrity is a man of law. he reads the law. and he read the supreme court decision. and he found that that school committee would  desegregate that public school system by any other means. and the only option left to him was to order busing. hew has many options it can use prior to a courtordered busing plan. the federal district court sitting in boston. mass. for example. in what is  a very celebrated if  famousor infamouscase. certainly went to great lengths to give the boston school committee more than ample opportunity to work out a plan to desegregate the public school system in the city of boston. which they had segregated by design. the court gave that committee ample opportunity to use any method they could. other than busing. to bring about that desegregation. it was only after the school committee blatantly refused to desegregate that school system. to submit any plan which would have included the assignment of pupils. magnet schools. or many other ways of bringing about desegregationthat the court went to the last resort. and the last resort was busing. this has been true time after time across the country. it happened in the south. where my distinguished colleague lives and represents the state of th carolina. it happened in mississippi. it happened in georgia. why can it  happen in louisville. ky.. and boston. mass.. why should one part of the country obey the law and aher part of the country  obey the law. i can understand the logic. the rationale. the justice of that argument. i just can accept it.
except by court order. under the amendment. only the courts can order busing and hew can withhold funds under the law to encourage schools to submit a plan for desegregation of public schools. only the court can order. the federal district court by final decree can order the busing. hing that can be said. amendment. including the amendment of the senator from west virginia. touches the courts. we are  talking about hew. as i interpret the amendment of the senator from delaware. what he is trying to do is to see that funds are used by hew for the transportation of children by busing. he is trying to nullifyi will use that word. if the senator will allowthat part of his original amendment which would have struck out title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. i think that is all he is really doing.
. recent events again demonstrate that considerable confusion still surrounds the issue of busing pursuant to a court order. almost daily we hear the opponents of busing criticizing federal judges for ordering "busing to achieve a racial balance" or charging that busing does  result in quality education. these criticisms indicate that too many americans still do  understand the law regarding busing and the role of the federal courts in interpreting and implementing the law. several weeks ago i preyared an article for the boston globe which discusses equal educational opportunity and quality education and the respective responsibilities of public officials in attaining these important goals. i would like to share this article with my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
let me just say to the distinguished senator from oklahoma that i hope he is wrong. that we are  just prolonging the agony. i can say to him with all assurance that we are  prolonging the agony. i do  think that the fact they would go into bankruptcy and be under the court system. in itself. is going to make it a better situation than the system that has been devised and which is encompassed in this bill. i also want to point out to the senator from oklahoma that if new york went into default. there would still be a need for some loans to help the city to maintain its vital services to the 8 million people who inhabit the city of newyork.
i would agree with the senator that new york city. and i think new york city is well aware of the fact. is going to bring salaries. personnel. and all these things that the senator has raised. into line. i think that is very evident. i believe they understand that. i do  want the senator to feel that the court has any magic. when one goes into bankruptcy. the court does  just sit there and say. "this is the way it is going to be." the court appoints referees. they meet. bring in creditors. sit down and talk to them to find out what the debt is and how it can be resolved. whether they will take 10 cents on a dollar or 50 cents on a dollar. i do  want to go into a discussion of the bankruptcy law or procedure. but i do  want the senator from oklahoma to labor under some misconception that the courts. merely by presiding over a bankruptcy situation. will solve these problems. if it can be avoided. we should avoid it. that is what most people want to do. if we can. and there is a possibility we cana very real possibility-
let me answer the senator. if i may. take the boston school situation. in the boston school situation. the department of justice wanted less busing and wanted to moderate the federal district court judges order and try to reduce busing and incorporate something else. under the amendment offered by the senator from kansas and the senator from delaware. the department of justice could  even intercede to moderate the busing order to bring about less busing. is that  correct.
i am talking about before. when the court was trying to formulate its order. the department of justice wanted to use its influence for less busing than the court ultimately came up with. under the senators amendment. the justice department could . is that  correct. it would appear to me that such an amendment would be selfdefeating.
i thank the senator. we have discussed the legal ramifications of this amendment. i believe. as the distinguished floor manager of this bill has pointed out. that this is an amendment which certainly should  be on this appropriations bill. it constitutes legislating on an appropriations bill. and i think that at the appropriate time. we shall make the proper motion to table this amendment. but.  has submitted in this election year a busing bill. rushed up to congress for us to consider. we will consider it. it is a very emotional issue. it has political appeal. but i. by god. appeal again to this senate  to make this a political issue because it is far too important to the education of our children. and it certainly does  belong on this bill. when the time comes. apparently. on an education bill. let us look at busing again and see what it is doing and what it is  doing. we all want good education for black and white children. but we have to see that they have an equal educational opportunity. that is our constitutional responsibility. the supreme court has said that. time and time again. matter what we say here will alter that important fact. indeed. just recently the supreme court of the united states denied certiorari to all the busing appeals before it. the court has reaffirmed its position that the constitution requires equal educational opportunity for all children in the united states. and that busing is one legitimate tool to insure that constitutional right. i do  think that the u.s. senate. in this bicentennial year. or in any other year. wants to change that
i want to pay my respects to his very able staff assistant. . we have finally concluded the long and difficult conference on the 1977 laborhew appropriations bill. as many may already k. the conference bill is being acted upon in two stages. on august 25. the senate adopted the conference report containing $56.6 billion for laborhew programs and several items in disagreement. today. the senate must act upon one item in disagreement that could  be resolved last month and which has kept the conference running for so long. i speak. of course. of the socalled hyde antiabortion amendment which barred use of the funds in the bill to pay for abortions or to promote or encourage abortions. this was the only item in complete disagreement between the two houses and the item which finally was resolved on wednesday. while i believe the conference result is better than the original version of hyde. i can in good conscience vote for it and i can recommend my colleagues vote for it. the language adopted by the conferees clearly discriminates against the poor who can afford the cost of an abortion but must rely upon medicaid. like hyde. this amendment would  affect those who can afford the price of an abortion. it would  put an end to abortions. but simply would price them out of reach of the neediest of our citizens. i was convinced that hyde was clearly unconstitutional. and i believe that even with the change in- language. the new measure is also clearly unconstitutional. and that the supreme court will so rule. the lower federal courts have been unanimous in ruling that the government can provide funds and services for those women who choose to end their pregnancy through birth while denying important funds and services to those who choose to end their pregnancy during the first trimester. such a denial is a violation of the equal protection clause of the 14th amendment to the constitution. nevertheless. i am very concerned about the interim period between the effective date of this legislation and the rendering of a decision by the supreme court on this issue. thus it is vital that hew understand the intent of the conference action so that it is  administered in this period to the detriment of those who would be most directly affected. let me point out how the hyde amendment has been changed and how its impact has been softened and how it should  be interpreted. the new language leaves out the ambiguous part about promotion or encouragement of abortions. importantly. it permits abortions where the life of the mother would be endangered if she carried the fetus to term. also. it will rightly be argued that there may be many instances where the mothers life is "endangered" and she is entitled to an abortion paid for partly by medicaid. at this point. it is too soon to try to enumerate the possible instances. but our conference report language definitely lists multiple sclerosis and renal disease as possibilities. i also would include instances where suicide may be a concernthat is. the endangerment of ones own life by ones own hand. i also point out that the dictionary tells us that the word "endanger" means "to expose to danger or harm. imperil." this introduces the principle of "exposure" which needs to be examined for its relevance to this issue. does "exposure" imply something less than an actual lifethreatening situation. it is a fair question. i believe. it also is important to closely examine the conference report language that was agreed to. and because i proposed the conference report language. it is incumbent upon me to make crystal clear the intent of my language this. too. is essential for hew to have so that it accurately. most particularly during this interim period. interprets the intent of the congress of the united states let me quickly list the exceptions to the bill language spelled out in the conference report. i have already covered the exceptions for multiple sclerosis and renal disease. the report language cites these only as examples. i interpret this as opening the door to other diseases. it also was and i stress thisour intention to prohibit "treatment of rape or incest victims." we are told that each year some 10.000 pregnancies result from rape. so it is important that the conferees have spoken to this point through our language in the conference report. also. our language clearly states that we do  intend to prohibit the use of drugs or devices to prevent implantation of the fertilized ovum. and we do . as the report language states. propose to interfere with or limit federal aid to medical schools conducting research into. or teaching. abortion procedures for therapeutic purposes. thus. i repeat: it is important for all who read the language of the bill to then read the language i inserted in the report. they are inextricably linked. i have stressed the possible interpretations of "endanger" and the exceptions listed in the conference report to show the difference from the original hyde language. and while this bill definitely will result in some reduction in abortions paid through medicaid. it is . thanks to the language in the report. insensitive to such matters as rape and incest. medical research and medical training. aher helpful e: the conferees adopted report language by senator bayh that action on this bill should  be construed as prejudging any constitutional questions involved in the three abortion cases  pending before the supreme court. i believe this is a fair explanation of how the conference action should be interpreted. however. i would have preferred even more flexibility in the compromise agreed to and made suggestions to that effect. i regret that those suggestions were  accepted. in sum. i must repeat that this amendment is unconstitutional and this amendment is unconscionable. i shall vote against the amendment.
plus the 2 minutes of the senator from indiana. which i accept.  2. should judge bell have participated in golden v. biscayne bay yacht club (530 f. 2d 16 5th circuit 1976) whether private club action in barring blacks and jews from membership constitutes state action. the second issue which i raise also involves the question of disqualification. in 1976 judge bell sat on an appeal regarding the biscayne bay yacht clubs practice of excluding jews and blacks from membership. judge bell at that time belonged to three clubs with exactly the same membership policies. and was receiving gift memberships from two of them. judge bell ruled in favor of the yacht club. and did  disclose his memberships to the lawyers in the case. witnesses before the committee have testified that judge bell violated the cas and federal refusal statutes by sitting on this case. the two relevant citations on this issue are 28 u.s.c. 144 and ca 3(c)1 of the code of judicial conduct. 28 usc 144 states that where the judge has a personal bias or prejudice "either against a party or in favor of any adverse party. such judge shall proceed further therein. but aher judge shall be assigned to hear such proceedings." ca 3(c)1 provides that "a judge should disqualify himself where his impartiality might reasonably be questioned." in his testimony judge bell stated that the biscayne bay case simply involved a judicial determination of the extent to which the yacht club had a nexus with a government unit. thus he felt that since the clubs to which he belonged did  fit into that category. the case did  involve a broader challenge of discrimination .by private clubs and therefore his clubs. the dining club and the capital city club. would  be involved. judge bell also testified that the fifth circuit judges had voted  to exclude themselves from such cases as a matter of principle. the question of disqualification and membership in the club was left to the judge in question unless it was the club of the .judge. judge bell added that "nearly every judge would have been disqualified if i was disqualified." -but other witnesses testified that  only did judge bell belong to the. clubs. but that he also received free memberships from two of them. this compounds the issue in my opinion. the fifth circuit did  discuss or vote in this aspect of club membership. several witnesses pointed out that at the very least judge bell should have put the facts on the record and given the parties an opportunity to consider whether to move for disqualification or whether to follow the statutory and .judicial code procedure of waiving that disqualificationca 3(d) of the code of judicial conduct. indeed. monroe freedman testified that he had called the lawyer representing the plaintiff in the biscavne bay case and asked whether he would have moved for disqualification of judge bell had he kn the facts relating to the possible conflictof interest. the lawyer told freedman that only did he feel very strongly about it and was confident that he would have done so but that he was even more certain that his client had extremely strong feelings about the matter and would have made such a .motion. the committee report states that "in light of judge bells responses" to the questions of judicial propriety in connection with judge bells membership in certain private clubs. "the committee does  believe those questions are of sufficient substance to question seriously his confirmation." that is the majority speaking.  the miity. that is the majority speaking again. i concur that the issue of judge bells membership in private clubs alone. regrettable as it was. is  of sufficient substance to bar his confirmation. however. i do  address myself to that issue. my question to the senator is: what is the committees opinion of judge bells apparent violation of 28 u.s.c. 144 and ca 3(c) 1 of the code of judicial conduct.  3. did judge bell comply with laws and regulations concerning reporting of financial benefits received from private clubs. the record indicates that from 196176. while serving on the fifth circuit court of appeals. judge bell received gift memberships in the allwhite piedmont driving and capitol city clubs of atlanta. these gift memberships were worth about $2.000 a year. while these gift memberships were  illegal. witnesses during the hearing pointed out that since 1970 federal judges have been required to file a form setting forth such gifts. it appears that judge bell either failed to file the form for a period of 5 or 6 years semiannually. which means 10 or a dozen such forms. or else in filing them he did  report the gifts. in addition. cas on this subject were first adopted by the american bar association in 1972 and then adopted by the judicial conference in 1973. ca  5(c)4 states that: neither a judge  a member of his family residing in this household should accept a gift. bequest. favor. or loan from anyone except as follows: (c) a judge or a member of his family ... may accept any other gift. bequest. favor. or loan only if the do is  a party or other party whose interests have come or are likely to come before him. and if its value exceeds $100. the judge reports it in the same manner as he reports compensation in ca 6(c). the record shows that at least 2 years elapsed between passage of the code and the first reporting by judge bell. at which time the judge did  report the private clubs as an outside income. judge bells responses to these allegations deeply disturb me. he stated: i am subject to the judicial conference to the extent that i am willing to comply. some judges have refused to comply with the judicial conference and never filed anything at all. this response appears to indicate a startling lack of sensitivity. the cas of judicial ethics. although they do  have the force of law. have established accepted guidelines for the conduct of judges. judge bell seems to have almost a cavalier regard for their importance and applicability. unfortunately. the judiciary committee report does  address these important issues either. my question: how did the committee weigh the evidence regarding these allegations.
having alternative. . i will proceed. why were witnesses called who could clarify the extent of judge bells role in drafting the bills. and specifically testify as to the origin of the concepts embodied in those bills. why did the committee fail to call richard ashworth. gover vandivers press secretary during the period in question. we havebeen informed that mr. ashworth would have firsthand r kledge about many of the events i which occurred. and that he is present ly working in washington. it appears that it would  have been unduly burdensome on him or for the committee to hear his testimony. can the committee explain its failure to call hankum perry. an albany. ga.. attorney who allegedly worked with judge bell in formulating the georgia legislative package. did any person on the committee examine and evaluate. the fragmentary documentation which judge bell states would shed light on the issues.. can the committee state where judge bell searched for these documents. did the committee also perform a document search. can the "committee describe its action with regard to the socalled privileged letter which judge bell did find in the files. did the committee attempt to reach gover vandiver. to seek a waiver of the privilege from him. why was there challengeto this very attenuated claim of privilege by a committee member. did judge bell produce any evidence which corroborates his testimony that he was a moderating influence. the committee apparently was satisfied with the level of candor and with the answers of the inee. but the record does  reflect the basis for that acceptance. first. judge bell insisted that he was in favor of complying with .the law in 195861. and let me remind my colleagues that the law at that time was brown against board of education of topeka. kans. brown held that separate is inherently unequal. and that integration was required. yet. later on. judge bell alters his stance somewhat. stating that he was a "moderating influence." that everything he did was to keep the schools open. and this may be so. but. did the committee press the inee as to what he personally did to insure that the schools would be open. and integrated.  open and segregated. judge bell elaborated further. stating that the laws were admittedly segregationist. but were "less so" than other laws on the books. and finally. he says if there was wrongdoing. it was in igance. i remind my colleagues of gover vandivers own characterization of judge bell as "one of the best legal minds in the state." igance in that event. and for a circuit court of appeals judgeand possibly the next attorney general of the united states. seems a strange defense. i be. lieve that. these equivocal answers furtherconfuse an already cloudy situation. my question is can the committee cite any concrete evidence which corroborates judge bells characterization of his participation.
. in g.e. versus gilbert the supreme court made it clear that congress could indicate through legislation that such discrimination as perpetuated in g.e. versus gilbert is illegal. the legislation which we are introducing prohibits this unbelievable and unjustifiable discrimination. i urge all my colleagues to support it.
. in the family planning services section. the committee report directs that the funds appropriated for family planning services shall only be used for projects as authorized by title x. is it the intent of the committee to insure that funds appropriated under this act for title x. phsa. will  be used by hew to increase funding for other legislative authorities.
the senator has repeatedly said to the senate that there has been white flight due to court ordered desegregation. then he cites as an example of this the district of columbia. but there is court ordered desegregation for the district of columbia. there never has been. is that  true.
. is de facto.  de jure segregation. the supreme court has never at any time in its history said that we must desegregate schools because of de facto segregation. it does  say so . all the supreme court has said is that where a school district has become segregated by official action. as was found in my city of boston and in the senators city of wilmington. as the senator from delaware ks. that school district must desegregate its school system. the court gives the school district time to bring about the desegregation of that system. if it does . if it blatantly refuses. as it has in the senators city and in mine. then the court will order desegregation. that is all the court does.
. i would just like to say that i disagree with what the senator from missouri and what the senator from delaware have said. lawyers do disagree. we disagree on the interpretation of what the byrd language does. but i think senator humphrey was absolutely correct when he said that all we are concerned with in the byrd language is that hew has the right to use the remedy of pairing and clustering. under the present law. we have that right. because the byrd language is the law at the present time. if the senate position that was taken on the vote on the eagletonbiden language is confirmed. the law would change and we would deny hew the right to use clustering and pairing. so we would remove two remedies three. because the remedy of restructuring would also be removed. we would lose three remedies preseiltly available to hew which they could use without resorting to courtordered busing. courtordered busing is something that many of you here who have voted today indicate you do  want. if you do  want it. then do  deprive hew of the only other means they have of remedying the situation by resorting to the remedies of pairing. restructuring. and clustering. that is very simple. that is what we are talking about and more. if we do  adopt the byrd language. then we are forcing more courtordered busing. because we have removed alternative remedies. i can understand how senator eagleton and senator biden do  make this clear to their proponents. because that is what they are talking alout. if you are against courtordered busing. then you do  want to deny these alternative remedies to hew. that is important. all three of these remedies are important. as the senator from minnesota said. it has worked very well in his state. it has worked elsewhere successfully. across the country.  we are saying to hew. "you can do that any more." they both agreed that hing in this bill is going to stod courtordered busing. because that is the law. the supreme court has said it. time and time again. they are  going to stop courtordered busing where they find a constitutional wrong. they are going to use that remedy. what we are doing if we do  vote for the byrd amendment is narrowing the remedies. in fact. we are restricting it to one and we are restricting it to the one remedy that many of you do  want. and that is courtordered busing. cxxi --1338part 17 so i ask the senate to vote for the byrd amendment. just as you did before. because that is what you have ordered. despite what the senator from delaware has said
the senator asked if i knew of any cases. i do . i do question the wisdom of ever having changed it from 5 to 3 years. when all citizens of the united states have a 5year statute of limitations for all other federal criminal law violations. it seems to me that there is justification for those subject to the campaign financing law to have a 3year statute of limitations when the rest of the country has a 5year statute of limitations. for that reason i believe it ought to be changed back to the original 5 years.
the supreme court. in 1973. said that abortion is a personal and private matter between a woman patient and her doctor. and that she has a constitutional right to abortion. the case was reviewed. and the distinguished senator from th carolina cited it. it did  in any way change that opinion of the supreme court what the supreme court said in the case it recently decided was that as far as medicaid is concerned. this matter is best left up to the courage and the justice of congress and the state legislatures to make the decision. i think the supreme court is getting a little tired of taking all the important issues on by itself. they are saying to us. in short. "stand up and be counted. act on these things yourselves." but it did  take away the constitutional right. what good is a constitutional right if there is remedy. when that statement was madeand i trust it was made inadvertentlythe other day that women can go and get an abortion if they want it. it should also be stated that poor women can go to a hospital and get an abortion.
wherever they say using public funds for abortion. i am amazed they got 38 percent. with what that means. i think that is a very high percentage. i think the senator is using polls to support his position. rather than the other way. i do  think that is overwhelming. when we consider the question that was asked of the public. actually. we do  even get into the question of whether it would save the life of the mother. whether it was rape or incest. whether it is medically necessary. we do  get into any of these things. once that question is put to the public. i am certain the public would see the significance of that as distinct from what the senator read. the senator ks polls come out depending on how the question is framed. i suggest most respectfully to the senator from pennsylvania that. with the question framed as it was. that 38 percent is a very high percentage.  a very low percentage. as the senator from pennsylvania suggested.
the reason i asked the senator that question is. if he believes they are entitled to an abortion. he can support the language of the senator from pennsylvania. because the language the senator from pennsylvania is trying to impose upon the senate does  even include rape and incest. it does  even include it.
. the latest house proposal would prohibit federal funding for abortion except where the life of the woman would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term. it also would permit undefined "medical procedures." if done before the fact of pregnancy is established. in cases of "forced" rape or incest. the senate should overwhelmingly reject this house language for the following reasons: first. the house language makes provision for abortions in cases where there would be serious health damage to the pregnant woman or the fetus she is carrying. we all k the dangers that can be involved in pregnancy. for the woman with heart disease. cancer or other serious ailments. the dangers are infinitely greater. also. there literally are thousands of genetic diseases and conditions that could deform or handicap both the woman and the fetus and need to be taken into account in any legislation. the senate has been most sensitive to this issue. on at least four occasions it has voted to provide language to insure that the health of the woman and the fetus are protected. at present the senate language would permit abortions in such cases if "medically necessary." in the interest of compromise. however. the senate conferees have been willing to modify their language to permit such abortions only if the woman or the fetus would suffer "serious health damage." the house at stage of our lengthy and inconclusive negotiations has shown any willingness at all to compromise on this essential issue. second. the house language on rape and incest is harsh on its face and we feel is unworkable. for example. it would permit payment only for "medical procedures performed before the factof pregnancy is established." this probably means condemning inent rape or incest victims to the use of the "morning after pill." which has been shown to be ineffective in many instances and also is a kn carcien. aher possible "medical procedure" would involve an operation (d. & c.) to scrape the insides of the uterus. under the house language. however. this could mean forcing a woman who sought treatment for rape to undergo a surgical procedure which may  even be necessary. the house language on rape and incest also would require the victim to report to a law enforcement agency before payment for assistance could be authorized. this overlooks the fact that almost half of all rape or rape attempts are never reported to authorities out of fear or igance. when a victim does discover she is pregnant. she will seek assistance at clinics or other health facilities rather than going to police. in addition. by using the formulation "forced rape." the house prohibits assistance to victims of statutory rape which is recognized by virtually every state in the union. in all likelihood the house language on rape and incest would do little to prevent the pregnancies which do result from such tragedies. thus. this house language. which is even more prohibitive than the report language in the 1977 bill. can and should be modified. the senate has stood fast on the fundamental issues involved in the abortion funding issue. our conferees have been faithful to the wishes of the senate in this matter. we have upheld the senate position. and we will continue to do so. thus. we have alternative but to recommend that the senate reject the house language. this will make it possible for the senate to go back to conference and seek a compromise in the spirit if  the actual language of the present senate bill. as chairman magnuson and i pointed out in an october 7 letter to all members of the senate. the senate conferees have been striving for a fair compromise. we recognize the serious implications for programs and personnel resulting from the present situation. it has never been our wish that such hardships occur and that is why we recommended compromise language to the house. we can only hope the other body will try to meet us at least halfway.
i would direct several questions to the majority manager of this bill because i believe it is vital we make clear the legislative intent of the provision we are acting upon. this is particularly necessary since hew has refused to give us any interpretation in advance. we have been advised by the department that they are looking to us to tell them the intent of the language we are recommending. we will be as precise as we can so that doubt is left in mr. califa mind as to what we intend. and we expect our intent to be carried out in the regulations the secretary will issue. the language makes an exception for providing "medical procedures necessary for the victims of rape or incest." it is our intention that "medical procedures necessary"  be viewed as a limitation on the length of time during which medical assistance will be available. we fully intend "medical procedures necessary" to include abortions. so long as the rape or incest has been reported to a law enforcement agency or to a public health service or its equivalent the woman is eligible for a publicly funded abortion. am i  correct about our intent that "medical procedures necessary" does include abortions.
the provision also requires a report to a law enforcement agency or public health service or its equivalent. obviously a law enforcement agency includes the policestate. county. or city. but it is  exclusively these organizations. since we are dealing with women who are victims of attack. we do  want to pile trauma upon tragedy by forcing them to go through a process that is mpre geared to criminals than to people who deserve our greatest sympathy. if. for example. there is a human relations division within a police department. the report could be made through such an office. a police chaplains office could be assigned the job of receiving reports. we urge hew. working on its own or through the justice department. to encourage law enforcement agencies to establish special bureaus with personnel who are trained to deal with rape or incest victims. would you  agree this is the intent of this portion of the language on rape and incest.
. i thank the distinguished senator from wyoming. he is exactly correct. in addition thereto. we found in many cases of rape or incest there is reporting at all because there is a stigma attached to the victims of such incidents. we have gone so far as to agree to have a reporting requirement written into the bill. and  adding further this word "promptly" would make the problem even worse for the victims.
. i agree with the senator from ohio that the word "promptly" is subject to interpretation. as i view it. "promptly" would mean a reasonable and humane period of time in which the rape or incest would be reported to a law enforcement agency or to a public health service. it might be reported by a parent or someone in behalf of that victim of rape or incest. or it could be reported by the victim. we may be talking about children. as the distinguished senator from ohio well ks. it is a matter that concerns me deeply and concerns him and others deeply. we may talking about young children. so we may be talking about the reporting of the parent. where the child can be in a position to make that report promptly. it is  a question of hours. as i see it. but maybe days. weeksa reasonable and humane period of time. whatever that may be considered.
in the case of incest involving a young female child. i say to the distinguished senator from ohio. it may  be found out for a period of time. the mother of that child might  find out until several months afterwards that there has been incest. there could be those extenuating circumstances.
. to be carried out in the regulations that the secretary will issue. because the secretary will issue regulations on this language. and we want to be sure that the secretary is wellinformed of the intent of congress. the language makes an exception for providing "medical procedures" necessary for the victims of rape or incest. as i said. it is our intention that "medical procedures necessary"  be viewed as a limitation on the length of time during which medical assistance shall be available. we fully intend "medical procedures" to include. again. abortions. so long as the rape or incest has been reported to a law enforcement agency or to a public health service. the woman is clearly eligible for a publicly funded abortion. am i correct about our intent. that "medical procedures" do include abortion. is that the chairmans understanding.
i think the legislative committee ought to be challenged. but. as i said. i am  as optimistic. because if we have a laborhew appropriation billand we will have next year. and the parliamentarian is also smiling about thisif they come in with that language "e of the funds shall be used in this bill except for" we axe faced with the same old problem again. i am thinking if we do  get some action on the part of the legislative committee we are going to have to conduct hearings ourselves to determine what the problems involved are. we did  have any hearings on the question of rape or incest or the fetus or anything else.
e of that at all. which we needed very clearly. i just want to reiterate. though the chairman did respond relative to the reporting of the rape or incest. that i want to make it clear. as clear as we can possibly make it. that when we use the language "medical procedures" we axe referring to abortions. is that correct.
. i submit that these amendments and this bill will serve to provide substantive and substantial improvement in the ceta programs. while helping to curb and eliminate instances of fraud and abuse. i am hopeful that a majority of my colleagues will join me in adopting these sorely needed amendments. i have discussed this with the proponent of the amendment and the floor manager and i understand it is acceptable. is that correct.
. the house of representatives has gone all september 27. 1978 coin the way back to its original harsh position. this version once again makes provision for instances where a fetus may be deformed or bears an incurable genetic disease. it again makes provision for the woman whose pregnancy may worsen a serious illness. it again makes provision for victims of rape or incest where a resulting pregnancy will simply compound an already tragic situation. the omissions are too numerous to list in detail. in part because there are so many genetic diseases and other impairments that would have to be provided for in any responsible bill. it thus is absurd to believe that 535 politicians. that is what we are. 535 politicians in congress could agree to. let alone be medically competent to write. a piece of legislation that could cover all of the conditions that have to be accounted for in dealing with abortion. the house language is designed to deny abortions to poor women who are the most vulnerable segment of our society. the consequences of this will be to force these women once again to resort to selfinduced or backalley abortions. or to continue unwanted pregnancies regardless of the impact this may have on the health of the woman or the fetus. or both. it is important to stress that through such language congress would impose its judgment on abortions on only one class of american women: those who happen by circumstance to be poor. because such women do  have the ability to pay for their abortions. they will be effectively denied the right to choose to have thema right guaranteed by the supreme court in the landmark roe against wade and doe against bolton decisions of 1973.
i thank the gentleman and want to express my appreciation to both the chairman of the full committee and of the subcommittee. as well as to the staff members of the committee. for their courtesies to me. e of us.  members of the committee. can be expected to have the detailed kledge of this highly complicated and technical bill the committee members have. i think the very great majority of the members of the hous2. approve heartily of almost the entire bill. the committee is entitled to congratulations for its work. but each of us must assume an individual responsibility in discharging our duty. we want to do justice to the personnel of the armed services. but we also want to do justice to other equally valuable employees in this government. and we must further do everything possible to be just to the great majority. all the rest of the american citizens. who. directly or indirectly. have to carry. in large part. the gigantic cost of operating this federal government. if this bill is passed. it will  be merely recognition of and adjustment of certain inequities which undoubtedly exist. it will be a challenge to those who receive these benefits from the american people to meet the responsibilities recognized here. i am confident that the american people will expect and demand greater efficiency. a determined effort to administer efficiently and ecoically the billions appropriated for the armed services and an immediate end to petty jealousies and squabbling within their ranks which. to date. has quite effectively stifled much of the congressional mandate for realistic unification.
according to the interpretation made by the gentleman from minnesota of this case. because there was an acquittal by a court martial. would this  be a precedent with reference to suits of foreigners in our civil courts where there was an adverse decision that this country should pay indemnity to foreigners.
. i apologize for any confusion that may have arisen as a result of the offering of this amendment and will explain it to you briefly. i also apologize to any who may have heard me say some 3 hours ago that i was going to offer this type of amendment to the committee bill as i am sure that the committee will accept it. i wanted to offer it to the bill filed by the gentleman from pennsylvania because i believe he can be induced to accept it and i have been assured by the gentleman from arkansas. who is the original author of the other bill. that he would accept it. i am going to vote against the amendment offejed by the gentleman from arkansas and he ks it. he is one of the best men there is in the house and i pay tribute to him publicly for his sincerity and integrity in his approach to this problem. i am going to vote against the bill offered by my colleague from pennsylvania. and he ks it. and he accepts that in the same spirit that he has always accepted any differences of opinion between him and myself. i hope we can leave this chamber tonight with everybody king we have the highest respect for each other. even though we do  agree with each other in this instance. i am offering this for a constructive purpose. if you will look at the committee bill you will find that they took verbatim the language of the massachusetts statute which was enacted in 1946. so far as the outline of the general purposes is concerned. but for some reason unkn to me they preferred to insert language which i believe is more limited in terms of authorizing the director only authorizing him. but telling him that we want him to do this. we want him first to resort to conference. conciliation. and persuasion. that was because in massachusetts the commission which came into existence in 1946 after legislative investigation of 1942. 1944. and 1945 has this to say in its first report: it (the commission) has  chosen to conduct a punitive expedition in massachusetts. but has preferred to steer a conservative course of educating employers and employees alike as to their responsibilities and obligations under this law. a year later they refer to it again. they say: from the beginning the commission has recognized that the elimination of discriminatory employment practices. based upon individual and group prejudices. can be more effectively accomplished by reason instead of force. finally. last ember they saidand i want to call your attention to this because of the fears which have been expressed here tonight as to what would happen if we pass this bill. on ember 30. 1949. the commission reported that out of all the cases. some 562 cases. initiated and received. of which 341 were closed after investigation and conference.  a single one had required judicial review. every one had been settled. that is a policy that i think we can tell these newly appointed commissioners. if this matter becomes law. is our determined wish. i say to you as one who is going to vote for this bill. if the commission maladministers this law and fails to carry out the congressional intention. i will be the first one to join in a move to abolish that commission. i am delighted to see the gentleman from new york in agreement. listen to just this one statement: once more the commission ackledges the wisdom of the provisions of the law requiring that the first efforts to adjust complaints must be made through conference. -conciliation. and persuasion. this process invites cooperation and is the antithesis of swinging the big stick. i want part of any swinging of any big stick or of any force. on page 248 of the hearings you will find the testimony of the commissioner of the massachusetts fair employment practices commission before this committee. in answer to the fear that this would drive business out of massachusetts. let us go to the record. the boston chamber of commerce was against this in 1946. in 1948 they filed a report. after 3 years of administration. and said that since the fairemploymentpractice law was in effect 36 new businesses had been established in metropolitan boston. further than that. 58 new firms had begun construction work. when i used to try cases i tried them on the evidence. i do  think that evidence would lead anybody to fear that if we enact this law business will be adversely affected. every area is going to benefit.
. this legislation. as recommended by the committee on interstate and foreign commerce by a vote of 19 to 4. is a carefully considered proposal in a field which is admittedly difficult and technical.. legislation was proposed in substantially the same form as h. r. 3298 in the second session of the eightyfirst congress. the committee held hearings on 5 days. two being fullday sessions. its consideration of the legislation in executive session covered 7 days. the bill itself. as reported. is clear evidence of the efforts made by the committee to present to the house as sound and workable legislation as could be devised. so far as i k. there is little. if any. objection to the provisions authorizing oral prescriptions or refills of prescriptions. consequently. i would like to discuss briefly the provisions for establishing a list of drugs and the provision for judicial review. admittedly. the provision for establishing a list of drugs gives rise to the main controversy which exists as to this bill. the national association of retail druggists. representing some 35.000 retail drugstore owners throughout the nation. supports this provision. the american pharmaceutical association. which is described as a national. profit. professional body of pharmacists. pharmaceutical educators. lawenforcement officials. research workers. and others interested in the protection of public health and the prevention and treatment of disease. is opposed to this provision. that is also true of the american pharmaceutical manufacturers association. which has over 200 members in this country and in canada. of the american drug manufacturers association. which has 67 members. a list of which is included at page 150 of the hearings. and of the proprietary association. which consists of about 150 members. however. i think it should be made clear that in connection with the opposition expressed by the american pharmaceutical association there is clearly a difference of opinion among its membership. first. when mr. robert p. fischelis. secretary and general manager of the association. was testifying before the committee i inquired if it was  a fact that the national association of retail druggists included in its mem.bership a great many pharmacists. and he replied that it did. it is. therefore. obvious that those pharmacists who support the position of the national association of retail druggists are in disagreement with the american pharmaceutical association. next. i am sure that we all have had indications of differences of opinion among the pharmacists as to the position taken by their national association. the gentleman from washington brought that to our attention forcibly yesterday aftern when he included in the record the telegram which reported that the pharmacists of the state of washington. in convention at yakima. unanimously endorsed the bill. and when he included similar endorsements from the dean of the college of pharmacy at the university of washington and the professor of pharmaceutical chemistry at that university. these will be found at page 9236 of the record. further evidence of this disagreement appears in the telegram at page 9240 of the record from the secretary of the illis pharmaceutical association to the gentleman from illis urging that a rule be granted on this bill. i assume that all of us have received telegrams from people who are sincerely in opposition to this provision. using almost identical language. to the effect that the one who sent the telegram "is vigorously opposed to subparagraph (b) of paragraph (1) of this bill" and describing it as containing "unnecessary and arbitrary powers proposed to be granted to the federal security administrator." i think there is question but that the granting of any extensive power to the present federal security administrator immediately gives rise to serious concern in the minds of a great many people. however. it seems clear to me that if we are to accomplish anything in a field which admittedly requires definite and affirmative action. we must recognize that some agency must be given the power to do such things as will eliminate. as far as humanly possible. the confusion and uncertainty which  prevails. during the executive consideration of the bill i tested the possibility of providing for action by the professional and trained group charged with the daytoday administration of the food and drug act. but i must admit that i think any such proposal could  stand the test of considered action. rather. i think we must accept the factual situation which exists and rely upon the probability that these professional and competent people will. in large measure. do the actual work involved and upon what i believe to be a completely satisfactory provision for judicial review. beyond that. is the clear fact that should there be any instances of arbitrary. unwise or unsound administration. congress can and undoubtedly would take prompt remedial action. i think i should add that the hearings disclosed an attitude on the part of the administrator which is certainly commendable. he repeatedly emphasized that while the situation could be partially dealt with through regulation and. in fact. furnished the committee with the text of a regulation which was under consideration. he felt the subject was of such importance and of such complexity that he believed it ought to be dealt with in a comorehensive way. by legislation rather than by administrative regulation. there is aher phase of this problem which has seemed to me to be of great importance. under the situation prevailing  the druggists and pharmacists find themselves in a position where they are constantly confronted with the possibility of criminal prosecution or seizure in order to determine the legality of their action in selling certain drugs. it seems to me obviously preferable and in the clear interest of the druggists. the pharmacists. the physicians. and the public generally. that instead of a prolonged series of criminal prosecutions or seizures in order to distinguish between prescription drugs and overthecounter drugs. the overall recommendation of the committee should carry great weight with the membership of this house. in that connection i recommend reading three paragraphs of the committee report at pages 9 and 10 entitled "proposed statutory list." "casebycase judicial determination." and "considerations which influenced the committees decision." the provision for judicial review is a vitally important part of this legislation. under the amended bill. the provisions of section 701 (f) and (g) of.the present law will insure that any interested person may obtain judicial review by a united states court of appeals and. upon certiorari. by the supreme court of the united states. as a result of the recent decision of the supreme court of the united states in the universal camera corp. against nlrb. there is very definite guaranty  that the reviewing courts are  limited to a mere finding in the record of evidence which. when viewed in isolation. substantiated the administrative agencys finding but. rather. they are required to review the case upon the whole record in making a determination where the administrative ruling is supported by substantial evidence. the testimony of hon. harold m. stephens. chief judge of the united states court of appeals for the district. is extremely important and i am certain was considered by every member of the committee as a most effective contribution to the consideration of this phase of the bill. all of his testimony will be of value to anyone who is concerned about the problem of arbitrary or capricious action by administrative agencies without the possibility of adequate review in our courts. in conclusion. and in connection with this phase of the problem. i wish to quote four paragraphs from his testimony which i am convinced constitute a very important part of the legislative history of this bill and. in fact. provide a most thoughtful expression from one of our ablest jurists. the quotation follows: i wish to add. if i may. that i am in sympathy with the requirements of congress in the administrative procedure act. and i am sure that all judges in the district courts and circuit courts of appeal are fully in sympathy with the requirements of the congress in the administrative procedure act. wherever we do review the action of the commissions we do so upon the whole record in determining whether the administrative ruling is supported by substantial evidence. while i had to obey the rule. because i am bound by the decisions of the supreme court as a circuit judge. i did  at all sympathize withand i am sure i reflect the view of the whole circuit court of appeals when i say we did  at all sympathize with restricted powers of review accorded to us by the earlier decisions of the supreme court. but the supreme court has recanted and confessed its error in those respects in these two recent casesthe universal camera and the pittsburgh cases. and the congress has also corrected the rule governing our scope of review in the administrative procedure act. * * * i would like to add just this. before i close: i can assure you that the circuit courts of appeal of this country. who are the courts of last resort in the federal system except in the few cases that go to the supreme court. feel a very real responsibility in dealing with these commission appeals. we feel the same responsibility we do in reviewing the decisions of the united states district courts. to see to it that the litigants have had a fair hearing and that the administrators findings are supported by substantial evidence and are  arbitrary. i might remind you that in the administrative procedure act passed by this congress. in the review section it has been made necessary for the circuit courts of appeals to go as far as this. you have said to us: "so far as necessary to decision and where presented the reviewing court shall decide all relevant questions of law. interpret constitutional and statutory provisions. and determine the meaning or applicability of the terms of any agency action. it shall (a) compel agency action unlawfully withheld or unreasonably delayed. and (b) hold unlawful and set aside agency action. findings. and conclusions found to be (1) arbitrary. capricious. and abuse of discretion. or otherwise  in accordance with law. (2) contrary to constitutional right. power. privilege. or immunity. (3) in excess of statutory jurisdiction. authority. or limitations. or short of statutory right. (4) without observance of procedure required by law. (5) unsupported by substantial evidence." so we do have. imposed by you. a solemn responsibility. and i assure you we discharge it with deliberation and pains.
. i think it is only fair and may be helpful to the members who are seriously concerned about the situation which does in fact affect the druggists and pharmacists of this country as well as the general consuming public. if further ittention is given to the charge that it might be possible for mr. oscar ewing somehow or other. under the terms of this bill. arbitrarily to make a determination based upon testimony or opinions of a loaded set of experts as to the listing of a drug. i k. and i want to stress this again. that this bill came out of committee by a vote of 19 to 4. i have the highest regard for my four colleagues on my own side of the house who differ with the majority of the members of the committee. they have had a full opportunity this aftern to explain their position. i think it may only be fair for some of the rest of us who worked on this bill to try to clear up some of the existing confusion. what we are talking about is found in this language on page 5: because of its toxicity or other potentiality for harmful effect. or the method of its use. or the collateral measures necessary to its use. has been determined by the administratorcertainly he has to make a determination. somebody has to. i do  believe there is any other way by which we can provide for its determination except through some official in the executive department. we gave some consideration to a legislative list but decided that was impossible. then the bill continueson the basis of opinions the opinions of the departments executives but of opinionsgenerally held among experts qualified by scientific training and experience to evaluate the safety and efficacy of such drug. what does that mean. every reputable drug manufacturer in this country has a staff of recognized experts. you k and i k that all of the colleges of pharmacy have a staff of recognized experts. there are textbooks. many of them recognized as authoritative. . all that is what the committee intended should be taken into account when these determinations are made. then further. where a public hearing is required by paragraph (5). on the basis of evidence adduced at such hearing by such experts. what experts.  only the experts of the department but experts from private life. from private industry. from educational institutions. experts who have an established reputation in the field. going one step further. i wish there was time for you to examine all of the testimony. there is provision for judicial review. which my colleague from minnesota admits is tied up with this. in a case decided in the united states supreme court in february of this year there has been a sharp change in review procedure. there is  an absolute and a definite requirement that the reviewing court shall take into consideration the entire record.  what we had to contend with before. where it could simply find that the administrative agencys ruling was correct if there was any evidence in support of it. if you will read the testimony of chief justice stephens of the circuit court of appeals i think you will be impressed with the fact this committee has sought to surround action by this particular agency with every kind of a safeguard it could think of. i suggest that all this talk. all of this fear that has been expressed this aftern because oscar ewing happens to be the present individual who would have to put his name to some sort of determination is something that is unwarranted. we k that all of the druggists are begging for action on this. yesterday we had telegrams presented to us from pharmacists in the state of washington and aher from the state of illis in reference to the matter urging enactment of the committee bill. i k the members of the committee realize that there are many pharmacists who feel this is absolutely necessary. we have authentic information that any physicians are opposed to it. i think the major problem that confronts us is that we have a situation that is confusing and uncertain. which can only be determined by a series of criminal prosecutions or seizures or injunctions and harassment of the druggists and pharmacists of the country. i suggest that the basic reason for our support of this legislation should be in the interest of public health and the general welfare of the people who must depend on us to provide sane and constructive legislation.
. it is  pleasant for me to oppose an amendment proposed by my colleague and friend the gentleman from minnesota and supported by my other friends and colleagues from new york. indiana. and michigan. but i think it is incumbent upon some of the members of the committee who reported this bill out as a sound piece of legislation. to try at least to state the reasons why the pending amendment should  prevail. i suggest that the gentleman from california who spoke a few minutes ago. made a very sound. constructive suggestion to the membership here. as far as i am concerned. i do  see the dangers that others profess to see in this section of the bill. in the first place. we have a precedent for it. it is entirely consistent with the act of 1938. when the congress gave this administrator authority to list habitforming derivative drugs named in section 502 (d). incidentally. i do  think anyone would suggest that that authority has been abused. in the second place. it has been repeatedly stated that if we adopt the amendment offered by the gentleman from minnesota [mr. oharaj. and i do  think he will dispute this. that inevitably the situation will be left exactly where it is. it has been suggested that there is wider power. what is it. it is the power to prosecute criminally. it is the power to seize drugs. it is power to enjoin. i think everyone recognizes that there is both uncertainty and confusion in this picture. and certainly if that is so. a vote to adopt the amendment offered by the gentleman from minnesota does hing to remove that uncertainty and confusion. i hope we will  forget that we removed from this bill in the consideration of it earlierand i think it was wisely taken outthe part relating to efficacy. so we are dealing  only with the question of safety. safety for the american people who use these drugs. that is all there is in this. if you are going back to the question of letting criminal procedures and seizures and injunctions determine it. you have 80 district courts in this country. you k and i k. with the jury system. it is utterly impossible to insure any consistency through that procedure. you will have one case decided one way and aher decided in aher way. and we would never have an end to it. moreover. there is the question of delay involved in litigation. in one of the district courts recently there was a drug. a hormone case. which contributed to the growth of cancer. that was held up in litigation for over 2 years. meantime. irreparable damage was done to the people of this country who mistakenly used that drug. i say it is a question of public welfare. it is a problem of public health. when a committee. by a majority of 19 to 4. after days of hearings. after almost a full week of executive sessions. comes to you with a recommendation such as this. i hope you will  lightly turn it aside. because action is needed.
as i recall. the senate resolution does  require specifically that an investigation or changes should be made in "the character and amount of present benefits" to be provided. and particularly this language "and the estimated cost of providing such benefits." am i correct.
 will approve of the care which which the committee has acted. i feel confident that both mr. merson and the officers of colliers will join us in our satisfaction if this bill. in its present form. is likely to result in early. complete enactment of the amendment to the law and in either preventing further court challenges or insuring the defeat of such challenges. if they are made. the article continues: as a result. inspection can  be carried out only on a voluntary basis. quoting mr. crawford again: but the volunteers are the same reputable businessmen who never had anything to hide. the diluters. the adulterers and the cheats can lock their doors in our faces and they do. there i submit is the real challenge of this legislation. we are  dealing with the honest 98 percent of the people in this industry who welcome this inspection. we are only making it possible for an agency of the government to protect the public against the 2 percent of cheaters. diluters. and fakes. the 98 percent approve of this inspection and have continued to permit it in the face of the supreme court decision. they are entitled to what we k to be the advantages of this procedure. the consuming public certainly is entitled to the protection the inspections provide. and the 2 percent of fakes. cheats. and racketeers have proper standing before congress in the light of the clear. undeniable record. i urge an overwhelming vote in support of this bill. the article from colliers is entitled. "how safe is your food ." the subhead reads: "a legal mixup." and so forth. the full article follows: [from colliers magazine of july 18. 1953] how safe is your food . (by ben merson)
s own statement on page 12 calls a "local service route." divided it between two trunklines. and thereby destroyed the opportunity of either of the two local carriers to strengthen its route with what could have been the strongest segment in its entire system. i hope that may be helpful in terms of legislative history. again i want to make a statement of my own conviction. having some kledge of one of the local carriers involved that has done an excellent job. the civil aeronautics board having admitted that it should be just about ready to receive permanent certification. i do  believe this legislation would be on this floor today if the civil aeronautics board had done its duty. i think they have been stubborn and unrealistic and have forced us to do something that possibly some of us might have some reservations about in terms of individual carriers. i think the net result is justice and equity in terms of all these local carriers which have done a magnificent job in building up their routes and serving our many communities well.
i suppose that he might sue for breach of contract. he might try to get into an equity court. but how in heavens name could he get an order from an equity court directing the delivery of a certain amount of rubber.
i am a member of the interstate and foreign commerce committee. i. too. hope that there will be a prompt investigation to establish the facts in regard to these very unfortunate accidents. i hope also that the interstate commerce commission on its own initiative will start an investigation to determine these facts as quickly as possible. those who have served with the boston & maine railroad and all the other great railroads are entitled to the full facts .
. i have listened with great interest to the very able remarks of my friendand i consider him my personal friendthe gentleman from georgia . on a matter which is of great importance to everyone in this country. i am reminded that prof. paul a. freund. the charles stebbins fairchild professor of law of the harvard law school. who is considered one of the great constitutional authorities of this country. recently wrote two very able articles discussing the background of the unanimous supreme court decision in the socalled school segregation case and the decision itself. brown v. board of education. etc. (347 u. s. 483). i placed them in the congressional record in march. under permission to extend my remarks. i shall insert them at this point in the record. for i feel they will be of great assistance to anybody who is interested in a dispassionate discussion of the issue involved here. they are: i unanimous decisions of the supreme court are uncommon egh in ordinary cases. and especially rare in extraordinary ones. when. therefore. the unanimous decision in the school segregation cases provokes attacks on the court for "judicial usurpation" and "naked judicial power." the lines of communication between the court and the people have been badly tangled. the phrases just quoted are taken from the declaration of constitutional principles issued by 19 senators and 81 representatives in the united states congress. this declaration (popularly kn as the southern manifesto) is only the latest and most dramatic item of evidence that we may be facing  only a crisis in race relations butwhat could in the long run be even more shatteringa crisis in the role of the supreme court as the authoritative voice of our highest law. the latter threat. less than the former. calls for the fullest possible measure of understanding. one thing can surely be said of the segregation cases: they were  hastily or thoughtlessly decided. every contention  advanced against the decision was presented to the court in briefs. running to hundreds of pages. and in oral argument. the court was exceptionally deliberate in its treatment of this litigation. the cases were originally set for argument in october 1952. argument was postponed by the court until december. in june 1953. the court ordered the cases reargued at the following term. specifying certain questions. including historical inquiries. to be canvassed by counsel. in december 1953 the reargument took place. the court was assisted  only by the unusually thorough briefs of the complainants and the defendant states but by a fullscale brief submitted by attorney general brownell. in support of the complainants position. on may 17. 1954. the decision was finally handed down. but even then the court avoided precipitate action. still aher argument was ordered on the question of the form of relief. the attorneys general of all states requiring or permitting racial discrimination in public education were invited to present their views. and the representatives of six statesflorida. th carolina. arkansas. oklahoma. maryland. and texaswere in fact heard. in addition to the states directly involved in the caseskansas. south carolina. virginia. delaware. and the district of columbia. the judgment of the court was annced on may 31. 1955. more than 3 years after the cases had been docketed there. and after every forewarning that a momentous decision might be forthcoming. but still with forbearance in the order for enforcement.
. reduced to basic considerations. and stripped of frivolous and specious sophistries. the arguments against this amendment seem to me to be two. first. it is suggested that. for practical reasons. even though a matter of fundamental principle is involved. we must oppose the amendment because somewhere else it may result in a filibuster. what happens elsewhere is the sole responsibility of those who have the duty of acting and who must accept the full consequences for  acting after this house has completed its initial consideration of this or any other legislation. we do  have even a moral responsibility for what happens there. i shall  make my decision and cast my vote here because of any fear aroused by those who have condemned all the members of the supreme court bitterly ever since the school decision or who have declared repeatedly that they will find ways and means to nullify that decision and even to defy the constitution itself. if necessary. apparently. the theory of their denunciations is that one has any standing in this nation unless he or she is born a member of the white race. that violates what i firmly believe to be my duty to all my constituents. irrespective of their race. their religion. national origin. or any other factor. except that each is entitled to life. liberty. and property. and the equal protection of all our laws-- just some of them. second. it has been urged that principle is  a factor here. it has been pointed out that the supreme court rightly stated that the changes flowing from its unanimous decision should be brought about with deliberate speed. but. in my opinion. that does  excuse this house from facing up squarely to the problem of civil rights in this country whenever it has the opportunity of doing so. we all k the excellent record of the supreme court and other federal courts in this field. we k the tremendous progress that has been made by the executive departments and agencies. but we k. too. the unfortunate lack of a record of congress in this field. we are all too conscious of the fact that whenever and wherever a problem involving civil rights may arise in congress. we will be confronted with dilatory tactics. postponement. and evasive or inflammatory arguments. all to the end that we shall avoid meeting the issue squarely and honestly. as we can and should here this aftern. i have great respect for some who believe this amendment should be defeated. but so far as i am concerned. because of a deep conviction that the civil rights of each of our american citizens are far beyond the need to pay lipservice or to include in party platforms. i intend to do my part. at least as i see it. toward helping to make it crystal clear that the house of representatives of the united states really believes in the individual dignity and the basic human rights of every individual in this country. there is hing irrelevant or impatient about this. it is fundamental. and i believe that the vast majority of the children in this country who may benefit by this program. if it becomes law. would agree this aftern that their schoolmates and friends have waited long egh for congress. and particularly this house. to begin to discharge its own responsibilities as to the civil rights of all americans. i urge support of this amendment.
. the bill as reported by the committee has the word "property" in it in line 14. it does  refer to aircraft which have been discussed this aftern at length. "property." i suppose. is anything owned by anybody. in other words. anything to which a person has title. in the western airlines case which has been referred to in the debate. the property included a route that had never been used by the airline which was certificated and was sold at a large profit to aher airline. it also involved certain assets and privileges. in fact. it involved coin machine privileges which i understand were quite profitable. the district court of appeals here in the district unanimously rejected the effort on the part of the western airlines to have that excluded as part of their other revenue in determining the amount of subsidies they should receive. the supreme court affirmed this decision. further than that. of course. if this is a tenable proposition. the words of the bill as reported by the committee requiring reinvestment should be changed. the amendment i have suggested. and i certainly will  belabor it. is that we confine ourselves to the sale of aircraft if we are going to pass this bill and that we permit this particular allowance to be made only if there is a reinvestment in new and modern aircraft. in that we do  open the door to the sale of hotels which are held by some airlines and to other classes of property. that we confine ourselves exclusively to the sale of these socalled dilapidated aircraft which have increased in value over a hundred percent in the last few years according to the cab. if that is what we want then i submit the amendment is in order and without this amendment the bill could increase the subsidy without justification and should be rejected.
 stated. several socalled independent air carriers as plaintiffs. approximately 42 railroads who were named as defendants. on june 17 the last pleadings in the case were filed. on june 19 judge mcgarraghy of the district court heard the motions of the defendants to dismiss and to order summary judgment. and at the same time the plaintiffs motions for summary judgment and for a preliminary injunction. the case was fully and exhaustively argued before the court on that date. on july 1. after consideration by the committee on interstate and foreign commerce of the legislation before it. a bill was reported out. which is the bill before you. the committee report was filed on july 1. on july 5. judge mcgarraghy signed a memorandum in which he gave a partial judgment to the plaintiffs. on july 17. the next step in the district court occurred. and that was the signing of an order by judge mcgarraghy in the nature of an injunction. then. on july 25. it is my understanding a preliminary record was forwarded to the court of appeals here in the district. you will  find in the committee report one word as to this committee amendment. and of course it is  in the bill in the form of an amendment suggested in the bill. it is my understanding that subsequent to the filing of the committee report on july 1 someone in the department of defense became exercised as to what he believed would be the result of this judgment entered in the district court. and he came to the committee with this amendment. offering it as a suggestion to overcome and to do away with the effects of the judgment entered by judge mcgarraghy. it is my feeling that we as a legislative body ought to recognize the separation of powers. that when private litigants go into any particular courts they have a clear right to expect action will be taken under the law. whether it is interpreted correctly or . i am  arguing. that is for the appellate courts to decide. but under the situation as it exists. it is  for us as a legislative body to attempt to reverse the judgment that may be handed down by a court one way or aher. in making these remarks. i am making suggestion that one side or the other is correct. i do  k who is correct. but i think it ill behooves us to adopt an amendment the sole purpose of which is to undo the results of litigation that is pending in one of the united states courts. we complain bitterly. and rightly. i think. when a court attempts to legislate. we complain when any part of the executive branch attempts to take to itself a prerogative of congress. i think we should be fully cognizant of the fact that if we accept this amendment this aftern. matter who suggests it. matter what the merits may be on one side or the other. we are actually seeking to undo a judgment rendered by a competent court after the pleadings have been presented to that court and the parties have been fully heard. this issue never arose before this committee. and ody has had an opportunity to say one word to us pro or con as to the advisability of this amendment. i think we will be wise if we insist that this pending litigation is  affected by this proposed amendment.
far be it from me. . to take a part in the controversy. but i did sit as a member of the subcommittee of the committee on the judiciary and hear the testimony. i did feel. as a member of the committee. that in my best judgment the ination of attorney general jackson should be confirmed. and i did feel that the statement which he made in his letter was one which should  be allowed simply to pass in this matter as indicating a lack of dignity on the part of the attorney general. but indicated one of the reasons which prompted him in making his decision. i am rising under these circumstances merely because i do  wish my position to be misunderstood. i have the highest regard for the senator from maryland. i appreciate exactly his position in this matter. and the reason why he is doing what he does. and i have regard for him in doing it. but in justice to myself as a member of the committee i think it is appropriate to be said that the attorney general. in making his explanation. made the simple statement in his letter that for a generation it had been the policy of the attorney generals office that there should  be a prosecution under this criminal libel statute for this kind of an offense. it being the policy of the office of attorney general of the united states that the office of the united states attorney general would  be used for the prosecution of such controversies because to do so would bring in a great many personalities and controversies. that such a matter would  be prosecuted unless it was found to affect a special public interest. as he put it. a matter of great public concern. or a matter. as the senator from maryland suggested. of the clear crime of taking money from a senator. or a disturbance of some kind. in which case. of course. they would prosecute. the prosecuting attorney. being charged. as he is charged. with the great responsibility of deciding under the laws of the united states. the laws under which he is serving. whether a case should be prosecuted. owes a duty to himself. his community. and the constitution to decide whether the case should be prosecuted.
i wish to say to the senator that the statement which impressed me particularly and which i wish to read into the rzcoai. was by attorney general jackson. who said. referring to the libel statute of the district of columbia: the very breadth of these provisions would justify innumerable cases if the criminal processes were to be invoked in the case of all violations..
that is true. but a prosecuting officer. under the laws of the united states of america. has theresponsibility of exercising his discretion in accordance with his best lights. may i continue to state the reason fo my rising in response to the senators question. the attorney general proceeded to say: the very breadth of these provisions would justify innumerable cases if the criminal processes were to be invoked in the case of all violations. yet this criminal section of the district of columbia code has  been used for substantially a generation to punish the publisher of a libel.
i am  reading the paragraph to indicate my opinion. having never read the f. b. i. report. but i am reading it to point out that the government officer charged with examining the reports. and charged with performing a duty. has a discretion. and. in his opinion. there is grave doubt as to whether a conviction in a criminal court for libel could be maintained under the circumstances of the case. that is what he said.
it is  my purpose to make a statement at length. i merely v~sh to place in the record the statement i heretofore tried to place in the record. but was unable to. the statement is contained ir a letter from attorney general jackson to hon. millard e. tydings. which is dated june 11. 1940. it appears on page 55 of the hearings before a subcommittee of the committee on the judiciary of the senate. of which i was a member. the statement contained in the letter from attorney general jackson is as follows: the very breadth of these provisionsreferring to libel statuteswould justify innumerable cases if the criminal processes were to be invoked in the case of all violations. yet this criminal section of the district of columbia code has  been used for substantially a generation to punish the publisher of a libel. as i told you recently. instances have arisen in which members of the executive. the legislative. and the judicial departments have been libeled and a literal interpretation of the statute would have justified prosecution. such complaints have been considered. but my predecessors in this office have  attempted to invoke the criminal process because there is open to any person aggrieved a civil action for libel in which punitive damages may be obtained if justified. i do  feel that the policy heretofore adhered to with reference to criminal libel cases should be changed. if each case which is a probable libel is to be taken up. the journalist responsible indicatedthat is a misprint evidently -for "indicted"the journalist responsible indicted. and obliged to defend himself. even though successfully. against the power of the government. journalism may become a dangerous profession. i may say in parentheis i do  subscribe to that comment of the attorney general made at that point.
i continue to read from attorney general jacksons letter: this department would be flooded with demands for criminal prosecutions for all manner of statements. many of which proceedings would be technically justified. and. of course. to take up the case of one ld require that we take up the case of all. you have told me that you have other cases that you would also want prosecuted after this one. to use the power of the government in a campaign of this kind would. in my opinion. discredit the lawenforcement agencies if unsuccessful. and. if successful. would constitute embarrassment  consistent with our support of freedom of the press. that this freedom is sometimes abused does  lessen the necessity for its protection. . for these reasons i must adhere to the established policy of declining to prosecute criminal libel cases where there is open to the individual a civil remedy and where there has been breach of the peace or other public injury done by the libel. . i may add simply onestatement. of course. i do  condone the statement made by pearson and allen with regard to the senator from maryland in the slightest degree or in any manner whatsoever.
. i think a very simple explanation will suffice to clarify -the matter. and i believe the bill should be considered at this time. there has been in effect for some time in the district of columbia a taxicab insurance law requiring cabs to carry insurance. it developed in a recent court decision. however. that the language of the act apparently did  go so far as those administering the law thought it had gone. for example. the language of the act contains this provision: the superintendent of insurance of the district of columbia shall be empowered to make all reasonable rules and regulations relating to the writing of taxicab insurance and shall be empowered to govern the maximum rates to be charged on such insurance. under that authority the superintendent of insurance had gone ahead and prescribed the reserves which should be kept by a mutual insurance company. for example. a small company. but the court decision was that the language was  sufficiently broad to permit the superintendent of insurance to prescribe the reserves which should be maintained by a mutual company. it had been the practice. however. so to prescribe. the court decision having been that the superintendent of insurance does  have the authority to prescribe the reserves of these mutual companies. there is  such a reserve prescribed. and at the present time the public. the taxicab drivers. and all affected are endangered by the fact that the mutual companies -do  come under the regulation under which it was thought they did come.
. this bill was introduced at the request of the department of justice in order to protect ships against sabotage by persons bringing explosives on board. the subject is   adequately covered by our statutes. especially in the case of ships which have been recently seized under our new statutes. the judiciary committee unanimously recommends the passage of the bill. and urges that it be acted upon at this time.
i believe the senator from new jersey does  quite correctly conceive the circumstances. because it appears from the record that he was representing the commissioner of banking and insurance in his capacity  as liquidator but in his capacity as trustee. which capacity seems to have been thrust upon the commissioner under the circumstances. the commissioner also was representing the bank as the holder of $74.500 of these certificates himself. and representing the bank as the guarantor of the certificates. which was vital to the whole transaction. i  come to the third point. which. is the one which relates to the circumstances surrounding the resignation of judge meaney from the common pleas court. and the circumstances which followed it. and the reaction which it seems to have had on the gover of the state of new jersey. and upon his communication to the senate based upon that and other matters. there is direct testimony as to intent in connection with the resignations from the various courts. but there is a most unusual series of circumstantial steps about which i think the senate should k.  only for themselves. but for the reason that these seem clearly to have influenced the gover of the state of new jersey. the gover is one of the three statewide elected officials in that state. and he has protested to the president of the united states and to the senate against the confirmation of the inee. particularly in view of these circumstances. . the circumstances are these: judge meaney was serving on the court of common pleas. at a salary of $15.000 a year. the bank to which i referred became insolvent in february 1939 and. as judge meaney points out. was in need of some legal services. and in need of the services of someone who was widely trusted at that time. he resigned from the common pleas bench to accept this appointment at $20.000 a year. as compared to the $15.000 he was receiving on the bench. that in itself would  be an unusual circumstance if those were all the circumstances connected with it. following that fact in point of time as i understand from the record. although the time schedule is  entirely clear in the record. a judge of the court of errors and appeals of the state of new jersey. its highest court. resigned from that court and took judge meaneys place on the court of common pleas. that was judge walker. following his resignation from the court of errors and appeals there was appointed to the vacancy created by judge walkers resignation. frank hague. jr.. the son of mayor hague. who had but recently graduated from law school and had  yet practiced law. he became what is kn in new jersey as one of the lay members of the court of last resort. this is rather an unusual circumstance. based apparently on the fact that the state constitution does  require all the judges of that court to be members of the bar. and it has been customary to have some on it who are  members of the bar. i presume that frank hague. jr.. although technically a member of the bar. was classified as a lay member for the reason that he had  yet practiced law. that series of circumstances. in itself. aroused. as i understand and as appears from the record. considerable protest and objection in the state of new jersey.
the reason why i am pointing out that series of changes. from the court of common pleas to the position as counsel to the liquidator of the bank. from the new jersey court of errors and appeals to the court of common pleas. thus leaving a vacancy on the court of errors and appeals. and hagues going on there. and then judge walker. who had left there. going on the federal bench. and  judge meaney being inated to go on the federal benchis because the gover of new jersey. undoubtedly representing the point of view of a substantial number of citizens living in the state of new jersey. feels that in that chain there is such a set of circumstances as to raise serious doubt as to the dependability of the man inated for a place on their federal court if one of the members of that chain is  placed on that bench.
i should like to add. speaking for the committee on the district of columbia. that the chairman of that committee. the senator from nevada [mr. mccarrani is particularly anxious that these inations be confirmed at once. for the reason that the inees to the municipal court of appeals make up a new court. which will have new appellate jurisdiction in this district. but at the present time. until the new court is filled. it is  possible to perfect appeals. and a certain amount of jurisdiction is  being exercised at this time.
i think it has been made perfectly clear that when we passed a statute taxing the salary of municipal employees that tax was placed on the individual. and the supreme court has upheld such a tax. but the point i emphasize is that robert h. jackson. then solicitor general of the united states. in the case of graves v. new york ex rel. okeefe (reported in 306 u. s. 466). argued the case and explained to the court the difference between the taxing power in the case of salaries. as such. and in the case of government securities. and explained it was apparent that when one deals with a creditordebtor relationship the borrower is the one who is burdened. accordingly. if the borrower is burdened. that means that the governmental issuing body. namely. the state or city. is being taxed. therein lies the distinction which the supreme court has  yet overruled. and i trust it will  do so.
the merit i point out is that in decisions of the supreme court running from 1895 it was held that under the constitution of the united states the federal government could  tax the income from one of these securities. and i think people had a right to rely upon the supreme court of the united states.
. this bill has to do with the board for the condemnation of insanitary buildings in the district of columbia. there has been an extremely cumbersome system in the district under which. when procedure was taken to condemn a building. a hearing would be held before a committee of officials of the district. and if objection was taken to their finding. aher committee could be appointed by the court and the entire procedure reviewed.  by the court. but by a second committee. it has been found that in these days. when there is necessity for condemning a number of insanitary buildings in the district. that practice has resulted in a considerable handicap to the orderly procedure in improving conditions in the city. therefore it is requested by the district authorities that the law be amended as indicated in the bill. there is also a clarifying amendment to be offered to this bill.
 of the .board of commissioners of the district of columbia. the board of commissioners -disagreed with the senator from nevada and in the following words expressly approved the recommendation which i am  making. the last sentence of the letter reads as follows: the commissioners recommend. therefore. that the substitute bill proposed by senator burton be adopted. that is a definite recommendation by. the men responsible for the morale of the employees of both the police department and the fire department. i am  contending that the rate of pay should  be further studied if later a further increase should be granted to other federal employees and other employees of the district of columbia.  however. i believe that under the present circumstances the rate of pay proposed by the amendment is justified by the pay for comparable positions and by the action we have already taken with regard to other district employees. if we do  adopt the program which i have proposed. we shall discriminate against other employees of the district of columbia. who are receiving a - 10percent bonus instead of an increase of $350. as provided in the proposal of the senior senator from nevada. i wish also to emphasize the fact that we are  in the midst of considering * general changes in rates of pay for employees of the federal government and employees of the district. we are also considering means of ecoizing in handling the finances of the federal government as well as those of the district. the increase proposed by the majority proposal is  merely an increase of $300 or $350. the cost to thedistrict of columbia would be increased by onehalf. instead of being increased from $6.000.000 to $6.600.000. the cost would be increased from $6.000.000 to $6.900.000. the increase is such. and the field it covers is such. that it would add 50 percent to the cost of the services. i do  believe that we should override the recommendations of those in charge of the administration of the district of columbia. and. over their objection. increase by 50 percent the cost of administration of the district government for which they are primarily responsible as executive officers of the district. the factor which really moves me most in bringing this subject to the attention of the senate is the relation between the pay situation in the district of columbia and the general pay situation in the federal government. it so happens that i have been serving onthe committee on civil service. we have been considering a number of bills. we  have before us a bill dealing with rates of pay of federal employees and employees of the district of columbia after april 30. 1943. it therefore seems to me that we should await action upona bill of broad scope before going ahead with one for the district of columbia on a different basis from anything congress has adopted in the past. i wish to emphasize that the bill before us. to which i am objecting introduces a el basis for increasing the pay of federal employees. instead of being on a 10 percent basis. or on the basis of a $300 flat increase. as proposed in the postal service billwhich is  quite comparableit is on the basis of a $350 flat increase to every employee. that basis is carried over into the teachers bill. which will follow the bill  before us. if we are to.adopt the basis of a fiat increase of $350 for teachers in the dis trict of columbia and $350 for the metropolitan police force. the white house * police. and the park police. we shall have difficulty in avoiding the discrimination which will result if we do  do the same thing for other district of columbia employees. and for that matter. all federal employees. greater harm can be done in any kind of governmental practice than to discriminate between employees in comparable positions. low pay is  so bad as discrimination. discrimination disorganizes efficient operation of any government. therefore. i believe we should bring about an increase as promptly as possible. consistent with whatwe did last december. dealing uniformly with both federal and district pay rolls. after the general policy has been adopted. if necessary we ca] reconsider this increase in the light of other adjustments. let us  place rates of pay for policemen and firemen on a different basis from rates of pay for federal employees or for other employees of the district of. columbia. i believe it to be. in the" interest of orderly government to proceed on that basis. therefore i agree with the district commissioners that we should pass the substitute measure which i have offered which would keep increases in pay in the district government in line with other increases. rather than put them on an independent basis.
the same increase would be granted to each employee. but the percentages would vary. district employees who are  in the police or fire department. and  in the teaching force. would still receive the 10percent bonus.
 of the united states. speaking at chicago. made the following statement relating to the resolutions then pending under the title of senate resolution 114: the first step toward getting the seven new freedoms is to pass through the senate of the united states some such resolution as  114. which provides for the united states taking the initiative in calling meetings of the united nations. this resolution looks toward a court or .board to listen to international disputes. a military force to prevent military aggression. and the gradual addih tion of such other .machinery as may b6 necessary. i am for the resolution a~s far as it goes. but it doesnt go far egh-. the amendment pending before the senate goes nearly as far as senate resolution 114 goes. it certainly does fall within the scope of that resolution. and goes to the extent that an endorsement of senate resolution 114 would mean an endorsement of the amendment  pending. on september 12. 1943. the secretary of state of the united states. hon. cordell hull. made an important statement on the same issue. the entire statement is of great value in considering the problem. the statement has been placed in the appendix of the congressional record as an extension of the remarks of the senior -senator from texas . and appears at page a3775. i wish to read into the record at this point two paragraphs from it. the first is as followssecretary hull is speaking: it is abundantly clear that a system of organized international cooperation for the. maintenance of peace must be based upon the willingness of the cooperating nations to use force. if necessary. to keep the peace. there must be certainty that adequate and appropriate means are available and will be used fbr this purpose. readiness to use force. if necessary. for the maintenance of peace is indispensable if effective substitutes for war are to be found. secretary hull then continued as follows: political differences which present a threat to the peace of the world should be submitted to agencies which would use the remedies of discussion. negotiation. conciliation. and good offices. disputes of a legal character which present a threat to the peace of the world should be adjudicated by an international court of justice whose decisions would be based upon application of principles of law. but to assure peace there must also be means for restraining aggressors and nations that seek to resort to force for the accomplishment of purposes of their own. the peacefully inclined nations must. in the interest of general peace and security. be willing to accept responsibility for this task in accordance with their respective capacities. on september 14. 1943. the congress reconvened. immediately the house of representatives proceeded to the consideration of the issue. before discussing that i wish also to make reference to one other event which took place during the recess. although  officially an action of eithei the house or the senate.nevertheless it reflected the considered opinion of a large number of govers of states of the united states and of members of this body and of members of the house of representatives. on september 7. 1943. there was adopted at mackinac island the mackinac resolution on foreign policy. it was unanimously adopted there by the republican postwar advisory council. among the members of that council particularly active in the drafting of that policy were the senior senator from michigan and the senior senator from vermont [mr. austin]. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point the mackinac declaration of foreign policy to which i have just referred.
from that statement i read into the record especially the following short paragraph as bearing directly upon the issue before us: therefore we consider it to be our duty at the beginning of our work as an advisory council of the republican party to declare our approval of the following: 2. responsible participation by the united states in postwar cooperative organization among sovereign nations to prevent military aggression and to attain permanent peace with organized justice in a free world. it was in the light of that campaign waged both within and without the walls of congress that congress reconvened on september 14. and without delay the house of representatives proceeded at once to the consideration of the issue. on september 21 the house adopted. by a vote of 360 to 29. as i recall. house concurrent resolution  25. the socalled fulbright resolution. in the original form in which it was presented. with a slight amendment adding the words "through its constitutional processes." . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point house concurrent resolution 25. as finally adopted. there being flo objection. the concurrent resolution was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: resolved by the house of representatives (the senate concurring). that the congress hereby expresses itself as favoring the creation of appropriate international machinery with power adequate to establish and to maintain a just and lasting peace. among the nations of the world. and as favoring participation by the united states therein through its constitutional processes.
 should reappoint commissioner mason to his present position it would then be appropriate to call the attention of the senate to the matters which had come before the subcommittee which resulted in the unanimous recommendation of. the. subcommittee against the reappointment of commissioner mason. the senator from nevada . who had previously served as a member of. and finally as chief justice of. the supreme court of the state of nevada. joined vigorously in the recommendation that  of the committee on the district of columbia. i wish also to mention the fact that service on the committee of the district of columbia. is  an easy service. when a subcommittee such as this is called upon to make an investigation. and after it does so arrives at the unanimous opinion that conditions should be changed. and recommends changes in the officers responsible for such conditions. the senate owes at least a duty to the subcommittee to support its recommendations. it seems to me that otherwise the senate would  be carrying out its obligation to the public and to this community. - the senate as a whole can make such investigations as the one which is made by the subcommittee. i believe that when we are confronted with a situation such as the one which has been described. there is only one remedy to pursue. and that is to remove the appointive officers and put others in their places. or. if it is a matter of election.to elect someone else to succeed him. when his term ends. we have that responsibility today. the people of the district of columbia can act for themselves. the senate itself is  in a position to investigate fully. our subcommittee has reported. and it has .recommended. and therefore i wish to join in the report of the senator from south dakota . and oppose the confirmation of this appointment. in order that the senate may have before it the substance of the testimony which mr. mason gave before the *subcommittee. iwish to read the testimony. it is as follows: . senator bushr eld. did you make any attempt yourself to investigate the charges made by the comptroller general.
when the interstate commerce commission made its investigation it thought that the estimates of. the engineers were conservative. and probably should be doubled. but hesitated to make recommendation on the basis of merely potentialwater competition.
at the time of my statement in the senate yesterday in regard to the united nations conference at san francisco there was  yet available in reliable form the statute of the new international court of justice as approved by committee 1 of commission 4. it is  available. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record as appearing in the new york times of the issue of june 13. 1945. it is subject to some slight correction. but nevertheless is the best available report of that important new statute. and it is largely reliable.
i thank the senator from th dakota for his generosity. i shall be brief in making the concluding. remarks in this series of three statements in regards to the bill introduced today. . it is the purpose of this bill to set the wheels in motion for the enactment of a federal law regulating. consistently and sensibly. labor relations in the interests of all concerned. including employers. employees. investors. and the general public. it is important to the survival of america. of americas stdndards of living. and of the principles of freedom of opportunity. that we find the road  only to international but to domestic peace. it is important. in our demonstration to the world of the soundness of our form of government. that we demonstrate that under it we attain higher standards of living. greater volumes of production. greater domestic peace. more widespread employment. and greater opportunities for individual advancement. coupled with fairness and justice to all. than is attained under any other system of government.  only do we owe a primary duty to our veterans to make as sure as possible that as a result of their victory there shall be a just and lasting peace among all nations. but we also have a duty to secure for them a just and lasting peace among ourselves. filled with that opportunity and guided by that sense of equal justice and equal freedom for which they are  risking their lives that this nation may live.
bearing on the same question i should like to ask the senator from vermont this question: as i understand article xvii. it does  relate to the reference of a dispute in which a judgment is to be rendered for or against the parties to the dispute. it has to do with the reference to a court of a request for an interpretation. this is all it amounts to. that here we have the constitution. and if we wish an interpretation of what it means. we then ask a particular court what it means. and there is where the article stops.
as i see it. this. first of all. does  bind the united states to the jurisdiction of any international court for the settlement of a dispute or an adjudication. but it does bind the united states. as i would see it. as a party to this constitution. that if we are in doubt. or somebody else is in doubt as to what it means. we have agreed that the question may be referred to a particular international court for an interpretation. and then. as the senior senator from vermont has said. it would rest upon our good faith as to whether or  we would accept the interpretation.
i thank the senator from vermont. i agree completely that there is legal obligation to accept the terms of settlement which are recommended by even those with authority to recommend those terms. but my belief is that those recommendations will have tremendous weight. and that the parties involved will stand before the world in the light of them. that situation may well result in the parties agreeing to aline themselves on the side of justice in the controversy.
i am interested in the senators discussion of certain special majorities required under the charter. while he is emphasizing the cases in which such special majorities are required. i wish to invite his comment on a number of cases in which special majorities are  required. thereby indicating that in certain cases a simple majority is deemed sufficient to meet the needs of the case. for example. i refer to action by the ecoic and social council. action by the international court of justice. action by the trusteeship council. and action by the general assembly on matters of mi importance. these constitute a large field in which we can rely on decision by a simple majority vote.
. i did  rise in defense of mr. justice frankfurter or of the courage and patriotism of miity groups in this country. they need defense by me. i rose because i could  by remaining silent permit any inference that i acquiesced in the sentiments to which i have taken exception. and. more important by far. because of my deep conviction that whenever we of the majority in this country permit such sentiments to go unchallenged.  only are we guilty of a wrong to the miity groups concerned but we risk the greater danger of brutalizing ourselves.
. the committee has definite policy yet formulated with respect to this matter. it intends to and does consider each application on its merits. naturally we must be satisfied after a very full examination that the purposes of the organization are sound. that its membership is representative of the group for which it seeks a charter. and that it is wholly patriotic and altruistic in its makeup. we have made that investigation in the present instance and feel that the organization has grown to the point in strength and suitability where its recognition is fully justified.
. this amendment should be supported. it is quite true that the matter of discharge of employees has always been regarded as an administrative matter. until . however. except in the case of a few socalled sensitive agencies we have  attempted to discharge a man for an opinion. we have come to the point where we must do that. at least i think this bill must be passed. but the fact that we are entering into a new field. we are making new law. establishing new principles. justifies. indeed requires. also our establishing a further new principle. that of court review in cases of this kind. under the suggested amendment the court review would be limited to case where the action of the board is arbitrary. capricious or  in accordance with law. that is  an extensive review. r is the least review that should be permitted. of course. this is  an offense in the sense of involving a crime. yet the penalty is one of the most severe that could be inflicted on any man. i think the amendment should be supported.
. this amendment is a very simple one. instead of requiring that suits be brought in the district or parish where the accident occurred. or where the person resides. it provides it may be brought anywhere in the state. it seems to me that the bill as reported is too restrictive. all of us. i think. recognize the evil that has grown up. the gentleman from minnesota attempted to attack it in one way. which i thought sound. a majority of the committee disagreed. i offer this as an alternative method of attack. which i think will be effective. under our concept. the lawyers of the state are governed by the courts of that state. and by the state bar associations. especially in those states where we have an integrated bar. in which the discipline of the members of the bar is under the supervision of the courts and there is a very effective way of remedying rackets in the practice of the law and in the frial of lawsuits. that movement is spreading and should be encouraged. i think we should give the state bar association and the state courts adequate power to deal with this racket. as we will if we limit state court suits to the state of the residence of the plaintiff or the state where the accident occurs.
i am very glad that the gentleman brought that question up. it was mentioned several times before. i will stake any legal reputation that i may ever have or have  on this proposition: that for the purposes of section 4 the question of guilt is an. issue of fact to be determined entirely by the jury. it may be evidence in a trial under section 4 that in an administrative proceeding under aher section of the act the attorney general. perhaps with the courts upholding him on appeal. made a finding on the same issue of fact. but for the purpose of the criminal trial. the jury must decide the issue for itself. and the attorney generals finding in the other proceeding will be only evidence and in way conclusive in the criminal case.
the gentlemen of the committee have hoed me with a very large order which goes beyond my narrow assignment. but i shall attempt it to the limit of my capacity. the bill has two major parts which have already been discussed. it would amend the federal trade act in respect to the definition of what is an unfair trade practice. it would amend the clayton act. as amended by the robinsonpatman act. or the robinsonpatman act itself. in respect of the nature of proof necessary to establish good faith in meeting competition as a defense where discriminations in price are charged. on the first point the bill provides: it shall  be an unfair method of competition or an unfair or deceptive act or practice for a seller. acting independently. to quote or sell at delivered prices or to absorb freight: provided. that this shall  make lawful any combination. conspiracy. or collusive agreement. or any moolistic. oppressive. deceptive. or fraudulent practice. carrried out by or involving the use of delivered prices or freight absorption. in other words. to have the benefit of the provisions of this bill in respect of what constitutes an unfair trade practice under the federal trade commission act. the practice involved must  be the result of any agreement or collusion or understanding between competitors. in addition to that. it can be a practice involving a moolistic. oppressive. deceptive. or fraudulent practice. even though done without collusion. it seems to me that the safeguards set up against any weakening of the antitrust law in respect to this particular section of the bill are complete. the second part of the bill deals with the robinsonpatman actthat is to say. the clayton act. as amended by the robinsonpatman act--dealing with discrimination in prices. it has several provisions. in the first place. it states. on page 2. in section 2 (a) of this bill: that it shall  be an unlawful discrimination in price for a seller acting independently to quote or sell at delivered prices if such prices are identical at different delivery points or if differences betnween such prices are  such that their effect upon competition may be that prohibited by this section. there seems to be objection. so far as i k. to that particular provision. which is clause a of section 2 of this bill. it is  that clause to which the kefauver amendment. socalled. related. the bill also provides. in section 2. clause b. that it is  an unlawful discrimination in price for a seller acting independently "to absorb freight to meet the equally low price of a competitor in good faith." here is where the kefauver amendment would come in. the bill. as it was introduced by senator omaoney. went further. senator kefauver suggested that the effect of the bill. if it went further. would be to abrogate the decision of the court of appeals for the seventh circuit in the recent standard oil case in this respect: that. if good faith were shown by a person in meeting the price of a competitor. it would make difference whether competition were effected or . the court of appeals. as you k. held in that case that the standard oil co. was guilty of a violation of the robinsonpatman act when it sold at one price to a group of wholesalers in order to meet the competition of other refining companies with those whole-. salers. and at aher price to its own retail customers. even though as the court conceded. that that discrimination. if you will. in price was made in good faith to meet the equally low price of competitors of the standard oil co. this bill. as introduced by senator omahoney and as recommended by our committee would abrogate that decision in that respect. there is question about that. there is attempt to conceal that that would be the effect. senator kefauver suggests. and the senate adopted his suggestion. that the defense of good faith in meeting competition should  be a complete bar to an action under the robinsonpatman xcv567 act if competition. in fact. was lessened. as in the standard oil case.
 i do . as the gentleman has stated it. if this bill becomes a law. it will still be unlawful under the robinsonpatman act for a retailer. matter how large. matter how great his bargaining power may be. to get from a supplier a better price than his small competitor. except to the extent that the supplier may make savings owing to the size or other matters in relation to his dealings on the particular transaction. discriminations. except those based on savings in cost. are  justified and will  be justified under the robinsonpatman act even if this bill becomes law.
i believe that it will. i should like to point out just one or two specific points as to which questions have been raised and. i think. improperly. it has been said that the defense of meeting competition in good faith would permit a person to meet a price which his competitor offered. the competitor being in violation of the robinsonpatman act. that is  so. the staley case makes that unlawful and that decision would  be affected at all.
in order to be quite fair. i think this is the situation and i ask the gentleman if it is  true. that mr. bergson told the gentleman that the department of justice or he himself did  feel any necessity for this legislation because they thought the law as construed by the supreme court was what we were all trying to do in the legislation itself. and that legislation was necessary.
. as one of the conferees and as one who has been a member of the judiciary coinmitee and the subcommitee considering this bill. i urge that the house vote to sent this bill again to conference. as i said before. in the course of previous discussions on this bill. we attempted. as it  seems unwisely. to do two things when the bill first came before the house. first. to do something which almost everyone agrees should be done. namely. clarify the law in reference to delivered price systems. and. two. to change the law. as it had been annced in a lower court case. witl respect to the defense of good faith in meeting competition against a charge of violation of the robinsonpatman act. i agreed with the previous bill in both respects. but i am  clearly of the opinion it was a mistake to attempt to do the two things in one bite. the matter went to conference. your conferees attempted to take out the second effect of the bill. the house accepted the conference report and the senate rejected it and it comes back with the request for aher conference. i urge everyone who feels that we should deal with this problem. everyone who does  think that collusive delivered pricing should be outlawed per se. to vote to accede to the request of the other body at this time so that we may accomplish the first and major purpose of this legislation which i am convinced is very badly needed.
i think it is possible the courts might hold that the collusive delivered pricing is lawful under the statutes as they  stand. but the confusion which exists because of dicta contained in court decisions makes it desirable. in fact. i think. essential. for us to pass clarifying legislation.
. it is particularly saddening that even in some of the other states where progress has been made toward integration. the pressures of extremists have pushed public figures into a position that spells retrogression in race relations throughout the country. this is most regrettable. since it is their very leadership that is so essential to the working out of this great problem. ahead of us lie many very difficult questions. of which the schoolconstruction program is only one. their resolution may become at least temporarily impossible if we can approach them in a spirit of reason and moderation. it will take a willingness. on the one hand. to accord the respect due the law of the land. and. on the other. an understanding of the special problems that are raised in some areas. those of us who have the high ho to sit in the senate of the united states have a special responsibility and obligation. whatever our individual views. we are all agreed. i am sure. that hing would be more harmful to the interests of the country as a whole. hing more destructive of the whole fabric of our way of life. than for extremism to gain full sway. and i submit that there has been a dangerous trend in this direction. the problems that preoccupy some of our southern states are real. the answers will  be easy. but i do  believe the problems are inherently insoluble. our children. wherever they live. and whatever their color or race. take the same pledge of allegiance to "one nation. under god. indivisible. with liberty and justice for all." implicit in this. i believe. is our pledge  just to refrain from overt defiance of the law. but to accept in good faith the workings of our constitutional processes. as a closing word. let me urge that weon both sides of the aislegive this problem the earnest. dispassionate attention which it deserves. let us each. in every way open to us. make clear that the extremists will  have their way. that men of good will and moderate temper can and will work out the problems involved in complying with the law if they really want to do so.
the senator has made an eloquent and a deeply moving and sincere statement. i do want to make this point. however. to him and to the members of this body. any suggestion that the president is a neutralist or is standing aloof from this problem is unwarranted and unfounded. i hope that there will be. from side. even an implicit injection of this question into politics. such an inference. i regret to say. could be drawn from the remarks of my colleague from new york. the presidents position is clear. as we all do. he agrees that the decision of the supreme court is based upon right and conscience. there is question as to that. the only question is as to the speed with which it may be put into effect. and here again the presidents position that the supreme courts decision and its implementation orders must be obeyed is clear also. i beg my colleagues here. and all people who are interested in this question. that we have more of suggestions of politics in this matter. which will require the utmost restraint and consecration on the part of people of good will in this country and in this body in which we have the ho to sit.
we have a primary law in new jersey. it is an open primary. we think very highly of it. in my opinion it is most useful as a safety valve. if there is any question of chicanery or fraud on the part of the party organization. but i k perfectly well that without party leadership in new jersey. or in any other state. small or large. there. would be merely a contest among those who were able to get. from whatever source. the resources necessary to conduct a statewide campaign. such a system would entirely exclude -people of modest means from entering politics on this level which would certainly be a most undesirable result.
the senator from oregon has very correctly stated that whatever damage is caused the owner of this property by the taking of any part of the property. the court will fix the compensation for the damage. if there are severance damages. for instance. because less than all of the property is taken. they will be awarded. and can be collected. if there are damages to the remaining property. because only a part of the property is taken. compensation for those damages can also be collected. however. i suggestand then i shall  again interrupt this colloquy. although i may wish to say something on this subject laterso far as the equities of the situation are concerned. the time has gone by when the owners of the property. the capital transit co.. has any right to claim that it is entitled to have the property taken as a unit. because it was unwilling to treat the property as subject to the public use. it undertook to treat its property as property capable of being despoiled.  as devoted in whole to the public interest. that is why we were eminently justified in canceling the franchise. the franchise having been canceled. the property is merely property. and longer a going concern. the fundamental law of eminent domain can be relied uponand the courts can be relied upon in the exercise of the lawto protect insofar as values are concerned all proper interests which may exist upon the termination of the franchise and the subsequent taking of any part of the property.
first. i may say that the injection of myself. perhaps gratuitously. into the discussion of the two senators was for the purpose of making clear that i think the language of the bill is plain. i believe that under the regular tenets of statutory construction court would even look at the record of the congressional debate to determine what was meant by the words in the bill.  do i think that a court should. it was my concern that we should  get into a kind of hassle such as would raise any doubt about the plain meaning of the words. i think less than the whole interest of the property may be taken. whether it should be is aher question.
i must say to the senator my kledge of the law of eminent domain falls short of king whether a court would permit the interest for 1 day in a bus to be taken. i do  think any court would permit that kind of taking. and i believe the senator from florida is worrying about a bogeyman that does  exist.
on this point. it seems to me that there is a great deal of difference between a police force or a fire department and employees who are operating a municipally owned transit system. and that different ways of treating employeremployee relationships are  only justified. but very desirable. speaking for myself. i believe that the provisions in the bill in regard to permissive arbitration. with the preservation of the right to strike. are best adapted to the particular function which this authority and its employees are designed to perform.
. i am happy to have this opportunity to commend the ination of william joseph brennan to be an associate justice of the supreme court. we in new jersey are very proud of mr. brennan. born in newark. he began his distinguished career in the law in that city in 1931. his outstanding abilities were early recognized in legal circles. and he soon became a member of one of the leading law firms in our state. during the war years. he served as a colonel with the united states army. and for his work he received the legion of merit. in 1949. he was named to the superior court bench. and a year later he was appointed to the appellate division. in 1952. he was elevated to the highest bench in our state. the new jersey supreme court. both by temperament and experience. he is eminently qualified for service on the highest court of the land. among fellow members of the bar. he is highly esteemed.  only for his legal ability. but also for the integrity and fairness which characterized his advocacy of a case. on the bench. the same qualities have earned him the respect and admiration of his colleagues. by members of the bar and bench alike. he is generally regarded as exemplifying the finest traditions of judicial office. throughout the state. he enjoys the confidence and trust of his fellow citizens. regardless of their race or creed. i k i speak for the citizens of new jersey generally in expressing my deep confidence that the years will attest the merit of his selection for the high post of associate justice of the supreme court.
i think the senator from utah has placed his finger on a very important point. the senator from utah pointed out that the senate has asked the department of justice to proceed in contempt proceedings in the court with regard to a witness who was recalcitrant before a senate committee. the senate did  have to adopt that procedure. the senate could itself have haled the individual before it and dealt with the individual. it seems to me that our prerogatives as a legislative body are  involved quite to the degree that the senator from georgia suggests. when we have asked the courts. a part of aher branch of the government. to take on for us this particular chore. it seems to me. therefore. that we are  creating any very bad precedent when. in such a proceeding. initiated at our request. we consent to having a member of the senate appear as a witness. i believe he should be available. in such a proceeding. so instituted. either for the defense or for the prosecution.
. i wish to compliment the senator from washington for the fine statement he has just made.. and to assure him. with many of our colleagues on both sides of the aisle. that this is  a partisan matter in any sense. we completely share his concern for the objectives. first. i should like to ask several questions. if i may. to bring out points on which i think we are all agreed. but which ought to be emphasized. the first is. of course. that the senator is aware that immigrants who have entered this country from hungary. especially in recent months. have been of an extraordinarily high character. have been well trained in particular skills. have been well educated. and are above the average. indeed. as a result of which this country has greatly benefited from receiving the thirtythousandodd who have entered under the parole provisions of the immigration laws. as well as under the regular quota.
i wish to commend the senator from new york for his extraordinarily fine presentation. i think several of the points he has made deserve reemphasis. the first is that i am glad that he. like me. does  accept the assumption that the house figure is the top limit of an appropriation bill. it seems to me that for the senate to take that position. particularly on matters of this sort. will stultify our whole purpose in being here as a legislative body. i. for one. must insist that we  take that position and  act as if we were limited by the amount the house has put in an appropriation bill. this is particularly important because of the practice which has been followed in the past. where rather indiscriminate cuts have been made by the house. every member of the house king that a proper figure would be restored by the senate. secondly. i should like to point out. in agreement with the senator from new york. that for us. after less than a day of debate. with a page and a half of a report. on the basis of a record which we first obtained today. containing some 1.249 pages of testimony. much of it in small type. and which e of us has been able even to begin to readto cut the heart out of an agency which is vital to this countrys interests. is almost irresponsible. i would say that despite the efforts of the chairman of the subcommittee to give a pictureand he stood long on his feet. which is why i did  feel it would be proper to interrupt to question himthere was very little. if anything. of substance said in justification of these cuts. as the senator from new york has said. there were relatively trivial items and incidents put forth as justification for cutting the heart out of this appropriation which is so vital to our interest. such as the use of a jazz band. and the fact that one man in ethiopia takes care of two newspapers. that is why we must have a man in ethiopia. because there are only two newspapers there. otherwise. how can we tell our story and get across an effective story to those people. there were also such matters as criticism of the director for making a speech. when he had promised to make it long before he was made director of the agency. and the claim that he made a poor presentation. as the senator from new york so well pointed out. we are  a court determining the relative merits of the presentation of a case by an agency. this is the senate of the united states. on the basis of all information available to it and its own judgment. passing upon what is best for the interest of the country. . i suggest that a presentation has  been made to the senate which would justify the action that is proposed to be taken here. i wish to thank the senator from new york for speaking so forcefully and so very much to the point on the issues before us today.
. and later chief justice. taft said of a similar proposal in 1908: never in the history of the country has there been such an insidious attack upon the judicial system as the proposal to interject a jury trial between all orders of the court made after full hearing and the enforcement of such orders.
. todays papers carry the news of the untimely death of the chief justice of the supreme court of new jersey. my senior colleague. who is unavoidably absent today. has expressed very well the loss which our state and nation have suffered. i ask to include here the text of his statement: the death of chief justice vanderbilt comes as an overwhelming shock to the people of new jersey. and especially to those with whom he had been intimate for many years. i have kn arthur vanderbilt as a warm personal friend. especially during recent years and since i have been in public life. arthur vanderbilt was  only a great jurist. but was primarily responsible for the reorganization of the judicial system of new jersey in the new state constitution. which was adopted in 1947. he served with outstanding distinction as chief jurist of the highest court in our state and has left a lasting monument of judicial procedure and efficiency of our courts. which is  exceeded by any other state in the union. he will be missed sorely both in new jersey and throughout the united states. and also in other countries of the world where our anglosaxon jurisprudence is predominant. i feel the personal loss of the warm friend for whom i had the deepest affection. mrs. smith joins me in sending to mrs. vanderbilt and to all the members of his family our deepest affections and sympathies. on my own behalf i may say that the death of chief justice arthur vanderbilt is a great loss to the people of new jersey and to all advocates of effective and expeditious justice. chief justice vanderbilt was a forceful leader in the area of judicial reform. his work has made the new jersey court system a model which has been widely drawn on throughout the nation and. indeed. the world. his insistence on high standards of practice was accompanied by his interest in legal education. there are thousands of lawyers who have gained much through personal association with justice vanderbilt. there will be many thousands more in the future who will benefit from the lasting impression of his thought and his work.
i appreciate the courtesy of the senator. . as a sponsor of the civil rights bill. i am certainly  willing to consider changes  to limit its scope. i agree with the majority leader and the miity leader that talk of compromises on the civil rights bill is premature. the immediate matter before the senate is a procedural onewhether to make this bill the pending business of the senate. there will be ample time once the motion of the senator from california is agreed to. to debate the substance of the bill and to offer and vote on various amendments. there has been much talk of agreement before the bill is taken up on a jury trial amendment. a good deal of this talk is clearly intended to encourage adoption of such an amendment. there are many of us who have refrained from arguing the merits of such an amendment until the civil rights bill is actually before the senate. at the proper time. we will direct the attention of the senate to the weaknesses in such a proposal. and. in due time. i am certain we will muster the votes on both sides of the aisle to defeat such an amendment. anyone who has studied the matter must realize that its effect would be to make it possible to disobey the law.
until the recent revision of our constitution in new jersey. we had two separate courts. the court of equity was a distinct and separate court from top to bottom. except for the court of errors and appeals. under the new constitution. there is a single court system. with an equity part and a commonlaw part.
i think the senator is clear in his intention. but i want to bring it out by way of emphasis. the senator does  make his adoption of civil contempt procedure. as distinguished from criminal contempt. the kind specified in the federal statute. does he.
. i rise in support of part i of the civilrights bill. the difference between a bill with part iii and one without part iii is the difference between a civilrights bill and a simple votingrights billa votingrights bill which. as the senator from oregon [mr. morse] pointed out yesterday. would be shorn of much of the strength which would be afforded the right to vote. as well as other civil rights. by the provisions of part iii. surely the rights of the 14th amendment to the constitution of the united states. which part iii seeks to protect. are less precious than the 15th amendment voting rights. which are embraced in part iv of this measure. our constitution makes provision for secondclass rights. all of the rights guaranteed by the constitution are of equal standingthe right to equal protection of the laws in the 14th amendment less than the voting rights of the 15th amendment. much of the debate upon the civilrights billand particularly part iiihas proceeded from a kind of alice in wonderland reasoning which has effectively obscured the real issues at stake. here is a situation in which the government already has available to it rather extreme criminal remedies to punish civilrights violations. this bill proposes to permit the united states to seek. instead. equitable relief to prevent such violations from occurring. opponents of the bill give the impression. however. that the proposed criminal remedy is worse than the already existent criminal statutes. we are told. in effect. that it is far better to allow our citizens to violate the law and be criminally prosecuted than to seek to prevent such violation by giving advance warning of the kind of behavior which the courts deem unlawful. i recognize. of course. that much of this argument is rooted  in lewis carroll but in a kind of pragmatism in reverse. the present criminal procedure appeals to the civilrights opponents simply because it does  work. stripped of all irrelevancies. what the opponents of the bill are really contending for is the right to violate the law with impunity. the fact is that experience has demonstrated that the punitive ap-. proach results.  in enforcement of the law. but in its frustration. and criminal prosecution is. i submit. peculiarly illfitted to the delicate task of resolving conflicts in this area of passionate controversy. to me it is utterly degrading to our system of justice and to the dignity of those who participate in itwhether as counsel. juror. or defendantto await the commission of a crime and then try the case in an atmosphere of rancor and fear with the harsh dictates of the criminal law on one side and emotional appeals to racial supremacy on the other. part iii of the bill would make it possible to litigate these issues calmly and reasonably in advance. or even after a violation had occurred. if the court found that a given course of action. whether threatened or already consummated. would deprive an individual of his constitutional rights. such action would merely be enjoined in the future. but. opponents argue. under present law. that the individual whose rights have been denied can on his own behalf seek an injunction or bring suit for damages. both such private remedies are. i submit. inadequate. surely a damage suit is inappropriate as a device for enforcing civil rights. who can measure in terms of dollars the injustice done to a child who is denied the right to attend a segregated school. the individual who has been denied equal protection of the laws. whether by state officials of by a conspiracy of individuals acting under color of state authority. is frequently unable to seek an injunction in his own behalf. financial inability or community pressures. ecoic or otherwise. frequently prevent him from claiming his constitutional rights. the defendants in these civilrights cases can mally rely upon the legal resources of the local or state governments to assist in their defense. but the individual plaintiff can at the present time look even to his friends and relatives for financial assistance in prosecuting his case. what a travestry on justice. as the distinguished senior senator from illis pointed out some time ago on the senate floor. barratry statutes in a number of southern states. recently strengthened to the point of ridiculousness. make it nearly impossible for any individual or organization to furnish financial assistance to help in the prosecution of private lawsuits. do these opponents of civil rights legislation come to the senate with clean hands. in the light of everything we k about. including this particular kind of operation. under these circumstances. it is both necessary and proper that provision be made for the united states to seek injunctive or other civil relief to protect these constitutional rights. i respect states rights very deeply. and i firmly believe in our federal system. but valid system of states rights exists that i k about under which the federal government may  enforce federal law. and may  protect rights guaranteed by the federal constitution. it is its legal duty. as well as its legal right. to do so in the instances we are discussing in connection with the debate on the bill. in which deprivation of such rights is brought about by state action. or under color of state authority. i have every confidence that the decent. lawabiding people in the south and elsewherefor this problem is only more dramatically apparent in the southwill respect the law when it has been clearly and fairly set forth by court decree. if this be soand i firmly believe it will be sothen it seems only fair that these good people be given an opportunity to determine the limits of lawful behavior without risking criminal prosecution. as mr. bookbinder. legislative representative of the aflcio. has pointed out in a letter to the editor which appeared in yesterdays washington post. part iii has been an integral part of this proposed legislation since it was introduced. attorney general brownell discussed it fully and forthrightly before both the senate and house judiciary committees. to argue at this late date that this aspect of the bill was somehow hidden from view is simply to ige the facts. unless we are prepared to consign the 14th amendment to the constitution to secondclass status. we must pass a meaningful provision along the lines of part hi. i urge. therefore. that the senate reject the andersonaikencase of south dakota amendment. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the recoad the letter by mr. bookbinder. and aher. published in the new york times. by mr. man thomas.
. i should like to join in the present discussion for the purpose of clarification and  for the purpose of debate on policy. when the provision for a jury trial was first put into the law in 1914and i think we will be shown to be right on this pointit applied only in suits for injunctions brought by private persons. the distinction between civil and criminal contempt in the traditional way was  covered. but a jury trial was to be allowed only for such contempts as were crimes under statutes of the federal government or a state. so the statute in a way is confusing in the consideration of the issue here. when we are trying to determine what the distinction is between civil and criminal contempt. broadly speaking. the senator from tennessee has been developing this matter. i think. in a very logical way. from the point of view of the definition based upon the opinion in the gompers case and in the subsequent decisions. which are landmarks in the statement of the law on this particular point. the purpose of the civil contempt proceeding is to compel performance. criminal contempt is involved in upholding the dignity of the court. and enforcing punishment in aid of the dignity of the court and its judicial processes. where performance is longer possible.
there is one point which i should like to make to complete this development. and that is this: the 1914 statute provided that. in suits brought by individuals for injunctions. in cases in which the act complained of as a violation of the courts order was also a violation of a criminal statute of a state or the federal government. the right of trial by jury should apply. but it was  held. and it has never been held. that a criminal contempt. as such. entitled the person involved to a trial by jury. it is only when the act. though it may be criminal contempt from the standpoint of the equity proceeding. and may be punishable. so far as the judge is concerned. is also a violation of a criminal statute of the state or federal government. if the act done. which violates the courts order. is  a violation of a criminal statute of a state or of the federal government. right of trial by jury exists.
the first enclosure is a memorandum regarding the investigation of complaints of brutality in hinds county jail. jackson. miss. i should like to read briefly from a portion of that memorandum. but first i ask unanimous consent that the entire memorandum be printed in the record.
. i ask that the remaining enclosures which accompanied the letter of the assistant attorney general. mr. olney. be printed in the record. they consist of letters by mr. olney to judge leon hendrick. dated june 27. 1957. asking judge hendrick to inform him whether he planned to call this matter to the attention of the hinds county grand jury or to take any other prosecutive or administrative action. assuring him of the full cooperation of the department of justice. and stating that he was sending a copy of the letter to district attorney nichols. he had a brief reply from judge hendrick. under date of july 5. 1957. saying that it was  his intention to charge the jury further on these particular allegations. since they had already been investigated by the hinds county grand jury recently. and also by the federal grand jury. then. of course. there is the reply of the hinds county district attorney. which is similarly negative.
. what could be more natural than the mild. but effective. remedy of preventive relief. which historically is available to the government whenever the congress says it should be available. then the question arises: shall there be preventive reliefas it has been granted to the united states in other areasin the same form. or should restrictions be placed upon it. the opponents of the bill argue that preventive relief should be restricted by making provision for a jury trial. the point is that in case. except in certain areas involving labor disputes. has a jury trial ever been provided in preventive relief or injunction suits brought by the united states. and then only when by a preponderance of the evidence it became clear to the congress that injunctions were abused. but such proof has been presented in this case. until that burden of proof is borne by those who seek to have a jury trial amendment adopted as a part of the pending bill. they have standing before the bar of public opinion or the bar of the senate in making the claim that a provision for a jury trial should be incorporated as a part of the pending bill. the burden is upon them. as the senator from minnesota so well established. and we should keep it upon them. to the contrary. the fact is. as amply demonstrated by the evidence in the record of the hearings before the judiciary committee of the senate and the judiciary committee of the house. and the material put in the record day after day by those of us who favor the proposed legislation. that southern juries will  convict. the attorney from the state of louisiana. as of counsel in the clinton case. after the jury in the clinton case. which is  in the deep south. convicted some of the defendants. said this: "there wont be any convictions by juries in segregation cases in the south." this statement is made again and again and again. so the aliceinwonderland story that is attempted to be foisted on the american people by the opponents of the pending legislation simply will  stand up. through the fog of talk. talk. talk. there is an attempt to foist on the american people the idea of a deprivation of the right. which never existed. to a jury trial. the burden is on them to show a prospect of abuse in the federal courts. and there is prospect of it. which will justify our interposing. between the court and the people. a jurywhich would be contrary to all practice. contrary to all sound jurisprudence. contrary to the constitutional rights of citizens. and contrary to the constitutional provision which states that the judicial power of the united states shall be vested in a supreme court and such inferior courts as the congress may establish. beyond all that. we have demonstrated a need for this remedy. we have demonstrated this is the right kind of remedy. that injunction suits brought by the united states should  be subject to jury trial except in case of abuse. and there is showing of abuse. that if jury trials were allowed. it would destroy the remedy and we would be doing a futile act. we would be destroying the jurisdiction of the courts and the dignity of the courts in all injunction suits
. gover colemans comments shed a clear light on the importance which opponents of this measure attach to the jury device which has been foisted upon the senate in the name of constitutional right. i shall unanimously ask consent later to insert the full text of the state times report of this matter. but i would like first to read certain significant portions of the united press dispatch as it appeared in the state times: (by john herbers. united press staff correspondent) gov. j. p. coleman said today he believes the south will defeat the controversial civilrights bill in the senate. but if it passes we will be able to meet it.
is the proposed remedy fair to those who might be accused of depriving others of their constitutional rights. of course it is. as the senator from ohio pointed out. every person brought before the court in these matters has  1. but 2 days in court.  1. but 2 appeals. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks rule 65 of the civil rules of procedure. which prescribes how a person will be treated when he is brought before the court in these matters.
 only is there a full trial at the outset. before any final order may be entered. with full right of appeal. but there is aher trial if a man is brought in accused of violating an order. the united states supreme court has made it clear that a defendant in a criminal contempt case is entitled to all the procedural protection. other than jury trial. which he would have in an ordinary criminal prosecution. he is presumed to be inent. his guilt must be proved beyond a reasonable doubt. and he can be compelled to testify against himself. (gompers v. bucks stove and range co.. 221 u. s. 418. p. 444. and michaelson v. united states. 266 u. s. 42. p. 46.) except where the act constituting the contempt takes place in the presence of the court. the defendant is entitled to ice of. and a reasonable opportunity to meet. the charges against him. including the right to counsel and the right to present his own witnesses and crossexamine others (cook v. united states. 267 u. s. 517. federal rules of criminal procedure. 42. subsec. (b)). furthermore. any abuse by the judge of his authority in contempt proceedings is subject to review on appeal. and the courts of appeal and the supreme court have a long record of vigorous action to protect the rights of defendants in contempt proceedings. in spite of these two full trials and the two full appeals. the opponents say that that is  egh. they want a jury trial. they base this on a distinction. nebulous at best. and impossible to enforce in this area. they base their position on a technical distinction between civil and criminal contempt. they do  claimone claimsany constitutional right to suzh a jury trial. there is such right. and there is precedent except one in injunction suits brought by the united states in which a jury trial has ever been allowed. and that is in certain cases of contempt involving a labor dispute. the senator from oregon has clearly pointed out that this is aher day and aher time. and that the abuses of the injunctive process which gave rise to the provision of a jury trial in that single class of cases could never exist again. there is suggestion whatever could there bethat southern judges would be guilty of such abuses. particularly in civil rights cases. why. then. is a jury trial asked in civilrights cases if it is  necessary under the constitution and if it is  necessary to protect the rights of defendants in such cases. why should the defendants in such cases be entitled to have a jury trial.
the case of the mine workers is in the minds of all senators. i should like my colleagues to think of what would have happened if the court in that case had been faced with the law as it would be if the amendment of the senator from wyoming should be finally made a part of the law of the land by the enactment of the civil rights bill as it  stands.
on the question of the distinction between civil contempt and criminal contempt. i believe we are getting very close to the great difficulty of the definition which troubles the senator from south dakota. which troubles the senator from new york. which troubles the senator from new jersey. and which troubles many other members of the senate. as applied to the voting right they would put the federal judge in the position of the registrar. in that they would make it necessary for the judgeif the bill as it will probably be passed by the senate should become effectiveaffirmatively to direct x to be registered by individual name. and they would make it impossible for the judge to do what he should be able to do. namely. to direct a particular election board or a country school board to proceed in accordance with state law without discrimination against any group of individuals. because of the specific prohibition contained in the 15th amendment to the constitution. the court would be required to deal with individual cases. and thus would usurp the function of state and local agencies to determine the qualifications of individual after individual. and to direct that each individual separately be allowed to vote. it seems to me the junior senator from new york has made that point very clear. indeed. and has indicated to the senate the dilemmas in which this quite impossible amendment would place the federal judges and the federal court system. and how it would affect the attorney general if he attempted to use the proposed law for the purpose for which the senate wished it to be used.
i should like to associate myself with the senator from new york. i do  think by this bill. without having a chance to make a detailed study of the matter. we ought to change the rules. whatever they may be. as to discovery in a criminal case. or inspection. or pretrial practice. however. i will agree to this extent: whenever the subject of discovery is up. by the order to produce on application. on subpena. or otherwise. and there is a statement in the files of the fbi made by a witness. then the limiting language of what is  subsection (b) ought to be applied to it. therefore. i fully support the senator from new york in his two points. one is that we should  exclude the language "if provided in the federal rules of criminal procedure." and the second is that we make the substance of subsection (b) applicable to the whole proceeding.
. it is our earnest hope that as a matter of simple justice to the millions of present and future social security beneficiaries and in the interests of the american ecoy as a whole. the congress will act favorably on our proposal before the adjournment of our present session. the bill is being introduced by the senator from new york . the senator from maine . and myself.
 burr) doubted  but that they (the members of the senate) found occasion to observe. that to act without delay was  always to act without reflection. that error was often to be preferred to indecision. * * * that his errors whatever they might have been. were those of rule and principle and  of caprice. * * * that if. in the opinion of any. the discipline which had been established approached to rigor. they would at least admit that it was uniform and indiscriminate. * * * that the igant and unthinking affected to treat as unnecessary and fastidious a rigid attention to rules and decorum. * * * but he thought hing trivial which touched. however remotely the dignity of that body. and he appealed to their experience for the justice of this sentiment and urged them in language the most impressive. and in a manner the most commanding to avoid the smallest relaxation of the habits which he had endeavored to inculcate and establish.
does the senator believe that any of the four cases he has so fully and ably discussed would have been decided differently by the supreme court of the united states if the bill as reported by the committee on the judiciary had been law at the time. leaving aside the question-
in regard to the same point. let me say that the public  has the feelingand correctly sothat it does  have a chance to have its day in court. our purpose in this caseit is the purpose of the chairman of the committee and of the other members of the committee. and it is my own purposeis to insure that a day in court shall be provided.
. surely the rights of the 14th amendment to the constitution of the united states. are less precious than the 15th amendment voting rights. our constitution makes provision for secondclass rights. all of the rights guaranteed by the constitution are of equal standingthe right to equal protection of the laws in the 14th amendment less than the voting rights of the 15th amendment. much of the debate on the civil rights billand particularly that concerned with socalled part iiihas proceeded from a kind of aliceinwonderland reasoning which has effectively obscured the real issues at stake. here is a situation in which the government already has available to it rather extreme criminal remedies to punish civil rights violations. this amendment proposes to permit the united states to seek. instead. equitable relief to prevent such violations from occurring. opponents of the amendment give the impression. however. that the proposed criminal remedy is worse than the already existent criminal statutes. we are told. in effect. that it is far better to allow our citizens to violate the law and be criminally prosecuted than to seek to prevent such violation by giving advance warning of the kind of behavior which the courts deem unlawful. i recognize. of course. that much of this argument is rooted  in lewis carroll but in a kind of pragmatism in reverse. the present criminal procedure appeals to the civil rights opponents simply because it does  work. the fact is experience has demonstrated that the punitive approach guarantees.  enforcement of the law. but its frustration. and criminal prosecution is. i submit. peculiarly ill fitted to the delicate task of resolving conflicts in this area of passionate controversy. to me it is utterly degrading to our system of justice and to the dignity of those who participate in itwhether as counsel. juror. or defendantto await the commission of a crime and then try the case in an atmosphere of rancor and fear with the harsh dictates of the criminal law on one side and emotional appeals to racial supremacy on the other. the pending amendment would make it possible to litigate these issues calmly and reasonably in advance or even after a violation had occurred. if the court found that a given course of action. whether threatened or already consummated. would deprive an individual of his constitutional rights. such action would merely be enjoined in the future. but. opponents argue. under present law. the individual whose rights have been denied can on his own behalf seek an injunction or bring suit for damages. both private remedies are. i submit. inadequate. surely a damage suit is inappropriate as a device for enforcing civil rights. who can measure in terms of dollars the injustice done to a child who is denied the right to attend a segregated school. and the individual who has been denied equal protection of the laws. whether by state officials or by a conspiracy of individuals acting under color of state authority. is frequently unable to seek an injunction in his own behalf. financial inability and/or community pressures. ecoic or otherwise. frequently prevent him from claiming his constitutional rights. the defendants in these civil rights cases can mally rely upon the legal resources of the local or state governments to assist in their defense. but the individual plaintiff can at the present time look even to his friends and relatives for financial assistance in prosecuting his case. as has been pointed out many times on the senate floor. barratry statutes in a number of southern states make it nearly impossible for any individual or organization to furnish financial assistance to help in the prosecution of private law suits. we can rely solely upon private litigation to bring about school desegregation. there are a number of reasons for this. litigation is expensive. it exacerbates ill feelings between the parties. and it does  afford the flexibility which is possible in a negotiated settlement. it is. nevertheless. an indispensable weapon in reserve. the mere kledge that really effective court action is available serves generally as an inducement to the parties to seek. wherever possible. to find agreement by negotiation between themselves. under these circumstances. it is both necessary and proper that provision be made for the united states to seek injunctive or other civil relief to protect these constitutional rights. i have every confidence that the decent. lawabiding people in the south and elsewherefor this problem is only more dramatically apparent in the southwill respect the law when it has been clearly and fairly set forth by court decree. if this be so. then it seems only fair that these good people be given an opportunity to determine the limits of lawful behavior without risking criminal prosecution. unless we are to consign the 14th amendment to the constitution to secondclass status. we must pass a meaningful provision to make effective its protection.
. the association of chiefs of police of essex county has recently sent me a copy of a resolution it has adopted which pays tribute to the work of special agent william g. simon. who was formerly in charge of the newark office of the federal bureau of investigation. i ask unanimous consent that this resolution be printed in the record.
. probably the reason the aspirations of the other states were  satisfied so completely is that those states did  have the benefit of the argument in court of the senior senator from florida. which argument was doubt very persuasive with respect to his own state.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide means for the federal government to combat interstate crime. and to assist the states in the enforcement of their criminal laws. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record at at this point.
. in recent years citizens throughout the land have been shocked and outraged by revelations of the growth of organized criminal activities stretching across state lines and threatening the wellbeing of communities in every corner of the nation. like some giant octopus. feeding primarily on gambling. liquor. narcotics or prostitution activities. organized crime reaches out its ugly tentacles seeking new prey. there can be question. to my mind. of either the need or the responsibility of the federal government to take direct action against organized interstate crime. unfortunately. at the present time the means available to the federal government are very limited. what is urgently needed is legislation to provide federal jurisdiction for both investigation and prosecution in this field. this is essentially what my bill would do. it would utilize the power conferred on congress to regulate interstate and foreign commerce to make certain illegal activities a federal crime and thus make available the investigative and legal resources of the federal government in the fight against this evil. specifically. my bill would make it a crime for any person to travel interstate or to use communication facilities in interstate or foreign commerce to aid racketeering enterprises. such aid would include travel to promote. manage. establish or carry on a racketeering enterprise. to distribute the proceeds of a racketeering enterprise or to commit a crime of violence to further a racketeering enterprise. also prohibited would be interstate transportation of wagering paraphernalia. including records or equipment used in bookmaking. wagering polls. numbers policy. bolita or a similar game. it has long been obvious that the day of the individual professional gambler or organized gang. locally controlled and operating in a relatively confined area. is gone. today careerists in crime are highly professionalized. highly organized. and far more difficult to halt. time and again local law enforcement efforts are frustrated by inability to do more than hack away at an isolated tentacle. leaving untouched the central body and brains of the criminal conspiracy. indeed. in too many instances real enforcement effort is made. sometimes this is because local law enforcement agencies have themselves been corrupted. sometimes it occurs because local officials feel powerless to act effectively against the evil they k exists. whatever the explanation. the effect is always corrosive. whether it is willingly or unwillingly done. to condone the flouting of law inevitably has a corruptive effect on those charged with responsibility for maintenance of law and order. public respect for law. vital to our whole society. diminishes. and lawlessness and violence are invited in every aspect of our lives. rightly. those who confront the possibility of such a situation in their own communities are deeply disturbed. in my own state. charges have been made of widespread illegal activities in camden. a part of the philadelphia metropolitan area. the results of one grand jury investigation deepened the concern of citizens there. for while the grand jury returned several indictments. they were confined to a few individuals in the police force of the city of camden. indictment was returned against a member of the underworld. at the present time the ability of the federal government to proceed effectively against persons engaged in illegal gambling. liquor. narcotics or prostitution activities. is limited. the wagering tax act does provide some help to states in enforcing local gambling statutes. but tax collection is fundamentally different from law enforcement and court experience has domonstrated the limited usefulness of the act as a weapon against crime. far greater assistance should and can be provided. in any case. existing federal law does  meet the direct responsibility of the federal government in this field. for in many regards. only the federal government can combat effectively the criminal conspiracies. covering at least several states. kn to exist. this congress is. of course. near adjournment. but the introduction of my bill will. i hope. help to focus public attention on the need for legislation and thus pave the way for early action next year to provide the weapon needed to enable both the state and the federal governments to attack more effectively illegal activities that strike at the heart of a lawabiding society.
. it would  be in our national interest to continue a military installation where facilities are inadequate or obsolete. or the mission of the base itself is outmoded in these days of swift techogical change. it would be inexcusable to waste millions of the taxpayers dollars to keep alive an activity which has outlived its usefulness. it is quite aher thing. however. to fail to take into any account whatsoever the effect on the ecoy of the communities involved when a major military installation is closed. particularly in an area of substantial unemployment. the people of middlesex county. n.j.. understand this all too clearly. camp kilmer.  in caretaker status. is in the same county as raritan arsenal. unemployment. according to the latest figures. stands at 8.8 percent in middlesex. in the statements of army officials and. more recently. at a meeting with assistant defense secretary thomas morris. it was made clear that the secretary of defense has authority to take this factor into account in arriving at a decision. the bill i am introducing today would. in effect. require the federal government to look at all sides of any decision to deactivate a military facility. it requires the secretary of commerce. upon application from any gover representing an area where the unemployment rate is 6 percent or more. to measure the ecoic effect of the proposed closing of any permanent installation by taking into account. among other considerations: the approximate losses which would be incurred by other agencies of governmentfor example. the federal housing administration which insures home mortgages--as a result of such action. the approximate cost to the federal government of relocating such an installation. the approximate cost to the federal government of reactivating an installation in any national emergency. under this bill. the secretary of commerce is authorized to conduct the investigation as expeditiously as practicable. while his recommendations would  be binding. the secretary would transmit his findings to the secretary of defense and to congress. this procedure would permit a careful review of factors other than those presently considered by the secretary of defense in arriving at his determination. since the very existence of some communities is involved in decisions of this magnitude. i believe that elemental justice dictates. at the very least. a review of all the ecoic effects before irrevocable decisions are made. during consideration of the area redevelopment bill. the house of representatives approved an amendment similar to the one we propose today. this provision was. however. dropped from the final version of the area redevelopment act. which is  law. we believe this proposal warrants consideration on its own merits.
would it  be desirable. if a change of this sort were considered. to give the plaintiff the option of choosing where he may sue. whether in the district court in the state where the question arises or. as the amendment  provides. in the district court for the district of columbia. where the defendant is to be found and where. for convenience. the government would logically have the suit brought.
i thank my colleague from new york. i associate myself with him in this amendment and the effort he has made on this occasion. and on innumerable occasions in the pastand i k he will continue the effort in the futureto bring about a greater measure of social justice and just plain decency in this country in matters of this kind.
. a short time ago one of the very great men of the american bar. of all time. came to the supreme court to move the admission of a junior associate. this became the occasion for a tribute to the man by chief justice warren which i think is unique in our history. i speak. of course. of john lord obrian. a distinguished. widely loved lawyer. who has been a leader in  only the legal affairs of our nation but also in its public and civic affairs for a very long time. the tribute by the chief justice of the united states was warm and eloquent. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record an article entitled "obrians long practice is praised by warren" and an editorial entitled "a half century at the bar." both of which relate to the tribute by chief justice warren to john lord obrian and were published in the washington post of april 3. 1962.
i thank the senator. if i were to attempt to express adequately my appreciation for the leadership which the senator from new york has given in this particular episode in our long and continued efforts. i would take longer than all of us have taken already in the development of our particular parts of this program. i must say that in this. as in all other efforts of this sort. his persistence. his skill. his inexorable pursuit of the right and justice of this cause have been to me an inspiration and a great comfort as a member of this body. as a close colleague of his. and most of all as an american. he has held the feet of all of us who are in positions of responsibility to the fire. he has made us face the situation again and again. much as many of us would like to turn away from it and much as perhaps the majority of the people of this country would like to turn away from it. the senator mentioned the article by mr. baldwin.  a book. i think. who could read such a document without a deep stirring of conscience. who could  at least appreciate faintly what the matter of discrimination and prejudice in the united states has meant to individual lives by the millions. who could fail to feel a sense of responsibility for the destruction of the personalities. and oftentimes the lives. of millions of human beings by the system of segregation and discrimination which we have permitted to exist and which we in the senate in many cases actively have helped to continue to exist. for all the practical reasons the senator from new york has cited. and above all for the great moral reason to which he has also given clear expression. we must make headway in this program. the contribution by the senior senator from new york today on the floor of the senate in the development of this particular package of legislation and in the forward movement in this whole cause is an inspiration to all of his colleagues. i thank him for it.
. i can stand silently while congress is urged to take only timid. short steps toward according equal rights to all americans. unless we stand firm. we will. as in 1957 and 1960. travel down the route toward a bill which has civil rights on the cover and  egh inside. have we learned hing from the demonstrations in birmingham. ala.. albany. ga.. and jackson. miss.. did the police dogs. the electric cattle prods. and the firehoses make lasting impression. has the march on washington been so soon forgotten. people of conscience throughout the nation have been hoping that congress would once and for all face the issue and do a job which has needed doing for the past century. instead. the justice department is quoted as urging the removal of a key section from the pending civil rights billpart iiiwhich would have given the department the power to enter into varied types of civil rights cases developing in the south and in the th. time and again i have raised with the justice department incidents which cry out for governmental intercession. only to be informed that the department lacks the authority to enter into these matters and assure americans of their constitutional rights. unless we have an effective part iii to provide federal protection. we must recognize that. as donald harris. a recent rutgers graduate. is finding. the penalty for working to register voters can be prolonged imprisonment without bail and without being brought to trial on charges that can bring execution. in 1957 and in 1960 there was a real opportunity to enact a meaningful civil rights bill. but each time the leadership gave up too soon and brought a watered down bill to the floor. today in 1963 there is aher opportunity to do the job so long overdue. for this opportunity there is little credit to the white majority or the congress. rather it is primarily due to the efforts of the negro people *themselves. but. if we agree to the justice departments recommendation and start out by dropping one of the key sections. we will once more have surrendered before the battle is joined. i say to the political strategistsboth republican and democraticthat civil rights is bigger than politics. let us buckle down and face the issue realistically. let us vote on all the legislation which many of us consider essential and let the american people decide whether we are carrying out our responsibilities effectively. there are some democrats opposed to realistic civil rights. there are some republicans opposed to realistic civil rights. but let us find out in the true american way. let us vote. and the sooner the better.
. a three judge federal court is meeting today in georgia on the americus case. to its shame. the department of justice is  represented in the hearing. the negative and. to me. inexplicable position of the department of justice in this case is made clear once again in the reply i have received from assistant attorney general burke marshall in reply to my latest inquiry. i am deeply disappointed about the continued reluctance of the department of justice to move in the americus. ga.. case. mr. marshall speaks of "apparent injustice" in the prosecution of these four young men on a capital charge. the georgia solicitor general who brought the charge has : stated in court. according to the press reports. that: the basic reason for bringing these charges was to deny the defendants. or to ask the court to deny them bond. we were in hopes that by holding these men. we would be able to talk to their lawyers and talk to their people and convince them that this type of activity * " is  the right way to go about it. his statement is  new. but rather is only confirmation of what had already appeared several times in the press. that is. that he deliberately looked through the lawbooks for a charge on which the youths could be held without bail. the only change in the departments position seems to be broadening of the investigation from charges of police brutality to the possibility that the purpose of the prosecution was to discourage voter registrations by negroes. this has been apparent from the start. further. it is  3 months since the initial arrests were made. surely an investigation could be concluded within that period. the attitude of the department remains inexplicable to me in a case which involves constitutional rights and which so clearly and deeply affronts the basic principles of law and justice. the text of mr. marshalls letter is as follows: dear senator case: the attorney general has asked that i reply to your letter of october 17. 1963. in which you again request that this department take action to obtain the release of donald harris and three others from jail in americus. ga. i can well appreciate your concern with the apparent injustice in the prosecution of these four young men on a capital charge. there are obstacles. however. to establishing that the purpose. of the prosecution was to discourage voter registration by negroes. etheless. we have instituted and will continue our investigation to determine if such is the case. if the necessary evidence is obtained we will. of course. take appropriate action in court. i understand that the question of the legality of the custody of these four young men has been raised in private litigation instituted on their behalf in the u.s. district court for the middle district of georgia. i would hope that these court proceedings speedily resolve the legal questions relating to their custody. sincerely.
first. before coming to that point. i should like to say that while i have the deepest affection for the senator from connecticut. i did  attempt to interrupt the comments of the senator from georgia and the senator from louisiana about the conduct of the senator from connecticut while he was secretary of health. education. and welfare. because. after all. he is a democrat. but i would hope that for his own sake. and because i love him personally. he will have an opportunity to straighten out the senate and the country as to what his views were and are. i believe that he perhaps has some feeling of discomfort at being so greatly loved by the senators from below the mason and dixon line at the present moment. when president kennedy was discussing the cutting off of federal assistance. he was responding to a question about cutting off all federal assistance to a state discriminating in any particular in the use of federal funds for any single program. he was  discussing the provisions of the bill  on the senate calendar. which starts by providingand this is the right way to startthat "person shall be denied the benefits of. or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance." if any one can quarrel with that proposition. i would like to hear the quarrel made in terms that would appeal to any persons sense of justice or logic. the question was raised. does anyone justify this section. i justify this section. and i should like to say. in a few words. why first. i can believe. as a citizen of this country. that it is just to require negroes to be taxed for the benefit and use of programs which they may  equally share. if that does  offend any sense of justice or logic. i would like to hear it. second. as a member of congress. i believe it is my duty to see that federal moneys are disposed of without discrimination on the ground of race. color. and so forth. these points are. it seems to me. quite clear. this section does  cut off all federal aid to any state where discrimination occurs. it deals only with a particular program. it deals with that one only in a moderate way. there must be conciliation. discussion. hearings. and everything else. then before any suggestion to cut off federal funds is considered. there is provision for court review. by the state or any agency thereof or by any person aggrieved. if there could be any milder provisions than the provisions of this title which would have any effectiveness whatever. i would like to have any suggestions as to what they might be. one further and final word. this title would  affect veterans administration payments. it would  affect social security payments. it would  affect pensions. or civil service retirement. or railroad retirement. or any similar programs which involve direct payments by the federal government to the beneficiary. it affects only federally assisted programs where the state or state agency is the intermediary and the chief distributor of the benefits which are involved in such programs
i k the senator from. th carolina does  intend to leave an impression which is incorrect. i invite the attention of the senator to the fact that it seems clear to me. under the section dealing with fair employment practices to which the senator is directing his attention. that the only order. that can be made is an order of a court in a proceeding which the commission has to start. de o. and prove the case in court. and that the commission has authority whatever to issue the order itself. it is . therefore. a judge and juror as well as an accuser. and the impression to that effect. .which the senator from th carolina perhaps inadvertently has created. is incorrect also.
i wish to be clear on this point. i believe the section the senator read makes the situation clear to almost everyone. beyond peradventure. but the point is this: to say that because a commission has the power to investigate. and the power to bring action. it is acting as judge. jury. and prosecuting attorney at the same time. does  make it so. authority is given to the commission that it has  already had in an ordinary criminal caseand that is a criminal case. in my judgment. the district attorney and the prosecutor can say to anyone. "if you do  agree to this consent decree or judgment. i will drag you into the courts." to* use the words of obloquy which the senator from th carolina has used. if one desires. to describe the process the prosecutor must go through. this fact slows down the prosecution too much. in my judgment. i am  happy about the fact that the commission does  have the power even to enter an order of a tentative nature which would later have to be invoked. perhaps. by application to a court. it does  have the power to make any order whatever. it must start. de o. to prove its case in court. and it has the benefit of presumptions or anything else when it does.
does the senator recall where in all those acts except the 1957 act. in relation to voting. the safeguards around the defendant were so great as in that caseas. for example. the requirement of trial by jury for enforcement. by contempt. of a courts decree. and so forth. is that  also an aaly.
much has also been made of the case of myart against motorola. inc. it has been repeatedly and erroneously cited as an example of the lengths to which the employment commission might be expected to go. the decision is merely an initial or preliminary decision by a parttime hearing examiner. the illis commission. according to its chairman. "has  taken any stand of any kind at any time on the issue of the use of tests in employment." the commission "has issued orders and has taken position on the hearing examiners finding." whatever the final action on the case. the citation of the examiners finding has application to title vii. first. as the subsections of section 707 which i have just described make clear. the equal employment opportunity commission. to be created by title vii of this bill. unlike the illis commission. would have adjudicative functions. only a federal court would have authority to determine whether there had been a violation of the act. and only the court could enforce compliance. second. under title vii. even a federal court could  order an employer to lower or change job qualifications simply because proportionately fewer negroes than white are able to meet them. title vii says only that covered employers can refuse to hire someone simply because of his color. this is completely different from the law which the commission in illis was asked to administer. and from the decision adopted by the hearing examiner in the motorola case. but it expressly protects the employers right to insist that any applicant meet the applicable job qualifications. that is expressly provided for in the provision of title vii. in this connection. . i ask unanimous consent that the letter of the illis fepc chairman. charles w. gray. which was published in the new york times under date of march 13. and a memorandum on the case may be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
let me make a few comments about that. in the first place. this is almost always true. the content of a mans mind. the will. the intent. is a mental state and is almost always important in any criminal act. the facts as to the statements are proved by external evidence. the point is that this act is  a criminal act. we do  put a man in jail. we reason with him. as the senator from illis would say. we reason with him "sweetly." in order to persuade him to change his ways. we try to persuade him. to show him where he is wrong. to get him to do voluntarily what he should be doing. it is only after the methods of persuasion. conciliation. and sweetness fail that it is possible for the commission to bring an action. which it must do de o.
the commission can tell him anything. only the court can do that. in a trial in which the commission is a party plaintiff. and would have to prove the case from the beginning. with full burden of proof.
i suppose an individual commissioner might be an unpleasant person. and i suppose he might say something of the sort. what the senator is paraphrasing he is putting in bad language--"if you do  follow this suggestion. we will at least consider whether we should file a complaint against you." but the commission is only a party plaintiff in a suit in which both parties are equal before the court.
the senator has said that a great many times. it might be useful to him. fine lawyer that he is. and outstanding member of the judiciary that he was. to think of the number of times. as a judge and as a lawyer. he has had to deal with the question. whether in a murder case. a malicious mischief case. or a case involving any other willful criminal act.
here we have a number of externals. there would have to be employment. there would have to be an employer. there would have to be a business. these are tangibles. there would have to be a refusal to give a person employment. obviously that is a physical fact. or at least a tangible factor. the only question that would arise would be "why." the question would be. why was the man refused. there would be tangible acts for the court to consider. it is  only a matter of whether a man is thinking bad thoughts. any effort on the part of the senator to state this point in his own way does  change the situation. whether or  a course of conduct is actionable depends on the state of mind of the actor. i do  find this to be strange in any degree.
the only way a state of mind can be proved is by an external act. or by a pattern of acts. of a man. or by a treatment that was given. the burden of proof is on the plaintiff. the only finding the court can make is one for the purpose of injunctive or preventive relief. criminality is involved.
so far as the act itself is concerned. there is provision for jury trial. of course. whether a jury trial would be required would depend upon the supreme court in developing further its decision of the day before yesterday in the barnett case. a jury trial might be provided if the penalty were heavy egh.
that is a technical matter. varying in each jurisdiction. it would depend on what kind of docket there was in the jurisdiction. whether there were two dockets or whether there were one system. whether a person would get a jury trial would depend on the system. only in the matter of criminal contempt would the question arise. the difference between criminal contempt and civil contempt requires a nicety of perception at which the senator from th carolina is much better than the senator from new jersey.
it will be done without a jury trial in the case of the determination of the fact in the first instance. the question of whether a jury trial would be granted would depend on the decision of the supreme court.
it was a little difficult to say exactly what the court held. in the majority opinion. justice clark made it clear that in that case there was need. under the applicable statute. for a jury trial. certain members of the majority felt. if the penalty imposed by the court were severe. that the question of the right to a jury trial might very well arise. the question is still an open one. it depends on the severity of the offense.
i am sure the senator has read the supreme court decision in the case that was decided last week. perhaps there will be a change. i have desire to make it appear that the bill has anything in it that it does  have. it expressly excludes the provisions of the rislaguardia act.
it means what it says. it provides that whenever a charge is filed by a person in writing. it must be under oath or be made by a member of the commission. presumably. in that event. it would  have to be under oath. the commission must then furnish the employer. employment agency. or labor organization with a copy of the charge. and investigate it. then if two or more members of the commission determine after completion of the investigation that there is reasonable cause to believe that the charge is truewhich sounds like an indictment. and  a determinationthe commission endeavors to eliminate the unlawful practice by informal methods of conference. conciliation. and persuasion. and obtain an agreement that the man will stop the practice.
the senator insists upon discussing this question in terms of a criminal case. this is  a criminal case. this is an administrative proceeding based. first. upon inquiry. examinations. reports. and an administrative decision by two members. one of whom may have said in the beginning that the case ought to be looked into. we are talking about an administrative agency attempting to straighten the matter out between the parties. if the commission thinks it is desirable in the interest of justice. only then would the commission have the right to start an action. i think it is clear that before any action can be started. it must be by a decision of a majority of the commission. and  by a determination by two commission members. if this is  far away from the rationale of the supreme court decision to which the senator referred. then i do  k what could be.
:  i think it is perfectly clear that what happens is that either an aggrieved party or a single member of the commission by a simple writing may file a charge. investigation is automatic on the filing of the complaint. on completion of the investigation the commission by two or more votes. and one of those two may be that of the commissioner who filed the charge in the first place. decides whether the situation warrants endeavors to correct the situation by conciliation. by persuasion. by a conference. or any informal.action in an effort to settle the matter. "
the language is very clear in a separate section from the section dealing with conciliation. i refer to section (b) at the bottom of page 40. if the commission has failed to effect the elimination of an unlawful practice and to obtain voluntary compliance with this title. the commission. if it determines there is reasonable cause to believe the respondent has engaged in. or is engaging in. an unlawful employment practice. shall. within 90 days. bring a civil action to prevent the respondent from engaging in such unlawful practice.
and i agree with that. right down to the ground. and this title does  involve any violation of that principle. because the function of the judges are exercised only by the courts of the nation. and would  be exercised by the commission. which would be only a party plaintiff. without the benefit of any presumption of validity attached to any finding it might make. it would have to start de o. and would have to prove its case by a preponderance of the evidence introduced into the court record.
i think all the senator from th carolina is saying is that the bill would prohibit the harassment of employers. except in the unusual situation in which permission was given by a member of the federal agency. ordinarily. one who violates a law is subject to being sued. without let or hindrance. by the individual affected. but the bill would  allow a plaintiff to go into court in a case of this sortto file suit against an employerunless he obtained the permission of one member of the commission to bring the suit. generally speaking. one can tell a citizen whether he can or can bring a suit. a citizen who feels that he has been aggrieved is the one to make the decision as to whether he will sue.
i would be happy to obtain a list of the decisions of the supreme court on that point. they existbelieve me. and i shall be happy to see that they are placed in the record at the first appropriate opportunity. i do  happen to have them under my thumb. but i k they exist.
i believe it is quite clear. the senator from new jersey at one time. in his youth. was a lawyer. it seems to me to make sense. as i recall my lawand the department of justice has advised us further on this pointthat if we left people without this exemption. by including the federal government. it would have the effect of eliminating state law and state programs. that is the reason this was done.
is right new jerseys senator case yesterday stated the moral issue that confronts the u.s. senate in the bobby baker case. he told the rules committee that its investigation. wholly inadequate. had given the public the impression that the committee meant "to put an end to an unpleasant episodeto close the doorto push the whole matter aside in the hope that it will soon be forgotten." that is precisely the impression the public got. the baker case is "a sordid affront to the dignity" of the senate.  said at the outset that the committee was  investigating senators. mr. case cant see how an investigation could have any meaning without questioning senators. neither can the public. and until they are questioned the public will suspect the senate has something to hide. [from the elizabeth (n.j.) daily journal.
in pushing his disclosure bill. has had some interesting comment. one of the things he has said that is worth repeating: congress will  effectively police itselfit will  do it. ive watched this from the time of senator mccarthy on down. and you can expect members of congress to censure any of their members. or anything else. except in the most extreme circumstances. this requires a constant surveillance. which you cant get. keep at it senator. there are millions of people behind you. [from the nashville banner. may 18. 19641
again. and the mclendon remedies. public disclosure of the financial interests of all senators. officers. and employees. prohibition of their association with those having business with the government. and a requirement that all senators testify before senate committees when requested. just what mr. case prescribed. as to that incredibly successful business man. mr. robert g. baker. the report expresses doubt that he could be prosecuted under present law. nevertheless it condemns him as an opportunist who was guilty of many gross improprieties. including flagrant misuse of his senate office. all this is interesting. but as senator case points out. it is substitute for the complete investigation the rules committee did  make. it fails to dispose of the question. uppermost since the inquiry began. whether any senator had private dealings with baker. and in the light of his silence. only senators can provide the answer.  until they do can the senate lift the shadow of suspicion that  falls. unfairly but inevitably on its members.
which could be molded to the facts in a particular situation. as it had discovered them in the course of long dealing with the situation. enforcement would have been left to the court. but in the court proceeding seeking the enforcement order. the finding of the commission would have had at least prima facie and perhaps presumptive value.
that is true. and he would have to prove. de o. a violation of the statute. and he would  have the benefit of any of the findings he had made or of any of those made by the investigators. but he would have to make that showing before the court would act. so there is parallel whatever between the situation in the motorola case and the situation under this measure. furthermore. i believe that everyone  understands that the motorola case involves only the tentative action of one man. and has effect unless and until the illis commission adopts--but i am sure it never will adopt themthe examiners views and makes his findings its own.
. i believe the senator from th carolina and the senator from nevada are both confusing the form of due process with its substance. it would be perfectly proper  to require a condition precedent to an investigation by the commission of any complaint whatever. the commission might make investigations on its own motion. there must be either a complaint by an aggrieved individual. or by a single member of the commission as a condition precedent to the commissions investigation. when. it has been pointed out ad nauseam that the commission has power except to attempt. by conciliation. to bring about an end to alleged discrimination. and power of enforcement or even power to bring suit. it means to me that the whole objection falls to the ground. if the people do  like to have a member of the commission file a complaint. which the commission then considers for its investigation for persuasive purposes only. let us eliminate the need for a complaint. we must have the ability to get the commission into action. for the purpose of eliminating discrimination. without requiring a complaint by an aggrieved party in every case. because intimidation of individuals in areas where this is most necessary. whether it be ecoic. social. or any other kind of intimidation. may. in many cases. prevent the filing of complaints by aggrieved persons.
what the senator from pennsylvania said is. of course. true. we have been less long in the senate than the senator from oregon. but almost as long. in relation to our service. as sponsors of almost identical bills ourselves. my own inspiration comes largely from the work done by the senator from illis some years ago in connection with the committee which he headed. and which looked into the matter of making recommendations. the key of which was disclosure. it is clear from both old and modern history in this body that the senate will  police itself. and there is outside body adequate to do it. it is necessary to rely on the principle of disclosure. i think it is essential that we adopt it as quickly as possible. i am happy to join the senator from oregon in the offering of his amendment.
. almost 9 months ago to the day. the u.s. senate. its good name and reputation repeatedly assaulted by news stories of reported misconduct by one of its principal officers. agreed to senate resolution 212. the author. senator john j. williams. of delaware. believed its language was broad egh to authorize the rules committee to investigate any such misconduct on the part of members or former members of the u.s. senate as well as of its employees. four months later a question was raised on the senate floor as to whether members were included in the purview of the investigation. numerous senators. including the majority leader. assured the senate that the resolution was so intended. the issue was an important one because of news accounts by reputable reporters of instances in which bobby baker was charged with abusing his office in his relationships with several members of the senate. when bobby baker was subpenaed. he declined to testify on constitutional grounds. thereafter. i suggested. in an appearance before the senate rules committee. that. despite bakers refusal to testify. there was aher way to get the facts. i suggested that the committee ask each senator: first. did you ever have any business or financial dealings with bobby baker. directly or indirectly. if so. what were they. second. did bobby baker ever give you. get for you. offer you. or offer to get for you any campaign contributions. any help in making up campaign deficits by gifts. purchase of tickets. or otherwise. any retainer or employment. any preferment in committee assignment or otherwise. anything of value. at least three members of the senate present at the committee hearings immediately volunteered that their answers to these questions were in the negative. but the committee chairman told the press that the suggestions were "the height of demagoguery" and "would be an insult to a senator." he raised doubts about whether senators could be queried. news stories of their dealings with bobby baker withstanding. the committee can plead igance of these news stories. for i presented them at the committee hearing. and they are in the record.  can the committee argue that there is precedent for an inquiry to all senators. for i called to their attention a specific instance in which precisely this was done in 1894incidentally. in the wake of press stories suggesting corruption in office. it seemed to me then. and it seems to me . that as senators we have direct and primary responsibility to assist a committee of the senate in carrying out its assignment to make a full and complete study of bobby bakers activities. subsequently. senator williams of delaware and i attempted to amend the original resolution to include members of the senate explicitly. but the issue was  permitted to come to a vote. instead. the majority leader. in an extraordinary show of power. succeeded in tabling our amendment. so the die was cast. senators were  to be questioned in the bobby baker inquiry although several had complained publicly of mistreatment at the hands of mr. baker. and he had bragged that on any given issue he had 10 senators in the palm of his hand. last week the committee on rules and administration released its recommendations in the baker case.  unexpectedly. they are narrow and very weak. the entire effort thus far has the ring of an investigation. handcuffed before it started. kept that way matter what. and . hopefully. destined for the category of "file and forget." but. inadequate and timid as the committees inquiry was. it could  avoid the conclusion that the evidence it gathered "proves beyond any doubt that the performance and activities of robert g. baker. while serving as a high official of the senate. form a pattern of conduct and activity inimical to the public welfare." the committee counsels own findings. reported earlier in the press. concluded that baker used "the prestige of his official position for his own private gain." the committee recommended that the department of justice review the evidence to determine whether criminal action is warranted. of course. this should be done. but apparently the committee feels there is way to call baker to account unless violation of specific criminal statutes can be proved. there is aher way. actions can be unlawful without being violations of a criminal statute. i suggest that if bobby baker did use his public position and influence for personal gain or that of his family. his friends or his associates. his conduct was unlawful. and a legal remedy exists. apart from criminal action. bobby baker can be compelled in a civil action to pay over to the united states every penny he has made through the use of his influence and the prestige of his office. public office is a public trust. is there anyone who would  agree that membership in the congress of the united states is  only a high ho but a position of high trust. surely there is one in this body who does  regard himself as a fiduciary to the people of the nation and to the nation itself. and i am sure that each member of our individual staffs and of the staff of the senate holds a like position of trust. the committee in its recommendations joins me in this conviction: there is always a need for any public officialfrom the highest to the lowestto conduct himself in a manner beyond question. as government grows more complicated and more sensitive to the needs of the public. this becomes more and more important and in the case of this investigation. it has been made abundantly clear that those who serve the public must recognize that their office is a public trust and should  be compromised by private interests. where does this principle of public trust lead us. for one thing. it means. of course. that a person who sells his vote violates a trust. it has long been the law that a government can recover a bribe paid to an officeholder to influence his official decision. but public trust means more than that. it means that each of us. in the congress or of its staff. holds the influence and prestige which goes with his position as a fiduciary. such influence and prestige is  his personal property. they are  his to sell or barter or otherwise compromise. they are held in trust for the nation and for all the people. and if he breaches that trust and misuses his office. he must account forthat is pay overall profits to the government. the accountability of a government official for breach of his fiduciary duty is well recognized by the courts. in a recently decided case. u.s. v. drumm. 329 f. 2d 109 (1st cir. 1964). the court of appeals in the first circuit held that the federal government could recover from a poultry inspector of the department of agriculture payments made to him. as a consultant. by a processor whose operations it was his governmental duty to inspect. whether preference was actually shown or loss to the government in fact occurred was immaterial. the potentiality of preferment existed and was alone sufficient to enable the government to recover. statute was involved. dougherty v. aleutian homes. inc.. 210 f. supp. 658 (u.s.d.c. d. ore. 1962). a case in which the united states intervened. involved contracts under which the mayor and aher citizen of kodiak were to receive moneys from aleutian homes in return for the use of their official positions and influence in securing federal funds for a housing project. in holding the contracts against public policy and void. the court pointed to a line of cases holding "void and illegal contracts for services that involve personal influence on legislators." the court ed that the question was  whether improper influence was actually used but the corrupting nature of the agreement itself. a classic case for recovery by a government of profit made through the use of public office or position is reading v. attorneygeneral (1951). a.c. 507. that case involved a british army sergeant who during the last war had received money from smugglers for escorting their trucks through cairo. egypt. while in uniform. thus enabling them to pass the civilian police without inspection. the british military authorities got wind of this and took possession of the money. the sergeant brought a suit to recover it. the house of lords held that the crown was entitled to the money since the sergeant had gotten it by the use of the uniform of the crown. it was held immaterial that the sergeant was  acting in the course of his employment and that the crown had suffered loss and could  lawfully have made the profit itself. as the principal opinion in this case put it: any official position. whether marked by a uniform or . which enables the holder to earn money by its use gives his master a right to receive the money so earned even though it was earned by a criminal act. "you have earned." the master can say. "money by the use of your position as my servant. it is  for you. who have gained this advantage. to set up your own wrong as a defence to my claim." the harvard law review. in commenting on this case in 1952volume 65 at page 502states that the principle of the case "might well be applied to the currently orious sales of influence by public officeholders." the harvard law review is right. in the second quarter of this century. the courts of this country. both state and federal. took the lead in establishing and enforcing the fiduciary obligations of individuals holding positions of private trust. ably corporate officers. directors. and even majority stockholders. the standards set are strict. because a review of some of the leading cases involving private trust is relevant to consideration of the fiduciary obligations of those occupying positions of public trust. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at the conclusion of my remarks a brief memorandum summarizing several of them.
continuing that line of questioning. specifically it would  be limited to those questions formally referred by action of the senate. the committee would be free to investigate anything which. in its judgment. seemed worthy. deserving. and requiring investigation from any source.
is it the senators understanding that the term "without prejudice" just described. among other things. by the senator from oregon. means that it would be without prejudice to the power of this body to actas i believe this body will establish here today by majority vote on the question. when it comes up againbut also our action would be without prejudice to any determination of any court of competent jurisdiction. is it the senators understanding that this will . for example. render moot the question. so that the courts can take it under consideration. i do  believe that the action of making this appointee a senator. and doing so without prejudice. would foreclose the right of an individual in california to file a lawsuit against this appointee. were he to become a de facto member of the senate. i believe the senator will agree with me. but i must. in all candor and honesty. say that i would assume that that appointee might. through his counsel in such a proceeding. urge that the proceeding were  a nullity.
i make the observation that the senators argument has been very persuasive. i believe there is every reason why we should attempt to see that california has two votes in the senate. i believe we should also do this without prejudice to any proper test of any legal question. i am concerned. therefore.  only that the senates right to act shall  be prejudice by the action that it will take. but also that it be our intention that we should  prejudice any proper appeal to the court in california. i believe that a reference to this point by implication in the remarks of the distinguished majority leader earlier. indicated an intention. on his part at least. that this should be so when he said. as i recall. that this should be without prejudice to any institution. i take it that he was referring to the court. as well as to the senate.
i do  disagree with that at all. it is conceivable that matter what was decided by the california courts. the senate might still decide to seat the person presently kking at our door. that is  the question. the question is whether the action that it is proposed that we take today in admitting him without prejudice to membership in this body. is an intent to prejudice any action which the court might take.
. i do  k mr. reyds. however. i do k the senator from delaware. i am glad many people k him well egh to trust him. because in this instance. as in many other cases. he has been the source of justice where justice could  be found otherwise.
there is merit to the point that in some cases the lower federal courts have acted with what seems to be too great haste and have  given state legislatures sufficient time to do a decent job of reapportionment. the states are . however. helpless in this situation. surely the courts would  arbitrarily refuse appropriate relief in this respect upon the application of states endeavoring to bring their legislative apportionment into compliance with the supreme courts holding. and. in any event. the admitted purpose of the dirksenmansfield amendment is  to permit more time to comply with the supreme courts reapportionment decisions. its purpose is to give time for the adoption of a constitutional amendment which would make it unnecessary for any state to reapportion its legislature. regardless of inequalities. however great. in representation of the total population. there would be considerable justification for this if the constitutional amendment were to be passed upon by the people themselves. but there is intention that the matter should be submitted to the people of the several states. the effect of the dirksenmansfield amendment is to make it possible for the state legislatures as  constituted to approve a constitutional amendment designed to enable them to perpetuate their present composition and cut off any recourse either to the people or the courts. . back in 1923 chief justice hughes came to columbia university to pay tribute to chancellor james kent. he made a memorable speech. it included this observation on the realities of democratic living: democracy must be its own savior. and security is to be found. if at all.  in the denials of the right of participation in the affairs of government. but in education. public discussion. and the selfimposed restraints of an intelligent and justiceloving people. there is shorter way. i repeat that the real question before us is  cloture. it is whether or  the people of the several states shall have the right to govern themselves. accordingly. i have come to the conclusion that i can support the dirksenmansfield move.
i thank the senator. i agree with the senator that the best course would be to refer the question to the select committee which will be created by the amendment to our rules which was adopted on the motion of the senator from kentucky . i understand the reason why the senator from delaware has  made such a motion. in the present motion he is making. he is responding to what he understood to be the suggestion of the majority leader that one of the committees to which the investigation might be referred is the committee on government operations. i shall support his motion. but believing that the select committee would be the best committee to which the matter should be referred. if the motion of the senator from delaware falls. i shall then offerand the senator from delaware has agreed to be a cosponsor at that time. under those circumstancesan amendment to refer the proposed investigation to the select committee mentioned. i thank the senator.
 johnson in the executive branch. and by the unanimous vote. as i understand. of the democratic policy committee in recommending that the bobby baker investigation be reopened. and. so far as i k. by all the republican members of the senate. the record of the senate in the handling of the bobby baker affair has been a sorry one in the eyes of most americans. many of us have pointed out that this matter affects  only the good standing and integrity of the committee. but also the good standing and integrity of each one of us. and of the senate itself. yet. the senate majority had permitted this investigation to be handled in a most inadequate and unusual way.
i am concerned that we seem to be getting into the same kind of situation in regard to the result of the adoption of the resolutionthat is. one of frustration and actionthat we got into when we first adopted the williams resolution to make the investigation. that resolution. as the senate ks. we were advised by the majority leader. would include members of the senate. the chairman of the rules committee decided that it would .  we are given a resolution by the majority leader for the investigation of the current information. and  the rules committee chairman refuses to say whether he will call the chief person mentioned in this information. i believe that it is about time we knew where we stoodor are we going to get aher runaround.
the senator did  call the members of the senate. the senator refused to do it. the senator was upheld. in the last analysis. against the protests from the democratic side.. for instance. the senator from tennessee had been assured a second time by the majority leader that the investigation would cover members of the senate. and then we were overruled by the chairman of the rules committee. are we to be overruled again.
does the senator recall that when the question was raised by the senator from tennessee as to whether the authority of the committee embraced an investigation of members of the senate. the majority leader assured this body that the resolution as originally drawn and originally adopted did include authority to investigate members of the this body.
is it  also true that the charges which have been pubblished in the press relate to the election of the president and vice president. and that some of the alleged support involved support for or against certain candidates for the presidency and vicepresidency. under our rules. is the committee on rules and administration  charged with the investigation of charges pertaining to the presidential election.
i am sure that the senator will  again attempt to make it appear that those who oppose a change in the constitutional law as laid down by the supreme court by action of the congress and the state legislatures are opposed to letting the people run the show.
may i raise aher analogy which i think is pertinent. i do  necessarily concede the validity of the senators distinction. but i suggest one which i believe the senator will agree is analogous. in the brown case. a score of years or more after a previous decision. the supreme court changed its view as to constitutionality of the separatebutequal doctrine as applying to public schools. does the senator feel it would be appropriate or that he would like to have submitted and would support a constitutional amendment providing that the majority of the citizens of each state may. by vote every 10 years. decide whether they want to have separate but equal schools.
. i feel strongly that the senator is endeavoring to get at. a very important and useful point. if his amendment were limited to his first requirement without the proviso. i should be inclined to support it. i do believe that the proviso is unworkable. it would purport to give a duty to the supreme court or to the courts which i do  believe the courts are competent to perform. i do  believe that the court can protect the political miity. for example. specifically. i should be rather happy to vote for the amendment if it did  contain that proviso. i believe that it is desirable to bring representation in every political body down to the smallest possible case and to have one person representing each area.
. i am happy to advise the senate that the department of state has concluded that the legal consequences of diplomatic immunity do  extend to traffic offenses. accordingly. the department has worked out a systematic plan for dealing with those foreign diplomats assigned to the united states who violate local traffic regulations. whether on the new jersey turnpike or the streets of new york. washington. or any other locality. as far as i am aware. the departments plan is its first comprehensive attempt to devise a procedure for dealing with this problem that will be fair to all concernedthe diplomatic corps. the motoring public. and the police authorities of our cities and states. i welcome the departments response to my protest against the "you can arrest me" attitude of some foreign diplomats in this country. and i believe that the procedure it plans to institute in the near future holds real promise of bringing significant improvement to the situation against which i have raised my voice. the substance of the departments plan is set forth in a letter to me from assistant secretary douglas macarthur ii. as follows: the department of state has concluded that a traffic ticket or summons does  constitute legal process within the meaning of sections 252 and 253 of title 22 of the united states code. thus. the issuance of such tickets or summonses would  violate the immunity provisions set forth in those two statutory sections. we would. therefore. take the view that authorities in all jurisdictions in the united states would be free to issue regular traffic tickets or summonses to any driver with diplomatic or consular status who fails to observe traffic laws and regulations. we would request the police authorities in each case to send a copy of the ticket or summons. together with a report of the incident wherever a serious moving violation was concerned. to the office of protocol in the department of state. upon receipt of such a ice. the office of protocol would request the diplomatic mission concerned to see that the individual either pay the fine involved or take steps to defend against the infraction charged in the ticket or summons. if the individual possessing immunity should decline or fail to do so. the department would again take the matter up with the diplomatic mission concerned. if this action failed to elicit a satisfactory response. the department would then take further steps. such as to insure that license plates for the individual would thereafter be withheld. in the case of persistent or more serious infractions. consideration would have to be given to the question whether the individual should be declared persona  grata. the procedure proposed by the department is analagous toif  so automatic asthe point system that i proposed to secretary rusk on june 22. it is also clear. i think. that the department has come to the same conclusion that i voiced at that time. namely. that hing "in the law of diplomatic immunity or in the comity of nations requires us to tolerate" the contemptuous disregard of traffic laws by some persons enjoying immunity. the department informs me that the report i requested on that occasion as to the number and nature of offenses committed both by foreign diplomats accredited to this country and by american diplomats stationed abroad will be forthcoming shortly. pending receipt of that report. and of the details of the procedures the department  plans to adopt. i would only add that the department has made a constructive beginning on a problem too long neglected.
. i am happy to join in the latest bipartisan effort with the senator from illis in introducing the civil rights protection act of 1966. this bill could be called the "equal justice act of 1966." because its main thrust is to bring to an end the discriminatory system of justice and law enforcement which  prevails in many communities throughout the south. it seeks to bring to an end a system  of justice but of injustice which has denied negro citizens and civil rights workers the equal protection of the laws and which has for years permitted acts of racial violence including murder to go unpunished. this legislation has been made necessary because state and local law enforcement officials in some areas have defaulted in their constitutional obligation to provide equal justice to all. by their biased and partial administration of justice. by their misuse of the legal process to harass and intimidate civil rights workers. by their failure to protect those engaged in civil rights activity from violence aid iy permitting such violence to go unpunished. these officials have made a mockery of justice. this bill would do more than to restore the balance to the scales of justice which they have weighted so heavily against the negro citizen and persons lawfully exercising rights guaranteed them by the constitution. to those who will contend that this legislation would upset the traditional federalstate division of responsibility for law enforcement. let me say that the federal government has both the obligation and authority to act when persons are denied their constitutional rights by state officials. if state and local officials would recognize and assume their constitutional responsibility and take steps to end the discriminatory pattern of justice. federal action would be unnecessary. this legislation will  touch a single community where law enforcement officials are administering justice fairly and equitably. it will reach only those officials who persist in abdicating their sworn constitutional duty to uphold the law. on january 28. i joined in introducing two bills to meet the problem of racial discrimination in law enforcement. one bill would strengthen existing federal criminal statutes under which civil rights violations may  be prosecuted. the other would put an end to racial discrimination in the selection of juries. since thenindeed only on mondaya threejudge federal court in montgomery. ala.. in an unprecedented ruling ordered court officials in lowndes county. ala.. to cease excluding negroes from jury duty. to draw up new jury lists from which negroes would  be excluded and to make periodic reports to the federal court giving the name and race of everyone found unfit for jury duty along with a statement of the reasons why each had been turned down. lowndes county is  unique in excluding negroes from jury duty. it is only the most glaring example of a continuing and persistent unconstitutional practice of racial discrimination in the jury selection process in violation of the 14th amendment. in addition to addressing itself to the problem of racial discrimination in the selection of juries and making it a federal crime to attack or intimidate civil rights workers. the bill we axe introducing today would also permit the removal to the federal courts for trial of state offenses where it can be clearly shown that a pattern of discriminatory justice exists in the state courts and where such federal court prosecution is necessary to assure the equal protection of the laws. the bill would also authorize federal court injunctions to protect citizens in the exercise of their constitutional rights. the attorney general  has the power to bring such injunction proceedings in voting rights and school desegregation cases. this bill would extend his authority to bring such proceedings to prevent the deprivation of constitutional * rights generally. aher key provision of the bill is one .which would provide restitution by the federal government to civil rights workers who are injured while lawfully exercising their constitutional rights and make states and counties liable to the federal government where police or other local officials are responsible for the injury. this bill would  only recognize the responsibility of government to protect the constitutional rights of its citizens but also its moral obligation to compensate the inent victims of anticivil rights violence who have suffered physical injury while seeking to vindicate their constitutional rights which the government is mandated by the constitution to protect. there are some. of course. who will call this legislation too far reaching. but the evils of unequal justice and unpunished violence. intimidation. and terror are matters of grave national concern to which the congress can remain indifferent so long as state and local governmental officials persist in defying the plain command of the constitution. this bill. which follows closely the recommendations of the civil rights commission for new federal legislation. is essential if all our citizens without regard to race or color in every city and hamlet in our land are to enjoy equal justice and live in freedom without fear of physical violence.
. on this 175th anniversary of the polish constitution we join millions of americans of polish descent in commemorating the firm friendship that has linked the american and polish peoples since kosciuszko and pulaski entered our pantheon of revolutionary war heroes. this years observance takes on added and special significance. moreover. because 1966 also marks the 1.000th anniversary of polands acceptance of christianity and a millennium of identification with western culture and development. this heritage makes all the more poignant the fate of the polish people under communist rule. denied the freedom to shape their own destiny. they continue to look to us for sustenance of their faith that justice will triumph. let this then be a year of renewed dedication to the restoration of an independent poland. committed to freedom and justice for all.
i commend the senator from pennsylvania for this action. we have had for many years. in new jersey. a similar problem. because of the fact that the neighboring state of new york permits youngsters in the age bracket of 18 to 21 to buy drinks freely. whereas our minimum age is 21and it seems to me that that makes pretty good sense. this unsupervised and unrestricted drinking of alcoholic beverages by teenagers. in public and in private. has resulted in a variety of harmful activities. including reckless and drunken driving. assaults upon persons and property. and other forms of delinquency. the same thing applies in regard to the districts laxer regulation as compared to the regulations in effect in the neighboring states. although i think it is a very grievous thing for new york to permiteven though presumably its citizens are allowing its legislature to continue to permit the situation to existthe differing regulations to continue to apply. to the detriment of citizens of new jersey and their children. it is much worse for us in congress to permit a similar situation to exist here. because ody is putting any pressure on us at all. the iniquity is the difference in the age. it excites the kids that something that is unlawful over there can be done lawfully over here. the senator and i remember a similar situation in our time. because we are among the older members of this body-
we remember how attractive it was for youngsters to go abroad during prohibition and drink in the taverns of france. for instance. that was exciting only because it was unlawful at home. the situation cleared up very rapidly when prohibition was abandoned. i happen to think 21 is a very reasonable minimum age for selling liquor to children. we should  put any pressure on the states of maryland and virginia to lower their age. but rather we in congress should meet their very reasonable regulations by increasing the minimum age in the district of columbia. there is advantage at all to the district of columbia in this unreasonable regulation. except perhaps for those few who wish to make some money from the situation. i congratulate the "senator from virginia"-he was from virginia as a boy. though he  represents the great commonwealth of pennsylvania. i shall continue to support him to the hilt.
. more than 21/2 years have passed since bobby baker. former senate secretary to the majority. resigned his high public position to avoid facing public sclutiny of his financial and business dealings. repeated reports in the press during 1963 finally prodded a reluctant senate into directing the rules committee to investigate bakers activities. the committee inquiry was a halfhearted. offagaiagain affair. nevertheless. in the course of hearings held in march 1964. it became clear beyond question that bobby baker had used his senate office to advance his personal. financial. and business interests. the committee could  avoid the conclusion that baker was "guilty of many gross improprieties." and his conduct was "inimical to the public welfare." one of the committees recommendations called for review by the justice department of all information gathered in the investigation. to determine whether criminal action was warranted. several months passed. when press reports of additional instances of bakers misconduct in office forced a reopening of the rules committee inquiry. the ensuing inquiry conducted by the committee led to further findings that in several instances baker had "used the influence of his public office to feather his own nest." concerning legislation in which oceanfreight forwarders had a vital interest. the committee stated: this case furnished evidence of the most flagrant of all bakers activities in the use of his office and the prestige of his position for his personal financial profit . .. it justifies careful consideration looking to an indictment for violation of the conflictofinterest statutes. the boldness with which baker and weiner acted also illustrates how unrestrained and unpoliced wrongdoing can grow and flourish in places where high standards of morality and ethics should prevail. even before the baker investigation was reopened. i had suggested to the department of justice in july of 1964 that civil suit could be instituted by the attorney general of the united states to require an accounting of any profits which bobby baker may have reaped through the use of his office. my proposal was well received in legal circles. but  by the department of justice. to this day. the justice department has yet to comment on the merits of my proposal for a civil suit. for many months its only reply to my inquiries was to point out that bakers activities were being considered by a federal grand jury. the grand jury finally reported. and it did. indeed. indict bobby baker. however. as many have ed. the criminal indictment. limited chiefly to charges of tax evasion and larceny. bears little semblance to the allegations of corruption and abuse of his office made before the senate rules committee. trial of the case has been postponed. i suggest that. quite apart from the trial on the criminal indictment. the baker case is still unfinished business. i again renew my request that the department of justice institute a civil suit to recover on behalf of the united states any profits which baker made out of the use of his office. civil action is peculiarly appropriate in the circumstances of the baker case. the institution of such a suit would serve as a warning to others. to take the profit out of misuse of office is far and away the most effective deterrent to abuse of public trust. actions can be unlawful without being violations of a criminal statute. if bobby baker used his public position and influence for personal gain or that of his family. his friends. or his associates. his conduct was unlawful. and a legal remedy exists. apart from criminal action. bobby baker can be compelled in a civil action to pay over to the united states every penny he has made through the use of his influence and the prestige of his office. public office is a public trust. this is a maxim that has its roots in the biblical injunction that man can serve two masters. every member of this body. i am sure. regards himself as a fiduciary to the people of the nation and to the nation itself. we are all accountable. in the fullest sense. to the public. the rules committee in its recommendations recognized this. saying: there is always a need for any public officialfrom the highest to the lowestto conduct himself in a manner beyond question. as government grows more complicated and more sensitive to the needs of the public. this becomes more and more abundantly clear that those who serve the public must recognize that their office is a public trust and should  be compromised by private interests. the accountability of a government official for breach of his fiduciary duty is well recognized by the courts. in my memorandum of july 1964. i cited several cases. among them the english case of reading v. attorney general (1951) a.c. 507. and the american case of u.s. v.. drumm. 329 f. 2d 109 (1st cir. 1964). in my own state of new jersey. the courts have spoken out clearly in driscoll v. burlington bristol bridge co.. 8 n.j. 433. 86 a. 2d 201 (1952) and jersey city v. hague. 18 n.j. 584. 115 a. 2d 8 (1955). in the burlington bristol bridge case. the gover and others were permitted recovery on the theory of constructive trust against active members of a bridge syndicate who had benefited as a result of the improper conduct of the county bridge commission which had failed to exercise good faith free from corrupting influence in executing contracts of sale for two bridges. in the second case. citing other state court decisions in support. the court held that the city could institute a civil proceeding against its former officials to recover money allegedly extorted from city employees as a condition to obtaining or retaining employment. the court ed that where the actions of public officials are "inimical to and inconsistent with the public interest." they are  only deserving of public censure. but the transactions which they have consummated are contrary to public policy. illegal. and should be set aside. all of these cases recognize the principle of civil accountability. as a remedy for breach of fiduciary responsibility by persons holding public positions or positions affected with a public interest. bobby baker held a position of public trust. the influence and prestige which went with his position as a fiduciary was  his personal property. they were  his to sell or barter or otherwise compromise. more than 2 years have passed since i first proposed a civil suit to recover bakers illgotten gains. there has been indication that the department of justice has ever considered the suggestion on its merits. the department has been inexcusably lax. i believe. in its sole and exclusive reliance on criminal action. if it is truly minded to proceed vigorously against the abuse of public office. it would have long since moved along the lines i have proposed. its failure to do so gives credence to the widespread belief that it is uninterestedfor whatever reasonsin pursuing this flagrant abuse of official position. thus the department itself contributes to the undermining of public confidence in the integrity of government.
i think we all owe great thanks to the senator from massachusetts for helping to analyze the issues and sharpen the question. i am  sure that i agree yet with the suggestion which he has tentatively offered. if i misstate his position. i am sure that he will correct me. i understood that he said it is necessary to find wrongdoing in the sense of a violation of the criminal law or a violation of any of the old common law rules concerning conduct or even of the principles of trust. but i believe the thing he has referred to as impropriety may be so grossor it may  beas to have consequences justifying consideration for censure of a senator by his peers. that is really the basis. as i understand it. upon which the committee has brought in the first part of the resolution. that all of these things taken togetherthe obtaining and use for his personal benefit of funds from the public through political testimonials and a political campaignin the circumstances here involved were so improper as to justify censure. that is my understanding of the committees intention in this part of the resolution. i appreciate the action of the senator from massachusetts in requiring that this be brought out and looked at and understood by us as we consider the matter.
would  the senator from massachusetts feel. as i am sure he would. that that kind of conduct by a member of a legislative body. in the absence of any criminal statute or any prohibition of law. would still justify censure and expulsion.
because much has been said in argument along the lines of the analogy of criminal law. ex post facto provisions. and what . the senator and i are. then. in agreement that the question is whether this is so contrary to accepted standards. to the general idea of morality. apart from specific rules. criminal statutes. or anything of that sort. that it may or may  be. depending upon our judgment. ground for censure.
. it is impossible to overstate the importance of the amendment which the senator from kentucky has offered. as he states. in this first action taken by the senate of the united states. responsive to the troubles we have been having in recent months in our great urban centers. it would be a shame  to have the senate go on record as understanding that these troubles are  just based upon human perversity. or meanness. or other criminal tendencies. but that they also have causes for which the whole community must share the blame. causes which have their origin in actions and injustices that go back for centuries. it would be wrong for two reasons: first. if the narrow attitude is. in fact. the attitude of the senate. then the senate. obviously. is  capable of doing the job that has to be done here. second. just as a matter of justice and keeping the record straight. it is important for us to recognize the wrongness of the riots and disorders in the criminal actions. and. as well. the equal wrongness of the injustices and frustrations that have a great measure of responsibility for the riots themselves. they are  the sole measure. there are criminals. i am sure there are some who. for a number of reasons quite unrelated to a sense of injustice or desire to cure it. have stirred up. aggravated. and tried to make worse these disorders. for them there is contempt too severe and condemnation too strong. but they are few. i venture to saythis will be found to be true. i believeand their power to affect the mass of the american people or any significant number of americans would be absolutely existent if the tinder were  there. it is the tinder we are concerned with. because it leads to civil disorder and may. if  corrected in real ways. lead to divisions between groups in this great country of ours so deep that they will make civilized life here impossible. i hope very much that. on reconsideration. this amendment will be accepted. so that there will be question that we are all after the same two things: first. dealing with the immediate troubles. without in any way condoning criminal actions. conspiracies. or anything else which may have a part here. and. second.  only because they lead to disorder. but because they are wrong in themselves. correcting those ecoic and social justices that have a large measure of responsibility for the troubles we have witnessed this summer and past summers.
s commission on civil disorders. our own senate government operations committee. and in my own state of new jersey. a committee appointed by the gover. are all at work seeking a better understanding of the underlying causes of the turbulence of last summer and of better ways to handle riotous situations. but the fact that their conclusions and recommendations are  yet available does  foreclose action in matters where the facts are already well established and where the need is indisputable. i believe. i refer to two bills. first. h.r. 2516. to provide more adequate protection to persons seeking to exercise lawfully rights guaranteed by the constitution. and. second. the law assistance and crime control bill. otherwise kn as the safe streets and crime control act. action on these bills would be small but solid steps in the direction of providing more effective protection for the exercise of individual rights and. at the same time. more effective protection against lawlessness and violence. including the kind that last summer wracked our cities. obviously time is running out for this session. but it is also running out in terms of action to prepare against aher outbreak of violence and destruction that can only harm our communities and make deeper a tragic rift in american life. there have been threats of filibuster if the civil rights protection bill is taken up by the senate. threats which evoked apparent opposition from the leadership. it has made move to take the bill from the calendar. the crime control bill has yet to be reported from committee. and each passing day makes prospects for action on it at this session more remote. apparently. passage of the bill extending the civil rights commission until 1973 will remain the senates sole contribution to resolution of the most pressing domestic problem of our time. but even as the life of the commission is extended. the commission warns in its most recent report: the response of government to deprivation and discrimination has raised expectations. but has too often been characterized by an inadequate commitment of resources and by acquiescence in. or failure to deal effectively with. practices of segregation and confinement. in addition. the goals of social and ecoic legislation often have been thwarted by selfdefeating rules and regulations. the failure of state. local and federal governments to respond to the efforts of moderate negro leaders is causing increasing numbers of negroes to despair of moderate methods and of moderate leadership and to favor a separatist course. the problems of our cities and the people who live in them will  be resolved by a search for culprits or conspirators. or for solutions which do  cost money or effort.  can it justly be argued that remedies for the discrimination suffered by the millions of americans who live in slum ghettos should be deferred on the ground that to do otherwise would be to reward violence. violators of the law must be punished. but it would be a cruel paradox if after years of failing to reward patience or redress injustice. we were to use such violations by a few as an excuse for continued inaction on the problems which affect so many. and involve us all. the problems of race and poverty which we face today can be resolved unless their solutions are made the nations first priority. the nation may continue to struggle with the problems which inevitably arise when we are divided into separate. unequal and alien groupseither torn by violence or coexisting in an uneasy peace purchased at the cost of repressive action. or we can all together make the commitment which will redeem our promises and ideals by opening the doors of the ghetto so that negroes and other miity groups can become full participants in american society. with a truly equal opportunity for all. the situation will  stand still while the senate does. the problems will  solve themselves.  do i suggest the bills that i have mentioned earlier will solve them. but action on them would at least provide an earnest of our concern. and evidence of the commitment. that i believe can be avoided. to make in the commissions words solutions to the problems of race and poverty "the nations first priority."
congress has tried to handle that type of situation. i believe that is at least one of the purposes of a statute which. as i recall. was enacted in 1948. under which it is unlawful for a federal employee to receive outside pay for performing his federal function. and it is unlawful both for the man to receive it and for any person to give it.
. i urge the senate to reject title ii of the pending bill. for us to approve it would be  only a drastic setback in the development of standards of criminal justice but a serious rupture in the fabric of federalism which has worn so well for the nation. americans often have difficulty understanding our complicated system of state and federal powers. some unique to the federal level. others unique to the states. and still others shared by both. so too with our system of dual courts. state and federal. again with both separate and concurrent jurisdiction. yet this seeming welter of divided and limited executive. legislative. and judicial responsibilities has produced a government that. on the whole. has proved remarkably durable and effective in meeting the needs of the country. and it has done so. i believe.  in spite of the dispersion of responsibility but. rather. because of it. the constitutional design established by the founding fathers has allowed for regional and local differences at the same time that it provides certain basic rights and protections for all. and the kingpin of the whole structure lies in the constitutional provision: this constitution. and the laws of the united states which shall be made in pursuance thereof. and all treaties made. or which shall be made. under the authority of the united states. shall be the supreme law of the land. and the judges in every state shall be bound thereby. any thing in the constitution or laws of any state to the contrary withstandingarticle vi. title ii would pull that pin in the field of criminal justice. it would undo. by way of statute.  by constitutional amendment. some of the major rulings of the supreme court in recent years involving the constitutional rights of individuals suspected of crime. several of the provisions in title ii are patently unconstitutional. others are open to most serious objection on grounds of law and public policy. the record is already replete with the testimony of legal scholars and many of our most distinguished members of the bar in this regard. the general point that i would like to emphasize is that in attempting to deny the federal courts jurisdiction over claims of infringement of federal rights. the title would permit a return to barbarities and injustices that for many. many decades went unchecked by some state courts. it would leave individual defendants literally helpless and without recourse. for example. by denying them the right of federal habeas corpus. lest it be argued that i am talking of a day long past. i point out that it was only 30 years ago that the case of brown v. mississippi. 297 u.s. 278 1935 page 281. was decided. in this case convictions of murder rested solely upon confessions shown to have been extorted by officers of the state by torture. there was dispute as to the facts upon this point. they were set out in a dissenting opinion in the state court. and i quote: the crime with which these defendants. all igant negroes. are charged. was discovered about one oclock p.m. on friday. march 30. 1934. on that night one dial. a deputy sheriff. accompanied by others. came to the home of ellington. one of the defendants. and requested him to accompany them to the house of the deceased. and there a number of white men were gathered. who began to accuse the defendant of the crime. upon his denial they seized him. and with the participation of the deputy they hanged him by a rope to the limb of a tree. and having let him down. they hung him again. and when he was let down the second time. and he still protested his inence. he was tied to a tree and whipped. and still declining to accede to the demands that he confess. he was finally released and he returned with some difficulty to his home. suffering intense pain and agony. the record of the testimony shows that the signs of the rope on his neck were plainly visible during the socalled trial. a day or two thereafter the said deputy. accompanied by aher. returned to the home of the said defendant and arrested him. and departed with the prisoner towards the jail in an adjoining county. but went by a route which led into the state of alabama. and while on the way. in that state. the deputy stopped and again severely whipped the defendant. declaring that he would continue the whipping until he confessed. and the defendant then agreed to confess to such a statement as the deputy would dictate. and he did so. after which he was delivered to jail. the other two defendants. ed brown and henry shields. were also arrested and taken to the same jail. on sunday night. april 1. 1934. the same deputy. accompanied by a number of white men. one of whom was also an officer. and by the jailer. came to the jail. and the two last named defendants were made to strip and they were laid over chairs and their backs were cut to pieces with a leather strap with buckles on it. and they were likewise made by the said deputy definitely to understand that the whipping would be continued unless and until they confessed. and  only confessed. but confesed in every matter of detail as demanded by those present. and in this manner the defendants confessed the crime. and as the whippings progressed and were repeated. they changed or adjusted their confession in all particulars of detail so as to conform to the demands of their torturers. when the confessions had been obtained in the exact form and contents as desired by the mob. they left with the parting admonition and warning that. if the defendants changed their story at any time in any respect from that last stated. the perpetrators of the outrage would administer the same or equally effective treatment. further details of the brutal treatment to which these helpless prisoners were subjected need  be pursued. it is sufficient to say that in pertinent respects the transcript reads more like pages torn from some medieval account. than a record made within the confines of a modern civilization which aspires to an enlightened constitutional government. yet the state court refused to arrest the judgment and to order a new trial on the following grounds: (1) that immunity from selfincrimination is  essential to due process of law. and (2) that the failure of the trial court to exclude the confessions after the introduction of evidence showing their incompetency. in the absence of a request for such exclusion. did  deprive the defendants of life or liberty without due process of law. and that even if the trial court had erroneously overruled a motion to exclude the confessions. the ruling would have been mere error reversible on appeal. but  a violation of constitutional right. an extreme case. perhaps so. doubt in the years since then the standards of justice have improved. but as erwin n. griswold. then dean of the harvard law school. pointed out in an excellent article entitled. "the long view." which appeared in the american bar association journal of ember 1965: but many other cases. perhaps less shocking but still painfully bad. have come before the supreme court in the past thirty years. one might even say in everincreasing numbers. these cases involve confessions obtaned through violence. deception or psychological coercion. or through igance. convictions obtained through illegally obtained evidence. cases of biased juries and judges. cases in which convictions were based on evidence kn by the prosecuting officer to be perjured. and a host of other cases involving actions violating the spirit and the letter of the federal constitution. which forbids. in substance. the unprincipled use of governmental power. does this mean that the federal judiciary must take over the administration of criminal law in the united states. of course . that is and should remain primarily the responsibility of state courts. but it does indicate. i believe. why the answer does  lie in attempting to strip the federal judiciary of power to redress violations of federal rights when state courts fail to enforce the federal constitution. rather the answer lies in encouraging. indeed requiring. the states to exercise greater responsibility in providing postconviction procedures and remedies for alleged violations of federal rights. in a most thoughtful and illuminating address to the conference of chief justices in august 1964. mr. justice brennan got to the essence of the matter. said he: the modern problems of the consistency of state action with the constitution are of a different order from those of even twentyfive years ago.  implicated are the various constitutional guarantees designed to protect individual freedom from repressive governmental action. of course. the federal systems diffusion of governmental power has the purpose of securing individual freedom. but this is  all the constitution provides to secure that end. there are also explicit provisions to prevent government. state or federal. from frustrating the great design. i do  think there can be any challenge to the proposition that the ultimate protection of individual freedom is found in court enforcement of these constitutional guarantees. speaking of the scope of federal court power in the domain of state criminal justice. justice brennan went on: . * . what these (recent decisions) suggest is simply that if the states afford prisoners as full and fair an opportunitiyon direct or collateral reviewto raise and prosecute their federal constitutional claims as federal habeas corpus affords. then the federal habeas corpus courts will have need to intervene in the supervision of state criminal justice. and the area of overlap will disappear. the justice rightly concluded: . * . my concern is  with the precise contours of an adequate state postconviction procedure. but with the fundamental principle "that upon the state courts. equally with the courts of the union. rests the obligation to guard. enforce and protect every right granted or secured by the constitution of the united states." if the states shoulder this burden. and undertake to make the responsibility for the vindication of our most cherished rights their own in this difficult area of criminal justice. the frictions and irritants that presently exist in some measure between the state and federal courts will rapidly disappear. of this i am confident. let me emphasize once more. however. that the possibilities for a healthy statefederal relationship in the criminal field  repose very largely in the states themselves. the court has probably made its contribution. the future depends upon the states acceptance of the opportunity offered in the recent federal decisions. i ask unanimous consent that at this point in the record there be printed the article by dean griswold and the address by mr. justice brennan.
. h.r. 3400 is a bill to control aircraft se and sonic boom. its purpose is altogether admirable. insofar as the measure deals with aircraft se. it seems adequate. insofar as it purports to deal with sonic boom. it is less than adequate. our amendment would transfer all provisions relating to sonic boom to a new section which would deal exclusively and. i believe. more effectively with this problem. our amendment would strengthen the sonic boom provisions by incorporating in the bill the provisions of s. 3399. a measure i introduced earlier this year to deal with sonic boom from commercial supersonic transportsssts. the new section we would add to h.r. 3400 would. first. provide for a 2year scientific investigation of the sonic boom and its effects by the federal aviation administration in consultation with seven departments and agencies. and. second. ban all military flights at supersonic speeds over the united states and its territories and possessions until congress. after reviewing the results of the investigation. determines whether the prohibition against supersonic overflights should be continued. the study we propose would touch on all aspects of the sonic boomfrom the impact on human beings and physical structures. to the potential for minlmizing the boom itself. interim and final reports to the congress would be required. our amendment recognizes. as one can dispute. that sufficient kledge is   on hand to permit setting sonic boom standards. it says. in effect. that much more must be learned of the boom. and particularly its effects on people. before we can determine how to deal with it. the prohibition of overland flights of ssts is necessary to protect the public until the results of the proposed investigation can be evaluated.
i thank the senator. i really want some education. if i may get it. from my two colleagues who have gone into this matter so deeply. frankly. i am very surprised by the wording of the delaware chancery case that the senator cited. it had been my impression that in situations where control de facto existed. as well as complete legal control. the courts would impose a trust relationship in dealings between. in this case. the investment company and the sponsor. and that one did  have to show gross fraud or gross negligence or mismanagement of a gross character. but that if anyone showed a conflicting position. he could get recovery. i would be surprised if this case is typical and if this principle is supported in the legal decisions of our courts. i would like to have that matter clarified. if i may.
i believe i am correctand we would  want to have any misunderstandingi am sure the senator from utah would agree that the effect of his amendment would beunless my substitute for it is adoptedonce the ratification described in the amendment is shown to have taken place. the court would be unable to go any further with any objection.
under present law. it may be rebuttable if one can show fraud or overreaching. or something of that sort. but the test would be that there could  be a giveaway by a majority of the shareholders or by the independent directors. they would still be liable for the giveway. and a giveway is sometimes talked of legally as a waste or gross mismanagement. plain mistakes. even plain negligence. probably would  be actionable under existing law. under my amendment we are raising the requirement of twothirds of the stockholders and 100 percent of the independent directors in order to shift the burden of proof in situations of that sort. when the senator from utah says we are putting this burden on the company. i sort of object to that statement. because this is for the benefit of the corporation. the burden is on the affiliate. the service company. the company which provides service either in the form of investment advice or stock sales. statistical. or other services. it is that company which has that burden. and i agree the burden is greater.
. the senate has been considering more effective control of the sale of guns since 1961. there has been lack of discussion and thoughtful consideration of legislation to deal with this problem. since the senate subcommittee on juvenile delinquency embarked on its investigation of the sale of firearms more than 7 years ago. volumes of testimony have been presented by govers. attorneys general. police officials. prosecutors. and concerned citizens. the volume of corespondence on this subject which deluged the offices of all senators earlier this year leaves doubt that the general public is aware of and concerned about the problem. public opinion polls have shown that up to 80 percent of our citizens. including at least 65 percent of those who own guns. are convinced that more effective controls are needed. the federal firearms act of 1938 is so vague and unsatisfactory that the government has been unable to obtain a single conviction under this section since it was enacted 30 years ago. is there anyone in the senate who believes this bureau record means that there has been abuse of firearms in this country during that long period. we recognized the need for more effective control of the availability of firearms earlier this year when we enacted title iv of the crime control act. passage of title iv was a positive step forward and it was long overdue. but it falls short of meeting the need because it covers only handguns. the legislation we are considering today would extend essentially the same controls contained in title iv to rifles and shotguns. there are those who recognize the need for additional controls. who agree that gun controls have been very lax and that they need to be tightened. but argue that this is an obligation of the states.  the federal government. i agree that the states should properly take a leading role here. but i believe the federal government has a very important role too and we have  met it. it is our duty to pass legislation which will make state laws effective and enforceable. my own state of new jersey has one of the more effective guncontrol laws in the nation. in a little more than 2 years of operation under its new law. new jersey has denied applications for rifle and shotgun identification cards and pistol permits to almost 2.000 applicants. about 65 percent of these denials were based on the applicants criminal record. these records included such offenses as first degree murder. rape. burglary. breaking and entering. lewdness. and sex crimes of various types. in other words. new jerseys guncontrol law is having an effect. but the new jersey law is  fully effective because those who are denied identification cards or permits in my state are able to travel to other states and buy guns they would  be able to buy in new jersey. a new jersey state police survey of the ustomers of several large mailorder gun dealers. who had submitted lists of their customers to the u.s. treasury department. showed that 40 percent of their customers in new jersey did  have the gun permits which are required by state law. a check of the names of these customers against state and federal criminal files showed that 44 percent of them had a prior criminal record. the legislation we are considering today could make new jerseys law more effective. it could help to cut off the availability of guns to criminals. maniacs and others who are  capable of handling these weapons responsibly. but e that i say it could do this.  that it would do this. if the legislation we enact contains gaping loopholes which allow criminals and others to evade effective controls. it will be of little value in reducing the illegal traffic in guns in my state or elsewhere. in my opinion. some of the amendments proposed by the judiciary committee would create loopholes in the bill before us. for example. the committee language would allow a person who does  conduct any business in firearms to obtain a dealers license for just $10. the potential abuse of this provision is obvious. aher committee amendment would permit residents of one state to purchase rifles and shotguns in a contiguous state if all other requirements of state and federal laws are met. this provision is designed to accommodate those who live near state borders where the nearest community is over the state line. this is an understandable objective but the committee amendment cuts significantly further than necessary to accomplish the objective. it would create difficult enforcement problems by opening the door to all residents of a state.  just those who live near the state line. these are loopholes that i believe should be closed. but we can go even further to make this legislation more effective without imposing any undue hardship on sportsmen and others who want to use guns for legitimate purposes. i speak of federal licensing and registration. the only purpose of a licensing system is to prevent gun crime by helping prevent guns from getting into the hands of criminals. the mentally ill. drug addicts. and other irresponsibles. a federal licensing law would advance this objective by encouraging enactment of state licensing systems. by buttressing other federal laws and by impeding the ability of criminals to travel from one state to aher to obtain guns. nationwide registration of firearms. centrally computerized through the national crime information center of the fbi. would help in the investigation of crime. would assist in enforcement of licensing laws. and would reduce the availability of guns to criminals. significantly. all of this could be accomplished in a brief. onetime visit to a police station. an inconvenience which would be greater than we  require at the state level for car owners and in many municipalities for dog owners and bicycle owners. both registration and licensing offer the states the option of preempting the federal legislation by enacting their own laws which meet federal standards. fear has been expressed in some quarters that a strict guncontrol law will be only a prelude to eventual confiscation of all guns. it seems to me that we are in far greater danger of being faced with such overly restrictive measures if we do hing to combat the violence by gun in this country at this time than we would be if we enact responsible. effective legislation . i urge my fellow senators to support a truly effective bill which will help my state protect its citizens against gun violence and encourage other states to take the steps needed to protect all our citizens.
i rise.  necessarily for the purpose of disagreeing. but for the purpose of attempting. to the extent that i can. to help in clarification of what the senator from new york has rightly said is a rather ambiguous provision. there are a number of respects in which this ambiguity exists. it seems to me. and whether colloquy on the floor of the senate can be very helpful. i am  sure. but in view of the fact that the length of the life of this provision will be 9 months. it may very well have some value in assisting the administrators in actually applying the provisions of the section. for example. the house language is silent as to the effective date of the section for the purpose of determining whether a crime which shall have been committed would come under the scope of the section. of course. the senate language makes that clear. but under the house language it might be said. under one interpretation. that financial assistance could be withheld from a student if he had been convicted of any crime under the section any time. say 2 years ago. i take it that it is  the intention of the manager. and specifically  of the senator from new york. of opening up the provisions of this program to any such interpretation of the house languages as that.
the senator from.new jersey has a broad grin. quite seriously. i ask these questions. i. therefore. ask the senator from new york or any other manager of the bill who may wish to address himself to the point: what would be thesituation of a student. who was convicted. between the time of his conviction and the time when he might take an appeal. or. having taken an appeal. when the appeal has been finally decided by a court of highest jurisdiction.
. as he was leaving office as chief justice of the united states recently. earl warren said the most important measure of a man in public office is whether he has given his best thought and consideration to the great problems confronting him. i agree with that statement. and there can be doubt that earl warren filled that measure to overflowing. he exerted strength. based on sincere convictions. for whatever he deemed to be in the best interest of this country and humanity as a whole. earl warren is a man uniquely matched to the times and circumstances in which he served. he is a man who always looked to the futurewith humanity. fairness. integrity. and dignityin times when the future is encroaching on the present at an everincreasing rate. as chief justice. he demonstrated that he was a man of strong conscience. serving in a post in which conscience replaces constituency. because he sought to deal with the future. earl warren could  avoid stirring controversy. the future always is much more debatable than the past. or even the present. but future generations will remember him  because he stirred controversy. but because he constantly had future generations foremost in his mind.
 himself. and i do  in any fashion regard our consideratlonpractically de oof these appointments as being a usurpation of any function that is  rightfully ours. and our duty to perform. "how he approaches these great questions of human liberty"-this. for me. is the essence of the issue in the pending ination of judge haynsworth. the word "insensitivity" has been applied by many to judge haynsworths dnancial transactions while sitting as a federal judge. others have rejected it. but to me. the insensitivity he has shown in his holdings and opinions on matters involving equal protection under the 14th amendment is undeniable and incontrovertible. the senior senator from new york has already put in the record an analysis of all cases involving segregation in which judge haynsworth wrote an opinion. it should be emphasized that all these opinions were written 8 or more years after the landmark case of brown against board of education in 1954. that is from 1962 on. these opinions. all that judge haynsworth has said in his own words on segregation cases. were written. i have also reviewed the analyses prepared by other members and discussed at some length in the record. the conclusion is inescapable. i believe. that judge haynsworth has shown a persistent reluctance to accept. and considerable legal ingenuity to avoid. the supreme courts unanimous holdings in the brown case and in subsequent decisions barring discrimination in areas other than the field of education. moreover. in those few cases where judge haynswbrth has ruled against a discriminatory practice. other choice was possible. i suggest that other choice was possible for him or any other judge. that the precedents were controlling and the facts and circumstances in cases obviously required the decision in which he joined. as late as 1968. judge haynsworth was continuing to voice his preference for "freedom of choice" plans in the desegregation of schools. even while he reluctantly implemented prior decisions by the supreme court. only last year he was still insisting that the burden of expensive litigation to secure constitutional rights be borne by those seeking relief. even when those people had been upheld in their contentions by his own court. the debate on this floor is replete with discussion of the dozen or so cases involving segregation in which judge haynworth wrote an opinion. but one in particular deserves special mention because it is so revealing of judge haynsworths approach and philosophy. this is the case involving the closing of public schools in prince edward county in virginia. this case began in 1951 and was one of four resulting in the historic brown decision of 1954. prince edward county was. however. determined to resist. in 1959. with the abandonment of "massive resistance" by the state of virginia. prince edward county refused to levy any school taxes and the public schools did  reopen that fall. private schooling for white children was arranged. but schooling for negro children ceased. in 1961. 10 years after the original complaint was filed and 7 years after the supreme court had spoken in the brown case. the district court forbade the county to pay tuition grants and allow tax credits which in fact went wholly for the education of white children in the private schools. shortly thereafter the district court ruled that prince edward schools could  be closed while public schools were open in all other counties. local officials challenged the rulings of the district court and the schools remained closed. pending a decision by the fourth circuit court. the circuit court decision written by judge haynsworth did  come until 1963. 9 years after the brown case and 11 years since the prince edward case was filed. the court overruled the district court action in forbidding grants and tax credits. on the question of closing the schools. the court abstained from deciding and ordered the district court to abstain until the virginia state courts had acted on what the u.s. supreme court later termed "issues that imperatively call for decision ." the supreme court felt so strongly that it expedited its review in this case. reversing the circuit court decision in 1964. the supreme court ed "this is  a case for abstention" and went on to point out: the record in the present case could f be clearer that prince edwards public schools and private schools operated in their place with state and county assistance. have one reason and one reason only: to ensure through measures taken by the county and the state that white and colored children in prince edward county would . under any circumstances. go to the same school. (337 us 229 (1964).) thirteen years after the case arose. 9 years after brown and after 5 years of public schooling. negro children of prince edward county finally were assured of public education by the supreme court. contrast the supreme courts sense of urgency with the attitude expressed by judge haynsworth in his opinion for the court of appeals: the impact of abandonment of a system of public schools falls more heavily upon the poor than upon the rich. even with the assistance of tuition grants. private education of children requires expenditures of some money and effort by their parents. one may suggest repetition of the often repeated statement of anatole france. "the law. in its majestic equality. forbids the rich as well as the poor to sleep under bridges. to beg in the streets. and to steal bread." cxv2213part 26 we come back  to judge haynsworths .ruling: that the poor are more likely to steal bread than the rich or the banker more likely to embezzle than the poor man. who is  entrusted with the safekeeping of the moneys of others. does  mean that the laws proscribing thefts and embezzlements are in conflict with the equal protection provision of the fourteenth amendment. similarly. when there is a total cessation of operation of an independent school system. there is denial of equal protection of the laws. though the resort of the poor man to an adequate substitute may be more difficult and though the result may be the absence of integrated classrooms in the locality. (322 f. 2d 336.) at best his statement indicates a degree of insensitivity to human rights unfitting the tribunal to which the american people look as the ultimate protector of constitutional guarantees. sensitivity and dedication to the solution of the very real problems that confront the nation today are the critical need. what might have been reasonable or tolerable at an earlier time is longer so. i believe there can be doubt that judge haynsworths confirmation by the senate would be taken by great numbers of our people as the elevation of a symbol of resistance to the historic movement toward equal justice for every american citizen. this appointment. at this time. would drive more deeply the wedge between the black community and the other miities on the one hand and. on the other. the rest of american society. i shall vote against confirmation.
i should like to say this to those who make a plea to us. "do  destroy this man." this is  destroying a man. so far as i am concerned. i base my judgment and decision entirely upon an attitude which for people in his area and his territory. his time of life. is an hoable position. it would  be for me. it is for him. and in the circles in which he has moved all his life. there is hing wrong with this. this involves blight upon him. nevertheless. it is to me disabling so far as appointment at this time to the supreme court of the united states is concerned.
the senator has been most generous. one. it seems to me. could have stated with greater sensitivity the feelings we all have when we come to deal with a matter of this kind. perhaps the fault is in the machinery set up by the constitution. by which the president sends to the senate a ination and asks our advice and consent. in effect. we are then passing judgment on the president. as well as upon the inee. and that is a troublesome factor. but. as i emphasized in my remarks in chief. i regard this responsibility. in effect. as de o when it comes to appointments at least to the supreme court of the united states. i hope that in this case and in all cases i exercise this responsibility with due appreciation of all the factors that ought to be considered. including human factors. nevertheless. it is a responsibility that i can duck. and i think the senator from indiana has stated with sensitivity and delicacy and propriety exactly the same position that i feel i am in.
of course.  i do . my disagreement with his characterization is quite complete. i want to say again that. listening to that quotation in its entirety. i get the impression that what the scholar was talking about was a whole range of cases in which the judge took part. segregation cases. i have dealt only. and my review dealt only. with the cases in which the judge expressed himself in written opinions. as to that. it seems to me there is disagreement possible with the conclusion of the senior senator from new york that the judge has a philosophy which is inappropriate to an appointee to the supreme court at this time.
i do  think i would draw this matter too finely. but i do want to point out that one can put too much stock in the fact that a member of the court concurred in the decision of the court in which he did  write the opinion. he may have done this for many reasons. i am talking about. considering. and basing my chief reliance on the judges own words in cases where he wrote the opinion in most cases for the court. and. in some cases. as dissenting opinions. i do  think i can go along. therefore. with the senator in his suggestion that my view of judge haynsworth necessarily would be the same for all people who may have arrived at the same conclusion. that is to say. who may have voted the same way judge haynsworth voted without expressing their own views in cases.
there are many reasons why a judge will vote a certain way in a case. he may feel. regardless of how his own views may be on it. that he is bound by the decisions in his circuit. in the case of the court of appeals. or the decisions of the supreme court. he may have other grounds for voting as he does in a particular case. and if he does  express them. then we are entitled. indeed to draw what conclusions we wish. or feel that we can. or should. from the facts of his vote. but. to me. it is  nearly so persuasive as the judges own words and opinions as expressed in the opinions which he himself wrote. that is the whole point of it.
. i wish to join the senator from kentucky in expressing appreciation to the senator from nebraska and other senators. and the chairman of the committee who devoted such a tremendous amount of work in this field and to these problems. i would like to carry one step further the line of inquiry the senator from kentucky was pursuing. it is my general understanding that this whole body of law represents an effort by the supreme court to enforce constitutional provisions.  because they like individuals who raise these questions. but because in some sense there does  seem to be any other way of enforcing the constitutional provision that man should be subjected to unreasonable searches and seizures. for example.
yes. by which the court suppressed evidence which has been found to be obtained illegally. or by unconstitutional action. would the senator tell me from his kledge. and i would like to k this. what means the individual whose wires are tapped has for bringing the state to account other than reliance on the doctrine of the court. is there any way they could be punished. can the fbi agent and the person who directs him. the attorney general. be called on to account criminally. if the senator will. for violation of any laws that  exist. is there an adequate remedy.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution of the jersey state bar association and an editorial from the new jersey law journal. thursday. february 26. 1970. in support of the hoable frederick b. lacey. u.s. attorney for new jersey. the resolution and the editorial are representative of the respect in which members of the bar in new jersey hold mr. lacey. i am glad to say also that support for his efforts to eliminate organized crime has been expressed to me in many letters from individual citizens of the state.
. i appreciate the senators giving me this chance to say this. since i have interrupted. there is one other point that i would like to underscore. if i may. at this time. many arguments have been made that less than wholly distinguished people have been appointed and in some cases have come to be acceptable or even good judges. the thought has been expressed that this might be true in the instant case. i think we have to go a little on the law of averages. and we will get a better court if we do the best we can. selection process is perfect. even with the best of intentions and with the highest criteria and the highest intelligence. one can make a mistake sometimes on how a person will turn out. but certainly the chances are greater that a selection from the top drawer will be more successful as far as the outcome is ultimately concerned than if the selection were made as our friend. the senator from louisiana suggested. from a. b. and c groups. with some idea that we need a representation across the board. even if this were so. let us leave everything else aside and let us assume that this man. having been appointed and seated on this court. has a whole change in his views about race and develops an unusual diligence and surprises all of us with latent powers that he has  yet shown. still. we would be taking a chance on that. let us assume that he worked out. it would still be a most unfortunate appointment. because it represents something wholly unnecessary. there are many other conservative people from the south that could be selected. it represents wholly unnecessarily a slap in the face to the black community of this country. it represents a most unfortunate repudiation of those black moderate leaders who have been doing their best to help this country stay on an even keel. it is irresponsible to do this at this time. and the argument that this man might change his mind on these matters would  correct the deep wound that would be caused in this area at a time when this country needs further wounds. but. rather. a healing. an understanding. and an encouragement to the members of the black and white communities who are doing their best to help us over this most difficult period.
 in its own report to our committee on the judiciary. the bar association committee described exactly what it did. this is the first time that it has limited its judgment. or its expression of its judgment. on a supreme court justice to the single word "qualified." it had aher formulation in regard to judge haynsworth. which. i am sorry. has been sent to the office of the official reporters for inclusion in the record. but it is obviously. as the senator suggests. a much more comprehensive statement. the thrust of the senators remarks is absolutely in the right direction. i personally have never seen a report which was so apologetic as the one which the american bar association committee. headed by judge walsh. from new york. made in this case. one of the most significant statements in it is that the committee is unhappy. in effect. because its critics have thought that it was rendering a comprehensive judgment. and it expressly disclaims having done that. it expressly states it is  rendering a comprehensive judgment on judge carswells qualifications. (at this point mr. hart assumed the chair as presiding officer.)
. in early january the u.s. jaycees annced its choice of the 10 outstanding young men for 1971. i am happy to report that among them was new jerseys u.s. attorney. the hoable herbert j. stem. mr. stern first came to prominence in new jersey when. as a member of the organized crime and racketeering section of the department of justice. he tried the colonial pipeline case. subsequently he was designated first assistant to u.s. attorney frederick b. lacey. when mr. lacey became judge of the u.s. court for the district of new jersey. mr. stern took over. having recommended both men. i am glad to report that under their leadership the u.s. attorneys office has been reinvigorated. an expanded staff has been working hard and effectively to root out corruption. to curb pollution and carry out the other manifold responsibilities of the office. i ask unanimous consent to. insert in the record an article from the sunday starledger of newark. n.j. reporting the jaycees award to mr. stern.
. few areas of public service demand such an arduous and selfless commitment as that required of a justice of the u.s. courts. the burden of a position within the federal judiciary. however. is experienced  only by the justice -himself. but is shared. more often than . by his spouse as well. for this reason. and as tangible evidence of our respect for the contribution of the federal judiciary. i want to record my support of s. 2854. introduced by the senator from th dakota . which provides for the payment of an annuity to the widow of any u.s. justice. the bill will be reported shortly. i understand. and i hope the senate will act promptly on it.
. three leading environmental groups have submitted a fourvolume compilation of 56 separate studies of the proposed transalaska oil pipeline to the department of the interior. the studies. compiled by the wilderness society. the environmental defense fund. and the friend of the earth. comprise a critical analysis of the interior departments revised environmental impact statement on the pipeline. in addition to many specific and valid points made by the various scientists. engineers. and ecoists who submitted the studies. a few general threads run through the comments. the common points made in many of the studies are that insufficient information  exists on which to base a rational decision.. that. the departments environmental impact statement avoids discussion of practical problems that will be faced in the field and at sea if the project is approved. that environmental control once the project is approved. would be virtually existent. and that alternative routes. including a canadian pipeline. were  adequately explored. the comments on marine impact are especially significant because this is an area of impact that could be largely avoided by an allland route through canada. one of the studies on marine impact was submitted by max blumer. senior specialist at the woods hole ocearaphic institution. in his study. dr. blumer es that we must determine in advance what levels of environmental deterioration we are willing to accept if we are to prevent unchecked deterioration of our marine environment. he points out that the effort expended to develop the standards needed in this area would be applicable to other areas. such as the continental shelf along the eastern seaboard. where they are needed. i ask unanimous consent that dr. blumers study be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. aher of the studies was submitted by dr. david hickok. director of the sea grant program at the university of alaska. dr. hickok says the range of alternatives available to the alaska pipeline is too wide to permit all of them to be investigated in great depth. but he points out that the canadian alternative route has been given considerable study by both industry and the canadian government and the environmental advantages of this route warrants more thorough investigation than is evidenced in the revised impact statement. i ask unanimous consent that dr. hickoks study also be printed in the record. also. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a letter from the sierra club. dated april 17. 1972. to . council on environmental quality.
 on consumer matters. legislation to set up a consumer protection agency has passed previously both houses of congress on different occasions by wide margins. last year. the senate sought to pass a bill nearly identical to s. 707. but this effort was thwarted by a filibuster in the closing days of congress. the need for a consumer protection agency could  be more clear. for. each week and each year. the federal government makes numerous decisions which vitally affect the interests of american consumers. the decisions are the result of formal and informal actions. formal actions. depending on a particular agencys rules. may be characterized by advance ice to the public. open hearings and a written record. in ice and comment type proceedingsalso formalthe docket. or file of responses. is open to the public. formal actions may involve the food and drug administration deciding the efficacy of a drug. or it may involve actions by the interstate commerce commission and the civil aeronautics board on freight rates and fares. or. in aher type of formal action. the federal trade commission may conduct an investigation- to determine whether a company should be punished for a deceptive practice. such as misleading advertising. aher type of actionparticularly susceptible to abuseis the informal proceeding which is conducted out of sight of the public and usually without its kledge. in a senate government operations committee report last year. it was estimated that "perhaps 90 percent" of the governments work is accomplished informally. the committee pointed out that such activities as the governments investigation of interstate phone rates. the recall of adulterated food. and the removal of leadbased christmas tree tinsel from the market all involve. or involved. informal actions. despite their potential impact on the consumer. in an example of how far informal decisionmaking can go. the committee report took e of the department of agricultures decision to permit cooked poultry in frankfurters and sausage. the department  only kept the public in the dark as to its actions. but when it made them public it did so. according tc the report. in a "a secret usda inhouse publication." in such cases the consumer interest is represented. if at all. after the informal decisions .are made. by then it is usually too late to undo what damage has been done. on formal matters. the consumer is handicapped by a lack of time and resources to do an adequate job in his own behalf. on the other hand. his industry counterpart will be well and fully represented and. furthermore. can write off the cost as an expense of doing business. while the consumer is  without resources. these are . at this time. an effective counterweight to the resources that industry and other special interests can bring to their side of a cause. and so long as the consumer lacks the means for promptly. effectively. and consistently presenting his views. it is almost too much to expect that agency decisions and actions will reflect his concerns. it is essential that balance be provided. the means for doing this is the establishment of a consumer protection agency as provided by s. 707. under our bill. the cpa would have authority to intervene in formal agency proceedings. presenting evidence. crossexamining witnesses. and proposing findings and conclusions. before it can intervene. the agency would have to determine that a substantial consumer interest is at stake. and where regulator and regulated engage in informal decisfonmaking. the cpa will have the right to ice of such proceedings and to make the consumer interest kn verbally or in writing. beyond this. the agency will have au.thority to represent the consumer interest in court if any agencys action leads to litigation. to press federal agencies to act when action is called for. to try to help consumers victimized in the marketplace. and to inform itself and the public about shoddy goods and shady practices. the cpa is  established to be antibusiness. doubt it frequently will advocate positions supported by all or parts of an industry where it is in the consumer interest to do so. or it might initiate a complaint against an unethical firm which is giving an entire industry a bad name. to the extent cpa is successful in its work it will improve the marketplace for consumer and honest businessman alike. i believe our bill is essential to the greater protection of the consumer and i urge its enactment this year. s. 1033
if the senator would read the last sentence in secretary kissingers certification. i think he will be largely reassured. in addition. i think all of us took that sentence to mean  only commitments which are justiciable. which could be sued upon if a court could be found and issues could be raised to test them. but also assurances and statements of intentions and other matters. those things are included in that last. sentence. if they were entitled to be relied on and intended to be so.
the senator is most gracious in his remarks. may i say this.  in the spirit of levity. but we had a bill. it passed. we had a lawi forget the name of itwhich had to do with election financing. and a few weeks ago the supreme court took interesting action in respect to that legislation. in some ways. the supreme court in regard to that law. its action. in effect. eliminating the commission which was set up under the law to provide the machinery for its enforcement. struck the law. although the supreme court said certain substantive provisions could be stated as principles and still remain. well. that is about what the senator would do here. he would provide that it is against the law for us to provide security assistance to any country the government of which engages in a consistent pattern of gross violations of internationally recognized human rights. the senator accepts that. as i understand it. and would provide instead of the machinery for enforcement of that section which we worked out very carefully. and with the cooperation of the department of state and of aid. he would substitute a provision just for reporting by the secretary of state. . as to that matter of who makes the reports or what executive agency is responsible for making the determination in the first instance that the country is engaged in practices of this sort. we first had in there a provision that the president should make that determination. this was later changed in the process of our working on the bill to the secretary of state. but we still felt. and the people downtown represented to us. that this would be an embarrassment for the secretary of state. as it would indeed have been a greater embarrassment for the president. to make a determination with respect to a foreign country. with which either of those officers had to deal on a daily basis. that it is involved in a gross violation of human rights. so we changed that.
. in recent years there have been renewed efforts by various countries to combat international terrorism. the outbreaks of aircraft hijackings. the killings of ambassadors and ordinary civilians. and the horrible television spectacle of the kidnaping and killing of israeli athletes at the 1972 munich olympic games all touched off expressions of concernand quiet efforts to tighten security measures. members of congress have given their support. in legislation. resolutions and individual expressions of concern. to the campaign against terrorism. thus. many of us were outraged at the action of the french government in acting so quickly to release and send to algeria abu daoud. an admitted terrorist who is suspected of masterminding the 1972 munich olympics massacre in which 11 athletes were kidnaped and killed. at the initiative of the senator from colorado . a letter signed by many members of the senate was sent to the french ambassador to express our concern. it was also felt that the senate had a duty to express its concern in a more formalized manner. and last friday the senate foreign relations committee approved the pending resolution. i am well aware that the french government officially finds it unacceptable that the state department and members of congress criticized the french in quickly releasing abu daoud. the french ambassador. in telephone calls and by letter. has asked us to withdraw and reconsider the resolution originally approved by -the senate foreign relations committee the previous week. the ambassadors letter describes the committees stand on the court action as "tantamount to interference." i do think. however. it is of utmost importance to emphasize that we have a duty to make our views kn. in considering the resolution. the senate foreign relations committee took into account the sensitivity of the french. the committee spent a considerable amount of time in public discussion of -that point. and the resolution finally approved by the committee is measured in tone. in the resolution. the release of abu daoud is described as "...-harmful to the efforts of the com.munity of nations to stamp out international terrorism." the foreign relations committee. in considering and reporting the- resolution. also had a duty to do more than only take into account the sensibilities of the french government. the committee and the senate also should take into account the families of the numerous victims of international terrorism. these victims include the families of the u.s. ambassador. aher american diplomat. and a belgian diplomat murdered in the sudan in a 1973 attempt by the black september group to obtain abu daouds release from a jordan prison. the senate also has a duty to take into account the need to bolster the campaign against international terrorism. the french governments action is bound to be taken as aher sign that france will  take a forthright stand against a terrorist who has the support of oilproducing nations. we also sought to give voice to the oufrage felt at the action in releasing the terrorist so hastily. in what appears to be a headlong rush to fly him to a safe haven in algeria before the extradition requests could be handled in accordance with the usual practice. the french government utilizes a technicality in justifying the release of abu daoud on january 11. only 4 days following his arrest after entering france on a false iraqi passportitself an illegal act. the west german government said the frenchgerman extradition treaty explicitly states that a person under arrest pending extradition may be released only if a formally completed motion haq  been presented within 20 days. the spokesman also said it is customary to allow up to 20 days for presentation of the diplomatic confirmation of the extradition request. the israelis say their treaty with france allows 60 days for the extradition request. the baltimore sun reported from parisfrance usually will hold a person wanted by aher country for up to 18 daysmr. daoud had been held for four. the court that mally hears extradition cases hears them on mondays. mr. daouds case was suddenly taken up on a tuesday. six days before it was reportedly scheduled. it seems clear that the french decision was based on political -grounds. but this is  an international court of law in which to debate the legal technicalities of frances treaties with other nations. we are. however. entitled to make our own assessment of the situation. and our assessment is that the release of abu daoud so quickly hurt the efforts to stamp out international terrorism. we should  let our voices bestilled by those who put diplomatic niceties and possible material gains above human lives. a number of explanations have been january .26. 1977 given on why abu daoud went to paris and why he was arrested by french authorities. michael parks of the baltimore sun. writing from cairo. has speculated that daouds mission was to break up meetings going on in paris between israeli peace groups and palestinians. because i think my colleagues will be interested in mr. parks report. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. i say i have complete sympathy for and agreement with the senator from ohio. i do  wish to boil waters unnecessarily in the international field. but i felt that an immediate reaction of the kind that the senator had in mind was a thing we should have done. that was the reason i put the resolution in and asked for its immediate consideration by the committee on foreign relations. that was done. and the resolution came to the floor. and then it was pulled back. when that happened it seemed that the matter was beginning to take on more of a kind of court or tribunal consideration and that it was desirable  to press the original language which might  have had the complete approval which the language in its present form will  get. i believe.
 and all members of the federal judiciary. including supreme court justices. once our own code of official conduct is in place. i hope we will proceed to enact legislation to impose similar restrictions on the other branches. when i appeared before the special committee. i urged that the problem of uficial office accounts be reviewed and i am pleased that new rule xlvi prohibits the use of privately subsidized office accounts. it is certain that there have been a number of abuses arising from the use of these uficial funds. and at this time it is proper that we take steps to stop the abuses and insure that every senatorregardless of his wealth or lack of it or that of his friendsbe equally well equipped to discharge his duties as a senator. one other point which i would like to make relates to the enforcement of the official rules. it is necessary to provide a means for enforcement or our other actions in strengthening our rules are hollow and meaningless. it would be wrong to come as far as we have in drawing up a code of official conduct and leave out the essential ingredient of enforcement.
. i want to call attention to new evidence of the extraordinary perseverance of the helsinki watchers in the u.s.s.r. in the face of ever mounting pressure from the soviet authoritiesthe deplorable 12- and 15year prison sentences given to mykola rudenko. leader. and to oleksiy tykhy. member. of theukrainian group to promote observance of the helsinki accords. the recent appearance of a new statement by the ukrainian group is all the more remarkable. this statement was relayed to the west from general grigorenko. coordinator between the moscow and ukrainian helsinki watch groups. this declaration of the public group to promote observance of the helsinki accords in the ukraine protests the very severe prison terms just given to rudenko and tykhy. the statement stresses the illegal secrecy of the kgb activities against helsinki watchers in the u.s.s.r.-showing how sensitive the soviet authorities are to world and even domestic public opinion. the trials of rudenko and tykhy were held in* the working class village of druzhkivka. 100 kilometers from donetskwhich is a large city about 300 miles from kiev.  content with holding the trial in a remote village where any strangers wanting to attend the trial would be recognized immediately by the local police. the trial was held in a "red corner"-a communist party information centerinside a factory for which one needed a special security passthereby further limiting the attendance at the trial. workers from the factory where tykhy had been employed before his arrest in donetsk tried to attend his trialthey were all turned back. members of the helsinki groups and other dissidents also attempted to go to the trial and many were held in jail for 3 days and then forcibly returned to their homes. even tykhys 80yearold mother and rudenkos wife were  allowed into the trial until the sixth day and were appalled at the defendants state of obvious exhaustion. both men are in bad healthtykhy after 7 years in camp on political charges. and rudenko as a result of a back injury he got during the war. they may  survive their lengthy sentences in the infamous conditions of soviet labor camps. so that my colleagues can acquaint themselves with the actual text of the declaration of the ukrainian group to promote observance of the helsinki accords of july 1. 1977. and an editorial from the washington post on the recent deplorable actions of the soviet authorities in the ukraine. i ask unanimous consent to print them in the record.
. the concluding lines of the post editorial provide a thoughtful starting point for the committees consideration of this issue: any miity. however tiny. is entitled to a hearing. but ody has a right to endanger other peoples lives in pursuit of his own claims on a government. a crime that claims a political purpose is less a crime. i ask unanimous consent to have the editorial printed in the record.
. the south african governments shutdown of at least three newspapersincluding two leading black newspapers is a deplorable .action and a cause for deep concern. the unrest and police actions following the death in prison last month of steve biko. a young black leader. have been a source of increasing dismay to those of us who support a peaceful resolution of the conflicts in southern africa. i am particularly worried that the south african government may be so taken up with the concept that the outbreaks of unrest are orchestrated in some way that it continues to fail to adequately recognize and meet the legitimate concerns of the white population. as one who has urged the state department to kee.p open the rhodesian information office in washington and opposed attempts to use unesco to curb press freedom. i am deeply concerned about the actions taken against south african publications .and journalists as well as other organizations and individuals. i hope the south african government will reconsider its actions and take steps to lessen rather than widen the tensions. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article from todays washington star on the developments in south africa.
. i think it is emously useful for us to go into history of the origin of our relations with panama. it is interesting as a matter of history. it is interesting as a matter of giving us a feel for this whole situation. but i do suggest that whether the arrangements made with panama in 1903 and subsequently changed and each change was absolutely validassuming that we had every right. that we were  overreaching. that it was a bargain between powers of equal strength and therefore the kind that would be enforced in a court of law if it were a justicable matternevertheless. the question still is. should that be changed . that is what we really have to decide. is it in our interest. is it in the interest of the panamanians. is it in the interest of the continued operation of the canal and its availability in peace and in war. that this arrangement be changed . if so. is this change a good one.
. the state department recently responded to some questions which have arisen regarding the authority of united states and panamanian police under the proposed panama canal treaty. the state departments letter brings out a number of important points and i ask unanimous consent that the text of the letter be printed in the record.
. today. february 24. 1978. marks the 60th anniversary of the proclamation of independence of the republic of estonia and i wish to congratulate all estonian americans on this occasion. on august 23. 1939. however. stalin and hitler met and marked out areas in eastern europe which were to be "theirs" and so the baltic republics fell to the soviets. estonia is. the target of particularly severe russification. visitors to tallinn ice the increase in russian heard on the streets. due to the many russians who are resettled there. at the same time. estonians living in the villages are legally restricted in their place of residence. while russians are encouraged to move to tallinn. as a member of the commission on security and cooperation. i am watching the difficult course of civil liberties in soviet estonia. much to my dismay. i e new evidence of soviet official disregard for basic human freedoms. as an example. i want to cite the case of enn tarto. an estonian former political prisoner. who  lives in tartu. in an appeal to the lithuanian helsinki watch group. tarto complains of repeated kgb interrogations. dismissal from an educational institute. and four attempts to set fire to the building where he lives. aher example of the difficulties facing former political prisoners is the case of mart niklus. an estonian who spent 10 years in camp for sending abroad a few photographs of estonia. on october 8. 1976. niklus was arrested for "resisting the police" a week earlier and has since been sentenced to camp. aher startling document from the lithuanian watch group relating to estonia. is from erik udam. who told of kgb attempts to recruit him to form a phony dissident group in estonia. the purpose of this "dissident" group would have been to establish contact with american diplomats in moscow. udam was offered 250.000 rubles for initial expenses in this enterprise. this incident speaks volumes about the effectiveness of real dissident groups in estonia and all over the u.s.s.r. when the soviet authorities are confronted with a real dissent groupas they were in estonia in october 1975the sentences meted out were very severe. indeed: mati kiirend and artem yuskevich got 5year terms in prison camps. kalju matik and sergi soldatov received 6year terms in prison camps. in the trial of the estonian democrats. in general. i can understand why it is that the soviets continue to feel so threatened by any expression of individual views. of any groups meeting to discuss party ( necessarily antiparty) ideas in estonia or any other of the soviet "republics." on this occasion. i do want to commend all estonian americans who show their support for estonians in their native land by writing letters to them. and protests to the soviet authorities who continue to ige the obligations they have assumed in the helsinki accords and other international agreements.
. to use every feasible bilateral contact with officials of east european countries to remind them of the past promises on human rights. the belgrade conference brought out into the open some of the violations. the u.s. delegation headed by arthur goldberg. is commended in the resolution for its efforts. because of the dedication and concern of mr. goldberg and some of the other officials. the presentation was much stronger than it would have been had the delegation style been set by the traditional approach of the bureaucracy. some observers were disappointed that the concluding document adopted at the end of the belgrade conference was  more specific on the human rights issue. but in view of the nature of the situation. there may have been unrealistic expectations. it is  generally realized that the concluding document had to be unanimously agreed toin other words the soviet union and even malta had to agree to the final language. the way the soviets stonewalled on any mention of human rights on the concluding document is an indication of how strongly they were stung at the mention of human rights at belgrade. one of the accomplishments of the belgrade conference is that review sessions will be held at regular intervalsthe next meeting will be in madrid in 1980. the important thing is that the process of spotlighting human rights violations continue as part of the effort to encourage soviet officials to abide by the promises of the helsinki accord and the united nations declaration on human rights. the u.s. commission on security and cooperation in europe on which i served will continue its efforts in this process. for example the commission has been following the disturbing way in which soviet officials have used psychiatric treatment and hospitals as a way of punishing dissidents. the commission also has been gathering information on the subhuman living conditions in the soviet union. the commission staff reports that as part of the moscow helsinki watch group. five soviet citizens have formed the working commission to investigate the abuse of psychiatry for political purposes. the commission issues reports on the situation of soviets subjected to punitive psychiatry. in august 1977. a member of this commission. feliks serebrov. was arrested and then sentenced to camp for using falsified documents. in ember 1977. aher member of this group. aleksandr podrabinek. was ordered to emigrate from the soviet union with his brother and father or face criminal charges. in december 1977. kirill podrabinek was arrested and recently was sentenced to 21/2 years of prison camp for possession of weapons. sentencing of dissidents on phony criminal charges is a favorite "new" method of the soviet government in trying to silence dissent. in the last few weeks. for example. a member of the georgian helsinki group. grigory goldshtein. has been sentenced to 1 year in camp for "parasitism"-he lost his job when he applied to emigrate to israel in 1971. in the ukraine. pyotr vinsson of the imprisoned baptist pastor. georgy vinsis  facing a trial on charges of parasitism after having applied to emigrate to relatives in canada. despite the vote in houlu at a meeting of the world psychiatric association condemning the soviet practice of punitive psychiatry against dissidents and religious believers. amnesty international reported recently that since that time. there are 14 kn cases of psychiatric incarceration of dissenters. one such reported victim is vladimir kleba. organizer of an uficial trade union in the u.s.s.r.. who is said to be in a donetsk psychiatric hospital. two other victims of this cynical practice are zviad gamsakhurdia and merab kostava of the georgian helsinki watch group who underwent "tests" at the serbsky institute for forensic psychiatry in moscow before being sent back to georgia to await trial for their monitoring work. twelve prisoners of mordovian camp  19 undertook a hunger strike from april 19 until july 27. 1977an action timed to coincide with the preparatory session of the belgrade conference. their appeal is also addressed to my colleagues in the congress. listing 12 categories of denial of their rights: first. political prisoners are in the same legal category as criminal offenders. second. there is secret legislation relating only to political prisoners. third. the labor of political prisoners is cruelly taxed and exploited in a 48hour workweek. fourth. the almost total absence of rights to legal defense and redress of grievances. fifth. a deliberate policy of gradual starvationincluding a ban on food parcels for the first half of a sentence. sixth. the denial of their human dignityeach camp is surrounded by six barbed wire fences and manned with guards carrying machineguns. seventh. discrimination against religious prisoners--neither religious services  bibles are allowed. eighth. ethnic discriminationprisoners often serve their sentences outside their native republics. especially in the case of armenians and georgians. ninth. it is illegal for prisoners to get married and difficult to have contact with existing familythey request three to four family visits per year. tenth. the forcible political indoctrination of prisoners. eleventh. depriving prisoners of their professional qualifications. by banning books in their fields of expertise and by confiscating their work. and twelfth. deliberately isolating camps from the rest of the worldby detaining and confiscating personal correspondence. one of the prisoners active in this hunger strike was vladimir osipeov. editor of an independent russian orthodox journal. sentenced to an 8year prison term in 1975 for his publishing activities. the sakharovs have made kn aher hunger strike in this mordovian camp by eduard kuznetsov. 1 of the 10 still imprisoned defendants of the first leningrad trial in 1970. it seems that the soviets have heeded the appeals on behalf of mr. kuznetsovs relatives who wish to visit him and have promised his wife. sylva zalmanson. that she will be allowed into the u.s.s.r. from europe to visit her husband. few positive signs can be seen in this dismal picture of soviet "respect" for human rights. one must have serious doubts about the sincerity of the soviets when they undertake commitments in international agreements--such as those they undertook at helsinki in 1975. i call on my colleagues to continue to make kn their views on this subject. for the pressure of world opinion can have an effect on the soviet authorities.o
. one of the arguments made for the sale of 60 f15s to saudi arabia and 50 f5s to egypt was that the approval was necessary to court what are described as moderate arab leaders during the peace process. my own view is that the sale of so many planes at this time is an obstacle to peace. it is  up to the administration to take the initiative. as the washington posta newspaper which supported the salecommented in an editorial: the carter administration. having argued for the warplane proposal on grounds that it would facilitate the search for peace. has an especially heavy responsibility to demonstrate. with its arab partners as with its old israeli friend. that that is so. columnist james reston. who also supported the sale. suggests that "much depends on whethermr. carter is able to get mr. sadat back to the negotiation table." i ask to place both articles in the record. the articles follow:
. earlier this month. in a remote town in the ukraine. the soviets meted out aher brutal sentence to yet aher of its citizens monitoring soviet compliance with the helsinki accords. of all the republics in which soviet monitoring groups have been set up. it is the ukrainian helsinki group which has had to pay the heaviest toll in terms of arrests and sentences. of the 10 original members of the kiev group. fully half have received prison terms of at least 12 years. lukyanenko was sentenced to a 10year term in special regimen camps plus 5 years of internal exile. only 2 years ago. lukyanenko returned from a previous 15year term in the gulag. in 1961. lukyanenko was sentenced for supporting the idea that the western ukraine vote on a referendum on withdrawal from the soviet union. for this. lukyanenko has had to spend 15 years in prisons. camps. and psychiatric hospitals. it seems that one of the most serious charges against mr. lukyanenko is that as a founding member of the ukrainian helsinki group. he wrote a document on systematic discrimination against ukrainians who desire to emigrate. using his own case as an example. away from the eyes of the west. dissidents such as levko lukyanenko continue to suffer soviet reaction against dissent and documentation of abuse. people in the west tend to hear less about soviet dissidents who live outside moscow. this does  mean that those people who live in other parts of the u.s.s.r. are less deserving of our support. this does  mean that ukrainian dissidents are less important than their moscow counterparts. it does mean that we should redouble our efforts to make the fates of these stalwart men and women better understood in the west.*
my amendment to the substitute is designed to strengthen it and to meet some objections which i think might occur on the republican side of the aisle. my amendment vests the obligation to certify in the secretary of state. because i believe that the members on the republican side of the aisle want to be sure that in this particular program it should be somebody whom they have confidence in who will vouch for the loyalty and the security of the personnel involved. under my amendment the secretary of state is required to certify to the loyalty and security of each individual employee in the program. i beg leave to inform the committee why this entire proposal is important. although it is  in the main stream of the bill. the head of the federal bureau of investigation is  a cabinet officer. he is an officer appointed by the attorney general. .. the secretary of state is a cabinet officer. and of high rank. yet. by what we are.doing in the bill. we are saying that an officer of lower rank. in a bureau which is charged. essentially with criminal investigation. has the power to bind the secretary of state on a.certificatio the loyalty of important personjnel in the department of state.- hardly an. expression of confidence in the secrotary of state of the united states. also as my colleague on the foreign affairs committee. from south carolina so eloquently said. it opens the possibility of a political police bureau of our own. in the bill for relief assistance togreece and turkey we included a similar provision. but that provision called for such certification by the fbi. it said only. that a person "shall have been investigated as to. loyalty andsecurity by the federal bureau of investigation." .  and i would like to say. a word while i am on my feet on two of the arguments that have been made here today about the bill. we have been asked what is an antonym for isolationism. an antonym for isolationism is security. and i would like to give the gentleman three syyms for isolationismone is insecurity. the other is impracticability. and the third is unrealism. i can believe that anybody .who went through the last war could still stand up here and claim to be an isolationist and find any virtue in that position. one other pointa good deal has been made about the fact that a majority of the republicans went through the middle aisle on a teller vote to shelve this bill. and that a miity 6f the republicans supported the move to continue on with this bill. argue it out and come to a vote. but. i would like to point out that when the greekturkish assistance bill was before this committee. on the question of whether we were going to be isolationists or whether we were going to be realists. a majority of the republicans who voted. 58 percent. voted to be realistic. voted aye. in recognition of the fact that national security was a part of world security and that the preservation of freedom here required it to be fought for in places far removed from here. i prefer to believe that what republican members want is a clarification of this bill. they want some amendments. they want a complete discussion. i refuse to believe that a majority will be so unrealistic as to want to kill this bill. finally. the republicans were in the miity in the congress for a long time. and it is because new men have come in that the republicans are in the majority. . i am of the opinion that the great majority of the new men who received the mandate of the people in ember 1946. realize the inseparability of foreign policy and the means for explaining it to the people of the world. and will vote "aye" when the roll is called on this bill.
s executive order regarding loyalty investigations and firing for disloyalty is in effect. we are. therefore.  under such pressure as to prevent us from passing legislation to eliminate subversives in the federal establishment and without invading the rights as citizens of the great body of loyal and conscientious federal employees the word "affiliation" under my amendment remains in the paragraph. it has been defined by the supreme court in the case of bridges v. wixon (326 u. s. supreme court reports) to be the following: evidence of a working alliance to bring the proposed program to fruition. therefore. my amendment gives full coverage both as to direct membership in any subversive group. and as to any kind of activity of a "fellow traveler" variety. but the words "or sympathetic association" are as wide open as a barn door for thought control and the house should definitely take them out.
i investigated this matter in germany. there is a section in the bill  which says that the visas shall be issued for 90 days in the event that the quota of the particular country from which the fiance comes is oversubscribed. therefore. when the girl comes here and does  marry she may be sent back after 90 days. that does  apply where the quota is  oversubscribed. the german quota is  oversubscribed. as i stated. i investigated this personally. quite a few hundred visas have been issued to german girls. but they are permanent visas. they have come over here. there is checkup as to whether or  they have actually married and the thing has become subject to much abuse. the only thing that is needed is to amend the bill to strike out that particular provision which brings about this condition. it will  affect the matter that the gentleman wants to accomplish and what i want to accomplish. that is. the admission of these flancdes only for purposes of marriage to americans.
. i have offered this amendment at what is perhaps the final opportunity under this bill only for the purpose of rounding out and concluding the argument that i have made on the question of outlawry of an organization. i want. however. to pursue just for one minute aher question. the question that i put to the house and to the committee is. would it  be possible. once congress adopts the precedent of this bill. that some time in the future by writing sweeping findings of fact with respect to catholics. or jews. or some other group found all over the worldand coupling them with the definition of a felony. congress could make the findings. determinations. and conclusions in a bill that a crime has been committed merely by being an active member or officer of a catholic. jewish. or similar organization. to make it more clear that outlawry is intended by the bill. section 5 imposes the punishment of loss of nationality just loss of citizenshipbecause as lawyers in the house k. conviction of a felony generally deprives a person of the right of a citizen to vote for a time. but under this particular section 5. a nativeborn american who is convicted of this crime under section 4 is expatriated. i am  solicitous of communists and most of the members of the house are  solicitous about communists. we are solicitous about human beings. and we are solicitous of preserving constitutional rights. we are solicitous about  having sweeping findings of guilt by the definitions of a statute alone. that is the ground on which i felt justified in completing my argument while the section of the bill which with section 4 relates to conviction of a felony was still before us.
. peace with justice in the middle east is what the world seeks. britains mysterious maneuvering in egypt and palestine and transjordan do  seem to be contributing to that result. the british. for instance. appear to be trying to maneuver egypt into invoking the 1936 angloegyptian treaty of assistance which egypt has denced as negotiated under coercion. the united states shows every sign of  being tied up with this policy of intrigue. we should throw our weight behind the new palestine conciliation commission of the un to bring peace quickly. if direct negotiations between israel and the arabs prove to be impossible. we should urge also that britain make clear her stand to fully back the conciliation commissions search for peace. stop her maneuvers in palestine. refrain from adding to the conflagration by sending her troops there. or renewing her arms shipments to the arab states. and use her very real influence with the arab states to get them to withdraw their aggressor forces from palestine and to establish the conditions for a just peace. in case should we be a party to british intrigues. that is  the course of security in the middle east or of peace.
. the de jure recognition of israel is of course deeply gratifying to all who have fought for justice for the small state. and for a place of sanctuary for the unhappy jews of europe. i have joined in this fight believing first in our american principle that justice to miities is the key to the success of democracy. and second that israel will be a bridgehead of democracy in a middle east ridden with chronic depression. illiteracy. bad health. and feudal social conditions. israel  has a great part to play in the recovery and modernization of this whole area which has long been a tinder box for war. by contributing to the recovery of the middle east with israel as a focal point we shall be safeguarding peace and our national security. while at the same time serving best the cause of the triumph of democracy in the world.
to answer the gentleman. i do  want to get beyond my original request which was that the gentleman. as chairman of the committee. would accept the words stricken out on page 3. lines 2 and 3. the gentleman answers that at the present time it is opposed by the committee. i say this is a legislative matter. it is  a question of executive enforcement. we are setting up a policy to help the smallbusiness man. to that extent we are changing the natural law of competition. i say to the gentleman that i hope the committee of the whole will see fit to do that. the smallbusiness man. i think. is entitled to our solicitude. we should  go further at this time in this bill than correcting what i agree is an obvious difficulty. this question of the right to sell at delivered prices. which the supreme court has left in doubt. but in this bill the legislative committee is going further than necessary .
. vigorous action by the state of new york which has just resulted in the indictment of six participants in the peekskill riot should be gratifying to americans everywhere. the local authorities are  having their opportunityas they shouldto demonstrate their ability to enforce the law and bring about respect for the constitution. the issue is also a much wider one affecting respect for constitutional guarantees to miities throughout the united states. emphasizing that we expect it as much in the th as in the south. those of us in the congress who opposed the mundtnixon bill and similar legislation have a special dutyto see that constitutional guarantees are neither flouted  exploited. i hope that the grand jury action already inaugurated in new york will apply with equal weight to the hoodlums who participated in the riot as well as to any communist or communist sympathizers who incited it. it reminds us that consideration of federal antilynching legislation has been permitted to lag in a way which is a disservice to the american people. there should be an overriding power in the federal government to see that beyond considerations of community or even state the constitution is hoed by all.
. the eightyfirst congress  reaches the halfway mark. and it is time to appraise what it has done and what its work portends for the future. the people have won public housing. a higher minimum wage. expansion and improvement of the socialsecurity system. government reorganization and a continuance of the bipartisan foreign policy for the maintenance of peace and security with special emphasis on the ecoic rehabilitation of the western democracies. other major legislation on civil rights. health. labormanagement relations. housing. and technical assistance to underdeveloped areas. have  been acted on and await action in the next session. the news of an atomic explosion in the soviet union has stimulated all americans to question the direction of our foreign policy. in the approval of appropriaticns for the european recovery program and of a program of military aid to the atlantic pact nations congress showed that it believes in the american policy of support by selfhelp and mutual cooperation for the democracies. and that their security is our security. congress saw reason as yet for undertaking a drastic change in our foreign policy. i have workedhard to insure that our policies shall seek justice at home and a better standard of wellbeing for our people. while we lent the great weight of our prestige and resources to the struggle for peace and freedom abroad.
 of the subcommittee handling this bill whether he believes. in view of the extensive hearings held by the subcommittee. that this amendment is necessary. or whether he agrees with our colleague from arkansas that the amendment is  necessary. scientists and scholars from columbia university and other great institutions of higher learning which are located in the district of new york which i have the ho to represent have told me that many excellent men in the field of scientific research. with excellent backgrounds and records. are quite restive over being picked out as special objects of investigation when they are trying to cooperate in connection with the scientific effort of the government. that is particularly true of the younger men. who feel keenly on the subject.
i should like to raise this question with the gentleman from california and the gentleman from pennsylvania. one of my colleagues raised with me a very pertinent question of a "smoking" sign in an ordinary quartermasters depot. which could. i might tell the gentleman from wisconsin. be under the command of a junior officermight such a man. because there was a sign posted saying "smoking." be held liable under this severe section. the question i raise is whether we are better off as a matter of policy leaving these regulations to the president. which is what the gentleman from pennsylvania proposes. or are we better off leaving it to a court to determine. at the same time it determines whether or  a misdemea has been committed. this could be done by providing for a determination whether or  the regulation which was violated was "reasonably required" forand i use the words of the section-"the protection or security" of the particular installation.
. an effort has been made in the course of this debate. in which i had intended to take part. but in which i am compelled to speak because of what i will describe in a minute. to make this an issue either black or white. to put it on the basis that members are either for or against rfc and that will determine how members would vote. i am sorry but i do  think it is quite that clear. or quite that way. there is still aher point of view. which is the point of view i hold. perhaps there are other members who feel the same way. that is. this is  the time to effect this reorganization. and for that reason i intend to support this resolution rejecting the plan. i will tell the committee why. it seems to me there is a phase of investigation involved here in respect of the rfc. we k a lot about investigations. you k. in new york city. but there is also a phase of reform. it seems to me that the phase of reformthat is what this effort at reorganization representsis crowding the issues involved in the investigation. the senate committee which is looking into the situation. which has discovered so muchand regardless of what my friend from texas says. there is excuse for the rfc being used to finance hotels in miamiit seems to me this investigation of the rfc ought to be digested by the congress and the people and a considered judgment arrived at. we ought to see whether the basic and organic rfc law should be amended or . before we talk about pushing through this reorganization plan dealing with the rfc at the top level only. i think it is very likely that i shall support continuance of the rfc because i think a financing mechanism like that is very important to the country and essential in many important places. and i want to make it very clear that i do  consider my vote for this resolution as being a vote for the extinguishment of the rfc. i think it would be very unfair. in view of what has been discovered in this very good investigation of the rfc in the other body that is currently taking place. to try to hang the label of opposition to rfc on anybody who votes in favor of this resolution. in fact preservation of the rfc in public confidence and therefore preservation of the rfc. may very well depend on the attention  given to the investigation and i do  believe that the investigation gets the full faith and credit it deserves if we take this hasty action .
i do  intend to oppose this resolution. i intend to stand by the position of "present" that i took in the committee. but i think this is a proper occasion to get adult about this whole situation and realize that our stake in germany is great and to realize we do want to make germany a great ally of the western democratic powers. but there are very disquieting influences that are there and that need to be ed. if the congress is to act at least it should act with full accord of the facts before it. members of the other body and of this body have sought an investigation of our occupation policies in germany. this is the least that is needed. germany continues to be the focal point in the "cold war" between us and the soviet union. the german problem is  solved by this resolution. i believe it is made more difficult in some respects in the negotiations that we must undertake with germany. but regardless of that. let us at least resolve. first. that we will remain alert and vigilant to the danger that could arise in germany. and second. that the congress will investigate into the subject of our occupation policies in germany. in a thorough way so that our tomorrows will be more successful in the winning of the peace as far as germany is concerned than our yesterdays.
on the other hand. there may be other members of the committee who might feel differently. i am sure the senator is very sensitive about that. he is very fair. whatever he may say at this time. i k him as a man. and i k how he feels. i am simply making the suggestion that we do divorce the subject from politics. the record will show that i have tried very hard to reconcile the two points of view of the people on our side and the feelings of those on the democratic side. i believe the two points of view can be reconciled. i am asking the senator from michigan whether he feels that such an opportunity ought to be afforded.
. the rule should be granted and an opportunity should be given to debate the merits of this issue. we have traditionally and on other occasions tried to help people who were seeking unification or were seeking selfgovernment or were seeking a democratic expression of their desire for selfdetermination as they saw it. that is in the tradition of our country. why deny this expression of help to the irish people. americans have expressed their sympathy individually and the government has expressed its sympathy with just such efforts by other peoples. we ourselves in the trying days of the american revolution were the recipients of the benefit of such help and sympathy. by this resolution all the house is asked to do is to express this sympathy with the aspirations of the irish people for so elementary an objective as unification. by turning down this resolution and  granting the opportunity of debating the merits of this proposal which is entirely consonant with our traditions and the way we have acted on other oc-. casions of this nature. we would be rebuffing a most friendly people who believe very deeply in the justice of irish unification and that it ought to be achieved. certainly the opportunity for consideration should  be terminated in such cursory way as those who oppose the rule have advocated. i trust that the house will. in all justice. vote this rule.
 exercised power he is  entitled to. we have the right to reassert our power. that is the question we ought to be debating  on the merits as to the dispositions to be made in respect of the american steel plants instead of debating this resolution which will result in a longdrawt investigation but accomplish hing to deal with the present emergency.
my point is. we have to apply this thing fairly. if it is national origins quota within reasonable justice and principle that we are going to base our immigration laws upon. then we should be fair with ourselves and say the national origins quota as to the most uptodate year which we can possibly approach. so. taking the 1920 year. we are again being arbitrary. and we are trying to continue a situation which has resulted in the use of very large quotas. for the very obvious reason that there were  egh people of those national origins in the united states interested in trying to get their relatives and friends over here. i think my amendment is a much fairer approach. it does  make any difference how it cuts. the point is that we should be honest. if this is our principle. at least we ourselves should be honest with it. . i ask that the amendment be adopted.
. i believe it is incumbent  on the congress to take up this situation and to pass legislation providing for what should be done with respect to it. that is the way to carry out our responsibility. accordingly. i urge the constituted leaders of the majority and the miity in the house and in the other body to meet  to determine the programing before the congress of this issue and of legislation on it. the responsibility. it seems to me. to deal with this emergency which is facing us in the steel stoppage. is very much up to the congress. the court has made an historic decision. it proceeds with confidence that the congress will  be found wanting in respect of its responsibilities. it is up to us to act .
 when requested by him and to the congress at the beginning of each regular session a report in writing of the work of the office of government investigation containing recommendations concerning the legislation he may deem necessary for the prevention of improper and illegal acts relating to the transaction of the official business of the federal government by such officers and employees. and fifth. shall at the request of any committee of either house of the congress to direct assistants from his office to furnish the committee such aid and information as it may request. the commissioner is given the power of subpena and upon the consent of the united states attorney and the united states district court in the jurisdiction where an investigation is being conducted. the power to grant immunity to a witness required to testify in such investigation. the title of the bill is the government investigation act of 1952.
. the supreme court has just decided that the steel mills be turned back to the owning companies. in practical effect. in the steel seizure case by a vote of 6 to 3. congress  has the responsibility to act. it appears. from such part of the opinion as is already reported. that the court is putting the problem right in the lap of the congress. where it has always belonged and where it does belong . the court cleared the atmosphere  and made the point. i think. very clearly. that the responsibility is upon the congress to see that industry. operates. when necessary for national defense. and where injunctions and receiverships and all these other techniques will  operate to make production take place. i hope that  the congress will. at long last. realize their responsibility which many of us have been saying the congress has had for some yearsmine goes back to the debate on the tafthartley act where i pointed out this defaultand take up promptly this matter of what should be done in the event of a national paralysis labormanagement dispute when we simply must have the production in the national interest.
. i believe this legislation is vitally necessary. the cost of living has far outstripped retirement pensions. a material increase is a matter of elementary justice to those who have given their working years to the service of the united states. also. it is a very important element in the morale of all civilservice workers to e that justice is served in increasing the retirement payments. i believe it will be compromised and liberalized in the conference with the senate. as it stands  it is inadequate for the urgent needs of those under retirement in the civilservice system. i am impressed with the fact that moat of the house conferees see the problem and are anxious to meet and solve it. i am for the bill. and i ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks.
. there has just been referred by the gentleman from new york to a story which is occupying the front pages of the new york papers today on the question of whether police brutality in new york is being suppressed through some agreement or deal with the fbi of the department of justice. any such agreement or deal is also reported to be hotly denied by the police commissioner. who happens to be a distinguished constituent of mine. i think this is a very serious matter. if there is anything to it then i think it is uniquely in the investigative area in which my colleague the gentleman from new york is interested. as he heads the appropriate subcommitte of the committee on the judiciary. that subcommittee can make a great contribution  only to law enforcement in new york. but in the country generally. if there is anything to this story of the suppression of civil rights in new york. this is the appropriate way to get at it by a congressional committee under such forthright leadership as that furnished by the gentleman from new york. i would like to say that often we talk about civil rights and the need for preserving and fighting for them without realizing that it is in these areas of effective and just police protection where much can be done to make civil rights live and vital.
it is  a question of reorienting my line of thinking. it is a question first of our countrys security and the justice between the elements of our people in their participation in the countrys total ecoy. mr. h. carl andersen. your line of thinking is all wrong in my opinion. when agriculture is under consideration here.
. february 16 marks the 36th anniversary of the birth of the republic of lithuania.  enslaved by soviet imperialism since 1940. the tradition of freedom and national independence has  died among the lithuanian people. the experience of the bitterness of long years of communist domination of this once free baltic nation has intensified the desire for freedom among her brave people. as a member of this congress i am proud that the united states has never recognized the soviet seizure and incorporation of lithuania. and those of lithuanian origin everywhere can be proud. too. that their people have  accepted this domination. even though the presence of brute force enforces a temporary silence on the expression of their desires for freedom which they feel so earnestly. americans will  forget lithuania in her soviet prison and looks. with her. to her ultimate liberation and reemergence as a member of the family of free nations.
 of the united states. the director of the veterans administration. and senators and representatives. the impact of the investigation by the tompkinsrabin committee of the new york state legislature has been great throughout the country. it is my desire that the public should with confidence support generously deserving fundraising activities for charitable purposes which give material benefits for the purposes for which the money is collected. the overwhelming majority of some 40.000 taxexempt organizations of this character in the united states are doing an honest and highminded job of public service. the federal government has a responsibility to these organizations and to the people of the country to see that taxexempt funds are used for the purposes for which they are stated to be collected without fraud. misrepresentation. artifice. or undue costs. the bills i have introduced do  apply to religious or educational organizations or to fraternal. patriotic. or social organizations in respect of solicitations confined to their membership.
there is question but what this bill would apply to all of these agencies and that with amendment the court order would be required of any agency acting under the bill. that i think is an additional reason why the amendment should certainly be approved. 
. there are many youth commissions in many states. and i should like to name some: arkansas. california. colorado. connecticut. kansas. louisiana. michigan. minnesota. mississippi. th dakota. oklahoma. oregon. washington. wisconsin. and wyoming. all have youth commissions. the job which can be done on the national level in coordinating the work of these commissions and seeing that they exchange information which each has for the other and the experience which each has for the other represents the first and a very modest step in the acceptance of the responsibility for this very grave problem of youth adjustment and of juvenile delinquency on the national level. where it properly belongs. i think all of us must answer to our own consciences in terms of what is going on with the young people of our country unless we are prepared to equip an agency which is already active and has emous experience in that field. where we would be building on a foundation already established.  a new one. to help the states and the cities to do the job that needs to be done if our youth are to be adequately assisted by government. i think we are all aware of the drastic increase in the crime of stealing automobiles. for instance. which has occurred in the youth field. also in vandalism and other similar occurrences around the country. it is necessary to direct attention to the fact that something can be done about it in the national establishment at a very modest cost. the place to do it is right here and  in respect to this particular appropriation for the childrens bureau. it is amply justified at page 442 of the hearings. where this very subject was covered. where the $165.000 was referred to and where dr. eliot. the distinguished head of the childrens bureau. described what could be and would be done effectively with that money. indeed the subcommittee on youth of the other body it appears has given a basis for support to exactly that program urged by dr. eliot.
. i am glad we have a good attendance here preparing for the republican conference. because i have something very serious to say to the house and it is a very fortuitous circumstance. we have heard a lot pro and con about rules of congressional procedure for investigating committees in both this house and the other body. there seems to be practical way in which once an investigating committee is organized and endowed with an appropriation the house can recapture its control over it. we have in this body. in my opinion. a special committee which needs to have the recapture of control at least reviewed as far as the house is concerned. it is the special committee on taxexempt foundations. the power of the whole house of representatives being vested in any investigating committee the house should  assert the right to review that power with respect to its exercise by the special committee to investigate taxexempt foundations. i am introducing a resolution for that purpose today the text of which is as follows: resolved. that the committee on rules is hereby authorized and directed after inquiry to make recommendations to the house of representatives respecting the activities of the special committee to investigate taxexempt foundations created pursuant to house resolution 217. 83d congress. and the termination thereof. the report thereof to the house of representatives. the disposition of the papers and documents of the said special committee and such other measures relating thereto as may be appropriate. it is high time that the house of representatives asserted itself in one of these investigations that has gotten off the track. as the best answer to the danger of any loss of prestige which may be suffered by either house of the congress attributable to the excesses of congressional investigating committees. having reported favorably house resolution 217 to create the special committee it should be a duty given to the rules committee to exercise legislative oversight over it. and my resolution so provides. the case for action is clear. on july 2 after hearing 11 witnesses critical of the taxexempt foundations and 1 witness favoring their activities. and before the foundations themselves were heard. the special committee abruptly ended further public hearings. saying statements could be submitted that could be made public. the predecessor cox committee heard 40 though this present committee was said to be justified because its predecessor did  do a good egh job. terminating public hearings when only one side has been heard is  the american way and the house should  tolerate it. it resulted in the new york herald tribune calling this particular inquiry a senseless investigation and the new york times calling it aher stupid inquiry. these are authoritative publications and such editorials are  conducive to the prestige the house seeks to. and should. sustain on a high level. the whole investigation of foundations has been conducted upon the theory that the foundations have been engaged in some conspiracy to infiltrate socialism into american educational institutions and social life. as against this. we have the findings of the predecessor cox committee unqualifiedly to the contrary. the cox committee said in their report: it seems paradoxical that in a previous congressional investigation in 1915 the fear most frequently expressed was that the foundations would prove the instruments of vested wealth. privilege. and reaction. while today the fear most frequently expressed is that they have become the enemy of the capitalistic system. in our opinion neither of these fears are justified. aside from the pressing needs of national security there are everwidening and lengthening avenues of kledge that require research and study of the type and kind best furnished or assisted by foundations. the foundation. once considered a boon to society.  seems to be a vital and essential factor in our progress. " * * * als the committee believes that on balance the record of the foundations is good. it believes that there was infiltration and that judgments were made which. in the light of hindsight. were mistakes. but it also believes that many of these mistakes were made without the kledge of facts which. while later obtainable. could  have been readily ascertained at the time decisions were taken. it further believes that the foundations are aware of the everpresent danger and are exerting and will continue to exert diligence in averting further mistakes. while unwilling to say the foundations are blameless. the committee believes they were guilty principally of indulging the same gullibility which infected far too nany of our loyal and patriotic citizens and that the mistakes they made are unlikely to be repeated. the committee does  want to imply that errors of judgment constitute malfeasance. hing material has appeared before the present committee to alter the validity of these conclusions of its predecessor committee. i hope very much that my colleagues will very seriously think about this question of what control we do have and whether it is  vitally important that we have some residual control over these investigations as there is a possibility that they may go off the track.
i think this is the turning point of the bill. in my opinion as a lawyer. the court would only pass on the issue of germaneness of the testimony to the legislative inquiry and the jurisdiction of the committee. the court would  i believe inquire into the advisability or lack of it in giving an immunity bath. therefore. i believe. the opinion of the association of the bar in new york against the bill would continue the bill in its present form. i think that is the turning point of the bill.
the only difference between the bill and that committees report is that this bill requires ice to the attorney general and a court appearance. does the gentleman believe that makes any difference in the principles enunciated by the bar association.
. in good conscience considering my deep convictions as a lawyer as to constitutional and other objections and the district i represent. i can support this bill. the privilege of a witness to refuse to answer on the constitutional grounds of self incrimination is one of the most fundamental freedoms that we have. it is hundreds of years old and can be impaired without the most profound consideration. certainly  after a 40minute takeitorleaveit debate. this protection is critically important to the individual. probably the most important protection he has against the overwhelming power of the state. right  it is being invoked by witnessescertainly irritatingly and undoubtedly excessivelyin investigations of subversion and communism. but there was a time when it was an invaluable protection in cases of religious persecution under the laws of england. the member of any miity. religious or racial does  dare to have his thinking subverted by the anticommunist drivevital as it isinto forgetting what such a power to deprive an individual of the privilege of pleading selfincrimination before a congressional committee can mean tomorrow. the view i have taken is the view of the committee on federal legislation of the association of the bar of the city of new york which in the prevailing opinion in considering this measure concluded as follows. on july 7. 1954: in summary. we believe that recent events have  demonstrated the need for congressional power to grant immunity. but have underlined the necessity of reaffirming the distinction between the functions of the different branches of the government. in area is that distinction of greater importance than in that of criminal prosecution. legislative grants of immunity would lead to invasion of that area by the congress. and the proposal in the keating bill that this be authorized only when approved in advance by the attorney general would further break down the division by giving to that executive officer a control over congressional action. if the attorney general receives authority to grant immunity by compelling testimony in any court or grand jury proceeding. the government would be enabled to get required evidence from any witness. should a congressional investigation point to the likelihood that evidence of crime might be uncovered by an immunity grant. the attorney general could present the matter to a grand jury. where the rights of both the government and the witness would be fully protected. this would bring about a salutary restoration of balance between the two branches of the government. while maintaining the procedural safeguards of the criminal law. i consider congressional investigations one of the firmest foundations of our freedom and investigations of subversion and communism to be an entirely appropriate area for the congress to pursue investigations vigorously. but the bill before us will  materially aid the legislative power of investigation in the field of subversion and communism but will seriously push back american freedoms. the fundamental defect of this bill is that the power to grant immunity is given to any congressional committeeacting by twothirds vote it is truebut still any committee. with 19 standing committees of the house of representatives and many special committees. we are giving a grant of power which has the promise of great mischief and of which we can tell the end result. for under the power to grant immunity from criminal prosecution in the often superheated political atmosphere of the congress. rogues could go scot free while honest men could be seriously compromised. the bill presented to us also gives the power to grant immunity to the courts in criminal cases involving subversion. espionage. treason. and similar crimes and in proceedings before grand juries. i favor this power. but it is joined with a similar power to congressional committees and this i do  favor as it has in it the seeds of great national mischief. but the bill is presented to us under a suspension of the rules. amendment is possible. it can be divided and i must take it or leave it. i believe that on balance it is very unwise legislation and should be rejected. the application to a court provided for in the bill before us does  save it because the court will. in my opinion as a lawyer. only determine it can pass upon procedural matters leaving the question as to the advisability or inadvisability of granting immunity to the congressional committee involved. in that case. the congressional committee itself becomes a prosecutor and judge without any of the protections of a court of law. for example. grandjury proceedings are secret while congressional committee sessions are generally public. so that the mere charge made in such a session is often taken by the public as proof. in court a witness compelled to testify against himself under immunity has the right to call other witnesses. his lawyer has the right to crossexamine. and there are rules of evidence and of law to be followed. this is certainly completely different from most congressional hearings as run today. neither house of the congress has adopted rules of procedure for its investigating committees. therefore every committee makes its own rules. if any.  has a case been made out to show that the security of our country requires this abridgment of a basic freedom. of the 115 communist leaders taken into custody under the smith act. 103 have been indicted. 78 have been convicted. and the federal government has  suffered a serious reverse in these cases. while witnesses before congressional committees today who plead the privilege against selfincrimination are promptly marked men insofar as any position of responsibility or public trust is concerned and even in their social and civic life. the proposal before us is just too dangerous to the life and future of our country. i am deeply convinced. i k full well the intensity of the communist struggle but i can lend myself and my district to so dangerous a jeopardy of our freedoms to prove it. i have already proved by determination in the fight against communism on a thousand battle lines from voting indictments of witnesses before congressional committees for contempt. to making peacetime espionage a capital crime and to the manifold battles i have fought in the field of foreign affairs in our historic struggle against communism. i would like to juxtapose the bill before us to aher bill that will come up next by the same author. h. r. 4975. entitled "a bill to prescribe a method by which the houses of congress and their committees may invoke the aid of the courts in compelling testimony of witnesses." i am for this bill and this is the right way to help congressional committees to deal with recalcitrant witnesses. the privilege against selfincrimination is undoubtedly. on occasion. improperly pleaded because the question asked could  incriminate if answered. h. r. 4975 gives a way to get a court ruling on the spot and to compel a witness to go on with his testimony instead of waiting for the legal machinery to punish for contempt to take its course. so too for the witness himself. he will be much more careful about what he refuses to answer if he ks that his refusal can be dealt with summarily by a court and that his punishment for contempt is practically assured if he does  answer. h. r. 4975 is a way to make congressional investigations more efficient. s. 16 will  make them any more efficient. leaves us wide open to grave national injury and would be a monumental abridgment of our fundamental freedoms.
. we are dealing with an extraordinary situation. and extraordinary situations call for extraordinary remedies. this is a technique which we have in this bill which has been utilized in connection with very much larger amounts of property which were found in germany. in addition to that. as everyone ks. the german government has worked out certain reparations or what might be called reparations to the tune of $700 million. some parts of which also go to relief and rehabilitation. butand here is the big buthere is the reason for the great desirability of this bill. the utilization of these funds will be in the united states whereand i would like to urge this to the house as a factthey are urgently needed. let me give you some proof of that. there is an organizationand i am getting the papers from my office and i will fill in the name of the organization and the address and the fellow who heads it in the recordthere is an organization which has been fighting very hard for justice in this matter in bringing to me case after case after case of nazi persecutees. older people. little people on pensions. little people whose bodies and souls were broken by the nazis. either directly because they were in concentration camps or because they lost everything in the world.  in terms of money alone but also their families and kith and kin. and these people are too proud and from their origin and background are  the kind of people to go on relief. to them this bill is a godsend. particularly for that purpose. and in my opinion the most vital amendment put into this bill. which absolutely commends it to the house. is the provision that this money shall be spent in the united states. i do  think. for me. certainly. you need an emotional appeal upon this particular subject. i think i bespeak the views of every member when i say that we would welcome. i think all of us regardless of faith. any means to express the type of feeling or sympathy which is in our hearts for this tremendous holocaust which has overtaken the jewish people in connection with the hitler persecution. i would like to say. i think. what the gentleman from new york said about the reservation of the gentleman from minnesota was a futile thing. and i k the gentleman well egh and i would like to join with him in that tribute to him. it represents a certain amount of dedication and courage to oppose a bill of this kind. and i pay you tribute for proceeding as you did.
 when requested by him and to the congress at the beginning of each regular session a report in writing of the work of the office of government investigation containing recommendations concerning the legislation he may deem necessary for the prevention of improper and illegal acts relating to the transaction of the official business of the federal government by such officers and employees. it will be ed that the bill does  give the commissioner of investigation power to investigate members of congress or the judiciary. this is necessary in order to maintain the integrity of three great branches of the federal government. the investigatory powers of the congress and the mal processes of the courts as well as the frequently recurring elections can deal effectively with wrongdoing in the legislative branch and the congressional power to impeach federal judges are adequate to deal with wrongdoing in the judiciary. i think that h. r. 6898 is very desirable legislation and hope it will receive attention in the next congress.
. i would like to speak in behalf of the house amendment to s. 3706 which is before the house of representatives today. legal advice from the justice department is to the effect that the senate amendment does  outlaw the communist party. the house amendment is intended to strengthen the existing security laws and is acceptable to the federal bureau of investigation and the office of the attorney general. and at the same time. does in fact outlaw the communist party. under the existing security act. just last friday nine communists were convicted in philadelphia. this law is working and i am happy to give my support to any legislation that would make it even more effective. my record will prove that i have been outspoken against the communist party and other subversive organizations and i always have supported legislation aimed at outlawing any organization that advocates the violent overthrow of our great country.
i do  wish to enter into any controversy with the senator over that question. i merely wish to say this: mr. zellerbach states that the entire question of investigation was submitted to the membership of the institute of pacific relations. and turned down by a very large vote. i shall look at the page to which the senator refers. i am only referring to the facts as given to us by mr. zellerbach himself. finally. as to his membership on the board of directors of the fund for the republic. he was joined by some very distinguished americans. as i stated a moment ago. in august 1954 the american bar association saw fit to carry through with recommendations on the very subject matter which was referred to. namely. that of rules for congressional investigating committees. as to mr. zellerbachs action in joining in a telegram from the committee for an effective congress. i believe that. as a distinguished american joining with other distinguished americans. it was very proper for him to make his views kn to the members of this body. indeed. an overwhelming majority of the membership of this body agreed with those views. he was joined by some very distinguished americans. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks the list of those signing the telegram to which i have referred.
. on behalf of my colleague. the senior senator from new york . the senator from maine . and the senator from kentucky . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to make it an unlawful employment practice to discriminate in employment because of age.
. i should like to join my colleagues in what they have said on the occasion of the 39th anniversary of lithuanian independence. the rape of lithuania may prove to be one of the events which will undo soviet russia. beqause it demonstrates  only communist colonialism. but brutal communist colonialism.
. i make this statement on behalf of the senior senator from new york and myself. later in the day we shall formalize it into a written statement which we shall issue. there has been some disorder and there has been some violence in both new york and new jersey in connection with milk deliveries. because of dissatisfaction with the price situation. it being claimed by those who are active in this matter that costs of production are about 12 cents a quart. and that all the producers receive is 10 cents a quart. this may be of some interest to other senators who also have milk producers in their states. our experience in resolving the problem in new york may be of help to others in the country. this is a very grave problem. which presses so urgently upon people that they undertake violencewhich can be condoned in any orderly societyin order to make their feelings kn. today i have talked with gover harriman. of new york. and i am able to state that the gover is hopeful that the violence and disorder in new york state are  things of the past. that is very important so far as the people are concerned. there is grave urgency to city consumers that there be an orderly supply of milk. there are problems of overproduction. as well as of price and other problems involved in the situation. obviously. in an atmosphere of disorder and destruction of property great losses occur. for example. firing a rifle bullet through one of the milk tank trucks destroys about $18.000 worth of property. they are built like thermos bottles. in such an atmosphere it is impossible to accomplish any constructive result. hearings are scheduled for march 5 at the commodore hotel. new york city. with respect to the fairness and justice of the milkmarketing order for the new york city milkshed and the area coverage which such a milkmarketing order should have. deep as feelings may have run on this issue. we hope that those concerned will understand that the forum in which to seek justice and satisfaction of their legitimate demands. in the best interests of the people of the particular area. as well as all the people of the state of new york and the people of the state of new jersey. is in these hearings. my senior colleague and i will do our utmost to see that justice is done to all legitimate claims. we are  moved by the fact that violence has occurred. because it would be unfair if its use could have such an effect. but are. rather. moved by the basic principles involved. we will stay with the situation to see that justice is done. in my discussion of the subject with gover harriman this morning i was assured that we would have the full cooperation of the state authorities. because the gover feels as we do that the authority of the secretary of agriculture is the right forum and that every effort should be made to see that justice is done there.
. we  have an emous opportunity really to make this mideast doctrine work. this is an auspicious beginning. i hope very much that our government will follow through in that spirit in the most constructive way. in recognition of the fact that what plagues this area is grave ecoic and social underdevelopment. and that we can make a very great contribution to the solution of these problems in an atmosphere of peace with justice to the powers there.
. i wish to compliment my colleague. the senator from new jersey. for inviting the attention of the senate to the document he has just offered. which refers to the key question on the proposed civilrights legislation. the right to a trial by jury on a contempt citation brought by the united states government. i believe the procedure mentioned is hing but begging the question. the procedure of citation for contempt is a timehoed method of procedure. and i am very glad to see that other organizations. in addition to those which are discussing the matter here. are coming to grips with it. i compliment the senator from new jersey for bringing this statement of the american civil liberties union to the attention of the senate.
. i wish to join the senator from new jersey in supporting the senator from illis and the senator from minnesota in this civilrights struggle. which is distinctly a bipartisan struggle. it is right that men who feel the same way should join together on a bipartisan basisand that is the only way to succeed. i may say by way of information that i am hoping very much to get some action in the committee on rules and administration on one of the resolutions pending before the committee. one of which alone has the backing of more than 54 members of the senate. the douglas resolution which i am on would amend the rules so that it would be possible to get a bill before the senate and actually to debate it and vote it up or down. as the senator from minnesota has stated. in supporting the senator from illis in this fight i pledge my own efforts in that direction of amending rule xxii and i hope that a majority of the members of the committee on rules and administration will pursue that point as a corollary and as an essential activity. i should like to say something about the legal phases involved. i am a lawyer. and i have been attorney general of the state of new york. i have had opportunity to debate the issue of jury trials in contempt cases with its principal advocate. the senator from th carolina . and others. it is essential to point out that as time hoed as is the jury trial. so time hoed also are equity proceedings. which are just as effective and just as long lasting for the protection of the individual citizens. we can get lost in a dream world here. we k very well we are proposing to use civil rather than criminal measures. which are at least as legal in their effect. for the reason that criminal remedies have  worked in certain sections of the country. we can shut our eyes to the fact that we would be destroying the very civil remedy we would create by this legislation if we lent ourselves to the idea that this  gives new sanction. in a contempt proceeding where the united states is the complainant. to jury trials.
. i hope that every power in the world which favors mediation between the united states and the u. s. s. r. as to international tensions will be clear eyed egh to see that mediation is open only when nations have clean hands. and that the soviet union must come into the court of mankind with clean hands and must cleanse itself of the crimes against the people of hungary.
. i believe that the supreme court needs our help at this time. therefore. i. too. wish to associate myself with the remarks of my colleagues. i feel that the court has acted upon the basis of deep wisdom and conviction as to what justice and the longrange interests of our country require. i am planning. before a large veterans group tomorrow. to analyze how we can very well live with these decisions. and how they contribute to the onward march of american freedom.
. if we wiped out the status of forces law instead of administering it with clarity and couragewhich can avoid injustices or offense to united states sensibilitieswe would be jeopardizing the continuance of our overseas bases. we would be playing directly into the hands of the men in the kremlin whose prime article of faith is to get us out of such bases and who have vainly threatened and cajoled the powers where they have been located for years including threats of atomic bombardment. it is our duty to resist this wellnigh fatal error. our status of forces treaties and agreements with the 54 friendly countries call for locating our troops in these countries. all with their consent and approval. and at their invitation. how long can this last if we deny them jurisdiction over a rape. a theft. or a hitandrun auto accident committed by a united states soldier on leavehow long will their own local public opinion tolerate it.  let us look at how this jurisdiction has been used: since these treaties and agreements have been in effect. about 32.000 united states personnel have been charged with offduty crimes abroad. in 23.000 of these cases. the foreign government waived their jurisdiction and the soldiers were turned over to united states authorities for discipline. about 9.000 have faced foreign courts since 1953. of these. 305 have been sent to prison for crimes ranging from homicide and rape to manslaughter and hitandrun accidents. eightythree were still in prison as of ember 30. 1956. as aginst this. let us e that there were over 5.000 traffic accidents involving united states personnel in europe alone in 1956. what are safeguards of united states troops tried in foreign jurisdiction. when tried by local courts. united states troops have many protections: they include the right to a speedy trial. information on charges. the right to face accusers. the furnishing of interpreters. also the united states government is on the defendants side. it gets him a lawyer and pays the legal fees. stations united states representatives to observe the trial. and inspects conditions in the prison to which any american is sentenced. certainly. there is neglect of american personnel  turning them over wholesale to the tender mercies of any foreign court. this is again provided we can have the lines clear in terms of cases on posts or stations when on or off duty. i think it is very essential that the basic foreign policy involved be plain to all of us before there be some hasty. illadvised action prejudicial to our foreign policy and our national security
i am sorry. but if the senator will forgive me. i will state that the present lawthe brown case. to which the distinguished chairman of the committee on the judiciary referredis the law. too. as i say. i am very anxious to be precise. the only difference is that under this bill the attorney general would be given the right to go into court and seek to require a public body. an agency of a state. to do what the supreme court says it should do. the only difference is that instead of joe jones. who is a citizen of the particular area and a taxpayer to the school board. doing it. the attorney general would have the power to do it. that is provided by this bill.
it seems to me that the senator has pinpointed admirably two fundamental points in connection with the use of the armed forces. we have read the pertinent section. the section referred to is  in the law. and the fact that it has  been used during all these years should certainly be some evidence as to whether or  it will be used in the future. because. after all. these laws have been on the statute books for some time. that is the main burden of our argument. namely. that we seek to import hing new into the law. second. on the question of trial by jury. again the same situation exists. it is a fact that without the proposed legislationand the proposed legislation has hing to do with the questionwhen the united states is a party plaintiff in a contempt proceeding there is jury trial. that situation would  be created by the proposed legislation. what is being argued is that that provision should be included in the law. despite the fact that the united states is the plaintiff in the proceeding. and very importantlyand i argued this question out with our distinguished col.league from th carolina -we are  leaving a defendant defenseless and at the mercy of some autocratic judge. we have a circuit ccurt of appeals and a supreme court. we have an established body of law and equity which was in existence long before this country was formed. this is the fundamental point of the argument to which i wish to return: these are  new provisions which we -are seeking to place in the law. they have been in the law. we have had generations of experience with them. that is why so many of us say that the idea that they will be suddenly misused is only a hobgoblin in the closet.
may i say also that i always listen with the deepest interest and respect to the eloquence of my friend. the senator from mississippi. .who is a distinguished lawyer and judge. the fact that the senator has made the speech just concluded. and that his beliefs are fundamentally different from mine. lessens my respect  one whit. in fact. i deprecate the difficulty of somehow breaking through the sound barrier. to some of us the separate and equal facilities. which so many of the fine southern men have worked hard to see were good. honest. and decent. are the mark of cain. it would be well if we could ever break through the concept. which the supreme court has tried to do. although it seems to contrast with the feelings of many decent people of the south. which the senator expressed so eloquently. the fact that the schools are good. the schoolteachers work hard. and they like their colored school systemrepresents a society which is important to me in the context of the united states. i have a question to ask. the senator spoke with respect to the jury trial amendment. i would like to see if we can pinpoint that together. we are both lawyers. and i k we both wish to have the facts clear. what is the legal situation in the bill with respect to jury trials. i ask the senator this question: is it  a fact that the law is . and has been since 1912. that where the united states is a party plaintiff in obtaining a decree and there is a contempt of the decree. the punishment for the contempt is  subject to a jury trial. that has been the case for years.
in the senators own state of mississippi. in the case of oflynn v. state (89 mississippi 850). the court said as follows. and i should like to have the senator comment on the opinion: we do  think it necessary to discuss the error assigned because of the courts action in denying appellants the right of trial by jury in this proceeding for contempt. further than to say that the overwhelming weight of authority is that in such cases they were  entitled to a jury trial. i ask the senator to comment also upon the fact that even the county board of supervisors in mississippi has the power to punish for contempt. mississippi code anated. title 13. section 2881. and that that also is a power granted to the recently created state sovereignty commission. which has the power to punish for contempt "by fine or imprisonment at the discretion of the commission." i ask the senator to comment upon such authority in terms of the practice of his own state.
i thank the senator from montana. there are some remarks i wish to make on the pending civil rights matter. i appreciate the courtesy of the senator from montana in giving me this opportunity to speak on the subject. -i wish first to speak of a statement made yesterday by the senator from georgia. which moves me. and i believe other members of this body. very deeply. i repeat it because i think it is an important statement for us to bear in mind. he said: we ask. . that we be dealt with justly and fairly. as each member of the senate would ask to be dealt with if he should in the future be placed in the position that we occupy. those of us who are deeply devoted to the measure which is before us are very familiar with all the implications of that point of view. because we recognize a way of life. an -order of society. born out of deep struggleor generations. of which we see  the results in the social order. largely in the south. perhaps deeds are better than words in expressing the reasons and responsibility which i feel involved in such a statement. and so i offer these points. in the state of new york we have a network of civil rights laws which are far more comprehensive than anything proposed in this measure. we have. for example. laws which prevent discrimination in various types of housing. in places of public accommodation. in the national guard. in higher education. and which prevent discrimination in jobs. and in opportunities for employmentthe socalled fepc laws. hing like those laws is here involved. i might say. parenthetically. that is the reason why so many of us who are strongly for civilrights legislation have felt we were rightand i think very  justly soin maintaining that this bill is a very moderate bill. as it indeed is. but in the state of new york. which has such a network of laws. the main emphasis in terms of enforcement is upon mediation. conciliation. and technical assistance. and. in the final analysis. injunctive relief. criminal penalties are -very little in evidence. and the whole success of the operation of these laws in new yorkand they have been very successfulhas been based upon the intelligence. the care. and the wisdom with which mediation and conciliation have -in the first instance been employedone further bit of evidence as to my own deep feeling as to how important that is. we are considering in the city of new york. in our city council. a law against bias or discrimination in private housing. i was one of two citizens of new york who urged this very week that our city government should  impose criminal sanctions for the enforcement of such a law. but. on the contrary. should also entrust it to a commission. so the administration of the law and its enforcement might proceed. as we do in the state of new york. through mediation. conciliation. and technical assistance. backed up by injunctive relief. i say that because we understand. i think. what the senator from georgia was talking about. we respect it. and we intend to show that by our responsible conduct at the time debate is in full swing. but i think it is also important to understand that in the civilrights bill before usand though it is in its preliminary stages and we shall be voting on a motion only to make it the pending businessit is also a fact that one wants to make the bill the pending business unless it has a chance of enactment and some case be made out that it will be effective. very briefly. without considering all the individual merits of the bill. i think it fair to consider these two preliminary questions. let us understand first that in the civilrights bill we are dealing with problems of human trouble. unhappiness. and injustice concerning millions of americans because of their race or color. we have heard and felt many appeals within the past week to our conscience and to our kledge in terms of what is considered to be necessary to the integrity. the dignity. and the right to the pursuit of happiness of the white people of the south. we should giveand i certainly give my own pledge that i will givethese appeals the most thoughtful consideration and judgment of which we are capable. is it  equally fair to consult the record of the hearings on this bill and the emous mass of other testimony which has piled up through the years. as to the effect on negroes in the south and elsewhere of denials of civil rights and their equal right to individual dignity and pursuit of happiness. is it  fair also to e the fact that hundreds of millions of people who are yellow and black in the world and are trying to decide on following our leadership of the free world are watching closely how we deal with our miity groups. i address myself to those who want a civilrights bill. and want to exercise the utmost in statesmanship to see that it contains what is effective and appropriate to what i deeply feel is a very historic hour. to them i say that discussion of compromises  can only weaken the resolution of the majority which put the bill on the calendar. while it will  win anyone who does  want a bill at all. we all should k from our legislative experienceand there is extensive legislative experience in this bodythat those who are unalterably opposed will often support and even vote for amendments reducing the scope of a bill. its enforcement powers--indeed. emasculating itand then. on the final showdown. will nevertheless vote against the bill. as for me. i stand by part iii of the bill. as does the attorney general. who explained it in some detail in his testimony before a committee of this body. i see hing to apologize for in seeking to gain for all our citizens the rights given to them under the equal protection clause of the constitution. let us take a moment to analyze these rights. as i see them. they are of two characters. first. they include rights equivalent to and of the same nature as the right to vote. the right to vote does  stand alone. i should like to emphasize that kind of right. for example. there is a right to have a united states officer discharge his duties. whether he is a marshal. a judge. or a united states attorney. there is a right to have a witness or a juror in any federal court. or a litigant therein. act without fear of intimidation. injury. obstruction. or conspiracy to accomplish intimidation. injury. or obstruction. that is one set of rights. i say they stand together. equivalent to the right to vote. the other set of rights is the right to enjoy the equal protection of the laws or equal privileges and immunities under the law. it is under this latter heading that we include the right to attend desegregated public schools and other public facilities. such as municipal playgrounds and golf courses. it is this latter group of civil rights about which we hear so much in terms of the objection from the south to the commingling of the races. but what should be clearly understood is that one who believes in civil rights must stand with the supreme court in its finding in the brown case. relating to desegregation in the public schools. that the effort to impose the use of separate. even if equal. facilities in such cases is unlawful. and that there can be such thing as equality in such separate facilities. and that the majesty of the nation is just as much involved in giving equal protection for such rights with all deliberate speedthose are the words of the supreme courtas it is in relation to the right to vote. i think we shall have to keep that very clearly in mind in the days ahead. for real effort will be made to convince us that the latter rightsto enjoy desegregated facilities which are maintained by municipal governments or local governments--are of a lesser standard or of lesser importance. we have heard much said about the excellent quality of schools and colleges which are negro schools and colleges. the supreme court itself has said that inherent in that is a type of secondclass citizenship. the mere fact that they are separate. even though they might be equaland we k in many cases they areis alone what the court has declared under our constitution to be unlawful. secondly. i am opposed to the jury trial amendment as seeking to make a special exception in the case of civil rights to the established procedure in our own courts of justice since their foundationthe very rules of law enforced in practically all the state courts in the southern states and incorporated in the federal statutes to the same effect. let us understand. there is effort to deny the timehoed trial by jury. we are  talking about that. but what we are talking about is the denial of an inherent power of the courts essential to making effective their decrees. of which the backers of the amendment seek to deprive them. i think it has been pointed out earlier this morning. with great effect. by my colleague the senator from pennsylvania that the jury trial also has a very serious impact on the timeliness with which injunctive action may be taken. especially in the righttovote cases. we shall be hearing a good deal about that argument in the future. but i think it is essential to stake out the position . especially when. in my opinion. unhappily. there is so much talk of compromise in the press. right  there is united states statute giving a jury trial for civil contempts. even when the action is brought by an individual. and the law giving a jury trial in criminal contempt cases expressly excludes cases where the united states brings the action. let me interpolate there for an instant. and i hope my colleague the senator from montana will indulge me if i need a minute more. i should like to explain the difference between civil contempt and criminal contempt. civil contempts are actions by a court designed to have its decrees enforced. in short. if the court says to a registrar of voters. "you shall register john jones." and the registrar refuses or fails to do it. the court may punish him even by imprisonment until he does do it. if it takes one day or if it takes a month. the punishment may continue. of course. an extended punishment is subject to appeals to the higher courts. and even the supreme court. and can be out of reason under the constitution. in any case. it is a punishment only until the man complies with the court decree. on the other hand. a criminal contempt may be a punishment for defiance of the court. the court may say to the registrar. "whether or  you register john jones. you have willfully and flagrantly defied the judicial process of the united states. you are sentenced to 1 month in jail." that is the difference. i make that distinction in connection with the legal situation. indeed. the authority to punish for contempt. civil or criminal. for violation of a court order. without a jury trial. is strictly enforced in practically every one of the southern states. i had occasion yesterday to invite the attention of the very distinguished senator from mississippi to the rulings in his own state. and the fact that power to punish for contempt was  only vested in a court but to some extent vested in quasiadministrative bodies in his own state. there is rightand i think this needs to be emphasized. for we will prove it as the argument goes alongunder the united states constitution to a jury trial in contempt cases. indeed. a trial without a 5ury in contempt cases long preceded the adoption of the constitution. in the case of civil contempts--and i have explained what they arethe supreme court in the michaelson case has even raised the serious question as to whether to require a jury trial by statute would be constitutional. when we talk about a jury of ones peers. i think it is fair to point out that the supreme court has overturned cases of the most serious crimes coming from southern states for the very reason that the juries which acted were chosen by systematically excluding negroes. and therefore did  give equal protection of the laws. among these casesand may i say again that we will go into detail as the argument proceeds on the merits--are patton v. mississippi. decided in 1947 (332 u. s. 463). avery v. georgia. decided in 1953 (345 u. s. 559). and reece v. georgia. decided as recently as 1955 (350 u. s. 85). in the reece case the court said something which i think bears repetition even at this preliminary stage of the debate: the indictment of the defendant by a grand jury from which members of his race have been systematically excluded is a denial of his right to equal protection of the laws. i do  see how one could say it more clearly. these cases follow a line of decisions going back to 1880. this is  new law. the exclusion of negroes from juries was accomplished for the very reason. in many cases. that they were disenfranchised by the application to them of state laws regarding voting. in a discriminatory way. it is a vicious circle. the negroes are  entitled to vote and. therefore. they are  entitled to be on the jury and. therefore. the jury does  represent a fair selection. it seems to me that there has been an unfortunate amount of speculation about compromises at this stage of the progress of the bill. i am  finding fault with the press. for they report what they learn. i am finding fault with the substantive question of the speculation about compromise at this stage of the progress of the bill. contemplation of -compromises  only tends to divide-
i thank the senator. i am very new in the senate. the senator from virginia is one of the sages in the senate. and i join with my colleagues in expressing deep respect for the able senator from virginia. i k the senators generosity is great egh to extend me the privilege of saying what i am about to say in these remarks. yesterday i had the privilege of addressing the american bar association in new york. my home city. i may say the president of the association. mr. maxwell. of philadelphia. joined with me in sustaining the authority of the supreme court and its credit and standing with the country. i appreciate the senators allowing me to speak a word for the court. first. as a lawyer. it seems inconceivable to me that we could stand silent while it is said that the chief justice had induced the court unanimously to make a decision. i have too much regard. as a lawyer. for the judges to feel for a moment that could be so. and that the decision in the brown case with respect to school desegregation would spring from other source than the deepest conscience of each one of those judges. second. and very important. it has been said that those of us who advocate civilrights legislation have been making a specialized application of it to principle or policy. i should like to call to the attention of the great senator from virginia the fact that after the civil war it was the same institution. the supreme court. which saved the south in the slaughterhouse cases. it was the supreme courtthis institution as an institutionwhich put a stop to all the deep emotional feelings which were so prevalent in the th. i feel the supreme court stands as the strongest rampart for miity rights. every miity. including. i might say to the senator from virginia. a miity of opinion. i think the senator bespeaks that particular doctrine at this particular time. i for one would hesitate. even in the cause of civil rights. or any other cause. to jeopardize the standing and the equal impact with that of every other branch of government of this great institution. which has been so useful to the south and every other section of the country.
the attorney general will have a right to do that. to enforce what is  the law. unless the south is ready to overthrow the supreme court. which has been its shield on many occasions. the supreme court has stated we shall with all deliberate speed proceed to desegregate the public school systems of the country. the bill would enable the attorney general. when people. especially governmental agencies. drag their feet. in doing something about it. within the terms of the supreme court mandate.  outside those terms.  any faster than the supreme court has decided. but with deliberate speed. just as the supreme court has said.
exactly.  only that. but it is a lesser remedy than the government  has. i will point out. as i develop this thesis. because i intend to go into every detail of the law that anybody wants to pursue. that this bill even restricts that remedy further. in other words. it is narrower than the remedy which is  provided by the criminal statute. i propose to show that. if the senator will allow me. perhaps we might as well lay at rest this whole controversy about the powerful caesar. the unabridged man. the complete autocrat. who is the attorney general of the united states. the very distinguished senator from th carolina . who has made a very spirited fight in connection with the bill. is an outstanding lawyer. i might say about him what i hope someone some day will say about me: i wish we had him on our side.
. the senator from th carolina yesterday. in a colloquy with the senator from virginia . statedand i quote from pages 1181811819 of the record: but if the bill were to be enacted into law. state and local officials and other persons involved in civilrights cases would have their constitutional and legal rights hinge upon the whim and caprice of only one man in the entire universe. namely. the temporary occupant of the office of attorney general of the united states. whoever he might be. if the attorney general did  elect to bring one of the new suits under the terms july .17 of the bill. these state and local officials and other persons would be entitled to enjoy and exercise their constitutional and legal rights. as i have outlined them. but. on the contrary. if the attorney general should elect to bring one of these new suits. these state and local officials and other persons involved in civilrights cases would be deprived of their constitutional and legal rights. it is difficult to conceive of a lawyer. let alone a judge. uttering those words. it sound more as if the senator was describing justice of the kremlin instead of justice of the united states of america. for all of us k very well that the attorney general of the united states is only one thinghe is the attorney for the government. just like other attorneys who work for the government. there are thousands of them in the united states. we k that the attorney for the government can do hing but bring a suit in a court. having brought a suit in a court. he has to go before the judge. and he loses very often. as we all k. those of us who are lawyers have ourselves been in cases when government attorneys were defeated. before the judge. the attorney general has to produce witnesses. has to prove his case. and has to confront the other side with his proof. he is subject to all the rules of evidence. when he gets through and has won his case. he is subject to an appeal to the court of appeals and an appeal to the supreme court. lest we may think the courts do exactly what the attorney general would like to have them do. i should like to invite the attention of the senate to a very interesting case involving criminal contempts and the infliction of very tough punishment for having violated an order of the court. this is the case of united states versus the united mine workers of america. reported in three hundred and thirtieth united states reports. page 258. 1946. it is typical of scores of cases exactly like it. we see very strikingly why it is almost an imposition on our judgment as lawyersthose of us who are lawyersto say that the attorney general. by his whim and caprice. can deprive people of legal and constitutional rights.
may i finish this allusion the united mine workers were initially fined $3.5 million. members of the senate may well remember that situation. the opinion of the court from which i shall read commences at page 303. it will show that the attorney general is  running the show to suit himself. and that he is subject to all the requirements of lawtough. scrupulous. and sophisticated requirements. the opinion reads as follows: the trial court properly found the defendants guilty of criminal contempt. such contempt had continued for 15 days from the issuance of the restraining order until the finding of guilty. its willfulness had  been qualified by any concurrent attempt on defendants part to challenge the order by motion to vacate or other appropriate procedures. immediately following the finding of guiltythat is a finding of guilty. with a judge hearing the casedefendant lewisjohn l. lewisstated openly in court that defendants would adhere to their policy of defiance. this policy. as the evidence showed. was the germ center of an ecoic paralysis which was rapidly extending itself from the bitumis coal mines into practically every other major industry of the united states. it was an attempt to repudiate and override the instrument of lawful government in the very situation in which governmental action was indispensable. the trial court also properly found the defendants guilty of civil contempt. judicial sanctions in civil contempt proceedings may. in a proper case. be employed for either or both of two purposes: to coerce the defendant into compliance with the courts order. and to compensate the complainant for losses sustained. the court cites several cases. i stop my quotation to point out that this was a very serious matter. a matter of the highest magnitude in terms of the national interest and the size and importance of the defendant involved. this is what the court did. first. the court laid down certain rules. which are  merely the whim and caprice of the attorney general. the court laid down certain rules which it would apply to people who are to be punished for contempt. and i  quote the rules: where compensation is intended. a fine is imposed. payable to the complainant. such fine must of course be based upon evidence of complainants actual loss. and his right. as a civil litigant. to the compensatory fine is dependent upon the outcome of the basic controversy. but where the purpose is to make the defendant comply. the courts discretion is otherwise exercised. it must then consider the character and magnitude of the harm threatened by continued contumacy. and the probable effectiveness of any suggested sanction in bringing about the result desired. it is a corollary of the above principles that a court which has returned a conviction for contempt must. in fixing the amount of a fine to be imposed as a punishment or as a means of securing future compliance. consider the amount of defendants financial resources and the consequent seriousness of the burden to that particular defendant. the court then went on to say that in the light of those considerations. it was reducing the fine to $700.000 from $3.500.000. the reason i read that language in some detail is. that i think we have had our fill in this whole debate of the extrapolations of ideas of what things mean. of concepts of what they may do. i think it is high time for those of us who are for this bill as it is written to get down to cases and see why we did what we did. or whether we are wrong ift the head somewhereand i do  think we are. so i do  think there is anything to the proposition that the attorney general is a man at whose whim and caprice people who have every right that the constitution guarantees to a fair trial and the right to go through the lower courts and to the appellate courts are going to lose their constitutional rights. i saw an analysis the other day which interested me very much. the analysisand i am trying to recall it demonstrated that those who have been arguing here seem to have less faith in the judges who are born in the south than in the members of juries who are born in the south. because the figures show the overwhelming majority of the principal federal officers in the courts of the south. almost 500. i believe. were born in the south. and only 1 of the members was .
 by the attorney general. and that they are far more beholden to their senators. second. i point out that they have life tenure. third. i point out that the comparison i made was between jurors and judges. and what the senator is asking us to do. if i correctly understand his argument and its ultimate implication. is to choose jurors over judges. fourth. and very important. the verdict of the jury is final. but the verdict of the judge is . this is an extremely important point. the verdict of the jury is final on the facts. the verdict of the judge is . the decision of the judge can be reviewed by the court of appeals. it can be reviewed by the supreme court. lie is very often reversed. but a jury verdict is final. once the jury finds the facts. that is the end of it. i think that is an extremely important point. and all judges who sit on the bench are sensitive to that point.
the senator from new york is devoted to the jury system in all cases in which. by timehoed jurisprudence. the jury system operates. but the senator from florida is  talking about depriving those people of a jury system. he is talking about giving them a jury system which they did  have before. i shall cite a case on that point. the case of michaelson v. u. s. (266 u. s. 42). a case decided by the supreme court. which holds exactly that. it holds that there have never been jury trials in contempt cases. in 1914. the congress enacted the clayton act. in which it provided jury trial in certain cases of criminal contempt. as i understand the present argument. it is  that we should  take away something which has been given. but give something which does   exist. it is argued that we should grant jury trials even in civil contempt cases. i point out to my colleague from florida that in this very michaelson caseand i shall read from the languagethe court indicated clearly if we did so the action was likely to be unconstitutional. incidentally. with respect to the question of jury trial. it is high time for us to come to grips with that question. on the facts. because there has been so much fancy rather than fact uttered on this floor with respect to that subject. let me read what the court said in the michaelson case. the court said-
criminal contempt.  civil contempt. the court said: but it is contended that the statute materially interferes with the inherent power of the courts and is therefore invalid. that the power to punish for contempt is inherent in all courts has been many times decided and may be regarded as settled law. it is essential to the administration of justice. the courts of the united states. when called into existence and vested with jurisdiction over any subject. at once become possessed of the power. so far as the inferior federal courts are concerned. however. it is  beyond the authority of congress (ex parte robinson (19 wall. 505. 510511). bessette v. w. b. conkey co. (194 u. s. 324. 326)). but the attributes which inhere in that power and are inseparable from it can neither be abrogated  rendered practically ierative. that it may be regulated within limits  precisely defined may  be doubted. the statute  under review is of the latter character. it is of narrow scope. dealing with the single class where the act or thing constituting the contempt is also a crime in the ordinary sense. it does  interfere with the power to deal summarily with contempts committed in the presence of the court or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice. and is in express terms carefully limited to the cases of contempt specifically defined. neither do we think it purports to reach cases of failure or refusal to comply affirmatively with a decreethat is. to do something which a decree commandswhich may be enforced by coercive means or remedied by purely compensatory relief. if the reach of the statute had extended to the cases which are excluded a different and more serious question would arise. and so on. there are many cases on the same subject. the important point i am making in that regard is that the right to punish for contempt preceded the right to trial by jury. even in our own statutory law. there was a big hassle in 1914 as to whether we should give trial by jury. even in certain criminal contempt cases. therefore. we are  taking anything away or depriving people of their deep and vested constitutional right with respect to trial by jury. when. in legal concepts since time immemorial. there has been such right. in terms of human perfection. i respect the powers of courts. how many times has the senator or i as a trial lawyer moved before a trial court to set aside the verdict of a jury. in cases which i have argued and cases with which other senators have dealt. the court indeed has set aside verdicts of juries. do we wish that power given up.  on your life. that is as essential for the protection of a litigant in a proper case as is the verdict of a jury.
it is a statute to which i have referred. and which i certainly do  want to do away with. i wish to have it enforced as it is. as a matter of fact. i should like to tell the senator from florida that. as long as i have the floor. i will talk facts. i will discuss facts only. i am  trying to do away with that statute. i will tell the senator from florida. to the contrary. the senator from florida is trying to do that. the statute to which i have referredand i shall be glad to read the statute to the senator from floridaprovides that whenever the united states government is a party plaintiff in a contempt proceeding. there is to be jury trial. that is the statute under which the 15 defendants are being tried at kville. tenn. however. the statute provides. where a private plaintiff is involved. and the act charged is a crime under either state or federal law. the defendant is entitled to a jury trial. in spite of the fact that the prosecutor in the clinton case is the united states attorney. the court has heldand entirely properly so. i will say to the senatorinasmuch as the original plaintiff was  the united states but an individual. the defendants are entitled to a jury trial. hence. . i am  trying to set aside anything or to change anything.
the senator is more correct than he thinks. the only reason the united states is a party plaintiff is that the state agency which should have done something has  done it. that is exactly why the united states has been brought into the picture. that is exactly what the law does. that is exactly what the controversy is all about. i can understand how we can stand here and argue as if there were gravamen to this case. why are we here. are we here because the law is being obeyed. because the law is being carried out. because there is discrimination. because there is violence. because everyone is receiving equal protection under the law. or are we here to correct a situation which we on our side of the argument consider to be a national shame. and that the federal government. therefore. must do something about it. because the local agency will  do anything about it. that is pinpointing the subject accurately and precisely.
the senator from new york contends that the senator from florida and the senator from new york. and other lawyers in the senate who have had any experience in the trial of cases. at one time or aher have tried cases 10 times as complicated as the case  being tried in kville. tenn.. before a judge. the senator from new york would say something else to the senator from florida. the only reason why in the bill before the senate the united states would be the plaintiff is that the local agencies had fallen down. under the bill the attorney general must show that somebody is being denied equal protection of the lawi repeat. equal protection of the law. that is the "kicker" in this bill. he must show that he is being denied the equal protection of the law. wheht a state denies to an individual the equal protection of the law. it is high time for the united states to step into the situation. i have seen many instances. both in the senate and in the house. where i served for a time. of contempt citations being adopted. those citations involved cases of contempt of congress. we were  too worried about such cases. apparently we are  worried about these procedures until they begin to affect us in a particular situation or section of our country.
i understand the point in which the senator from vermont is interested in response to the point the senator from vermont has raised. let me say that on yesterday i pointed out that the attorney general is a lawyer. and all of us who are lawyers have won cases against the attorneys general time and time again. the attorney general has to go into court. and has to go through all the processes of the law. the attorney general is sitting autocrat. with the power to issue decrees. however. from reading some of the speeches which have been made. one would assume that all the attorney general does is to issue decrees. we are  talking about justice as administered in the kremlin. instead. we are talking about justice as administered in the courts of the united states
the attorney general would . and for this reason: his power has been sharply restricted because of court construction of similiar language in section 241. that is true because of the cases which hold that the attorney general can interpose his criminal jurisdiction. for that is the jurisdiction provided in that section. only in cases of state action. that is the case the senator from th carolina himself cited to the attorney general. it is a very recent case in which i think mr. justice jackson wrote the opinion. second. the senator from th carolina spoke of unconsummated conspiracies as if they constitute a new category which never existed before. all of us k there are very definite standards of proof which must be met in respect to an effort to conspire or in respect to the preliminary stages of a conspiracy to commit a crime. before there can be any punishment for crime or any suit for injunction. so i can accept the term unconsummated conspiracies. because i do  think it has any legal definition within the context of this bill i think the senator from th carolina is busy looking up something.
the senator from new york has argued too many causes on appeal to fall for that one. the senator from new york will turn the page. or go a few paragraphs before. and read the anations and then make his argument to the court of public opinion for that particular answer. for the purpose of this record. i do  agree .with the senator. but i can disagree with him on the particular merits of that statement. except to say. from my experience. it is a selfserving declaration. i hope the senator will forgive me.
of course. i could  agree with the senator more. because we are  legislating in a vacuum. we are talking about history. one of the great reasons why we are spending so much time here talking in terms of court decisions rather than statutes is because the congress has done hing whatever about these archaic statutes. which are  85 years old. the only entity which has sought to interpret and to deal with them at all has been the court. that fact bears out what the senator says. that these statutes. which are on the books. are very slim and very meager in their application and their language. the courts have had to interpret them constantly. and there have been relatively few cases. july i8 when we consider the length of time these statutes have been on the books. and the load of .human injustice and misery which has been prevalent in many parts of the countryindeed. most parts of the countryall during that time. there have been very few cases.
i agree with the senator. with one modification. i shall discuss it in detail. and i k the senator will do likewise. i believe that the jury trial question enters as an additional ground for the objection. in my view. it is fair to characterize their objection as including also the jury trial provision.
i shall have to draw on my recollection as to the rules of federal procedure. in a civil case i believe he could demand a jury trial. that is. the defendant could demand a jury trial in a suit for damages. in an injunction case-
if the senator will allow me. it is  egh to confine the argument to the questions the senator wishes to ask. because the whole case has to be covered. if the individual were to start an injunction suit. which he has the right to do. he would have a trial by a judge without a jury. and if the injunction were violated. there could then be punishment for contempt for failure to comply with the injunction. in a civil contempt case. without a jury. the third case is where the party sought a criminal indictment. in which event the defendant could demand a trial by jury on a criminal indictment if indicated by the grand jury.
the senator from new york was  contradicting that proposition. the senator from ohio asked me about a criminal case. for example. in many states. there are misdemeas which are tried by a judge alone. i do  care to go into that. i agree with the senator. in substance. that in a civil case where damages are involved. and in a criminal prosecution. which would have to be initiated by the united states attorney under the applicable sections of the code (which he could or might initiate on the complaint of an individual). the defendant would be entitled to a jury trial. i pointed out he would  be entitled to a jury trial in an equity case for an injunction or in a proceeding in contempt as a result of the issuance of the injunction.
i could  agree with the senator from ohio more. let me  answer the senators question. the link in the chain which is missing from the senators statement of fact is that the individual could go into court and get an injunction. but when he then sought the intermediation of a court of equity. there would be right of trial by jury. and there would be right of trial by jury in a civil contempt case. i emphasize that. all the attorney general is given under this bill. therefore. is the same right which the individualrather the united states is given the attorney general. because he is hing but a ministerial officerbut the united states is given the same right as the individual to seek an injunction. and therefore has the benefit of the same provisions of law. let me add one thought. because i think it is interesting to us as human beings. why do we want to pass this bill. justice frankfurter put his finger on the reason in a very interesting decision to which i should like to call the senators attention. i refer to a part of the brief submitted by the attorney general to the senate committee which heard this matter. i should like to read what justice frankfurter said. and then read the comment of the attorney general himself when he submitted his brief to the subcommittee of the senate. this is what justice frankfurter said: it is a fair summary of history to say that the safeguards of liberty have most frequently been forged in controversies involving  very nice people. that quotation may be found in united states v. raboitz (339 u. s. 56. p. 69). in which justice frankfurter dissented. and in commenting on this the attorney generals office said thispage 273. senate subcommittee hearings: the typical civilrights victim is oppressed by poverty. igance. or both. and may even have a criminal record or be a convict. that is really what we are talking about. we have come to a situation where the pot has been boiling for years. why. because everything is fine in the south. because the processes of education are proceeding in the most agreeable way. because the fine intentions of every member of the senate from the south are being carried out and practiced. are their ideas of morality. their ideology. and their feeling for their fellow human beings. being carried out. or are we dealing in many cases with different kinds of evil. as was said here the other day. the gover of tennessee had to appeal for troops. does that indicate that everything is fine and lovely. and going along charmingly. what about the bombing in montgomery. the shooting of the minister. the bombings in florida. what are we here for. why do we listen to all these arguments all these days. one would sometimes think that we were wasting our time. that the issue is inconsequential. however. the newspapers say that this is the most historic moment in 85 years. a turning point in our history. it seems to me this underlines and emphasizes what the senator from ohio says. this is the purpose of the proposed legislation. somebody has to press the button. somebody has to defend rights which are  being defended. we are asking the united states to do it. that is what it comes to. i thank the senator.
while the senator is present in the chamber. let us see about the law of th carolina concerning contempts. in state v. little (175 th carolina 743). the court had this to say at page 747: and it is in sense a denial of a constitional right that a jury trial is refused in such cases. the court. in safle manufacturing company v. ard (228 th carolina 375). said the following at page 389: in this state a contempt proceeding is authorized by statute. * * * this court has described it as sui generis. criminal in its nature. which may be resorted to in civil or criminal actions. * * 0 and it is held that persons charged are  entitled to a jury trial in such proceedings. i respectfully submit that is pretty poor comfort to a person in jailthat he is to remain in jail only for 30 or 35 days. i respectfully submit to the senator from th carolina that it is  necessary in his argument to go to the extent of saying something which as a lawyer i respectfully submit he ks is  sothat there is rule. ceiling. jurisdiction to review the propriety of punishment in a contempt case in a united states court. i read to my colleagues here yesterday that in the united mine workers case the court very materially reduced the sentence for contempt. with all due respect. i can believe that any lawyer would be willing to say there is limit whatever. and that a person could stay in jail for years. and be fined hundreds of thousands of dollars. without any right to an appellate court review.
the senator from new york answers that as follows: in the event the united states was a party complainant to the suit. that the injunction was issued in the name of the united states. that there was a violation. and that then the contempt occurredthis is the point i did  make too clear. from what the senator said. but i think i can answer specifically. if the contempt was a criminal contempt. that is the court desired to punish the defendant for a refusal or failure to comply. rather than to force the defendant to comply. then in the case of such criminal contempt the defendant. under the provisions of this bill. who otherwise would have been triable by jury under the present law. to wit. the clayton act. would  be triable by jury. that is a specific answer to a specific question on a specific set of facts. but the senator from new york adds the following statement: that situation. however. is  attributable in any way to this bill. first. this bill does  so provide. the clayton act says that where the united states government is a party plaintiff the defendant shall  be entitled to trial by jury. second. this eventuality represents the established law for generations or. as we lawyers say. since time immemorial. and the claytoh act was a special application for jury trial purposes. the established and constant common law. as shown in practically every southern stateand i am going to put into the record the evidence as to the southern state cases. for they have been leaders in this field. denying that right and  giving. whether for constitutional reasons or otherwise. the right of jury trial in contempt cases.
the only thing about which the senator is incorrect in his statement is. i believeand his statement was quite hard to follow exactly. so i hope the senator will correct me if i am wrongthat he referred to a party violating the injunction as committing a crime. that does  necessarily follow. if the person violated the injunction and the court desired to charge him with criminal contemptin other words. to punish him and  simply make him comply with the injunctionthen the result which the able senator has described would ensue.
i think we can specify it. i do  want to confuse the issue. because there is a precise answer. the senator said. "willfully." the minute we leave out the "willful" part. of the proposition we do  give the man a jury trial trial even under the present law. because it is crime and criminal contempt. if the senator will leave out "willful" and confine himself to the terms of the present law. which are as followslet me see if i can state it-
i am sorry. but again i must disagree. the question. so far as criminal contempt is concerned. does  hinge on wilfullness. it hinges on what the court wishes to accomplish. therefore. will the senator state his question in these terms: if a man is  a party to litigation in which the united states is  a plaintiff. and he violates a decree. and if the court whose decree he violated wishes to punish him merely to force him to comply with the decree. but to punish himand if at the same time the act he has committed is also a crime-
the senator states the situation properly. except for the point which i made. which is that the court must wish to punish the defendant. i think the senator will accept that statement. the senator from rhode island may  have been in the chamber when the senator from pennsylvania asked exactly that question. and i added that. in addition to the adjective remedy. as we lawyers call it involving the additional remedy of an injunction suit. the point being made by the opponents of the bill including the senator from rhode island. because i understand his position perfectly wellwas that the proposal in the bill brought into play the jury trial situation which the senator has just described. i think it is only fair to say on our side. in answer to that particular argument. that the very reason the united states is being brought into the picture is because there has been a breakdown both in the process of applying local law with equality. and in the process of an individual securing redress when the law is applied to him unequally. that is the fundamental gravamen of the action sought here.
i. too. am approaching this question with an open mind. i had  intended to discuss the jurytrial amendment in great detail. however. i hope to have an opportunity to do so later. i hope the resulting debate will be useful to the senate. i shall try to conclude as soon as possible. first. i see in the omahoney amendment the fundamental vice of applying the jurytrial provision to civil contempt. which i think may be unconstitutional and destructive. second. with respect to what the senator from rhode island suggests. for criminal contempt i think there is one difficulty. when a local official. and we are dealing with officialswith people who have a great deal of backing. who have states and communities behind themhas the choice between complying and  complying. he ks that all he has to do is to drag his feet until after election day. and then the contempt will be  civil contempt. but criminal contempt. and he will be entitled to a jury trial. in which his own friends will be on the jury. i am afraid such a course would lead us into trouble. that is the thing which causes me deep concern. and. although i am  in a position to speak for the attorney general. i believe that that is what causes him great concern. in other words. we would be placing a prize in the hands of a person who does  deserve a prize. by defying an order until the time when such defiance would longer be civil contempt. and the situation could be corrected only by criminalcontempt proceeding. such an individual could thumb his e at the court.
the moment the senator says "obtain compliance" we stop talking about criminal contempt. in other words. the same individual can. upon his petition. obtain a remedyit is  satisfaction. but he can also invoke a criminal contempt action by the court. he is  prevented from doing that.
that is pretty important. it has been argued that we must give the judge that right. he already has it. i have heard talk about amendments to make a jury trial discretionary on the part of the judge. and i thought it might be useful to mention the point at this time.
i should like to correct the senator in one statement. he should have said in a court of law in a state court. that is a different thing. he refers to a court of law in a state. in the very state in which a violation of a civil right is being charged. i say very humbly that it is high time that we began to have some last resort in these civil rights cases.
. i am opposed to the jury trial amendment as seeking to make a special exception in the case of civil rights to the established procedure in our own courts of justice since their foundation. right  there is united states statute giving a jury trial in civil contempt cases. indeed. incidentally. the authority to punish for contempt. civil or criminal. for violation of a court order. without a jury trial. is strictly enforced in practically every one of the southern states. to demonstrate that fact. i ask unanimous consent that there may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks the foreword to a study by the library of congress legislative reference service entitled "state law on civil and criminal contempt." which is dated may 27.
the question of cost is an interesting one. and i should like to address myself to it. the question of cost is a relevant question. and i should like to answer it in this way. and then explain my reason. because i do  want the answer to get too far behind the question. i think the willingness. the determination. to undertake such litigation is less present in an individual because of all the fears he may have with respect to such a suit. and that fear is greater than the concern over the actual cost. i say that for this reason though i think the senator understands my point: in new york we have procedures under which the record does  have to be printed for the court of appeals. it can be sent up typed. we have legal aid societies. and often lawyers will take cases of this kind without fees. yet the individual is appalled by the prospect of suing a state official and having the feeling that heaven ks where it is going to take him.
again. i repeat that in some cases the record may be accepted by the appellate court even though  printed. there are many exceptions to the general rule. but i would say it is  unreasonable to give that figure as the cost of a case which goes to the united states supreme court.
that is so. i do  k whether the senator from illis was present in the chamber when i read a statement by the attorney general and a decision by justice frankfurter. which stated that that rather fundamental element existed in civilrights cases.
under this proposed law he would be relieved of any such necessity. he would  have to represent john jones. he need  anyway. and he would  as a matter of fact. but under this proposed law he would be enabled to proceed in his own behalf. the united states would be the suing party. that is why some senators are complaining so bitterly about the question of jury trial. if he could sue in the name of john jones. they would  be here arguing about it because the clayton act would  be applicable.
i do  have a case with me at the moment on the right to institute an action in the federal court under such circumstances. but i promise to cite such a case in the record. however. a right to institute an action in the state court would derive  from what we are asked to provide in the proposed statute. but from the present provisions of section 1985. because it is my clear understanding as a lawyer that where there is a right to collect money damages. if that is  an adequate remedy. one may also invoke the equity power to prevent the wrong for which he could collect money damages. but i shall cite some cases from the record. i am sure there are some. to answer the senators question with respect to whether the right would exist. it would. but would  be attributable to the proposed statute. it would be attributable to section 1985 as it  stands. i shall be delighted to read the language to the senator. it carries out the same general idea. if the senator will allow me. i shall read that section.
yes. i think it is only fair to say that the attorney general has waged a considerable struggle on this subject. he did so in the brown case. for example. the brief in that case by the attorney general was important in respect to the decision of the court. and his action in filing it was one which many people did  expect the attorney general would take. it was in favor of the proposal which the supreme court ultimately adopted. it should also be said that the attorney general supports the bill. i have quoted very extensively from his testimony before the committee. furthermore. he has certainly given indication that he has changed his position in any way on the bill. to the contrary. i believe he fully supports every phase of the bill which is  before us. he specifically testified on every phase of it and has backed it up in every way. finally. it should be said that the united states attorney in the clinton case is the attorney for the court. which is quite proper. and i do  believe that that would be conceivable if the attorney general vere  moving forward on this whole subject.
that is a hornbook legal expression. is it  a fact. if the senators views were followed further. that one charged with civil contempt would have in his pocket the opportunity to convert it into a criminal contempt. if he thought he would do better that way. that would be true for this reason: if one charges the registrar of voting with a civil contempt. that charge could last only until the first election. a primary or whatever it might be. if the official were sick. away. obtained an adjournment. or was engaged in some other ministerial act. which could get him by that day. then the contempt would be criminal contempt. and triable by jury. i ask whether. in view of the fact that we are running headlong into a community situation and into a state official situation. that would  negate the concept of trying to make a line of division. to which. naturally. as lawyers. we would have a tendency to be sympathetic. as between the civil contempt and criminal contempt.
the senator has. i appreciate his point of view. though i point out. in all fairness. that the contumacious defendant in the instance i have described would  be in any jail or. indeed. in any jeopardy. he would be plying his trade. and getting an adjournment until such time as what might have been a civil contempt could only be a criminal contempt. and we would give him an emous inducement to follow that course.
the defendant would be subject to an injunction. if he were haled into court promptly. a day or two after the injunction was issued. the proceeding would be a civilcontempt proceeding. because the primary election day. against which it was directed. would  have arrived. if he could stall around for a few days more. it would become a criminal contempt. and he would be entitled to a jury trial. and would probably go free.
the defendant has a right to produce witnesses. he has all the protections which proceedings in law give him. indeed. that is my fundamental contention. i think we have elucidated our restrictive views on that question. i discussed it yesterday. with regard to the systematic exclusion of negroes from juries. this. i think. is perhaps the main sticking point in the senators ideas. for this reason: the supreme court has already held. in the case of reece against georgia. that it can throw out a verdict based upon the finding of a jury from which there has been systematic exclusion of negroes. i have rather grave doubt as to the standards which might be established in federal law for the particular choice of people to serve as jurors. considering the laws of various states applicable to the composition of their own juries. and also the qualifications for acting as an elector.
i do  think i would quarrel with that statement. lastlyand i think quite importantly in this situationit seems to me that the senator would  be going very much further than is already the law. because under the code of civil procedure a judge may impanel a jury for the purpose of making a finding of fact in a contempt case. and any judge can refuse to impanel a jury which is selected on the basis of the systematic exclusion of negroes. the supreme court has already said that it will throw out such verdicts. so really the only thing which the senator would add would increase the peril to the rights of a defendant. we must remember that we are dealing with lawbreakers. people who have defied the decree of a court. i am glad the senator has said what he did. let us understand that we are dealing with a miity. we are  dealing with the overwhelming majority in the southand elsewhere. i am surewho would wish to obey a court judgment or a court decree. we are trying to figure out one of the protections which should be afforded to a man charged with defying the order of a court. with all those things already before us. the change which would be made by the senators suggestion would involve far more jeopardy and peril to what we are trying to accomplish. particularly in view of the fact that we are  seeking to take away the right to jury trial. which is a fundamental constitutional right. basic in our law. the senator would grant. under qualified terms. a right which does   exist. i submit that would involve considerable peril to the object which we are seeking to accomplish. in terms of protection to the defendant.
. that is very important. naturally. those who are opposed to the bill are determined to do all they possibly can to defeat it. it is our duty. on the other hand. as the majority of the senators who are in favor of the bill to do what we can reasonably do to satisfy the opponents by quieting their legitimate fears. within the context of the bill. that is what we are doing by supporting the amendment. i think it is right to do that. however. let us  be taken in by the argument that a great error. or a big mistake in the bill. has been discovered. or that it is a nefarious imposition. which imperils the faith and confidence of the people and the liberties of our country. i do  believe such an attitude is justified. i should like to give one further example. the senator from th carolina has constantly taken the floor and talked about the whim and caprice of the attorney generalwho will be able to do what. start injunction suits. as every lawyer ks. that is the beginning of a very long road before an end is reached. there has been much inveighing against the idea that contempt proceedings may take place without jury trials. but i do  think anybody has yet read the section of the bill on page 12. which is section 131 (e). and reads as follows: (e) provided. that any person cited for an alleged contempt under this act under this section. "under this act"shall be allowed to make his full defense by counsel learned in the law. and the court before which he is cited or tried. or some judge thereof. shall immediately. upon his request. assign to him such counsel.  exceeding two. as he may desire. who shall have free access to him at all reasonable hours. the paragraph then continues. let us see how iniquitous it is. and how much whim and caprice of the attorney general is involved. the last sentence of the section reads: if such person shall be found by the court to be financially unable to provide for such counsel. it shall be the duty of the court to provide such counsel. an appropriation is provided in the bill for that purpose. certainly it is a very unusual provision in respect of civil relief.
it is also a fact. is it . that. under the senators amendment. a local body could go into court and protect rights. which would also be further safeguarded under the senators amendment. is that also correct
at that stage the senator introduces the authority of the attorney general upon a prima facie showing of conspiracy. so i should like to ask the senator this question: is he seeking to protect the individual who may be intimidated in starting a suit as well as in trying to bring contempt proceedings against conspirators who sought to undo the judgment. or is the senators amendment directed to the majesty of the court and the dignity of the united states because persons might be prevented from bringing suits because of antibarratry statutes or because of local pressures. in short. is the senators proposal to give an additional way in which the intimidation of a party can be avoided. or is the senators proposal. on the contrary. to give an additional way in which the majesty. the dignity. and the power of the united states can be maintained.
. one of the main arguments with respect to part iiiand i shall vote against the andersonaikencase of south dakota amendment. as i think is by  well knhas been that all we are doing is giving to the attorney general an opportunity to seek an injunction when the individual already has that right. which is even less thancertainly  more thancotermis with the power to have criminal relief. that is. indictment and trial under criminal statutes. when i was debating the issue a day or so ago. the question was raised as to the absolute right of an individual himself to sue for injunctive relief. i ask unanimous consent that there may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks a memorandum of law on the subject.
therefore. will the senator state his question in these terms: if a man is  a party to litigation in which the united states is  a plaintiff. and he violates a decree. and if the court whose decree he violated wishes to punish him merely to force him to comply with the decree. but to punish himand if at the same time the act he has committed is also a crime * * then he is entitled to a trial by jury. if on the other hand. in the identical situation. the united states were the party complainant in the original litigation. and the decree ran to the united states. he would  be entitled to trial by jury. there. . is the explicit admission by one of the most able supporters of the bill that by making the united states a party to the action. as set forth in section 121. a criminal case will be taken from the criminal court. where it is triable by a jury. and will be handed over to the equity court. where the person so charged can be punished without a jury. this is a plain. clear violation of the bill of rights. it is a violation of the civil rights of citizens of the united states. thus. on the testimony of the junior senator from new york on the floor of the senate. i charge that part iii attempts to transfer the crimes identified by sections 241. 242. and 243 of title 18 from the criminal to the civil side of the court. the senator from new york seems to justify this transfer. because. as he puts page 12087: when a local official. and we are dealing with officialswith people who have a great deal of backing. who have state and communities behind themhas the choice between complying and  complying. lie ks that all he has to do is to drag his feet until after election day. and then the contempt will  be civil contempt. but criminal contempt. and he will be entitled to a jury trial. in which his own friends will bo on the jury. this "dragging of the feet" is an assumption. an assumption that the judge will issue an order that will be subject to such delay. an assumption that the officials involved will choose to defy rather than to obey the court. neither assumption is justifiable in the making of a law. the only dragging of the feet which has been revealed by the testimony with respect to this bill is the dragging of feet of the department of justice in its failure to enforce the criminal statutes already on the statute books without seeking the additional remedy asked for in this bill.
. that illustrates what i mean. if part iii remains in the bill. it will destroy the system of separation of the races. if part iii is stricken from the bill. then something else will destroy the system of separation of the races. what is it that is sought to be preserved by the opponents who have dug themselves in so deeply. part iii would hope to move toward ending the "system of separation of the races". and if there is to be a federal government and if there is to be a supreme court and a constitution. the rest of us can tolerate a system of separation of the races. and the courts have said so. the boiling public opinion of the country says so. and those who are being injured say so. so the senate must do something effective about it. that brings me to a brief discussion of the bill. part iii of the bill is the most moderate provision the senate can make that will be truly effective. it is the most moderate kind of provision because it seeks to give the attorney general a remedy. whereas before this he has  had an effective remedy. the senator from wyoming proved that when he said the attorney general apparently knew that a crime was committed as to a conspiracy to deny voting rights in louisiana. but he did  prosecute. why did  he prosecute. he did  prosecute because he knew it would be a waste of time.
the senator from tennessee is trying to equate with the bill the right. which does  exist. to a trial by jury in a criminal contempt case under the constitution. and he admits that there is such constitutional right. if the senator can bear the burden of showing that federal protection of the right to vote and the equal protection of the state laws as to voting is  a constitutional right. then the 14th and 15th amendments do  mean what they say. and e of us can read english.
in connection with this subject. the release illustrates two very vital points: first. that i have never argued. and never would argue. that we do  have problems of discrimination and segregation all over the country. including the state of new york. i have argued. and i still maintain. that in new york state we have the most advanced laws for dealing with that situationand i think they are very intelligent lawsof any state in the united states. i very much hope that other states will move in that field with the same degree of wisdom and vigor that we have moved in the state of new york. in new york. under our state law. we depend upon the processes of conciliation. mediation. and technical assistance. including hearings. every effort is made to get the parties together. the process is backed up by the injunctive power of the courts. that is exactly what we are contending for in connection with the pending bill. that is exactly what i stood for in connection with the prospective new york city ordinance. i opposed criminal penalties. because of my experience. criminal penalties are considered harsh. it is difficult to obtain convictions. and though they sound good. they result in ineffectiveness of a statute of this kind. this is exactly the point which the proponents of the pending bill have made here. in connection with this subject. i may add that in the state of new york we have had a remarkable experience. in two ways: first. the very few cases which have gone to court. and second. the relatively few cases. considering the size of our statealmost 16 million peoplein which there have been complaints. a report issued by the new york state commission against discrimination shows that there were about 500 complaints in the first 6 months of the year. and that that is very largely attributable to the fact that word is getting around that the commission will act in such cases. also it is very significant that the chairman of the state commission against discrimination joined me in the position i took against criminal penalties. and in favor of the injunctive process. as the best method to accomplish the desired result.
i thank my colleague. i hope we may be on the same side very often. i. too. am  very happy when i am  on the same side with him. it seems to me we should carefully consider the analogy which is being drawn. even though it is taken out of context. because it is nevertheless a part of the process which has been referred to as pulling the wool over the peoples eyes. it is being said that a man could be sent to jail. deprived of his rights. and so forth. without benefit of a jury trial. it should also be pointed out that a man could go to jail even under the amendment that has been offered. therefore i believe we should make a distinction between a private right in the case of a situation that arises under the risla guardia act and a broadly based right of sovereignty. we should point out that there was a reason why the amendment which sought to eliminate the united states as a party in the section which gives a jury trial was defeated. the reason was based on broad public policy. we are following the same broad public policy . because we are protecting a broadly based right which we do  wish to entrust into the hands of a particular jury. as we are willing to entrust so many private rights. even the liberty of an individual.
it must be remembered that it is a crime and a contempt that we are talking about. i favor the amendment which the senator from oregon sponsors. to place a limitation on the punishment. i favor it also because it would. largely dispose of the argument that is presently being made that a man could be sentenced to rot in jail. as if he had committed some heis crime. it also pinpoints the fact that we are only trying to make it possible for the court to enforce its own mandate. and that if an individual commits a crime. he is separately triable on that charge. i deeply appreciate the senators explanation and statement.
. a number of members of this body have quoted from the new york times. my home city newspaper. and a very distinguished newspaper. on the subject of part ii of the civilrights bill. i believe that the opposition of the new york times in that connection was very costly to those of us wio were fighting for part iii. i wonder whether our friends will be quite so eager to quote from the new york times in relation to part iv. the leading editorial in the new york times of yesterday is headed "how much compromise." it begins with this statement: the civilrights bill has  reached a stage in the senate where practically every reasonable concession to middleoftheroad opinion has been made. the end of the first paragraph reads as follows: if this part of the pending bill is  passed. the negro. for whose protection the measure is mainly intended. will gain little. i think it is important. when anyone quotes a source so authoritative. wise. and statesmanlike. to have the same source quoted against him when it assumes a position in opposition. so i hope those who were so eager to use the times in the debate on part iii will  see fit to pay some attention to it in voting upon the socalled jury trial amendment with part iv. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial to which i have referred be printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks.
. i believe that one of the most pertinent comments made by the senator from colorado is that we have succeeded in getting ourselves into areas of considerable confusion. i welcome the opportunity to stick to the facts. i hope very much. in the course of my remarks on the bill. to produce detailed facts with respect to every assertion. and with respect to every conclusion i shall draw. the first of these is to say to the senator from ohio that in my opinion the remarks he has just made on the question of transforming a crime into civil litigation deal with one of the major points with respect to which there has been confusion rather than difference of opinion. i shall read. if the senators will bear with me. specific decrees in equity. made in voting casesthat is the best proof. and there are such decreesin which it is very clear that acts are enjoined which are  criminal. as well as acts which are criminal. and that there can be a violation of an injunction constituting a criminal contempt for an act which is  criminal in itself. i shall read specific injunctions which carry those specific provisions. to give an example. one of the acts enjoined is giving tests to negroes desiring to register for voting in respect of the requirement of state law. in secret. in private. rather than in public. crime is involved.
one of the acts enjoined is that of giving tests to a negro in respect to his qualifications for voting. in private. in secret. by the registrar. rather than in public. crime is involved. yet it could constitute a violation of an injunction. and could result in a prosecution for criminal contempt. but crime would necessarily be involved. on the other hand. falsification of records or other elements of the registration process. which is also dealt with in these particular injunctions. can constitute crimes. as a matter of fact. there is a very significant difference between the amendment offered. the omahoneykefauverchurch amendment. and the present section of the law. taken from the clayton act. the present law speaks of acts which are crimes under state or federal law. as entitling people. in an appropriate litigation. to a jury trial in the event of a criminal contempt. even under the present law. if there were an act which did  constitute a crime under state or federal law. there would be right to a jury trial. the point made by the senator from louisiana as to criminal contempt constituting a criminal offense. though  indictable. is completely consistent with the explanation i have just made. the court. king that a person may go to jail. will apply standards which are mally applied in criminal cases. but the criminal law consequences. the loss of voting rights as a citizen. or similar consequences. will  necessarily flow from that particular situation. the offense involved  being an ascertained crime under federal law. i shall read some specific federal decrees on the subject. in order that we may understand the situation. and have some facts into which we can sink our teeth on this particular issue.
if the senator will allow me to say so. i do  think the senator quotes my conclusion accurately. and i will therefore quote it myself. what i say is that trial in a contempt case by the judge in an equity suit is as long standing. enduring. historic. traditional. and protective as is trial by jury in a criminal case. it has lasted as long. and has survived in human experience just as durably. therefore i argue that there is reason for importing into this situation a new method. trial by jury. remember. we are  depriving anyone of anything. we are giving people something new. which is   in the law. that point should be made time and time again. i say that the equity proceeding and the trial as the result of a contempt in such a proceeding are at least as old as the system of trial by jury. if  older. it precedes our own constitution. in english law it goes back to what we lawyers call time immemorial. it is just as enduring and just as protective of the rights of man as is trial by jury. indeed. the balance of the two procedures is essential to maintain an effective jurisprudence. i never said that our purpose is to convict. that is  my purpose. certainly. i am  a "hanging" judge.  a "hanging" senator. i should like to point out that when a jury acquits. that is the end of the case. and there is appeal. if a judge acquits. an appeal can be taken. in the case of a trial by jury. the united states can appeal. because the result of the jury trial writes finis to that case. appeal can be taken from the verdict of a jury. i shall cite cases. to make that point. let me read from testimony given before the committee. the senator from louisiana spoke about his state. i should like to refer senators to page 242 of the hearings before the subcommittee on constitutional rights of the senate committee on the judiciary. and to what mr. gremillion. a representative of the louisiana attorney generals office. testified. he testified with respect to the very situation we are discussing.
i should like to read a portion of this testimony. because it calls attention to something that has  been referred to before.  for the purpose of my doing something the senator from louisiana thinks i should  be doing. i read from page 242 of the hearings. which contains comments made by the department of justice on certain facts which were controverted in . i submit that when we are dealing with a situation based upon recorded history for generations. and without being in derogation of the protection to which an individual is entitled. we have. at the same time. a situation which society has deemed to be properly lodged in equity. the situation which we have before us seeks to invoke that remedy for special social purposes. i have stated before. and i say again. it is our responsibility. on the facts and on the merits. to justify an extension of this remedy to the attorney general. that is the point to which i addressed myself with respect to part iii of the bill. and this is the challenge which i. as one senatorand other senators have done superbly well. and i shall also endeavor to make my contributionshall take up with respect to part iv of the bill.
the fact is that courts of equity constantly enjoin acts which may be criminal under other statutes. the attorney general has put a list of 28 such statutes into the record of the hearings. it is a lawyers common experience that courts of equity every day in the week punish acts which might otherwise be crimes. courts have said time and time again that a man can be punished for contempt with respect to a violation of a decree of a court which at the same time might be tried as a criminal case in connection with the commission of a crime. and of course it is a fact that in such a situation a court could fine a man $500 for violating a decree. which. if tried as a criminal act. in a criminal trial. could result in having that man sent to jail for years. the same act would be involved. if the senator from ohio wishes to argue his case ex cathedra. without due regard to the law and the cases. which go back for generations. there is hing i can do about it.
the senator from new york is  making that kind of argument. he is  arguing for the elimination of a jury trial. because. in the first place. right of jury trial exists. neither is the senator from new york making the argument he is making because he wants a conviction. the senator from new york has pointed out that in the event of a jury trial in equity. an acquittal would mean the end of the matter. i do  make my argument. either. because i want "hanging" judges. i make the argument because the equity remedy is as time hoed and as enduring as is the procedure of trial by jury in criminal cases. the essence of which is that if there is contempt. it should be remediedand i shall demonstrate that fullyby the same procedure as that which resulted in the issuance of the injunction.
the attorney general had a right to proceed under sections 241 and 242 of title 18 of the united states code. and under the decisions of the supreme court. which have interpreted those sections. here is an excerpt from an opinion by justice frankfurter in the second williams case. title 341. united states code. page 77: the right of citizens to vote in congressional elections. for instance. may obviously be protected by congress from individual as well as from state interference. that is exactly what happened in louisiana where. as the attorney general testified. the criminal laws are ineffective. if the senator will give me an opportunity. as i am sure he will. because we will sit as late as necessary. i shall endeavor. as many other senators have before me. to go all over the matter again. by citing book. page. and case. i will prove that the criminal laws have fallen down. i have cited what i consider to be a salient instance. where a grand jury in the senators home state of louisiana would  hear evidence.
if the senator from louisiana disputes the testimony of the attorney general. we will get the attorney general to testify again. but i refer the senator to a letter from assistant attorney general warren olney to hon. emanuel cet.ar. chairman of the committee on the judiciary in the other body. dated february 21. 1957. in which mr. olney said that the grand jury went on record as  desiring to hear any testimony in connection with the cases in bienville. jackson. and ouachita parishes.
ten parishes were investigated. only three were taken before the grand jury. i have read to the senator the statement that the grand jury did  want to hear testimony concerning three parishes. if the senator wishes to argue with the written assertion by the attorney general. i am sorry.
i would  undertake to put the senator from louisiana to his proof with respect to his own particular state. i do  think that is our burden. i think our burden is to show from the basic evidence that in a number of states. including louisiana. the criminal laws on the federal statute books. as they relate to this case. are ineffective. we do  have to prove every case. i would  wish to embarrass the senator from louisiana. if i could. perhaps the senator is correct about the facts concerning a particular parish. but i think it is our responsibility to bear a burden of proof. and i think we are bearing it very well. the senator himself has testified to the situation in that parish. i only give the details with respect to three instances. and state why the criminal laws bear out the attorney generals statement that apparently the criminal statutes are too harsh. they come after the fact. they are ineffective. that does  have to insult anyone. it does  mean anyone is wrong. it means there is an ineffective remedy upon the books. and we who believe that voting rights should be granted are asking for more effective assurance of those rights.
. i have rarely seen the senator from new jersey so exercised as he has just been. i think his feeling is very understandable. in view of the fact that an effort is being made to make a silk purse out of a sows ear. i do  believe it can be done with the jury trial amendment. if it is done. it will be the fault of those of us who are in favor of the proposed legislation and who somehow can break through the long discussions and let the american people see clearly. it is my deep conviction the people of the united states will see the point. and do see it . i think we will be contributing to the very best interests of the people of the country. as well as carrying out their overwhelming opinion. if we defeat the amendment.
if the senator will permit me to finish my point i have a few other instances to recite. . the record of the hearings before the subcommittee on constitutional rights is very illuminating. if we will but examine it. i should like to refer to the pages of the record which carried the detailed statements of the attorney general of the united states as to unlawful denials of the right to vote in a number of states. the first one of these appears at page 5. and relates to the unlawful denial of the right to vote in certain counties in th carolina. namely camden county. brunswick county. and greene county. in respect to the latter county. greene county. the registrar used as a standard for making negroes eligible to vote answers to such questions as. "give a definition of primary and general elections." i doubt if many lawyers could do that to the satisfaction of the registrar. i continue to quote: to state whether they were members of the naacp. and whether they would support the naacp should that organization attack the united states government. and so forth. next is the key sentence: white applicants were required to answer such questions. in addition. to the surprise of even the distinguished senator from th carolina it was found that some registrars. at least. were applying the grandfather clause. which the senator from th carolina had said was declared unconstitutional by the supreme court of his own state. however. this clause was still being applied. that brings me to my next point. what we are seeking to do is to deal with the situation in those back county areas which are  on the main stem. and which are. if we can so characterize them. behind the times. where these grave injustices are still perpetrated. i think that is the essence of our case. that has to be very clearly understood. for if it is  understood. then our whole case fails. it is one thing to talk about the registration in atlanta or in some other large city. and the actions of juries. grand juries. judges. and the whole paly of justice in those areas. but it is aher thing to talk about the back county areas. where the greatest injustices are committed. where the least amount of negro voting occurs. and where the greatest amount of discrimination takes place.
if the senator will indulge me a moment since i mentioned his state. i think what i have brought to the senators attention is vitally important. that is the essence of the whole discussion we are having. we are trying to reach an agreement on the counties of the areas which are behind the times. where the system operates in this manner: there is discrimination practiced and various means are employed to frustrate the opportunity for voting rights. in the very same areas there is a feeling for white supremacy which also affects the juries and the administration of justice. the society. the mores. the ecoics of a community somehow or other are involved. and there must be some means for breaking through the system. indeed. the senator from georgia called it the system of the separation of the races in the south. and inveighed against any effort to disturb it. so we have the word of the senator from georgia. on the floor of the senate. in addition. we have all kinds of evidence that such is the system. the bill we have under consideration is designed to find some method for dealing with that system. all the finespun legal arguments which are made here should  be permitted for a moment to make us forget the real difficulties which are encountered and the load of human misery involved. everyone ks about the great disorders which have taken place. for example. in montgomery. ala.. in connection with the boycott by negroes of segregated buses. those disorders involved bombings and killings. but juries refused to indict and refused to convict. this is the united states of america. are we to be asked to shut our eyes to such situations because we become confused by woolgathering legal discussions on the floor of the senate. one further point i have iced with the greatest interest the fact that in the state of alabama there has been considerable controversy about voting by those who are professors or students at tuskegee university. indeed. a state law has been passed to exclude those who attend college or teach at tuskegee from voting in the municipal elections of that municipality. by a form of redistricting which is called gerrymandering. if the fact that an express effort was made to exclude about 400 negroes from voting because their votes would have a material effect on the municipal election were  proof egh. i think this is the clincher: the attorney general of alabama obtained an injunction against the national association for the advancement of colored people in june 1956. barring that organization from operating in alabama on the ground that it was  legally registered as a foreign corporation. and therefore was  qualified to transact business in the state. the injunction led to a court order a verdict by jurylevying a $100.000 fine against the naacp for refusing to turn over certain of its alabama records which the court had ordered turned over for inspection by the attorney general. the attorney general of alabama is  engagedand the newspapers say so every dayin making an investigation under the antiboycott laws of the state of alabama. under which people have been punished already in connection with the bus boycott in montgomery. he is engaged in making an investigation of tradesmen and other people in the tuskegee area. on the ground that they are boycotting local merchants. do we hear anyone arguing here that people who are held in contempt of the injunction against the naacp or the injunction which will undoubtedly result from the other investigations of the attorney general of alabama. are being denied their rights because they are to have jury trial. they are to be held in contempt. without any jury trial whatever. under the laws of alabama. of course we hear such argument. if anything. in my view. shows the complete speciousness of the argument which is being advanced here about jury trial. i think that is it. the southern states can get away from the proposition that in respect to the question of jury trial. they do  practice what they preach. on the contrary. in southern state after southern state there is jury trial for civil or criminal contempt. it is the southern states which have led all others in holding that any effort to accord a jury trial would be unconstitutional. under the constitutions of these states. that is a solid. irrefutable fact. and amount of legal argument. including the arguments of the distinguished senator from th carolina. who did his best for the th carolina statute today. can get away from it. we have seen what has happened in alabama. and we k what is likely to happen in the future. any fairminded man who votes for the jurytrial amendment will rue the day he did when he sees what will happen in alabama and in other states. as a result of injunctions. without a jury trial.
they would be prosecuted for contempt. without a jury trial. incidentally. the naacp says that it is perfectly satisfied with that rule if it is as broad as it is longif it is applied with equality. the naacp is perfectly happy to go to the supreme court of the united stateswhere it is to contest the situation. those are  mywords. the naacp says so itself. it is playing the game fairly. i would like to see it played fairly here.
we will go into the question of the systematic exclusion of negroes from jury panels. let me say to the senator that the naacp. in my view. is to be highly complimented for  losing its head. if it had lost its head. civilrights legislation would  be before us .
i could  agree with the senator less and i shall explain why. as to his first proposition. he can undoubtedly tell me exactly the place in the record where he said he did  k that anyone was applying the grandfather clause in th carolina. and deprecated that fact with respect to one of the other counties. the senator probably has read the record. and ks it thoroughly. and therefore can undoubtedly key himself to that particular observation. as to his latter point. with respect to a trial by jury on the issues in an injunction case. we are talking about contempt proceedings. and in a contempt proceeding there are many issues of fact. in a contempt proceeding there is trial by jury in the state of th carolina upon the issues of factand amount of argument about a trial by jury on the issuance of an injunction is going to cure that vital defect in the senators argument.
please let me finish with my catalog i am afraid that what i am saying is beginning to be badly broken up. at page 205 of the hearings are other examples quoted by the attorney general with respect to the inadequacy of court procedures dealing with such situations as an election board which has  met for years to allow any new voters to register. it was found that election board members walked out of the room when a negro citizen tried to register. so that there would  be a quorum of the board present. these examples are particularly important. and i shall analyze what they mean in terms of injunctions which are issued. together with the application of civil and criminal contempt. upon which they have a very profound effect. on page 238 of the hearings is the whole recital of the situation regarding ouachita parish. la.. which has already been discussed earlier today. continuing on from that point. at page 240 of the hearings is a discussion of the situation in rapides parish. la.. and pierce county. ga. on page 241 of the hearings is a reference to the 10 parishes of louisiana which were the subject of an fbi investigation. at the top of page 242 of the hearings there is reference to the situation in jackson parish. la.. where 953 of the 1.122 negro voters were challenged. the registrar there also refused to accept for filing affidavits on behalf of challenged voters. the affidavits were in statutory form. as a result. all of the challenged negro voters. with the exception of two who were physically disabled and therefore unable to fill out voter application cards. were stricken from the voting rolls. these are a few of the instances listed in the hearings. documented and testified to by the attorney general. respecting the specific matters to which we are referring
these two statements are important. it seems to me. as representing the surveys of onthespot journalists with a reputation for veracity and objectivity. and they bear directly upon the questions which we are discussing. and come to the same conclusions. generally. as those which are being contended for by the proponents of this bill at this stage. let me say to the senator from louisiana i am  conscious of violating in any way that section of the standing rules of the senate which says that "senator in debate shall refer offensively to any state of the union." it seems to me when one discusses the enforcement of laws and equal protection of the laws. that is certainly  offensive to any state. if that were offensive. we would be having a sad time endeavoring to debate any matter dispassionately and with decency and effectiveness on the floor of the senate. if anyone should feel it necessary to invoke that rule. so far as i am concerned. i would welcome a ruling of the chair on that subject. as to the articles which i have introduced. they come to the conclusion generally that there is progress. but. as time magazine says. "the blot is shrinking. but it is still ugly." as the new york times says. speaking of the socalled black belt. "but within this general scaffolding the south does have a distinguishable subregional moith with a pretty consistent picture of disfranchisement of negroes." that is what we are talking about. we are  talking about the generality of the cases. that is why i have  been intimidated by a few statements in the senate. which i do  think were particularly well advised. that if we enacted the law we could then see about getting it enforced. and that it would be flouted. i do  believe so. i do  believe we are dealing with a situation which is so deeply engrained as to warrant any such statement. i should like to make some comments on the proposed legislation which i do  believe has been adequately discussed from this standpoint. and that is the specific terms of injunction decrees which are actually handed down in righttovote cases. i think they prove conclusively that the proposal to agree to a jury trial amendment would frustrate completely the purpose and intent of the pending legislation. because as we get down to the individual decrees we find that civil and criminal contempts almost merge. and they are both needed to make the decrees effective. without them the courts would be completely frustrated in making their decrees effective. for that purpose i ask unanimous consent to have included in the record the decree issued in 1948 in baskin et al. v. brown. in the united states district court for the district of south carolina. reported in volume 80. federal supplement. page 1017. affirmed. volume 174. federal reporter. second series. page
i also ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a relatively recent decree. a permanent injunction entered by the united states district court for the middle district of georgia. civil  520. ember 23. 1955. in the case of thornton against martin.
. i submit an examination of these decrees will indicate that in order to have effective enforcement. the court needs jurisdiction  only in civil contempt. but in criminal contempt cases. if it does  have this jurisdiction. or if it is necessary to settle the case by then having a trial before a jury. the decrees may well be found completely ineffective. for example. in the case of baskin against brown. the registrars. or the persons under this particular order. were enjoined from requiring the plaintiff and other negro electors to take an oath as a prerequisite to voting in primary elections. one of the features of that oath was. "i further solemnly swear that i believe in the principle of states rights. that i am opposed to the proposed federal socalled fepc law." one can say that is a ridiculous aberration of some registrar. but it does happen. an injunction is entered. so that a registrar shall  ask for that kind of affidavit. the registrar pays attention to the court. and the registrar is thereupon arraigned in civil contempt. what does he have to do to make it a criminal contempt. he just has to resign. he is longer the registrar. there is hing a judge can do about putting him in jail before he can comply. he is finished as registrar. he is out of the picture. that situation is expressed in simple terms. there is a civil contempt procedure by which a person is made to do something which the order requires. in other words. he is haled before the court and made to do something. but when we are dealing with a whole variety of subtle acts which he is required to do or  to do. then he can frustrate the decree by paying attention to the court. unless he can be held in criminal contempt.
let me complete this discussion. the third point is this: if a defendant pays attention to the court and succeeds in stringing matters along. whether by adjournment or because of sickness. or because the court is  sitting in that particular community at that particular time. until the primary or general election takes place. then there is purpose in punishing him for civil contempt. he could only be punished for criminal contempt. that sets in motion the whole procedure of frustrating the judgment of the court by means extraneous to the equity procedure itself. to witif this amendment should be agreed toby a jury trial.
in a moment. it seems to me these are the practical. daytoday. direct situations which we face. i should like to call attention to one further point. in the decree in thornton against martin. to which i referred. the decree stated as follows. referring to three names. and the names are  important: their deputies. their clerical help. and their respective successors in office are hereby permanently enjoined as follows. assuming this decree extends to the successors in office. it seems to be the contempt would depend upon actual ice of the decree. and the case would very clearly come within the criminal contempt provisions. so far as the findings of the court are concerned. i am advisedand other members of the senate are similarly advised by the department of justicethat about 90 percent of all these contempt cases are criminal contempts. for the very reason that a civil contempt proceeding is a relatively elusive one. because it deals with a particular and unitary set of facts. unless that is so. one is faced with the generality of cases. we can have an infinite variety of the permutations of these cases. therefore. it brings me to this proposition. i think we are seeing  a lastditch desperate effort to compromise and water down even the right to vote safeguards of the civilrights bill. which many heretofore opponents of the civilrights bill have said they favor. i think that is the essence of the situation we face today. i might say also that an effort is being made to bring in other groups in this respect. such as the labor group. i shall take a moment shortly to pay my respects to arguments based upon the risla guardia act and the tafthartley law. again i repeat the inapplicability in many cases. indeed. in the great majority of cases. of the civilcontempt remedies. there is a tremendous number of permutations which can take place under court decrees. to make them ineffective. so that the criminal contempt remedies would be invoked. this seems to me to stamp this jurytrial amendment as a lastditch effort to water down even the righttovote safeguards in the civilrights bill. i think for that reason alone we ought to keep our conviction strongall of us. whether we voted for or against retaining part iii of the billthat the socalled jurytrial amendment should be defeated.
the senator is correct. the effort is made to distinguish between civil and criminal contempt. i might point out. as i did before. that the present provisions of the law are  carried over as they relate to criminal contempt which also requires a crime under state and federal laws.
the senator is absolutely correct. if the senator from illis will allow me. it reminds me of the fact that has been stated on this floor. with a citation from the case. that in a civil contempt case the defendant has the key to unlock the jail in his own pocket by complying with the decree. it seems to me that by adopting the omahoney amendment we would be giving the defendant exactly the same key. if he can succeed in converting a civil contempt into a criminal contemptthe key to unlock the jail without compliance.
hing can cure that fact. because the minute the difficulty of enforcing the courts decrees arises. if the court does  have itself the means for protecting the dignity of the courtand the cases speak of that--either by civil or by criminal contempt. then we are depriving the court of the power to enforce its own decrees. in practical effect.
the amendment will enable defendants who are the subjects of decrees which have been specifically spelled out to obtain jury trials. i have submitted examples of these decrees of courts. to show that the conduct which the court requires is spelled out in the greatest of detail. with respect to affidavits and with respect to hours of receiving prospective voters and so on. these decrees are spelled out in the greatest detail with respect to what is required of defendants. nevertheless. if the omahoney amendment should be adopted it would enable defendants to play horse with the court in the ways which we have described. and in many other ways which we have  described. but which are available the minute one can play off civil as against criminal contempt and the time before an election against the time after election. with a tremendous premium for what one does in the way of delay or in the way of  obeying the mandate of a court.
i think the senator from new york has made a case. for this reason: we all k that we are dealing with counties. where there are registrars. it has been argued that many of those people are  paid for the job. because it is  important egh. we are arguing about the situation under a system in local areas. where there is exceedingly great social and ecoic pressure. otherwise this condition would  exist at all. in terms of conviction by juries. as against one conviction in kville. tenn.. for contempt. we have contrary evidence as to many other places. i gave the citation with respect to montgomery. ala. i read the citation with respect to voting matters in the senators own state. in montgomery. ala.. the jury would  convict even for bombing. which. incidentally. is a capital offense. . i am  speaking offensively about the southern states.
the senator from new york has already dealt with that point time and time again. as to the considerations of jurisprudence which give equity treatment to any defendant in the situation of being in contempt. the senator from new york points out that the three proponents of this amendment come from statesnamely. wyoming. idaho. and tennesseewhich do  themselves grant a jury trial in contempt proceedings. whether criminal or civil. i think that is a pretty significant thing. bearing upon the question of practicing what one preaches. i submitand i think we have  emphasized this point adequately in the course of this debatethat in a case in which a jury acquits there is right of appeal. and the matter is ended then and there. hence there is a big premium. in a particular county in which the social system is as i have described it. in a man doing everything he can to change the civil contempt into a criminal contempt. because if a jury refuses to convict. that is the end of the matter. there is appeal. in support of that argument i cite the cases of u. s. v. sanges (144 u. s. 310) . and u. s. v. ball (163 u. s. 622). in the ball case the supreme court said: as to the defendant who had been acquited by the verdict duly returned and received. the court could take other action than to order his discharge. the verdict of acquittal was final. and could  be reviewed. on error or otherwise. without putting him twice in jeopardy. and thereby violating the constitution. it seems to me that that is one of the most conclusive arguments against the jurytrial amendment. because in the very community which needs it most. we would be putting it within the power of the community then and there. to end the effort to enforce the law at the local level. without further recourse.
may i finish. please. if senators will refer to pages 12906will find that yesterday i had printed a list of cases which had been sent back by the courts of the united states on the ground that there had been a systematic exclusion of negroes from juries in many cases in the south. i should like to invite attention to a specific case in georgia. the home state of the senator from georgia. decided on december 5. 1955. the case of reece v. georgia (330 u. s. 85). in which the supreme court reversed a murder conviction. the sentence i should like to read from that decision is as follows: the indictment of a defendant by a grand jury from which members of his race have been systematically excluded is a denial of his right to equal protection of the laws. equal protection of the laws is exactly what we are contending for here. whether we are right or wrong in our contention. the senate will soon decide. and the country will soon decide after that. but the fundamental point i wish to make clear is that in terms of emotion we share a deep love of country. i deeply feel we do  share an antipathy to any section. whether chicago or new york or any other city. or any place in the south. which must be and is equally precious to me. i take my life oath on it. as i k does every member of the united states senate.
i should like to refer the senator to the case of avery v. georgia (335 u. s. 559). decided in 1953. the facts in that case were that the jury commissioners used separate colored tickets for the white and colored jurymen. and that constituted. in the opinion of the supreme court. prima facie evidence of discrimination in the naming of jurymen. and the case was sent back to the lower court.
i am glad i returned to the chamber in time. because i was very anxious to ask the senator a question about this one point. there has been a great effort to equate criminal contempt with the commission of a crime. the senator from ohio is a very kledgeable constitutional lawyer. whether he agrees or disagrees with the senator from new york. there is question about his erudition in this field. would the senator say a word about this point.
the senator from th carolina is too good a lawyer  to k that an exception or two do  make a law bad. the real vice involved is that we are constantly chasing our tails in every particular case to get justice done. when what we are trying to do by the bill is to put a kind of machinery in motion which will get justice done on a large scale. and much more timely than has occurred up to . the mere fact that negroes serve on some juries in georgia. the mere fact that there exists a situation as described by my friend from th carolina. the mere fact that there exists a situation referred to by the distinguished senator from georgia. do  prove anything. the instances of violations cited have been going on right up to date. they are happening. the tuskegee situation is happening right . that is the kind of thing we are trying to reach by legislation. i think that statement must be made here and . because an effort has been made. and very successfully. by many fine people. including some in this chamber. of good heart and fine intentions. to point out individual instances where there have been negroes on a jury. or where a negro has voted in a certain state. or where a state official responded to a call for administrative efforts within 6 days. but the record is full of items of proof that considering the entire areahow many negroes vote. how many there are. how difficult it is for them to vote. how 3.000 were disfranchised in county a or ouachita parish in louisiana or in the tuskegee areawe must have legislation general in character. the very condition from which we have been suffering is that we have been constantly chasing these individual flies in a swarm which is numberless.
on yesterday the junior senator from new york. in response to the statements of his friend. the very distinguished senator from tennessee. part of his remarksand i can identify the page of the record on which they appear this morning. if the senator wishes. a whole list of cases which were  messages from federal judges. though we may get messages ourselves. but which were specific cases. some of which i referred to in the discussion with the senator from georgia this morning. they were cases the higher courts. after a finding upon the record. had actually sent back to the trial court case after case after case of the most serious kind in many states of the south. including. as i pointed out this morning. the state of georgia. because of a systematic exclusion of negroes from a jury.
it seems to me that that is very subftantial evidence of a very direct character. and that is the evidence we used. in addition. we pointed out previously. and i repeat. the fact that in 5 statesand i shall have reference to the names of the states in a momentin 4 states and in some of the parishes of louisiana. by the admission of the senator from louisiana. it is a fact that man may serve on a federal jury who is  an elector. so the qualifications for jury service are tied in with voting. the figures we have given show. for example. that in the state of mississippi 2 percent of the negroes of the state vote. therefore. 2 percent of the negroes of the state would be eligible to serve on juries. we admit that here and there there may be found a negro serving on a jury. but we maintain that does  disprove the fundamental point which we make with respect to the exclusion. in a systematic way. of overwhelming numbers of negroes. that is what we have argued in this situation.
i have doubt that most. if  all. of these instances related to state courts. i can stop to count them . however. i hasten to point out to the senator that we are talking about election boards. which are state boards. we are talking about the example of segregation which is set in certain states. we have reference to a federal statute. which i have just pointed out. in many states service on a federal or state jury is confined to those who are electors. therefore it seems to me that this is direct and pertinent information as to what is going on in particular states. with respect to jury service. that is what we are arguing about.
i think the senators colloquy with the senator from louisiana was of great interest. it has prompted me to ask this question. is it  true that what we who are against the amendment are seeking to reach are the manifold ways in which people have been denied the right to vote. which have been very carefully thought out. the senator from illis has rendered a valuable service in placing in the record instances in a number of states which have shown such a wide range of avoidance and subterfuge. of places closed where people register to vote. or where there are  more than two prospective negro registrants allowed in the same room. where there are 40- or 50minute or 1hour examinations of negroes who want to register and only a minute for white registrants. of where questions which would stump a lawschool dean are asked of negro but  of white applicants for registration. under those circumstances. have we  the right to assume that there will be more acumen and ingenuity in the ways in which injunctions may be disobeyed. and that. as the supreme court has said. the line between civil and criminal contempt. when there is subterfuge. is difficult. as a matter of fact. i doubt very muchand i think the supreme court doubted it very much in the michaelson casethe constitutionality of any law which is premised strictly upon depriving the court of the power by itself to deal with criminal contempt. and is  also premised upon the fact that the act of criminal contempt is a crime under federal or state law. i call the attention of the senator from minnesota to the fact that the existing law is premised  only upon criminal contempt. but upon a crime. a crime under state or federal law. does the senator from minnesota wish to comment upon that.
i think the senator should invite the attention of the senate. since he has obviously read the case carefully. to the grave doubts expressed by the court as to constitutionality the minute one goes beyond the act of criminal contempt. which is also crime as  provided by law. the minute one goes beyond that. the court has yet to hold anything else would be constitutional which provides a trial by jury. in my own opinion. the proposed amendment may well be fatally defective on constitutional as well as on policy grounds.
we had almost gotten back to south carolina from new york in the intervening time. but perhaps we can refresh each others recollections. i should like to say i am rather proud of what i did with respect to the new york city housing antibias resolution which is  pending before our city council. however. i k of hing that better epitomizes our sincerity in what we are advocating here on the floor of the senate. i feel that our experience in new york is very well worth repeating with reference to this discussion. i put in the record the press release which i issued 10 days or 2 weeks ago. in which. incidentally. i was in substance joined by the chairman of our state commission against discrimination. in which we urged that the injunctive remedy be preferred to the criminal remedy. and that the injunctive remedy be supported and backed up by the processes. which we have found so wonderful in new york. of mediation and conciliation and technical assistance. but that it had to be backed up with the force of the injunctive power. otherwise. it was useless. it seems to me that is exactly what we are advocating here. i am  going to be cute about it. we all understand each other and understand why the matter was brought up. but i think it evidences the deepest sincerity with which those of us on my side of this question approach the issue. we really deeply and sincerely feel. while respecting fully the qualms and concerns of distinguished and patriotic senators like the senators from. south carolina. that this is a prudent. a wise. and a moderate remedy. we do  ask those senators to agree with us. i am only explaining what is in our hearts. it can best be evidenced by the fact that the method has been remarkably successful in my state. one could make a d6 marche about the fact that if there were adopted in alabama and south carolina a whole group of laws against discrimination such as have been adopted in new york. and they were administered. we would  be here. but. as i say. these are selfevident things. it seems to me the debate has gotten away beyond that point. we have two senators from new york who are devoted supporters of this bill. the bill will apply to citizens of new york just as it will apply to citizens of every other state. we feel it is fair. just. and right. i say. in all seriousness and sincerity. although the senators from the southern states are very anxious to. and they should. put a good face on the situation in their states. and i have doubt. and we have all admitted. that there are instances in which they can demonstrate in a certain city or county or state that the situation is  so bad as some people would have us believe it is. it is nevertheless true. and i deeply feel that the facts back the statement upthat in broad areas of the south the application of this additional remedy is needed. if there is to be measurable progress toward obtaining full voting rights for negroes. i think the best proof of it was given a minute or two ago. when it was said that there had been an increase in voting by negroes in the south. why. because the supreme court decided against white primaries. that was a historic decision. there was far more attention fixed on negro voting and on cases involving those questions in the south.  we see the reaction to even that amount of progress. in various states of the south thousands of names of negroes are being stricken from the rolls. what has happened in louisiana along that line can be talked down.  can the case of tuskegee. which was discussed the other day by persons who had come from that area. in addition. there are in certain states antibarratry statutes. which i feel are vicious. the most vicious manifestation of such statutes is that  only do they seek to say. " only may you  have your rights. but we are going to make it tough for you to seek them." we k all about champerty or barratry. but it does  go to the extent of having to borrow $25 from ones best friend in order to engage in litigation. i do  expect my friends on the other side to join me in that argument. i am expressing only what i deeply feel. i feel it is evidence of what we mutually feel creates the frame in which this type of legislation is needed. it would be childish. at this stage of the debate. to justify what i did in new york. it has been discussed previously. i am proud of it. i thought our friends ought to understand the framework of our position i have the highest regard for him. as he ks. i hope hing i have said will let him believe there is the least derogation intended in that regard.
if according to the law. the state registration is on a certain day. and the registrar is in default or in violation of an order of the court directing the registration to take place on that day. and the day has passed. and performance becomes impossible. there can longer be any civil contempt. it then becomes. if anything. criminal contempt. and a jury trial ensues under the amendment. what the senator from california has contended is that when that stage is reached. the registrar can longer be punished for civil contempt. it is necessary to punish him for criminal contempt. a jury trial intervenes. and the registrar. we believe. can have a reasonable right to feel that the case is over. and that is the end of it.
i think the senator from rhode island has proved that by the fact that. despite the passion of his address. which was great and eloquent. he has  made up his mind. it seems to me the very eloquence by which he has stated he has  made up his mind shows he has  been distracted. so i k he has  been distracted by a mirage. why do i say "mirage". the paramount objective inherent in the bill is the method by which we shall secure the right to vote for many thousands of americans. we do  want to override any other right in securing that right. let us. as senators who are objective. keep our eye on the ball. second. the senator from rhode island has issued a challenge. i do  k whether the challenge applies to each of the three questions he asked. i shall state those three questions. first. the senator asked. why establish such a commission. second. the senator asked. why is  the civilcontempt procedure adequate to cope with every reasonable situation which could arise under this bill. third. the senator asked. is  a criminal contempt nevertheless later subject to indictment and trial. if the act of contempt was itself a crime.
in answer to all three questions i should like to suggest certain ideas to the senator. i do  want to detain the senate very long. it is so late at night. and we shall have plenty of time. as i see it. tomorrow. first. as to the commission. it seems to me the necessity for it is inherent in the reason why the senator fought so vigorously against striking out part iii. which embraced a whole range of civil rights. amounting to 10. 20. or 30. there was a list of them put in the record. including such a sacred right as the right to be immune from brutality at the hands of police officials. i should think the senator would at least hope to save a part of the objective of part iii by favoring the establishment of a commission which. by subpena power. could investigate and report what is going on in this area.
that whole range of questions is based upon what. it is based upon some element of state law under which the registrar acts. therefore. we submit that a federal decree. issued at any time. such as a preliminary injunction. which. as the senator ks. is good only for a few days. or after a trial. lasting a longer time. can negate the requirements of state law. in the final analysis. the court will have to order the registrar to comply. in good faith. bona fide. with state law. we get into a great range of subterfuges and dodges which have been practiced. this is  imaginary. these are actual happenings. they have occurred in louisiana. mississippi. alabama. and state after state. and the record is fully documented with respect thereto. we say that when we get into that kind of a situation there will  be obtained decrees which the court can enforce by the civil contempt remedy. and that the court can be frustrated. because of the existing law. time and time again. as pointed out by the senator from californiaand his statement can be provedthe court can be rebuffed by the person who is engaging in all these subterfuges and dodges. again. there is guesswork about this. we need  place a premium on a civil as against a criminal contempt. because of the human protections granted in equity jurisprudence. which has been built up for centuries. and which has  been seriously challenged since 1914. the senator from rhode island has been here. the senator from wyoming has been here. ody has tried to change it. only . when the effort is being made to defeat the bill. are senators running around saying that in 1914. 43 years ago. we made a great mistake and suborned human liberty. i ask senators to show me 1 case in 43 years in which there has been a widespread plan to suborn human liberty under the clayton act.
we can differ on a particular issue and yet remain brothers at arms in the fundamental cause we are fighting. i would  want any reflection or anything else to negate that point. the point i was going to make. essentially as a lawyer. is this: the conviction for criminal contempt is  a conviction for crime. the punishment is  the same. loss of citizenship does  ensue. and many other consequences of conviction for a crime do  ensue. therefore. it is  analogous to a criminal trial under the constitution which demands a jury trial. as a matter of fact. we have proceeded for generations. as i have heretofore explained. with the criminalcontempt cases. why. mayi tellthe senator why.
again i do  want unduly to protract the debate. because we are keeping in the chamber other members and  only ourselves. and we will have a further opportunity to discuss the subject. the reason is that the courts themselves have recognized the dichotomy of civil and criminal contempt. and also because the contem is  entitled to the indulgence of the court to crossruff the court itself time and again to turn civil to criminal contempt in order to escape the consequences. i should like to revert to the simple instance which was stated by the senator from california. because i think it illustrates the point i am trying  to make. we have cases in the record which show that negroes came to the courthouse to register. that they were told only a certain number of them could be received at a time. and that they thereupon went away. . it is so easy. as i think the senator has observed in his own experience. where there are thousands of people involvedand the senator himself says that we are trying to make this a broad applicationto have a situation go on and on and on. until it comes very close to the final registration date. yet ody has at that time laid an adequate basis. except by the accumulation of facts. for litigation which will result in a valid injunction. i think the instance cited by the senator from california of carrying the procedure along in an administrative way. for apparently good reasons. day after day after day. until one gets within 30 seconds.  within 30 hours.  within 3 or 4 days of a registration for an election. when the plug is finally pulled. is a very pertinent illustration. and for this reasonmay i finish the thought. i mr. pastore. yes. . mr. javits. for this reason: does the senator himself believe that dozens of registrars would go through all the subterfuges. dodges. and troubles they go through. according to the record. in all the southern states. to bar thousands of negroes from their right to vote. if they were  determined upon that course. backed up completely by local opinion. representing the views of the whole community and indeed. its whole life and conviction. does the senator think because we enact the bill tomorrowunless it is truly effectiveall these ideas. all these points of view. all these efforts and vigors are going to be dispelled and washed away. i do  think so. i want to pass a bill based upon our established jurisprudence and upon the rights of man as we have established them for generations. but a bill which i think has some teeth in it. i think that is the difference.
i think the senator from rhode island mistook my statement of fact. i did  say that the registrar would flout. day after day. the order of the court. what i did say was that the registrars practices. as shown by the cases in the record before us. are such that we do  have a gravamen for the order of the court until the situation is very close to the payoff time. namely. election or registration. and that these practices can be carried out by administrative means which. until they pile up into an overpowering case. permit the registrar to get away with them. i gave an example-
. we are  approaching the end of this debate. which has been called a historic debate. and i feel it necessary. in fairness to the issue. to address myself to one particular point which has been much discussed. and that is whether being for the amendment is the liberal point of view and being against it is the illiberal point of view. or vice versa. it seems to me that view hinges upon a patent misunderstanding. which has amazed me by its persistence. that what is sought to be done is to take away a right which exists. so i should like to make it crystal clear. and perhaps this is the final opportunity i shall have to make it crystal clear. that what we who are opposing the omahoney amendment are seeking to do is keep the law exactly as it is. we are  seeking to change it or take away any right which is  vested in any citizen of this country. i respectfully submit that is the liberal position. and for this reason: the liberal position is premised  only upon new things and inations. it is premised also upon a fidelity to proven safeguards and methods of justice which have stood the test of time and have protected citizens in their fundamental human and constitutional rights. our case is premised upon the fact that the present law upon this subject of punishment for contempt has stood the test of time.  only with respect to this particular area of law. but with respect to the area of law encompassed in the pending amendment. which goes far beyond the civilrights bill. that. in my opinion. constitutes one of the fatal defects of the amendment. let us trace that viewpoint for a moment. long before the united states was organized as a nation. ib the colonial courts. going back to the english courts. contempts which were both criminal and civil were punished by the judge. i hope before i am through i shall have an opportunity to refer to a few of the cases which showed this was a. wise and salutary thing and in the interest of justice. because it gave the courts the power to maintain their decrees and enforce their decrees. and did  transfer into the hands of a defendant the opportunity to play with the court. using the courts processes for the purpose of serving the defendants aims to defy the courts decrees. that went on until 1914. when the clayton act was passed. the clayton act gave a right to trial by jury in a criminal contempt case which was at one and the same time a crime under federal or state law. if the plaintiff was an individual and  the government of the united states. but if it was the government of the united states. then jury trial was afforded. that provision of law has been in effect for 43 years.  only with respect to whatever case might arise under civil rights. because. as we k. and as has been established. an aggrieved individual whose civil rights have been denied him has the right to go into court to seek injunctive relief. in a minute or two i shall analyze. because i think it is pertinent to this discussion. some of those decrees. so we have had experience for 43 years. since 1914.  alone as to civil rights. but as to a whole range of other statutes. i mentioned them last night. they are in the record. they range from the communications act to the hot oil act. to the security laws. to the pair labor standards act. and. most markedly. to a host of cases having to do with the antitrust laws. the amendment proposes what i consider to be really reckless legislation to change that whole course of procedure and make it different. why. because it is felt that by extending the net more widely. it is possible to interest more senators who might otherwise  be ordinarily concerned in this proposal. i understand the senator from ohio will offer an amendment. i suggested to the senator that i should like to ask him questions about that amendment. which would at least restore to this measure some degree of responsibility and take away the element which i consider to be reckless. at least let us argue about the cases before us and the set of facts before us. and let us make our decision on those. but let us  deal with the amendment with a reckless disregard of the law and facts with respect to a host of other statutes which are  under consideration and which are the concern of every committee of the senate. and  merely the committee charged with proposed legislation to which we felt inclined to refer the matter. i welcome the amendment which would take away the applicability of the provisions of the bill to other than the laws embraced in the bill. i hope the senator from ohio will offer his amendment. so it may be treated as a perfecting amendment to the pending amendment. while i oppose the omahoney amendment. it seems to me the amendment of the senator from ohio would be but an elementary expression of responsibility.
i will say to the senator. so that my own views are clear. i do  agree with that statement in terms of an amendment for which i finally can vote. but i welcome the idea in terms of confining the provisions relating to jury trial to that type of case. and  extending then. as does the omahoney amendment. to the whole network of statutes which are reached by the clayton act.
i may say to the distinguished senator that the reason why i invited the colloquy at this time is that i do  believe in making speeches about straw men. to my mind. this is a fatal defect in the omahoney amendment. so long as the senator was going to address himself to the matter. i felt it should be an essential part of my own speech in the senate to have the senators assurance. . those who support the amendment virtually concede that contention. for this reason: they argue that the civil contempt remedy shall be in the hands of the court. but that such a remedy is adequate to deal with all the situations which will arise under the bill. therefore. i believe if we can prove it is an inadequate remedy we have at one and the same time proved that the criminal contempt remedy sh.iould also lodge in the very same handi. that have the civil contempt remedy. let us consider the facts. i have here some actual cases. there is use dreaming of this thing in abstractions. we should consider some actual cases from southern states in equity suits relating to voting rights. these cases demonstrate what has occurred. and what the court did. these cases show how the court could be frustrated if it had to proceed separately by civil and criminal contemptcivi.l contempt decided by the judge and criminal contempt by a jury. i have three typical situations. the first case is that of thornton versus martin. decided in the middle district of georgia. civil 520. on ember 23. 1955certainly  a case which is hoary with age. incidentally. it seems to me that date ought to again bring us back to the fundamental point which we have been making in this debate. what we have been doing up to  is chasing the individual instances of injustice and deprivation of voting rights. instead of attacking the problem with a broad statute vesting authority where it can be utilized in a general way in order to produce justice. i believe that those who are opposed to the bill essentially want us to chase every willothewisp. there are many cases. but they do  result in bringing about measurable progress toward the attainment of broad civil and full voting rights. which is absolutely needed in this instance. in thornton versus martin the plaintiffs. negroes. brought a class action against the officials of randolph county. ga.. alleging that their names had been illegally removed from the list of qualified voters on account of their race. the court held that the removal was based upon racial discrimination. and granted an injunction requiring reinstatement and prohibiting certain practices. the findings of fact and the conclusions of law were as.i shall outline. i should like to read from the book. so that we may see the kind of evils we are trying to prevent. what were the findings of fact in the middle district of georgia. at the end of 1955 a long time ago. this is  an ancient casein respect to the denial of voting opportunities to negroes.
i thank the senator. i shall do my utmost to bring the matter to a conclusion. i have argued this whole situation many times. my second illustration is the case of byrd v. brice (104 f. supp. 442. affirmed 201 f. 2d 644). it was decided in 1952 and involved the parish of bossier. la. the 1950 census of the parish indicated approximately 26.000 whites and 14.000 colored. the court found there were 9.000 registered voters but  one was a negro. it found a violation of the constitutional right in 2 ways. the registrar made registration favorable and easy for white applicants without according even remotely similar treatment to negroes. the second discrimination involved section 37. title 18. of the louisiana revised statutes. providing that the registering applicant must establish his identity. the section also provides that if the registrar has good reason to believe he is  the same personhe claims to behe may require the applicant to produce two creditable registered voters of his precinct to make oath to that effect. this quoted provision was always applied to negroes. with the result that for 31 years the registrar of bossier had failed to be able to establish the identity of one single negro. whereas she had difficulty in 9 out of 10 times establishing the identity of white persons. the court stated that the registrar could easily identify thousands of white applicants without the requirement for the two witnesses but "we are yet to find one colored applicant who has been able to make proof of his identity. the unwavering. immediate. and persistent requirement has been that the colored applicant had to get two credible registered voters of his precinct to appear and make oath. and so forth. the record fails to discloseand that includes the testimony of all partiesof a single instance of a colored applicant ever getting even a blank in his hands to fill out as is the custom." hence. how could the provisions of a decree in a situation of that character be enforced except by criminal contempt. here again the decision resided in the discretion and judgment of the registrar. i stated most vigorously last night during the debate that federal court injunction can do anything but apply state law. hence. if the state law leaves the matter to the discretion of the registrar. the only thing the injunction can do is require the registrar to exercise his discretion without discrimination. that. i respectfully submit. can be compelled by civil conempt. only criminal contempt can be effective. finally. . i refer to the case of brown v. baskin (78 f. supp 933. affirmed 174 f. 2d 391. district court. eastern district of south carolina. 1948). the case involved injunctive relief where negroes were prohibited from voting in the democratic primary in south carolina. a summary of the facts is very well set forth by chief judge parker on appeal in which he states "this appeal presents aher chapter in the effort to exclude negro citizens from any effective participation in elections in south carolina. where the vote in the demooratic primary controls. to all practical intents and purposes. the choice in general elections. prior to the decision in smith v. a1lwright (321 u. s. 649.. 64 s. ct. 757. 88 l. ed. 987. 151 a. l. r. 1110). negroes were excluded from voting in the democratic primary in south carolina. which was conducted pursuant to state law. following the decision in that case. which upheld the right of negroes to vote in primary elections. the gover of south carolina convened the legislature in special session and recommended that all primary laws of the state be repealed. with the avowed purpose of "preventing negroes from participating in the democratic primaries. pursuant to this recommendation the primary laws were repealed and the democratic primaries were conducted thereafter under rules prescribed by the democratic party of south carolina. but in the same manner and in such way as to produce the same results as when conducted under state law. which had been stricken down by the supreme court. it seems to medealing  with specific terms of injunctions in specific casesany registrar can frustrate and can play off the civil contempt process of a court against the criminal contempt process of a court. and make a fool of the court. and thereby pervert the effort which we are trying to carry through. i refer my colleagues to pages 12903 of july 29 when i introduced the specific terms of the decrees which apply state law and require registrars to apply state law. to show that any court. by the exercise of the civil contempt remedy can possibly get such decrees enforced. if those who favor the bill really mean what they say. and want to have an operative and effective statute. they must vote against the amendment. or they will frustrate completely the remedies which. by supporting the bill. they affirm. as senators and responsible legislators. they must have.
. what the amendment proposes to do is to apply the present provisions of the clayton act with respect to trials in criminalcontempt cases to all the statutes of the united states to which they apply today. and to apply the amendment which the senate adopted last night to this particular civilrights statute only. the difference between the amendment i have proposed and the amendment proposed last night by the distinguished senator from ohio is only in one respect. and it is a mi respect. in a moment i shall explain why i have called up the amendment. under my amendment. i do  attempt to equate a criminal contempt with a crime under federal or state law. whereas under the amendment of the senator from ohio. that attempt was made. in practical effect. by incorporating the exact text of the provision of the clayton act. as it  stands. which would have been applicable. let me state my reason for bringing up this amendment. i spoke last night of the path of responsibility. regardless of the feelings of any of us. for example. i voted against the tafthartley bill. by the pending bill. a change will be made in the tafthartley act. if the amendment stands as it is. if one wanted to be very cute about this. he could say. "let it be." that is  the way to run the affairs of this country or of the congress. i think the senator from ohio referred to that. had i had time. when the unanimous consent agreement was proposed. i would have sought the adherence of the senator from ohio to the amendment. in which i have had the support of the senator from new jersey . the senator from wisconsin . and the senator from illis . but i am sure the senator from ohio will understand my inability to reach him in time. the fundamental problem involved is a very real one. overnight i made some inquiry about what the amendment which was adopted would mean in respect of other statutes. we are  beyond the point where senators are trying to attract some of their colleagues who are interested in having the language made applicable to other statutes. we are talking about getting a bill to conference. i find that the bill as it stands would. if enacted. have a very. very materially adverse effect on other statutes. let me give two examples of what it would do to other statutes if the amendment should be enacted. first. in respect to the antitrust laws. the language which was adopted would be applicable to contempt proceedings under antitrust laws. the limitation of fine which is contained in the amendment which the senate adopted last night would also obtain in antitrust proceedings. every senator will remember there have been antitrust decrees in criminal contempts in which very extensive fines have been imposed. often. a criminal contempt case is for the benefit of an individual. and in such a case the court can levy a very large fine. which the court feels can be devoted to the aggrieved individual. one of the cases to which i have referred is united states against schine. decided in the district court for the western district of new york. criminal 2679c. december 27. 1956.  only did that case involve a very large business enterprise. but the decree was an extremely complex one under the antitrust laws. if a jury were impaneled in such a case. the jury could properly. under the rules of germaneness. go into the details of the facts and circumstances which resulted in the decree itself. i think we have had egh experience to k we could hardly expect juries to deal with the complexities of antitrust decrees. in fact. in many antitrust cases in which there have been juries many of them have broken down because of the length of time of the trial and the complexity of the situation. such procedures have proved to be very unsatisfactory. that is one aspect of the question. i shall  detain the senate too long. but aher case is that of federal trade commission cease and desist orders which go to the court of appeals. they are taken to the circuit court of appeals either by the commission or by defendants. in such cases the decrees become decrees of the circuit court of appeals. those decrees may be violated. and they are violated. i cite one such case to the senate. the case of the dolcin corp.. circuit court of appeals. miscellaneous  648. decided december 18. 1956. in such a case the decree becomes the decree of the circuit court of appeals. if it is violated and there is a criminal contempt proceeding. the criminal contempt trial must be held in the circuit court of appeals. and the circuit court of appeals has machinery. mechanics. procedure for empaneling a jury. permitting the matter to be submitted to a jury under those circumstances would be a completely new approach to the law. and would involve a completely new body of law which does  exist today.
. there are many lawyers in this chamber. and as lawyers we k very well how loath the courts are to punish by imprisonment in cases where the tradition of the courts is to punish by fine. we k that there may be miscarriages of justice because of the very reluctance of the court to punish with the drastic penalty of imprisonment. when that is the only substantial penalty available to the court to impose. as it would be if the bill as it is presently worded should become law. it is for this reason that. following the effort made by the senator from ohio before the adoption of the jurytrial amendment.. i sought after adoption of the amendment to limitthe jurytrial amendment to civil rights cases. in the debate on august 2. the principal proponent of the jurytrial amendment assured the senate that the problem would receive every consideration in a conference. i feel that the matter is so serious to the administration of justice in the federal courts that we have every right to expect the most serious consideration from the conferees. so that if any jury trial is included in the final version. at least. it will be limited to the area of the present legislation namely. the protection or safeguarding of the voting right. at the risk of boring my colleagues. i emphasize. and reemphasize this point. i hazard the guess that in the days ahead we shall discover yet more embarrassments in the breadth of this amendment. as adopted. we have already discovered a good many. one particularly marked instance. it seems to me. is the proposal to cast into the area of the circuit court of appeals the necessity for a jurytrial amendment. and yet that is exactly the area in which a number of types of injunction obtained in the federal establishment must be enforced. ably those obtained under the federal trade commission act. i understand that the proponents of this amendment will seek to answer some of the very tough legal questions which have been posed in this debate. and i look forward with the greatest of interest to their answers. perhaps they can show us a way out. though i must say that i have  been able to find any. according to the memorandum which i introduced on friday as a part of my remarks. neither has the department of justice.
i do. and. as a matter of fact. that is one of my basic objections to the jurytrial amendment as drawn. i believe that the distinction. when it is  coupled with the distinction contained in the clayton act. namely. that the act committed must also be a crime under state or federal law. is a distinction without a difference. that has been the basis for my argument. i do  wish to repeat it. we have been through it pretty thoroughly. it has been the basis of my position that we place it within the power of the contem in votingright cases to change what would otherwise be civil contempt into criminal contempt. and thereby change fundamentally his own jeopardy. that is one of my arguments against itand i think quite properly. in other words. we are putting roof on punishment for civil contempt. but. by making a line of demarcation. and setting up a wall as between civil and criminal contempt. without relationship to any crime. which is the present definition in the clayton act. i think we are making a fundamental mistake by putting it within the power of the contem to "play horse" with the court.
i appreciate the senators views. if the senator will indulge me. i am going into the question to some extent. i shall point out in what areas i think we run the greatest danger. to indicate my position. i believe that decree of a federal court can change the substantive state law on voting. state law on voting often leaves a great deal. necessarily. in the discretion of the official who is the states agentwhether he is the registrar. or whoever he may beand it is almost impossible. even before voting day or primary day. to separate civil and criminal contempt from each other. unless the court wishes to repeal the state law in the case. which. of course. it can do constitutionally. because the 15th amendment to the constitution. which we are discussing today. is a negative amendment. that is to say. it does  give a right. but. rather. protects a right already vested under state law. that presents us with the fundamental problem of trying to divide. in this particular case. the authority of the court between civil contempt. to be exercised by the judge alone. and criminal contempt. to be exercised only by a jury.
of course. the courts have held time and again that it is possible to have both civil and criminal contempt in the same situation. figures furnished by the department of justice show. for example. that the overwhelming majority of the contempts committed are criminal contempts. that statement is based on actual experience. therefore i feeland this is only my personal opinion. and i am  drawing on the law for my argument. but merely stating my own judgmentthat with the jurytrial amendment in the bill. as a practical matter there will be civilcontempt cases. instead. there will be only criminalcontempt cases. in other words. we leave the judge other choice. because the lines of demarcation have become so blurred under the bill as  written that he must issue a decree which carries out the state law in the case before him.
i should like to compliment the senator on a thoroughly reasoned presentation. with a background of vast experience. supported by unusual prestige in this chamber. i think it should be carefully ed. as all senators k. that the senator from utah arrives at his own judgments in his own way. and according to the dictates of his own conscience. i believe that the conclusions to which the senator has comewhich i shareare historic in this debate. i should like to point out something which the senator has indicated in his recital of the statutes.  only does this amendment introduce a jury trial where e has existed before. thus complicating emously the work of the circuit court of appeals and the supreme court itself. which often issues stays which can be violated. but it sets a new standard of punishment. under which the united states government can livea standard which is different. and very much lower than any that exists today. namely. a fine of $1.000 and imprisonment of  to exceed 6 months. regardless of who is the violator. and regardless of how powerful he may be.
. an examination of both of those sections shows that in any suit started by the united states which relates to large ecoic interests. under the securities laws. the "hot oil" act. the national labor relations act. the antitrust lawswhich are perhaps the most significant of allthe punishment which the court could adjudge for a criminal contempt could be. in the judgment of the court. apportioned to the ecoic interests involved. we are all very well acquainted with the united mine workers case. and the important and heavy fine which was levied there. if the amendment which we have adopted becomes part of the law. in any case. involving huge ecoic interests. in which the united states government is a party plaintiff. the court would be confined to a fine of  exceeding $1.000 and a sentence  exceeding 1 years imprisonment. i can feel that the authors of the amendment contemplated any such application as that. this is quite apart from the bedevilment of the jurytrial amendment itself. because the provision would apply to criminal contempt in cases where there is machinery for jury trial in circuit courts of appeals which issue orders and injunctions in cases involving the federal trade commission. which also has  provision for jury trials. i just think the jurytrial provision falls absolutely of its own weight. i do  see how we can contemplate any law with such a provision in it. second. there is aher defect in the bill. which we can cure. and to which i should like to address myself. i think it is very much a question of public service which is involved. especially for news mediums. i said on the floor yesterday that there is a provision in part i of the bill which relates to the commission and which has given cause for concern amonfthe press. magazines. radio. and tv. it is contained in subsection (g) of section 102. which reads: evidence or testimony taken in executive session may be released or used in public sessions without the consent of the commission. whoever releases or uses in public without the consent of the commission evidence or testimony taken in executive session shall be fined  more than $1.000. or imprisoned for  more than 1 year. naturally. the news media fear that if they get their hands on any information which comes out of an executive session or actions of the commission. and they publish it. they might be subject to the criminal sanctions of that particular section. it would have been much better if the section could have been expressly limited to apply to employees. officials. and the staff of the commission. but the time for that has gone. both the senate and the house will have adopted. by the time we are through. the identical provision. i think it is therefore important to spell out. so far as we can. what is the true intention of the provision. in order to quiet. if we can. the fears of those who have legitimate fears. i have studied the provision. and i ask unanimous consent that a memorandum i have prepared on that point be made a part of my remarks-
. i ask unanimous consent to include in the record as a part of my remarks a statement of declarations subscribed to by nine senators. with respect to their reasons for  offering amendments to the bill and their views as to the things which it leaves undone. in order  to take too much time of the senate. i merely wish to read the following sentences of the declaration: within its very sharp limitations the bill does some good things. but it fails to do so much that is urgently needed as to be deeply disappointing. * * * we pledge our determined efforts in the next session of congress to seek to effectuate the fundamental revisions required in the immigration law by the interests of justice and our national interest. we shall do everything we can to bring such measures to hearing and floor consideration. we issue this statement to state our reason for  offering amendments to the pending legislation. we are convinced it is so essential to get even some element of immigration relief at this session. that unsatisfactory and unimpressive as is this bill. we nevertheless wish to do hing which could jeopardize its passage. it is signed by messrs. clark. douglas.
i wish to point out that the bill. by virtue of the amendment which i proposed. and which the senator states has been adopted and is contained in the bill. limits the statements and reports which are referred to in the bill to those which have been made to a government agent. so the bill does  affect existing law and practice in criminal cases. except as respects such statements and reports. i believe that this answers a great many of the objections which have been made from many quarters to the bill as it formerly stood. without amendment.
it troubles me. too. but i submit this assumption to the senator from ohio and to other senators who have argued on the point. suppose one is sitting as a judge. and the defendant comes into court for discovery. under rules of criminal procedure. with a list of 20 items. the senator and i have seen a judge strike perhaps 10 of those items on the ground that they represent merely a fishing expedition. and it is so shown merely by the identification of the material. for instance. in a mail fraud case which relates to a mail fraud in stock a. the demand may be made for all correspondence on stock b. c. and d. in which case the court will say. "we are  going to let you go on a fishing expedition of the defendants business. that item is  proper." what the amendment of the senator from wyoming does is require the court to examine the raw material to determine what will represent merely a fishing expedition and does  relate to the subject. and what does. it seems to me at that point there would be some measure of justice under the constitutional provision of due process. the party would produce that which does relate to the issues. and would  have to produce that which does  relate to the issue. the argument that the defendant should have a right to argue that everything relates is answered. it seems to me. by doing the best we can in the interests of justice. under the dueprocess doctrine.
i could  agree more with the desire and the hope that. in a more deliberate way. the matter will be taken care of in the other body. we are  raising the question of privilege. i agree that the matter should  be decided on the question of privilege. the jencks case holds only that if the government pleads privilege. it can proceed in that way. that is the price of pleading privilege. i am arguing a totally different concept. a concept which entitled the judge in any case to deny to a defendant even the right to look at material which has relationship. in the judges view. to the case. which represents a "fishing expedition". so he strikes the item. i point out again. only to cast all of the light we can upon the subject. and with great deference to the judgment of my colleague. the use of the juxtaposed word "relate" as distinguished from "relevant and material." i should like to invite attention to some excerpts. the majority opinion cites with approval the decision of judge learned hand in united states against andolschek. after citing that. with approvaland that decision holds that the government must choose either to leave the transactions in the obscurity from which a trial will draw them. or it must expose them fullythe supreme court then says this. which again i read only to throw light on the subject: we hold that the criminal action must be dismissed when the government. on the ground of privilege. elects  to comply with an order to produce for the accuseds inspection and for admission in evidence. relevant statements or reports in its possession of government witnesses touching the subject matter of their testimony at the trial. again i point out the use of the words "touching the subject matter" and. in the other context i read. the use of the word "relate." it seems to me that does entitle us in good conscience to adopt this provision. within the concept i have discussed. and i thoroughly join in the views of the senator from pennsylvania. in stating we hope the matter will be even more carefully examined in the other body. i thank the senator.
will the majority leader inform us whether this compromise relates particularly to the question which has been so much debated. as to the applicability of the jury trial amendment to other statutes. and that it has  been settled. and it is  confined to the civil rights bill.
the government will have to do that in any case. the circuit court of appeals took that as jumping one step. which was  apparent in the jencks case. because in the jencks case the names of the witnesses were  revealed and did  have to be revealed until the witnesses took the stand. therefore. we could seek to protect to the maximum extent possible the socalled sources of information by  disclosing any names until the witnesses testified. i am all in favor of the bill on that score. it seems to me we have to think a little more about a capital punishment case. where the government has to reveal the names of its witnesses anyway. in that case is it  true that convenience and the desire to do justice dictate that so long as the government has revealed the names in the list of witnesses we should allow the court to go one step further and require the government. as early as possible. to give the defendant what may be necessary to impeach those very witnesses. i ask that question. as to whether that does  differentiate the case from the jencks case.
therefore i ask the question: shall we have. in cases where the names of the witnesses are revealed. a pretrial discovery. i may say to the senator from illis that we face a fundamental question of ideology here. i think we have to go forward on the fact that the fbi is  a secret police. but that instead the fbi is a police agency which is required to observe the standards of the constitution. we will accommodate them as much as we humanly can. we do that in our appropriations. we can accommodate them in a violation of the constitution. we should  accommodate them where the ends of justice and the public interest do  require it. therefore. i ask the senator a question. i may well vote for the senators amendment. and i am asking the honest question: does what the senator is seeking to reach by this amendmentthe case where the names of the witnesses must be revealed in advancemake egh difference to differentiate it from the jencks case. and therefore dictate that we should  vote for the amendment. i ask that. as a lawyer.
i believe that the senator from nebraska is raising a very valid point. and although i do  agree. yet i believe he is entitled to the greatest of respect as to the substance of the point. if the decisions made in the future are in line with the decisions of the court since 1948. in the case of the federal rules of criminal procedure. then the senator will  need to fear the result. what the senator fears. as i understand. is that the courts will decide something other than what they have been deciding for the past 10 years. in respect to the federal rules of criminal procedure.
. i think we would  affect the federal rules of criminal procedure. which i think it would be dangerous to do. they have been in effect for more than 10 years. they have been construed and reconstrued by the courts. we have had the jencks case. and the fryer case has been pointed out. we do  wish to affect that whole body of law. but we do want to protect the fbi files. which is the purpose of this bill. i think that would be the fairest and most equitable and just thing to do. therefore. i shall vote against the amendment of the senator from illis. with the expectation that if it failsif it succeeds there is point about iti shall then seek to protect the fbi files in the way i have described matter how the material is produced.
that is the one which contains the amendment of the senator from kentucky . at the end of the sentence in line 16. i would insert the letter "(c)". and ciiiio0i in the next sentence. after the word "produced." i would insert "under this section." that is in line 20. that would be line 18 of the copy the senator has. after the word "produced." i would insert the words "under this section." that would make it applicable to section 3500. which is the section we are amending. my construction of what i would do is that we would give the judge the power over the fbi files. whether the material were produced under this bill or under the federal rules of criminal procedure.
the pretrial procedure question would then depend upon existing law. the existing law has been discussed here at great length. as i understand. the general view of both sides is that we do  want to affect the existing law as to the federal rules of criminal procedure. which would then affect the fryer case and other cases. we do want to protect the fbi files. i deeply feel my amendment would perform that function.
i was following the argument of the senator from nebraska. who i think was explaining. more or less. his parliamentary views as to what he thought we ought to do. i said. i think that intention is proper. i am trying to carry it out. however. we do  wish to affect the federal rules of criminal procedure. i understand what the department desires. we do  wish to affect the federal rules of criminal procedure. we simply wish to protect the fbi fies by this bill. matter how they are produced. that is all i shall seek to do if the pending amendment fails.
. the amendment reflects most accurately the controversy in which we are engaged. and on which i have taken the liberty to speak for a brief time. on the one hand. there are the people who think that we should toughen up the procedures which were employed in the jencks case. on the other hand. there are people who think we should let the courts decide questions of evidence. i deeply believe in the toughening up process. there are two questions which are raised by the proposed amendment. one is that. in the toughening up process. we do  make the whole act unconstitutional. the second is that. in the toughening up process. we do  make the act unfair. i do  believe the senate wants to do either. in dealing with the problems raised by the jencks case. we ought  to write an unconstitutional statute or make it unfair. i believe that the amendment. although well intentioned. does both. there is also the third point to consider. and that is. that we are about to legislate with regard to all crimes.  only with respect to subversion. we are legislating with respect to murder and every other crime on the federal calendar. we are legislating with respect to counterfeiting. narcotics. immigration. and every other crime against federal law. we must never forget the american democratic concept for legislators. and that is. "there. but for the grace of god. stand i." we must protect the rights of the individual defendant. the job of the department of justice is the very proper job of prosecuting. the job of the courts is to do justice. our responsibility is to hold the scale balanced evenly as between the constitution as it is and as interpreted by the courts and the prosecuting authorities. i submit the pending amendment runs squarely counter to that proposition. its adoption. it seems to me. would make the whole act unconstitutional. it would so toughen it as to make it unfair. it is for that reason that we use the word "record." the use of the word "recording" would have the opposite effect. it would allow the prosecuting authorities or a witness to avoid the plain mandate of due process by simply  signing the statement. this the courts will  tolerate. that is precisely what the jencks case held. it seems to me that. in short. the court has held: you can avoid the due process mandate based upon whether the report was written or . if a report is sufficient to impeach the defendant. he is entitled to it. if we amend the bill. that mandate could be avoided. as to the other fundamental point involved. it must be remembered that whatever we do will be passed on by the supreme court. which must pass on the constitutionality of the act. certainly we can repeal or change the due process clause.  do we wish to do so. within the limits of the constitution. we are trying to protect the fbi files. also. within the concepts of american justice in which i k the fbi fully joins. we wish to make sure that secret police methods are never employed within our government and that we will do hing to deal with the lives and liberties of our people except by due process of law. let us understand that we should give the fbi an adequate appropriation. and we do. without inquiring too deeply into its sources of information. that does  mean that the supreme court should  make some rules with respect to what should be revealed and what should  be revealed to the individual defendant on trial for his life or liberty.
the case to which i should like to refer the senator is that of asgill v. united states (16 fed. (2d) 775. circuit court of appeals 4). decided in 1932. in that case. the governments chief witness denied that she knew the contents of certain letters written on her behalf by a private person. and contradicting her testimony. however. the defendant. through other witnesses. presented testimony that the letters were dictated in her presence. the court held that was sufficient foundation to introduce the letters for impeachment purposes. i cite that case in that connection. 
the amendment strikes out hing at all. what the amendment does is to let stand the language as a new subsection (c) in order to comprise within the powers of the court the alternative ways of producing material under this bill. if it becomes law. which are that they might be produced under the federal rules of criminal procedure or might be produced pursuant to provisions of this bill. this is an effort to tighten up further on the question of the fbi files and how they should be covered.
i e from the report that the reference to the rules of criminal procedure has been eliminated. does that leave the matter as follows: that when the government has the document defined as a statement. and. when it is in its possession. and has been made by a government agent. then. matter how it is producedwhether produced pursuant to the rules of criminal procedure or produced pursuant to the rather precise rule in the decision in the jencks case. or for any other reasonif it is that kind of a statement. the court acquires. with respect to that statement. rights which are specified in this measure. is that correct.
one final question. which i think will button this up: if the government chooses  to deliver the information. then the court has rather complete powers with respect to either declaring a mistrial or striking out the evidence. as the interests of justice may dictate. subject to appeals.
. i am  impatient. i think it is tremendously useful to have this kind of discussion to point up the issue. i am  impatient. i will say. as i have said in the civilrights debate. the present law is right. it is wrong to have young children segregated in our publicschool systems. when we are fighting the fight for justice and human dignity throughout the world. i said that yesterday as eloquently as i could. and i shall continue to say it. it is wrong to do that. and the wrong will ultimately fail and the right will ultimately triumph.
. on behalf of myself. and the senator from tennessee . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide for a nationwide system of public defenders for indigent defendants in criminal court cases. with provision for grants to bar associations. legal aid societies. and similar voluntary organizations providing free legal services to indigent defendants. one of our basic constitutional guaranties is that in all criminal prosecutions in the federal courts the accused shall have the assistance of counsel in his defense. long study has convinced me of the need for federal legislation in this area to supplement the work being done by private organizations and to provide this legal service in cases where there is private organization undertaking the task. as attorney general of new york state. i developed a program to provide public defenders. initially for youths under 21 but later to be expanded to everyone needing the service. research both into the need for such a program within my own new york state and also throughout the nation disclosed that there is substantial lack in many regions of adequate legal counsel for indigent defendants. in introducing this bill. we are seeking to fill the existing gap. the true administration of justice requires that the rich and the powerful and the poor and the weak hold equal claims in the eyes of the law. when an indigent person. without counsel. is charged with crime and left to fend for himself against the organized authority of our whole societythe police departments. the district attorneys offices and the courtsthe possibility of the miscarriage of justice is ever present. the duty of a district attorney or united states attorney is to prosecute the guilty but also to save the inent from conviction. in practice. zeal in the prosecutors jobwhich is in the public interestoften makes the public prosecutor an advocate and justice requires an opposition as effective as the prosecution. a public defender is a public official. paid out of the public treasury. serving as counsel for a defendant financially unable to employ private counsel. he is. in effect. the counterpart of the prosecutor and like him serves the cause of justice in our society. injustice breeds divisiveness and constitutes a continuing threat to a free society. when people lose their faith in the impartiality of the machinery of justice. they also lose faith in their government. we should ask ourselves whether we can afford the consequences of maintaining a system which purports to guarantee the equal protection of the laws to rich and poor alike. but in actual practice places a premium upon the financial ability of a person to defend himself in a criminal prosecution. the scope of the problem can be seen in the fact that 6 out of every 10 persons can afford to engage counsel of their own choosing. in metropolitan areas the proportion is higher. as many as 8 out of 10 require public or voluntary legal aid. and in new york state alone. criminal courts each year dispose of cases involving almost 250.000 defendants accused of all manner of crime.  including traffic and local ordinance violations. a recent survey showed that of indigent defendants accused of crime. 40 percent received form of legal aid whatsoever. of the remaining 60 percent who did get legal aidby public defenders. voluntary defender organizations such as the legalaid societies. or counsel assigned by the courtsmore than 25 percent had been given an effective defense. the idea of a private defender has its origins in antiquity. but the idea of a public defender is relatively new. it was suggested by a woman lawyer from san francisco at the chicago worlds fair in 1893. it was  until 1913. however. that any community in this country established a public defender office. the ho going to los angeles. the public defender concept is longer a elty. nine states: california. connecticut. illis. indiana. minnesota. nebraska. oklahoma. rhode island. and virginiaas well as puerto rico and the canal zone have adopted the system. in addition. public defenders exist in some municipalities: in columbus. ohio. memphis.. tenn.. and st. louis. mo. in many other cities private organizations. such as the national legal aid association. the philadelphia voluntary defender association. bar associations. and others. furnish representation to indigent defendants in criminal cases. in some places. as in rochester. n. y.. limited public funds are available. the bill provides that each united states district court may appoint a public defender to be paid out of federal funds. whenever the district court decides that a defendant is financially unable to employ counsel. the court assigns the public defender. the bill also retains the present power of the court to assign counsel other than the public defender. in that case the bill provides that such special counsel shall be paid by federal funds on a casebycase basis. the bill further provides that: upon the recommendation of the judicial conference of the united states. the director of the administrative office of the united states courts may make grants to legalaid societies. bar associations. or other similar groups providing free legal services to indigent defendants. maximum salary for the public defenders is set by the bill at $16.000. based upon the service to be performed. which shall be fixed by the judicial conference. in instances where grants are made to legalaid societies or bar associations. the aggregate amount of any such grants made annually in any judicial district shall  exceed $30.000. legislation providing a public defender was recommended to this congress by the united states attorney general. who said in part: there is a community responsibility. consonant with the constitutional requirement. to provide fulltime paid counsel. trained in the techniques of criminal law. to represent the poor who are charged with crime. it is the business of all of us who are charged with maintaining our form of government within the framework of the constitution to provide an adequate means of assuring every person of the assistance of counsel for his defense without regard to whether he has the means to pay for such counsel. the general program also has the support of the american bar association.
. i conclude as i began. often gathering storms have  too many indications. i believe it is the purpose of the senator from indianaand quite properly and justly so. in view of his convictions--to make this a major issue. which i believe it will become. the conations of it are very clearly appreciated by the bar. as shown by its marshaling itself. as it did with respect to the other great issue. in its very appropriate oppositionwith which i associated myself then and with which i associate myself against an effort to make the supreme court of the united states less of a final word upon the law of the land than it is . civ279
. millions of americans. both in and outside the south. must feel a sense of personal outrage at the bombing of jewish community centers in nashville and miami and the threat to federal judge miller of nashville. every citizen can understand that this kind of intimidation against the exercise of lawful constitutional rights is a fundamental threat to our system of government and society. it can and should  be tolerated. and it is most gratifying to report the spontaneous and determined reaction by public and governmental authorities in both cities. as well as the prompt interposition of the fbi to the extent of its jurisdiction. i have very often spoken with full understanding of the difficult nature of the issue of integration in the public school system of the southern states pursuant to the supreme court mandate. and of the sincerity of many who feel deeply that it should  be done. but the great tradition of- law in our country prevails over everything else. and americans have learned that discipline is required of citizens to preserve free institutions. i am confident that it is only a tiny miity which would outrage and besmirch our constitution and its safeguards by a violent effort to intimidate the jewish communities in nashville. miami. and elsewhere in the south by acts of lawless violence. i do  believe that these efforts at intimidation will succeed either in the jewish communities directly concerned. or with the federal judges. jews have never hesitated throughout history to shoulder the burdens of conscience and the responsibilities of the struggle for freedom. king full well that the fate of all miities is the fate of every miity. it is because our constitution protects miities as of right which makes it the embodiment of the ethical teachings of 5.000 years of judeochristian thought and learning. the religious conscience of the christian faiths. both catholic and protestant. has already been aroused to the implications. in terms of religious teachings and the bible. of segregation and discrimination on grounds of race and color. these attacks in miami and nashville are just as much an assault upon such christians in the south as upon the jewish community. the intimidation of these bombings will fail. but the intimidators must. in the national interest. be found and brought to justice. it is my understanding that the department of justice. through the fbi. is investigating the bombing and the threats. but the jurisdiction under which the justice department operates is unnecessarily narrow and calls for immediate amendment to the existing criminal law. under present law. a conspiracy to intimidate a judge in the exercise of his duties is punishable as a crime. but intimidation and threats made by a single individual are  subject to federal jurisdiction.  to the investigation by the fbi unless by happenstance the threat is carried over interstate communication systemsa totally irrelevant factor in attempting to preserve federal justice from intimidation. i therefore am introducing legislation which will in substance provide that whoever. alone or in conspiracy with others. by threats. force. or intimidation. prevents or attempts to prevent a federal officer. including a judge. from carrying out his duties or threatens to injure him because he has already done so shall be punishable as a felon. i have long espoused the principle of education. technical assistance. and conciliation to bring about compliance with the decision of the supreme court regarding desegregation in the schools in order to achieve for all our people their full civil rights as guaranteed by the constitution. the leader in that movement for a much longer time than i have been in it has been my renior colleague from new york . but. i believe. just as strongly. that. in order to make the processes of education. technical assistance. and conciliation work. they must be backed up by federal law to insure protection against violence and civil disorder. particularly when directed against the judges who are primarily charged with the impartial discharge of justice or against citizens obeying the law. we see the two sides of the medallion in this situation. on the one side lawlessness. and on the other side the inevitable attention of the great body of citizens and the governments. including governments of municipalities. to see that justice is done. and that the american sense of fair play is properly applied. i am confident it is this side. rather than the lawless element. which will triumph.
. that the powers of our government. divided as they are among the judiciary. the executive and the legislative. are in a secure position. the mere fact that any of us do  like certain decisions does  mean that the whole structure of government should be twisted out of shape withstanding our experience of almost two centuries. during which the supreme court has been as essential a guarantor of the freedoms of our people as has either of the other two branches. i think it is necessary to speak out on these subjects. although at the moment they are under committee consideration. because otherwise the impression is likely to get abroad that one is saying anything about these bills in the senate. it may  be wise to wait until the debate stage. until the bills are reported from committee. i think it is necessary to record ones views . and to alert the people of the country as to what is afoot. the supreme court has been a strong guarantor of the liberties of our people for a very long time. this goes for the very people who are often in the miity. and who are opposed to some of its decisions. i feel that the enactment of these bills into law would strike basically at the capability of the supreme court to protect the liberties of the individual under the constitution. and i consider it a high privilege. as a member of the american bar. a senator. and a former attorney general of my state. to declare myself on the subject at an early date.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record an article entitled "juvenile arrests rise 9.8 percent in nation." published in the new york times of april 24. 1958. and also the text of a talk given by police commissioner stephen p. kennedy. of the city of new york. at the joint conference of key personnel of the police department and the city youth board. published in the new york times of april 23. 1958.
. i believe it also very important for all of us to bear in mind the question of the criminal statutes and the penal codes. and  to forget the fact that we are  helpless. as against racketeers and hoodlums but that we can get at them and can prosecute them and can curb their activities. and that by means of the pending bill we are adding aher. and perhaps a more modern. means by which the men and women in the tradeunion movement can protect themselves. on the highest level of the opportunities which are afforded by free institutions. that i strongly favor.
. the judiciary committee has just reported what i consider to be a bill to curb the supreme court. the bill is a combination of a bill introduced by the junior senator from indiana . s. 2646. and amendments to his bill submitted by the senator from maryland . the bill is momentous in its implications. it is analogous to the courtpacking bill of 1937 and can be considered a raiding bill on the supreme courts jurisdiction. both the senator from indiana and the senator from maryland have addressed themselves to the provisions of their respective measures. and the senator from missouri has issued statements on the bill. they have had wide publicity. and. as a lawyer. i believe this is the time. in a considered and deliberate way. that this measure. which has been ordered reported by the committee on the judiciary. thereby giving it the likelihood of coming before the senate and being debated. be made the subject of information and elucidation to the country. and that opposition to it. which i express. may also have the same discussion and consideration which the proponents of the measure have had so far. if the bill shall be enacted. it will constitute a grave threat to the independence of the judiciary. particularly in fields of individual civil rightsa threat at least as grave as the courtpacking plan of 1937. which was so justly under fire at that time. the bill. as ordered reported by the committee on the judiciary. will have the following results: section 1 would remove the power of the supreme court to review cases from the states involving the admission of attorneys to the bar. it would do so withstanding the fact that constitutional rights of individuals may have been jeopardized. the implications of this provision strike at the heart of the constitutional balance of power. section 2 of the bill would amend section 102 of the revised statutes dealing with contempt of congress. it relates to questions which witnesses are asked but fail or refuse to answer. when the questions are pertinent. while the bill leaves jurisdiction in the supreme court to review such cases. it removes the power of the court itself to determine an essential element of the crime of contempt by establishing a conclusive legislative presumption of pertinence. thereby raising serious constitutional problems. as the senator from missouri has pointed out. the procedure provided for reviewing pertinency within the congressional committee itself which has asked the questions is of little protection in view of the safeguards intended by the constitution. section 3 of the bill incorporates the language of s. 654. dealing with the enforcement of state statutes concerning subversive activities. this relates to the socalled nelson case. what it does. in essence. is to allow the states to enact laws without running afoul of the prohibition against acting in a sphere reserved to the united states. through congress. to enact laws dealing with a subversion against state governments. or the threat to overthrow them by force. as well as against the federal government. which was the kind of law passed in pennsylvania. but which the supreme court struck down in the nelson case. the provision contained in the bill ordered reported by the committee on the judiciary is much narrower than the previous proposal of the senator from maryland . indeed. i have been and remain quite convinced. as a sponsor of the measure introduced by the senator from new hampshire . which was in effect adopted as the committee substitute. that it should receive congressional consideration. but i have serious doubt about incorporating this measure in a bill whose main and apparent purpose is an indictment of the supreme court on other groundsthat is. to deal with the constitutionality of statutes. i wish to make that very clear. because we should  be blinded by the fact that one provision in the bill can obscure the vast. fundamental implications of the bill itself. which i consider to be most serious to the national interest and to the structure of government under the constitution.
that is exactly correct. i may say to my colleague. first expressing to him my deep appreciation for his studied attention to the subject which we are discussing today. that the supreme court there was  dealing with what is contained in the other provisions of the bill before us. to wit. constitutionality or unconstitutionality under the constitution of the united states. but rather it was dealing with established law and with the states occupying the area which the federal government also occupies. bear in mind that the federal government. through congress. could allow the states to act fully within the constitution. and therefore. in a sense. the court was inviting congress to do so. if it chose to act. therefore. by this section of the bill. congress is accepting the invitation.
i do  believe that in the nelson case the supreme court misinterpreted the sense of congress. the supreme court had a right to say that congress could provide otherwise. and the area covered by the congressional mandate in the smith act being apparently inclusive. it could be assumed that congress intended it to be so. if congress had a contrary intention. it would have expressed it. so rather than misinterpretalthough i am  quarreling with the words. i think this is a very important question of substancethe supreme court pointed to the limitations. and what it did was to invite congress. if congress chose. to take some action.
i thank the senator. that is exactly the position which i shall endeavor to set forth in some detail. my colleague has stated it magnificently within the principle involved. we have  covered section 2 of the bill. which deals with procedures in socalled contempt of congress cases where there is involved the pertinency of a question asked of a witness by a congressional committee. section 3 of the bill. which deals with the nelson case. my colleague and i have discussed. section 4 of the bill is illustrative of the entire approach of the bill to the supreme court. what it doesand this is really quite extraordinary in legislationis actually to cite by title two supreme court cases. and to say that congress finds that the distinction made by these cases in a particular field of law is a distinction which congress finds highly undesirable. which it did  intend. and therefore that congress. according to the measure. specifically revises the applicable statutes. and in so doing. in my opinion. cuts into constitutional protections which have been asserted by the supreme court. time and time again. in freedom of speech cases. it seems to me that if anything shows what we are really dealing with. it is section 4. it reads in part: sec. 4. (a) the congress finds that the distinction made by the supreme court of the united states in yates against united states. schneiderman against united states. and so forth. between advocacy of the forcible overthrow of the government as an incitement to action and advocacy of such overthrow as mere abstract doctrine is. as . in view of that language it seems clear that by taking away the courts appellate jurisdiction in respect of these bar admission cases. congress would surely be raiding the court. contrary to all historical precedents. except those in the muchcondemned reconstruction period which followed immediately the civil war. when jurisdiction was taken away from the court in the case of a particular matter to which i shall refer in a moment. in that section of the bill seeking to deal with the courts construction of the smith act and the application under it permitting convictions. the bill would seek to direct the court to find constitutional what it has already held to be unconstitutional as to the individual. for the bill directs that there may be a conviction on the ground of abstract advocacy of the overthrow of the government by force even without incitement to action. the court has already said. in construing the original law relating to incitement. that there had to be an advocacy to incite to action rather than assertion of abstract doctrine. the court said. in construing the smith act: we should  assume that congress chose to disregard constitutional danger zones so clearly marked. it seems to me what the court is trying to make us understand very clearly is that if we should attempt to pass a law which would punish as a crime advocacy of an abstract doctrine. the court would have to hold it unconstitutional under the first amendment. the bill reported by the committee has the intention of doing exactly that. but even its own language may  accomplish it. i shall explain the reason for saying that. because it is serious in itself. what it is doing is inviting a struggle between the supreme court and the congress on this fundamental issue. this is what the bill says. in endeavoring to change the law: without regard to the immediate probable effect of such action. whoever kingly or willfully advocates. abets. advises. or teaches the duty. necessity. desirability. or propriety of overthrowing or destroying the government of the united states or the government of any state. territory. district. or possession thereof. or the government of any political subdivision therein. by force or violence. or by the assassination of any officer of any such government. or. question: does that do what the sponsors of the bill want. the answer is ". to the contrary. all the court would have to say would be that it changes hing. or if it does change something. then it is unconstitutional. i shall state my reason for saying that. the bill proposes a change to reach beyond the immediate probable effect of such action. but the court has already said it is  necessary that there be incitement to immediate action in the advocacy of overthrow of government by force. so long as there is incitement to action. whether immediate or in the future. then the court has held that the smith act applies. so if all this provision of the bill does is say that the court shall disregard the question of immediacy. it means hing. the court can say. "we have already disregarded immediacy." on the other hand. if the court should go along with the intention of the provision. and say that advocacy as a mere abstract doctrine can be prohibited by congress. the court must strike it down because it has already said that criminal sanction of advocacy as an abstract doctrine can stand up under the constitution. all we are inviting the court to do is say that this change is unconstitutional. what we are doing is ourselves engaging in an effort to invoive the supreme court in .uch a conflict so that the only other recourse would be to deny the supreme court appellate jurisdiction in constitutionallaw cases. in the section of the bill dealing with the question of pertinency under the watkins decision. there too the court is being asked to accept what may well be an unconstitutional application of the law to the individual on an "or else" basis. the quotation "or else" being. "we will take away your appellate jurisdiction in these constitutional law cases." for the court has already said pertinency is essential to due process under the 14th amendment. a witness who is under compulsory subpena is entitled to due process. this is what te court said: the first amendment may be invoked against infringement of the protected freedoms by law or by lawmakingsuch an investigation into individual affairs is invalid if unrelated to any legislative purpose. that is beyond the powers conferred upon the congress in the constitution. what the bill provides is that if the question of pertinency is raised. the decision by the committee as against a witness shall be conclusive. it seems to me the supreme court is making crystal clear that if an act is unconstitutional. committee can absolve the unconstitutionality. or wash it away. by itself finding otherwise.
i should like to express the hope that that ination. which is vitally important to the enforcement of  only the statute which we passed. the limited civil rights act. but also with respect to any other action which the department of justice can take. such as in connection with the dangerous terrorist acts of bombings in the south. will also be acted on in the same spirit as the tiffany ination. many of us are very much dismayed by the attitude of the attorney general that the fbi and the department of justice do  belong in these bombing cases. which seem to follow a pattern as they have occurred in different states. it would seem to me. as a lawyer and as a senator. that they do deserve the early attention of the attorney general and the fbi. and i shall urge that such action be taken. it is unfortunate that we ourselves in the senate should seem to be sittingi do  say this invidiously eitheron the ination of the man whose services are needed in that kind of effort. and i certainly express the urgent expectation that the white ination will be reported by the committee. just as the tiffany ination has been reported.
. there is grave congestion in the federal courts of new york and other states. it is an old axiom that justice delayed is justice denied. overcrowded court calendars impair the enjoyment of the individuals rights to fair and impartial justice. in my home state of new york. the association of the bar of the city of new york. through its committee on courts of superior jurisdiction and its committee on federal legislation. has issued an outstanding report on the need for additional judges. and urges that the bills which are pending before congress. dealing with this subject. be expeditiously passed. the report eloquently and in great detail spells out the reason for the great delays. particularly because of the inadequate number of judges. especially in the southern district of new york. i urgently commend the reading of the report to all my colleagues. particularly the members of the committee on the judiciary. which is concerned in this matter. i deeply feel that it requires expeditious and immediate action as a matter of most urgent public necessity. i ask unanimous consent that the joint report of these two committees of the association of the bar of the city of new york be printed in the body of the record. as a part of my remarks.
. one of our basic constitutional guaranties is that in all criminal prosecutions the accused shall have the assistance of counsel in his defense. to supplement the work being done by private organizations and to provide this legal service in cases where there is private organization undertaking the task. on february 13 i introduced for myself and the senior between 1952 and 1957 the number of cases filed in the second circuit had increased from 350 to 533 and in 1955 reached the high of 581. there were pending on june 30. 1956. 282 cases. five hundred and thirtythree cases were commenced and 459 terminated. leaving pending 388 on june 30. 1957. this circuit has had for many years the greatest number of cases per judge of any of the courts of appeals. during the fiscal year ending june 30. 1957. the court had 89 cases commenced per judge as compared with a national average of 54. even if the 2 additional circuit court judgeships provided for by s. 420 and h. r. 3813 are created. the cases commenced per judge would be 66. or 12 above the national average. senator from tennessee . s. 3275. to provide for the representation of indigent defendants in criminal cases in the district courts of the united states. as attorney general of new york state. i had developed a program to provide public defenders. initially for youths under 21. but later to be expanded to everyone requiring the service. nine other states and several municipalities have publicdefender systems. i have felt that this protection should be made available throughout the nation. a public defender is a public official. paid from the public treasury. serving as counsel for a defendant financially unable to provide private counsel. he is. in effect. the counterpart of the prosecutor. and. like him. serves the cause of justice in our society. i have received an interesting and constructive commentary on the proposal written by a gifted young man. jerrold i. ehrlich. chairman of the public defender committee of yale university law school. i commend mr. ehrlichs comments to my colleagues. and i ask unanimous consent that his letter addressed to me be printed in the record.
. on may 2. 1958. on behalf of. myself. and senators clark. hennings. langer. proxmire. neuberger. morse. and humphrey. i introduced a joint resolution (s. j. res. 169) to propose an amendment to the constitution of the united states relating to the jurisdiction of the supreme court. last thursday the committee on the judiciary reported out senate bill 2646. introduced by the senator from maryland . and the senator from indiana . which is a bill limiting the supreme courts appellate jurisdiction in certain cases. the accompanying report indicates clearly that the intent of this bill is to curb and intimidate the court. therefore. i  propose that the constitutional amendment previously introduced by me and my associates to protect the supreme court from just such court raiding be substituted for the text of s. 2646. it would strike out the language of the bill as reported by the judiciary committee. and in its place substitute a constitutional amendment guaranteeing the supreme courts appellate jurisdiction in law and fact in constitutional cases. the amendment would add the following sentence to the language of paragraph 2 of section 2 of article iii of the constitution: in all cases arising under this constitution the supreme court shall have appellate jurisdiction. both as to law and fact. in short. in these instances. jurisdiction by the supreme court would  be subject to legislative exceptions. as it  is. but the court would by solemn act be confirmed in a constitutional power it has had almost without attack since marbury against madison was decided in 1803. such a constitutional amendment  appear to be vital to assure the continuance of one of the fundamental safeguards of the individual and of miities inherent in our form of governmentthe power of the supreme court as a final tribunal of decision to declare an act of congress or a law of a state to be contrary to the united states constitution. thereby establishing it in fact as well as in words as the supreme law of the land. yesterday. the american bar associations board of govers. which is the governing body when the house of delegates is  in session. adopted a resolution overwhelmingly stating that it "opposes the enactment of the socalled jenner bill. s. 2646. as amended and reported by the judiciary committee of the senate. which combines a limitation on the appellate jurisdiction of the supreme court and a threat to the independence of the judiciary with substantive changes of farreaching significance which should be considered independently of each other and only after adequate public hearings at which the organized bar and others interested can be heard." it declared it to be "a threat to the independence of the judiciary." a special committee report to the board of govers further pointed out: the effect of combining these unrelated amendments into a single bill which includes as its first section the withdrawal of appellate jurisdiction of the court in the area of bar admissions inevitably makes of the committee bill exactly the same character of legislation as proposed by the jenner bill originally. i. e.. an act to penalize the supreme court because of the disagreement of congress with certain of its decisions and. hence. an attack upon the independence of the judiciary. at this point in my remarks i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the full report of the board of govers. together with a copy of the resolution adopted.
. i am a member of the committee on rules and administration. and i was very much in favor of the investigation resolution. what worries meand later. when i can obtain recognition for that purpose. i shall endeavor to clarify the matter. by means of an amendment which i shall discussis the statutory language which will be involved if the bill as it  stands is enacted into law. perhaps the senator from ohio would prefer to have me discuss that matter after i have obtained the floor in my own right. in any event. i wish to state that i am very grateful.
i thank the senator. my proposal is  directed so much to the commission idea. on which i say frankly the senator from connecticut has taken the initiative. what distinguishes my presentation is the code of ethics. a code of ethics can be legislated into effect . awaiting the finalized determination with respect to whatever commission we may establish. we have such a code of ethics in the state of new york. and i have had some experience with it. therefore i am  repairing to an uncertain area when i make my presentation. we have had experience with such a code of ethics in an emous state. the state of new york. and that code of ethics does work. i believe that in that respect we can help our respective houses to provide something of a practical nature. particularly from the standpoint of the technique of tying the code into the rules of the respective houses. there is always some question as to whether such a statute should be criminal or otherwise operative. criminal statutes in this field have a tendency to be selfdefeating. usually the remedy is too tough. disciplinary action in the respective houses. which is most condign to our constituents. is the best way in which to enforce these codes. such a proposed code offers dual protection. first. to the general public by providing added assurance that. aside from existing criminal laws governing conflict of interest. codes clearly defining proper moral and ethical standards of conduct required of federal officials and employees will be on the books. secondly. it will provide for federal officers and employees a set of guiding principles which should sharply reduce the possibility that they may commit thoughtless actions which subsequently become subject to widespread criticism.  and the congress. i k it is late in the session and we have a great many things to do. but i am certain that this is a matter. based upon our experience in new york. which can be quickly acted on. and which would be so useful when the whole attention of the country. and. indeed. of the world. is fixed on the subject. i certainly hope that. withstanding the time of the session. attention will be given immediately to this particular type of legislation. whether it be our joint resolution or the bill introduced by the senator from connecticut [mr. bush]. or any other bill dealing with the subject. i hope that action could be taken on it during this session. in our country we pride ourselves upon the fact that when we are confronted with a celebrated case. of the kind we  find in our government at this time in the form of the adams case. people of constructive mind always try in every possible way to bring about permanent reforms which will cause some benefits to flow from the situation which is  being explored in the house.
my suggestion is that the last sentence should be changed to read: in case of a disagreement between the administrator and the department of defense the matter may be appealed to the president for final determination. my reason for making that suggestion to the distinguished senator from kansas is that i think the idea of civilian control is the dominant aspect of the bill. we certainly do  want to make one party a plaintiff and one party a defendant. or to indicate any weighting of the relationship between one agency of government and aher. by the elimination of the necessity for the administrator to take the appeal. as it were. i think we would put the parties at least on a parity leaving it to the executive department to settle its own troubles and carry out the spirit of civilian control. which. as i understand. is the dominant purpose of the bill and the reason i had the ho to be a cosponsor of the bill with the distinguished senator from oklahoma. who pioneered the effort.
. i call attention to the fact that congress has  yet enacted the judgeship bill which has been reported in both houses of congress by their respective committees. in my opinion. it is one of the most urgent problems before us. a splendid editorial appeared in the new york herald tribune of today. entitled "speedier justicea job for congress." which starts out with the famous aphorism of gladstone. "justice delayed is justice denied." in kings county. in my own state of new york. the interval between the filing of cases and trial is 42 months3 years and 6 months. in new york county. which is manhattan. the great industrial and commercial center of this country. the interval is 26 monthsmore than 2 years. more than 38 percent of the cases take from 1 to 4 years to come to trial. there is an emous amount of privation imposed on our people because of the fact that congress is  moving toward increasing the number of judges. an increase of 26 percent in the number of judges has been made within the past 15 years to handle an increase of 62 percent in the number of cases filed. i realize the reluctance of the leadership to undertake measures this late in the session. but we are doing that with respect to the education bill. i think it is wonderful. and i am delighted we are. we should be doing it with respect to the bill for more federal judges. if the public will manifests itself. even at this late date. it can be done. i urge that the public will be manifested to those who determine what measures are to be considered. i say this especially as a lawyer and as an official of the court. i feel it is my duty to do all we can in this issue. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record as a part of my remarks the editorial from the new york herald tribune to which i referred.
. i point out the fact that in a publication authorized to be printed only this morning by the committee on rules and administration. entitled "the soviet empire: prison house of nations and races." there is actually set forth this very sad history. the report concludes. and i conclude. with this observation: for the immediate future. it is difficult to foresee any great measure of relief from soviet discrimination and abuse of power. and it is equally difficult to foresee any perceptible narrowing of the gap between promise and fulfillment in moscows treatment of its russian peoples.
i wish to join my colleagues who have spoken of the very material improvement in the bill which was made in the committee on the judiciary by the adoption of the amendment offered by the distinguished senator from wyoming. based upon his kledge and training which all of us regard so highly. and also to commend him for the distinguished presentation he has made of the matter this morning. i shall discuss the bill in detail later. however. i would be less than faithful to my oath if i did  state to the senator that to me. as a lawyer. the bill would have been inconceivable without the senators amendment. i would have had the gravest doubts in terms of human justice and constitutionality if the amendment had  been added to the bill. i am very much pleased that under the distinguished leadership of the senator from wyoming. we at least have some arguable legal questions placed before us which do  jeopardize what i consider to be the very foundation of our freedom. i am very greatly pleased to join my colleagues in expressing our appreciation.
i think the issue raised by the senator from illis is a very real one. based upon the merits. i think the basis on which the senator from colorado has been endeavoring to portray the meaning of the word "reasonable" is very appropriate. if we pass the bill with language as passed by the house. it is my firm convictionand i heard the senator from colorado express the convictionsuch a law would be stricken down by the court as being unconstitutional. congress can do some things only within the limitations of the constitution. i believe that to say delay shall  represent a reason for rejecting a confession would be a denial of due process of law. and would. in my opinion. be unconstitutional. the courts in all of the casesthe mcnabb case. the mallory case. and all othershave expressly reserved issues of constitutionality. the courts will. if congress proceeds in a reasonable way. accept the congressional implementation of a law in order to make it constitutional. but if the congress should proceed in defiance of the courts. they will  permit the law to stand. all of us k that if we should remove the element of delay and permit the police to try to use a confession after holding a man for 3 or 4 days in jail. the courts would  permit it. i have doubt that the supreme court would strike down such a law as unconstitutional. therefore. with respect to the bill under consideration. as to which the prevailing sentiment may be to pass it without the word "reasonable" in itwhich. in my opinion. would be unconstitutionali believe we really would save the bill by putting "reasonable" in it. therefore. i think it is very essential that we be precise as to what we mean by "reasonable." if i remember the cases correctly. what the senator is attempting to do is articulate a situation in which. although there perhaps is a delay. there will nevertheless  be a sufficient delay. if the courts follow the statute. to nullify the confession. under the existing law. under the most strict construction. if there is any delay except the delay which is necessary because a magistrate is  sitting. or the court is closed. or the fellow is too drunk to be arraignedif there is any unnecessary delay in time. and the time element is what counts. according to the present definitionthen the confession could be thrown out. i think the use of the word "reasonable" will save the bill to a certain extent. that is my own opinion. it is my opinion that the courts rulings are very clear. and that the word "unnecessary" is broad egh in meaning to permit an effort to check a mans story. to determine a mans identity. or to make a man a part of a "lineup." those are three standard police procedures in this country. and the court determinations would cover those.
. it is my view that the court decision in the mallory case. in defining what is meant by an unnecessary delay. did  include only the thought of time. i believe it included a delay occasioned by what are the mal and constitutional police procedures. which include checking the story of the accused. if he gives an alibi or something else. which can be done quickly. checking to see that the right man is being held. by checking identity. and perhaps even in some cases including the man in the days "lineup." for an identity check. in order to determine whether the police have the right person as to whom probable cause exists. judge danaher in the trilling case said almost exactly that. the judge said. "this does  refer simply to time. that was  all the supreme court was talking about. the decision included all of those things which make delay reasonable." that is what the judge said. let us assume that strict constructionists will construe the mallory case to turn solely on the issue of time. the word "reasonable." suggested by the distinguished senator from wyoming. would therefore help the proponents in that regard. because it would permit the inclusion of the other police procedures. which are  designed to find probable cause. where e exists. by virtue of a confessionthat is. where e exists at the time of arrest. to that extent there might be given to the decision. in the congressional view. a conation which would give the most practical applicability. and perhaps induce the courts to say. "if that is what congress thinks it means. it is all right with us. and it means that." i will say to the senator from colorado i shall deeply appreciate it if he will reply to my statement. if we are reaching a situation where we have a choice as between a statute without the word "reasonable" and statute at all. i would infinitely prefer statute at all. even if the other body insists that .it must be their way. and the majority of the senate votes with them. i might prefer a bill without the word "reasonble." because i think such a law would be stricken down as unconstitutional. in short. i think we are doing a favor to the people who think there ought to be some legislation. by discussing the matter and laying the basis for an approach of constitutionality by the use of the word "reasonable." we are trying to save the bill. i do  believe that the effort to save the bill is a material one. i believe the courts decision is fully adequate to cover the situation. i would deeply appreciate it if i could obtain from the senator from colorado. who has been working on this bill. and whose contribution has been very important. his view as to certain specific questions. he has made an excellent record. i should like to have his view as to two specific questions. first. how does the word "reasonable" differ from the word "unnecessary". second. does the senator believe that. without the word "reasonable" in it. the bill would be constitutional.
the decision in the mallory case has been cited far and wide as one of the decisions which has brought about a feeling of unhappinessi called it dissatisfaction. and i used that word advisedlywith the decisions of the united states supreme court. it is said that if it were  for the decision in the mallory case. the judges of the circuit court of appeals of the district columbia would have had hing to misinterpret. and it is said that if it were  for the decision of the supreme court in the mallory case. the congress would have reason to deal with this subject. and would   be considering the pending bill. that statement goes for the other billswhich bear other numberswhich deal with other decisions of the united states supreme court. for some reason or other. in respect to each of these matters. it is deemed desirable to have legislation enacted. rather than to allow the matter to be worked out through the judicial process. that is what is happening in the present instance. indeed. it is essential that we understand this frame of reference. because i do  believe we either live in a vacuum or legislate in a vacuum. frankly. so far as i. myself. am concerned. when i consider the senate committee version of the bill. as i interpret it. and as it has been interpreted by the record which other senators have made today. i believe i would shrug my shoulders and would say. "well. this is  too critical. one way or aher. in terms of the law as it will be worked out in the courts. because the courts will have to pass on this language. just as they have passed on previous language." were i  convinced. . it seems to me. in view of that very narrow ground which inheres in the bill which is before the senate. that the bill is  worth passing. i would  feel justified in voting for the bill. in view of the fact that it is the first bill which expresses dissatisfaction with the supreme court. i believe this is the essence of the struggle. unless there were fundamental and real substance to the bill and a real need. i would feel if i voted for it that i was only lending myself to the fight against the supreme court and the raiding of its jurisdiction. as to which this is the first bill.
. i should like to finish the discussion of the question of the use of the words "reasonable" and "necessary" as being. in my opinion. of the same effect. by reference to a very interesting decision by judge charles e. clark. of the second circuit court of appeals. in 1951. in the case of united states v. leviton. (193 fed. (2d) 843). this is what judge clark says on that very point. it is most interesting that these words should be so pertinent. they were quoted also in the trilling case. we have found definition of "unnecessary" in the cases helpful egh to close the matter for us here. in truth. we think that the traditional use of such words as "undue." "unreasonable." "convenient." "prompt." etc.. is striking proof that each case involving the mcnabb rule must needs be decided without resort to a semanticism that obscures the facts out of which it arises.
i was reading a quotation from a case. united states against leviton. because it bears particularly on the use of these words. i should like to read it again for the information of the senator from orgeon: we have found definition of "unnecessary" in the cases helpful egh for us to close the matter for us here. in truth. we think that the traditional use of such words as "undue." "unreasonable." "convenient." "prompt." etc.. is striking proof that each case involving the mcnabb rule must needs be decided without resort to a semanticism that obscures the facts out of which it arises. as i interpret that quotation. i might say to the senator from oregon. who inquired. it means that the mcnabb rule is based upon the factual finding by the court. whether the word is "reasonable" or "unnecessary." the court must make pretty much the same factual finding.
. i shall conclude very shortly. but first i shall adduce for the senate some of the organic evidence in the mcnabb case. which deals with the question of constitutionality. i think the mcnabb case contains a statement which makes it very clear that the house bill will be considered unconstitutional by the supreme court. this is a statement which appears on page 18 of the committee report. which incidentally sets forth the mcnabb opinion in full. justice frankfurter said: the complicated process of criminal justice is. therefore. divided into different parts. responsibility for which is separately vested in the various participants upon whom the criminal law relies for its vindication. legislation such as this. requiring that the police must. with reasonable promptness. show legal cause for detaining arrested persons. constitutes an important safeguard.  only in assuring protection for the inent. but also in securing conviction of the guilty by methods that commend themselves to a progressive and selfconfident society. for this procedural requirement checks resort to those reprehensible practices kn as the third degree which. though universally rejected as indefensible. still find their way into use. it aims to avoid all the evil implications of secret interrogation of persons accused of crime. it outlaws easy but selfdefeating ways in which brutality is substituted for brains as an instrument of crime detection. a statute carrying such purposes is expressive of a general legislative policy to which courts should  be heedless when appropriate situations call for its application. it seems to me that we should couple this very clear understanding of the policy of what constitutes due process with the following statements which appear in the mcnabb case. the court said. at page 332 of the opinion. which is reprinted on page 14 of the report: it is true. as the petitioners assert. that a conviction in the federal courts. the foundation of which is evidence obtained in disregard of liberties deemed fundamental by the constitution. can stand. the court then cites the cases in which it so acted. the opinion continues: and this court has. on constitutional grounds. set aside convictions. both in the federal and state courts. which were based upon confessions "secured by protracted and repeated questioning of igant and untutored persons. in whose minds the power of officers was greatly magnified." lisenba v. california. 314 u. s. 219. 23940. or "who have been unlawfully held incommunicado without advice of friends or counsel." ward v. texas. and so forth. then the court said of the mcnabb case: in the view we take of the case. however. it becomes unnecessary to reach the constitutional issue pressed upon us. the court then proceeds with the following argument. which indicates to me that the court would hold the house bill unconstitutional. i read from page 16 of the report: quite apart from the constitution. therefore. we are constrained to hold that evidence elicited from the petitioners in the circumstances disclosed here must be excluded. for in their treatment of the petitioners the arresting officers assumed functions which congress has explicitly denied them. they subjected the accused to the pressures of a procedure which is wholly incompatible vith the vital but very restricted duties of the investigating and arresting officers of the government and which tends to undermine the integrity of the criminal proceeding. i shall sum up my views it seems to me. first. that this is a discussion which is being held within the context of the dissatisfaction expressed in many quarters with the decisions of the supreme court. i respect completely the views of the senator from colorado. i do  feel that these whims have affected his judgment upon the subject. and i understand completely the motives which induce him to support the bill as an effort to arrive at some legislation. in view of the likelihood of the enactment of the bill before us. but i can help feeling that we who feel that dissatisfaction with the decisions of the supreme court is the improper basis and the improper atmosphere for legislation upon subjects of this character have any right to mute ourselves in making that argument before the senate and before the country. because i do believe that in other circumstances. with aher frame of reference. we would be very unlikely to consider this bill and the other bills which will follow in a train. second. it is my conviction that the use of "reasonable" represents difference in legal interpretation from the use of "unnecessary delay." which are the words  in rule 5 (a) of the federal rules of criminal procedure. the word "reasonable" will. in turn. have to be construed by the lower courts. and then passed upon by the supreme court of the united states. in exactly the same way as the words "unnecessary delay." therefore. i do  see that any change is being effected. third. i believe that we will. if we pass the house bill without the inclusion of the word "reasonable." be passing a statute which the supreme court will strike down as being unconstitutional. because it rules out the issue of delay in arraignment as a factor in making a confession involuntary. and therefore will be considered by the supreme court as unconstitutional. fourth. i respectfully submit that in rule 5 (a) the court has laid down a rule approved by congress. for that rule was approved by congress as well. in which it implemented the definition of due process in respect of arraignment. and that that is a reasonable implementation. an implementation in line with modern thinking and with practical experience. it represents a fair balance between the protection of the individual and the protection of society. and that. therefore. we should sustain it rather than reject it. finally. i point out that standards of orderly society have always been productive of hoable law enforcement. and that the society which was enforcing laws which were  loaded either way. either against the individual defendant or against society. could enforce them with a clear moral conscience and could rally the most support in the committee for their enforcement. that is the best sanction. in terms of reducing any rash of crimes of violence which might develop. and that there is sanction in an effort to deny due process or in an effort to abandon the timehoed practices of a civilized society. rather. we shall find that repression and violence will breed more crime. rather than less crime.
. i am very grateful to my colleague for his very kind remarks about my statement. although he and i do  agree as regards the vote to be taken on the bill itself. i k that his views in regard to law and justice are entirely like my own. today. he has made an eloquent statement in setting forth his own position. which is quite fair and just. i can only express the hope that in connection with other measures. we may have a similar opportunity to engage in the sort of debate which has occurred today. which i consider to be most helpful to me and most helpful and enlightening to the country.
. later in the day or tomorrow. i shall have more to say about the matter. but in the meantime i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record. in connection with my remarks. the opinion of the eighth circuit court of appeals. written by judge matthes. the dissenting opinion of judge gardner. and also editorials published today in the new york herald tribune and the new york times.
the senator has just made a statement which. it seems to me. poses the issue before the senate. i k that we are trying to avoid prolonged debate. however. this may well prove to be a very historic debate. and we should try to pinpoint this question as clearly as we can. the senator has said that the separation of powers. in effect. requires us to take the action which is being so ably advocated by my colleague. the senator from maryland. and my colleague. the senator from indiana. yet it seems to those of us who activeiy oppose the proposed legislation that what the senator from maryland has said is the very reason why congress should stay its hand in this field. i say that for this reason. it may be that we may be able to pinpoint this whole controversy. the approach of the senator from maryland is more moderate than has been that of my colleague from indiana. in the sense that the senator from maryland is  seeking. except in the one case of bar admissions. to set aside the supreme courts appellate jurisdiction. but he would give the supreme court certain instructions as to what its opinions should be. senators like myself. who oppose the senators proposal. say that by what the senator proposes to do he would be inviting the supreme court to hold what it has already held. and that the supreme court would have to find as unconstitutional what the senator would do under his proposal. i am sure the senator is familiar with the yates case. and the press has become familiar with it also. i point out. in that connection. that the supreme court itself must. based upon what it has already said. strike down the senators proposal as being unconstitutional. because the court in that case has said: we should  assume that congress chose to disregard the constitutional zones so clearly marked. the court has held that mere advocacy was  egh.
if the senator will allow me just one further minute. the other case is the effort to change. the situation in the watkins case by making conclusive the finding as to the pertinency before a congressional committee of a question asked of a witness. but there again we are inviting a finding of unconstitutionality if we should pass this bill. .because the court said: the first amendment may be invoked against infringement of protected freedoms by law or by lawmakingsuch an investigation into individual affairs is invalid if unrelated to any legislative purpose. that is beyond the powers conferred upon the congress in the constitution.
. i subscribe fully to the fundamental idea which motivated the amendment offered by the senator from illis. i have. however. very grave doubt about whether the amendment as offered will carry out what he has in mind. when we begin to deal with approval or disapproval. it seems to me that we detract rather than add to the stature of the court. a body fully as powerful and fully as entitled to its responsibilities under the constitution as are we. one of the things we have argued. with respect to our colleagues who do  like the decision of the supreme court in brown against board of education. is that whether they approve or disapprove it. it is the law of the land. therefore. the choice is between anarchy and law. as my distinguished colleague from illis has so eloquently- said. whether they approve or disapprove the decision. the idea that the law shall be sustained is infinitely more important than that they are dissatisfied with this particular decision in their lives and the lives of the people whom they represent. i suggest to. my colleague that if he really wants to do what ought to be done . in a very trying time. when such grave dangers confront a great state of the united states. would it  be proper to express ourselves in this way. i suggest to the senator from illis that rather than to speak in terms of approval and disapproval. which get us into the whole problem of detracting from the authority of the court. which we are trying to support. and also get us into the whole problem of whether in the future we must disapprove in order to make people understand we are back of the agencies of government. i think. the country understands what has happened in the mallory case and what has happened in the senate today with respect to the amendment offered by the distinguished senators from maryland and indiana. this is the most eloquent way in which to show that we are back of the court in the exe.cise of its power. but i suggest as a practical matter. in view of the grave emergency facing the country in little rock. that we might substitute for what the senator has proposed the following: "it is the sense of congress that the mandates of the supreme court of the united states are entitled to full faith and credit as the law of the land. and that the government of the united states has a duty to see to it that they are enforced." i suggest that this is exactly how we have approached other emergencies which have required very serious decisions by our government. this is the nature. for example. of the formosa resolution and other resolutions which congress has adopted with respect to events abroad. i suggest to the senator from illis that a time comes when it is useful tc have the country k that we are back of what may have to be very difficult measures in a very difficult situation. i think that is in accord with the tradition of congress. in the way it expresse itself. i. too. as a lawyer. would have ver3 great reserve about the question of approving or disapproving decisions of the courts. any more than i would want th( courts or the executive to pass resolutions in an authoritative way approvini or disapproving what we do. when it i.  within their particular province to do so. i suggest this method to my colleague. because i respect very deeply the fundamental point which has animated him and his associates in doing what they have done. we must  let our eyes be closed to the fact that this is a very tense moment with respect to the enforcement of the supreme court mandate in an important part of the country. it should be made clear exactly how the overwhelming majority of congress and the country feel on this issue.- and that it is well for the agencies of government to back up that single agency of the government. which is the supreme court. in an effective way. in order to get its mandates of law enforced. whether they be approved or disapproved. or whether we like them or .
. the bill also brings before the congress a matter which has been before the supreme court for more than 25 years. the court has issued a number of decrees balancing the interests of the many states involved and. as to which the court retains jurisdiction to act further when such additional action would be required. the chicago sanitary district. after submitting itself to the court for decisions on this issue and accepting the decisions of the court when they were favorable. has  again come to congress for relief which the court would  grant after considering the interests of all the parties. i seriously question such an approach. particularly in a field covered by such old. established. and basic commonlaw rules of property as exist in the field of riparian rights. the long history of conflict with respect to the diversion of water at chicago should make it clear to all that it can be settled by forcing upon the states on one side the solution framed and desired by the parties on the other. i believe that the present relationships among the interested states established under the decrees of the supreme court offer the most equitable balance of interests which can  be achieved. these decrees do  grant to the parties on either side everything they want. but have balanced the legal rights of the great lakes states with the admittedly serious sanitary problems of chicago. under the present situation the court could accomplish everything provided for under this bill. including the additional diversion for the purposes of study. should it be demonstrated to the court that such additional study is really required. i am also convinced that the department of the army and the department of health. education. and welfare could participate in such a study without additional legislation if diversion for study purposes is permitted by the supreme court. if the state of illis desires to submit the equity of the city of chicago in a sympathetic way to the other states. it might invite the other great lakes states to convene a little summit conference of govers in order to lay these equities before them and the people of their states. it is suggested in the committee report on this bill that the chicago district wishes to divert the additional water for only 1 year during the 3year period provided for by the bill. and that the tests which would be undertaken offer a new contribution to the problem. this suggestion could well be made to the govers of the other states at a conference of the type i suggest. in order to elicit their reactions to the proposal. our govers have never been unwilling to discuss the problems of a neighboring state. they are. however. duty bound to protect the property rights and the investments of their states and their citizens. i believe that to leave this matter with the supreme court to examine the equity of the claims of the chicago sanitary district would be the best approach for chicago and for the state governments which have vital interests of power. navigation. and riparian rights involved in this problem. in any case. the chicago district and illis can continue to lay their arguments and equities before the people of their neighboring states in the traditional american way to solve difficulties between the people of different states. in short. the supreme court decree is a safety valve. a way in which justice can be done juridically. i believe the presentation of the equities of the case to the other states also is aher avenue which can be used by the chicago sanitary district. we in new york state believe that is the right approach. for those reasons. the state as a wholei say "we" advisedly.  just myselfhave taken a position against the bill.
i k of theory upon which we could differentiate. i believe. however. that it is argued on the basis of the senate being a continuing body. the theory which is argued. in other words. is the theory of the continuing body concept. that concept is attributable primarily to the fact that twothirds of the members of the senate carry over. support for that theory appears in the ruling of the supreme court in the case of mcgrain against daugherty. with respect to my amendment. i shall lay aside. as the vicepresident laid aside in his advisory opinion. the whole question of the continuing body concept. the vice president stated that it was  necessary to d~cide that qflestion one way or the other. the fact is that there is a clear and precise constitutional mandate with respect to the adoption of rules. therefore the senate has the right to proceed under the constitution. rather than under its rules. my argument on the motion is that. while we can abdicate in this congresswhich we would do by adopting the johnson resolutior constitutional right. by binding ourselves as co any rules until the opening of the next session. we certainly can constitutionally bind future congresses. therefore. if we can bind future congresses. why set up a precedent in an effort to do something which we can do. but which will be used on aher occasion. especially when we can justify it under the constitution. and have reason to. we do  try to do it with respect to anything else. we can foreclose future congresses with respect to money bills or other legislation. and the supreme court has held we can do it. why. if we can do it with respect to laws affecting the lives of individuals. for example. should we do it in terms of the rules of the senate. it does  make any sense. i do  believe the senate ought. to do something that does  make any sense.
i thank my colleague. i interrupted only because i iced. from the prepared text of the senators address. that from this point on he plans to discuss the more detailed aspects of the background of the bill. i should like to make a brief statement. and also address an inquiry to the senator from illis. it seems to me that the national and international implications of the failure to act effectively with respect to desegregation in the public schools have  been written on every wall. those of my colleagues who have had some experience in foreign affairs. including the senator from minnesota . the senator from tenn ssee . the senator from montana . and the senator from michigan . k that hing occupies more space in the newspapers of africa. south and southeast asia. indonesia. and latin america. where it hurts the most. than our failures in this field. also i believe that by  it has been made crystal clear that the mandate of the supreme court is  being implemented with all deliberate speed. as a matter of fact. it is  being implemented effectively at all. and it will take a very long time. involving much discord and great inequality among the various sections of the country. to accomplish the desired end if the present situation is allowed to continue. as the senator from illis has said so eloquently on so many previous occasions. our moral responsibility and our legal responsibility to make the constitution meaningful can be delegated solely to the courts. we have a duty. too. the question i should like to address to my colleague is this: first. are we. by the action which we are here taking. based on our strong feelings on the matter. to give the attorney general the right to institute a civil suit for an injunction. trying to press matters faster than the supreme court had in mind when it said the action should be reasonable in time and with deliberate speed.
does  the senator feel with me. in view of the action of the supreme court of virginia. in striking down the socalled massive resistance legislation. and the action of the united states supreme court. and the action of the district courts following the united states supreme court. in standing against evasions and avoidances of the plain intention of the supreme courts decree. that at long last we  have the stage set for a coordinated. balanced. responsible. and deliberate effort by the united states to try to handle the problem through a workable system. rather than through guerilla war. whether it be little rock or front royal.
it is very important to e that neither we  any of those associated with us are extremists. or are out in left field. as the colloquial expression has it. or are trying to legislate faster than ought to be done. or are trying to bring strongarm tactics into the solution of the problem. rather. it should be stated that we are trying to bring about a coordinated and considered approach by the responsible authorities in both the executive and judicial departments of our government in dealing with what we. better than anyone else. k to be a very difficult problem. which will take time to solve. although  as long as a century. we feel that we ought to go to work on the problem and that it is the duty of congress to see to it that legislation is enacted under which the law can be enforced if we expect the executive to enforce it. i should  like to say to my colleagueand this is a propitious time to say it. because of his deep concern with this problemthat what is  marked is that weand i include myselfare just as cognizant as anyone else in the chamber. whether he be from the south or from any other part of the country. of the sincerity which is involved on the part of senators from the south. and of the deep social problems which exist in the south. and that they are decades old and can be dispelled with magic wands or catechisms. however. we want congress to help the authority of the united states to go to work. as i see it. the fundamental issue involved in our bill and the bill introduced by the distinguished senator from texas . and the approach of the senator from georgia with his constitutional amendment. when we boil everything down. is whether congress will say that something should be done in a coordinated way. through the power of the united states. in conformance with the supreme court desegregation decree. we say that such a program is a real civil rights legislation. we say that the other things. whether they concern voting rights. or similar matters. are fine. and that we are enthusiastic about them. however. they do  get down to the fundamental issue before us in this particular frame of reference. does the senator agree with me.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the isabella council 873. knights of columbus. of brooklyn. n.y.. expressing approval of the activities of the federal bureau of investigation as they relate to communists.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by our lady of fatima general assembly. fourth degree. knights of columbus. of suffolk county. n.y.. endorsing the activities of the federal bureau of investigation in the fight against communism.
the bill proposed legislation to establish a nationwide system of public defenders to represent indigent defendants in criminal court cases. our bill also provides that grants may be made to legal aid societies. bar associations. and similar groups rendering free legal service to defendants in u.s. district courts who can afford to hire counsel. similar legislation sponsored by myself and senators kefauver and wiley passed the senate last year but action was taken on it by the house of representatives. its purpose has been endorsed by the department of justice. the judicial conference of the united states. the american bar association. the national legal aid and defender association and other leading bar associations throughout the country. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks the resolution of the national legal aid and defender association. adopted on august 20. 1958.
although the sixth amendment to the constitution states that every accused person is entitled to the assistance of counsel for his defense. regardless of ability to pay. the widespread practice of assigning lawyers to represent indigent defendants usually without compensation is often haphazard and ineffectual. legal authorities agree that it does  always result in the proper administration of justice. according to the national legal aid and defender association. from mid1957 through mid1958. more than 50 percent of all defendants in criminal court cases in 106 major cities were unable to afford legal counsel. for example. the number of indigent defendants in oakland. calif.. was reported to be 60 percent of the total. in new york city. over 50 percent. in chicago. ill.. 55 percent. and in boston. mass.. 75 percent. the association further reports that some type of public defender system. supported by the state or local government. or provided by voluntary groups like legal aid societies does exist in 16 states. however. in 27 counties in the united states with a total population of about 20 million there is such service available and indigent defendants must rely solely upon lawyers who may be appointed by the courts. the inadequacy of the present system is apparent in the results disclosed by one national survey which estimated that 4 out of every 10 indigent defendants held on criminal charges received legal assistance whatsoever. of the remaining 60 percent who did have some sort of aid. only about onethird received an effective defense. it was reported. such studies. substantiating testimony by legal experts and my own firsthand experience in developing a public defender program for youths under 21 while attorney general of new york state. have convinced me that federal legislation is required. if the scales of justice are to be kept in balance in cases involving indigent defendants. they must never be weighted against the accused because he is financially unable to employ a skilled. experienced lawyer to defend him. granted that it is the duty of the prosecuting attorney to protect the inent as well as prosecute the guilty. but. in practice. the district attorney or u.s. attorney is most effective in presentation of evidence against the person charged with a criminal offense. if the accused persons constitutional guarantee is to have real meaning. then his lawyer must be equally able and willing to counter with an adequate defense. the proposal i am introducing would provide that each u.s. district court may appoint a public defender to be paid out of federal funds. the sum to be fixed by the judiciary conference of the united states based upon services to be performed. provision is made for a maximum salary of $16.000 per annum or an amount $2.500 less than the salary of the u.s. attorney in the district. whichever is lower. ninety percent of the u.s. attorneys are paid between $12.500 and $15.000 annually. and the remainder receive between $18.000 and $20.000 per year. whenever the court decides that a defendant is too poor to hire counsel. it may assign the public defender. however. the bill preserves the courts present power to appoint counsel other than the public defender and such counsel is to be paid on a casebycase basis. with daily compensation  to exceed $100. there is a key provision in the bill authorizing the director of the administrative office of the u.s. courts upon recommendation of the judicial conference to make grants to bar associations. legal aid societies and similar groups giving free legal services to indigent defendants with the aggregate amount of any such grants made annually to any judicial district shall  exceed $30.000. there are undoubtedly several areas in the country where a small expenditure of federal funds would enable legal aid societies to expand materially the volume of work they  handle. in new york city. where it is estimated that nearly 6 out of every 10 persons accused of criminal cases seek voluntary legal aid. the local legal aid society reports that it assisted 35.123 indigent defendants during 1958. in the federal courts of the southern and eastern districts which take in new york and 11 neighboring counties. the society was called upon to represent one or more defendants in almost 70 percent of all criminal cases tried in them. the facts show that indigent defendants in the courts. under the present system. which varies from district to district. and is generally based upon the assignment of members of the bar who largely volunteer for the purpose. is  working adequately. that fact is recognized by the local u.s. attorneys and by the attorney general of the united states. as well as by the bar associations of the country. we have had a great deal of experience with public defenders. as this system is in force in many places. and. on the whole. is found to give very large benefits to the public. finally. our bill proposes to utilize the legal aid societies. bar associations. and similar groups. many of which  render free legal services to defendants in criminal casesfree legal services for which the government ought to pay a reasonable sum. because it would attract more lawyers on a more constant basis. resulting in greater and more intensive preparation of the cases. in view of the action of this body last year and the support this measure has received from so many distinguished legal authorities in the united states. i very much hope that the congress will act on this measure at this session.
. however. that is  so today. i do  believe the people understand that. this defender of the liberties of the individualwhich in the final analysis is what the supreme court isshould have its jurisdiction. in terms of its powers. written into the constitution. just as in the case of the other coordinate branches of the government. in our zeal to protect and bolster our internal security. we must never forget cv- 190 that the whole society we seek to safeguard is built upon the proposition that the law as it is decided for oneeven one whom all of us may abhor. such as a confirmed communistis the law as it is decided for all. including the ordinary citizen who may at any time be accused of a crime. major or mi. it is in this framework that the supreme court for more than 156 years has been the guardian of the rights of the individual. performing functions indispensable to each citizens well being. that is why its jurisdiction with regard to the constitutionality of all laws and actions needs to be spelled out in the constitution. and  left exposed to the varied political whims or the political climate existing in the ccngress at any given time. therefore. i believe it is essential that this joint resolution be introduced. so that sincere efforts to clarify congressional intent previously interpreted in decisions by the supreme court will  be confused with any allout drive by the "court raiders" to deprive the supreme court of its jurisdiction. or will  be used by them to further their cause. those of us who opposed the mass attack against the supreme court last year. as contained in the jennerbutler billand that includes the american bar association. which opposed it. and previously had recommended a constitutional amendment itself have a crystalclear duty to assure the jurisdiction of the supreme court by providing for it in the constitution. the courts function of protecting individual freedom must be made secure. it must be put beyond the reach of political pressures or adverse reactions to individual decisions which may prove highly unpopular to any group. be it liberal or conservative. although the supreme court has. by tradition. historical acceptance. and the continuity of court decisions. exercised authority to declare unconstitutional any act of congress or law of a state. and has truly expressed the supreme law of the land in all cases involving constitutional issues. here has that authority been specifically vested in it by the constitution. there exists the ever present threat that it can be taken away by congress at any time. it is my intention and that of seven of my colleagues. therefore. to amend section i of article iii of the constitution. which  states that the court shall have appellate jurisdiction. both as to law and as to fact. with such exceptions. and under such regulations. as the congress shall make. the amendment would add to that section this new sentence: in all cases arising under this constitution the supreme court shall have appellate jurisdiction. both as to law and fact. it is virtually important that this jurisdiction be confirmed  so as to put an end toin the words of the american bar association report-"omnibus proposals for limiting its (the supreme courts) appellate jurisdiction." such an amendment does  mean that all of us must automatically agree with all the courts decisions. but those of us who are lawyers do understand and recognize the effectiveness within our constitutional system of a judicial tribunal to give final interpretations of the constitution. neither will such a constitutional amendment in any way impede congress from exercising to the full its legislative duty to set forth its intent in new statutes. when it believes that the supreme court mistakenly interpreted its intent in a prior statute. undoubtedly. there are several appropriate areas which call for congressional action to close up loopholes which i believe are generally attributable to the past failure or inadequacy of congress to act. rather than to the courts decisions. for example. congress ought to remedy its failure to define in precise terms the authority of the house committee on unamerican activities. similarly. it should determine the question of principal involved in preempting the entire field of sedition against the united states as a field for federal laws. or whether state laws should also be allowed to have concurrent enforceabilitya question raised in the famous nelson case. yet aher example is offered in the smith act decision regarding the language on advocacy of an abstract doctrine. compared with advocacy of action in connection with overthrowing the government by force. that case involves constitutional questions which would have to be resolved. withstanding any law passed by congress. this joint resolution is similar to the one i introduced in the 85th congress in 1958. and has the same sponsors.
. on behalf of myself. and my colleague. the junior senator from new york . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill providing for the appointment of a total of seven additional judges for three federal courts in the new york area. one new federal judgeship would be. created in the second circuit. court of appeals. located in new york city. plus two additional judgeships in the eastern district and four more in the southern district of new york. the emous caseload imposed upon the judges in these three federal courts. far in excess of the national average. has resulted in an intolerable situation. citizens who seek their rights in any of these courts may experience a delay of up to 4 years between the time their case is filed and final trial. additional judicial manpower is essential to help assure the prompt administration of justice in the jurisdictional area concerned which is populated by nearly 19 million people. the omnibus judgeship bill introduced last year by the chairman of the judiciary committee called for the appointment of 34 additional federal judges including the seven provided in the bill senator keating and i are introducing today. the proposal for a seventh judge for the second circuit. court of appeals was part of a measure first introduced by myself and senator ives during the last congress. this bill was passed by the senate but  acted upon in the house before adjournment. the longer we delay. the more acute the situation becomes. in the last 4 years. the average number of appeals per judge has soared to 92. practically double the national average of 54. however. it was in 1955. when the caseload was considerably lower. that the judicial conference of the united states originally endorsed the need for aher judge in the second circuit based on the amount of judicial business then being carried on in this court which covers vermont and connecticut as well as new york. regarding the additional judgeships required in the eastern and southern districts of new york. a review of the statistics compiled by the administrative office of the u.s. courts shows that in recent years these two courts have been having grave problems in the timely disposition of civil cases settled after trial. presently. the eastern district has a record delay in such cases of 49.9 months. which is 8 times longer than the 6month period the judicial conference considers reasonable. under those circumstances. our proposal to increase from six to eight the total number of judges in that district seems extremely modest. we also propose to raise from 18 to 22 the number of judges serving in the southern district of new york. a great deal has been done to accelerate case disposition there by excellent pretrial work but the need for more judges continues acute. located in the worlds commercial and industrial center. the southern district is the biggest trial court in the entire federal system and according to the senate judiciary committees report in 1957 it has a history best described only in terms of excessive caseloads. large numbers of protracted cases. a continual accumulation of arrearages. and mounting delays. four more judges would seem to represent a minimum addition in this district where there was a backlog of over 10.000 cases in 1958. with 578 civil cases pending per judge. court reform at all levels has become a major issue in new york state in recent years where there is a growing public awareness and concern that justice delayed for a prolonged period of time is often justice denied. successful efforts have been made to institute more efficient calendar procedures in the southern district. for example. and it is certainly possible that the state legislature will enact comprehensive court reform legislation during the current session. in light of the extensive hearings held by the senate judiciary committee and its favorable report on a similar ivesjavits judgeship bill. along with the 4yearold recommendations of the judicial conference and the mounting impartial statistical evidence from the courts themselves. my colleague and i hope congress will act promptly on this bill.
i think it is very important to point out that the criminal penalties remain attached to the bill of rights as prepared. any other conclusion is erroneous. for this reason: the language on page 53. lines 14 to 23 of the bill. provides a criminal penalty for violation of any part of the law which will be enacted if this amendment is incorporated in the bill. i wish to make that very clear. because there is some misconception on the question whether the criminal penalties have been excised. they have been neither excised  reduced. the penalty is $10.000 fine or 2 years imprisonment
who determines what is reasonable. that is determined by the same body which always determines such questions in american public lifethe court. the courts determine whether a driver is reasonable when he hits a pedestrian. the courts determine whether somebody acted reasonably in the commission of a crime. the court determines what is reasonable every day. the court will do so in this instance. we have lodged the power where it belongs. finally. . the amendment offered by the distinguished senator from california. for himself and his colleagues. does  deal with union lists. i assure senators that. if recognition may be obtained we have a way whereby the union lists will be made fully and freely available to anyone who ought to have them. without fear of action against him. for proper uses. i shall have the ho to propose such an amendment as soon as the senate has taken action on the bill of rights amendment. but i wish to emphasize that this is all a part of the same package. it has been through the screening of the distinguished senator from arkansas and of many colleagues on this side. many distinguished lawyers. i humbly submit it will satisfy my colleagues.
my amendment would have a court make a practical solution of the problem of. on the one hand. seeing to it that union lists are  abused and. on the other hand. seeing that every legitimate candidate. regardless of whether he is an incumbent. has the same right. that is the solution i have devised.
in this respect. i must rely upon the tradition of our jurisprudence. namely. that when there is danger of the loss of a remedy as a result of the passage of time. the courtwhether federal. state. or localis generally found to act. i k of very few instances in which it can properly be charged that that has  been done. i wrestled with the idea. but i came to the conclusion that any provision on this point which we might include would  improve on what we have already provided to preserve that right. i k that in political elections. courts often act within 5 hours. because such prompt action is necessary. so. although there might be exceptionsi can state that there would  bei believe that we have a right to assume that courts will follow the rule of reasonnamely. that once the right to go into court is provided. the judicial proceedings will be conducted with reasonable speed.
in my amendment. i make it the responsibility and duty of the labor organization and its officials. at the very least. i believe it would be a duty which would be actionable for remedies even in the event of the impossibility of a court being able to catch up with the organization. i make that statement  because i do  believe a court will act. and act in time. but here is an effort to place this affirmative duty on the union officer. . my proposal is the best one i have been able to devise on this subject. i have used all the ingenuity i possess. and this is the best i have been able to come up with.
i may say to the senator that the generic provision with respect to criminal penalties is found on page 53 of the bill. that provision deals with force. violence. ecoic reprisals. and so forth. if the senator feels that provision should be buttressed. he is at liberty to attempt to do so. hing i am proposing in my amendment would prejudice such a proposal.
. i rise with great sadness. the conscience of the entire nationand i am certain the conscience of the people of the south. and specifically of mississippimust be shocked and affronted by what. from all indications. is a lynching of m. c. parker. reportedly taken from a poplarville. miss.. jail. by a masked band. that there may have been a lynching at all in 1959 is even more shocking. as all americans of good conscience had every reason to hope that such brutal crimes had become a thing of the sad past. the fact that the poplarville jail was unguardedeven though this is apparently a local practiceindicates that a new kind of vigilance is needed. damaging as such an event is. and tending to nullify much that is constructive which has occurred with respect to civil rights. it could also nullify in one bloody moment many efforts at progress which thousands of americans of good will in a state like mississippi are endeavoring to make on their own. furthermore. it is a damaging blow to american prestige all over the world. and is sure to be exploited. as was the emmett till case and similar incidents of the past. by the communists where it can do us the most harm. especially among the uncommitted nations of the free world the countries behind the curtain. but the free world where there are 1 billion people whose skins are yellow or black. where they will go could well determine the course of freedom for centuries to come. we must again convince those who may have doubts that the fruits of our constitutional democracy are individual liberty and freedom. and the rule of law. and that the strange fruit concerning which we have read in the press is an aberation of the sort loathed by the overwhelming majority of all americans. matter where they live. the crime probably committed in poplarville. miss.. is an offense  only against that community and state. but against all the people of the united states. and must be considered as such. it consequently behooves us to do everything necessary to see that such offenses do  recur. this is within our power if we choose to actand choose to act we must. it would be demeaning the sadness and tragedy of the event if i were to speak about civil rights legislation. antilynching laws. or anything else. the stark tragedy of this event. standing by itself. is egh. we are being judged in the world by what we do to come abreast of these events. to find those who are responsible. and punish them. and to demonstrate the outrage of the community itself. i am very glad to e in the morning press that there is local outrage in the state. as shown by the diligence of the states own officials and local police officials. as well as by agents of the fbi. i am sure that the great conscience of america will leave stone unturned to see that the culprits are found and the right thing is done about such events. and. if humanly possible. to see that they do  occur again. it requires the organized conscience of the american people. on a national scale. to impress some people with the fact that our country simply can and will  tolerate. circa 1959. any such lawlessness. anarchy. or brutality of man to man. i think i bespeak the mind of every american who has faith and hope in his heart for the right. when i express these sentiments.
. i wish to emphasize in what i say that i agree that in certain fields some legislation may be necessary. i will explain that in detail in my speech. what i am really driving at is that there is. within the context in which the special committees report was issued. and in which the american bar association resolutions were adopted as well as in the series of bills before the judiciary committee. grave danger of a climate which is inimical to the future of the court. by throwing the courts role in our constitutional life. out of focus. and encouraging those whom i called last year the court raiders to undertake new forays against the court. therefore it is my desire to get the situation into focus again by analysis of. first. the general situation and. second. of the individual cases cited by the special committee. i should like to explain what i mean by "court raiders." i define "court raiders" as those who would move to deprive the court of its appellate jurisdiction in constitutional cases. the words are descriptive of the men raiding its jurisdiction. i should like to point out. as i see my colleague from maryland on his feet. that i would hope  to include him in that group. and for this reason: i see a very clear distinction between the original approach of the jenner bill. which was a direct limitation upon the courts appellate jurisdiction in constitutional cases. and the approach which was made by the subsequent bill bearing the name of the senator from maryland. which kought to deal with specific situations. to which the court itself had called attention and with many others though i disagree thoroughly with the bills proposed solutions. however. i believe that the senator from maryland did  deal nearly so much with the fundamental drive at the courts basic jurisdiction as was the situation when the subject was first approached. but i point out that there are many people around the country who still have the idea that the courts jurisdiction on every question of constitutional law ought to be taken away from it or limited. i do  want to see that approach encouraged. i point out. also. that at least one section of the jennerbutler bill. as i recall it. dealt with the idea of depriving the court of its appellate jurisdiction. i feel very strongly about it as court raiding. as i have just described. however. i believe that the main thrust of the jennerbutler bill was directed more toward dealing with the courts decisions in individual cases than it was with the idea of depriving the court of its basic constitutional jurisdiction.
i thank my colleague for his comment. though i do  agree. in times of crises. history records that the basic concept of the supreme court as the protector of individual liberties often becomes a prime target of attack by critics who would sharply limit the independence of the judiciary. despite the defeat suffered last year by those whom i have described as "court raiders." events in 1959 indicate that once again it may be open season on the supreme court. the supreme courts jurisdiction was curbed by congress immediately after the civil war. when a law was passed forbidding the court to hear a case upon appeal involving constitutional rights. congress. in 1937. rejected the courtpacking plan devised by those who considered the existing court too conservative in makeup. the senate. in 1958. voted down the jennerbutler bill. which was an attempt at court raiding. through limitation of the supreme courts jurisdiction and reversal of several of its decision in the field of civil liberties.  of the association stated that the american bar associations recommendation did  even imply an attack on the court itself. and indeed the association had also adopted a resolution stating explicitly that the american bar association "disapprove proposals to limit any jurisdiction vested in the court." yet when the resolutions adopted are read with the special committees report on which they are based. i regret to say. though i believe it is unwitting on the part of the american bar association. that the impression is bound to be left that some recent decisions have endangered our security and that the court has thereby been made to appear to be insufficiently mindful of security needs. particularly is this the implication of the "whereas" clauses of the fourth resolution: whereas recent decisions of the u.s. supreme court. in cases involving national and state security and with particular reference to communist activities. have been severely criticized and deemed unsound by many responsible authorities. and whereas problems of safeguarding national and state security have been exposed or created thereby. perhaps. especially when read in conjunction with the special committees report. it is really what the associations resolutions fail to say rather than what they do say that gives rise to their implication. i have described the implication that the court has somehow been unconstitutionally unmindful of our security needs and that its decisions could have endangered the nations security. for the resolutionsand this is the main burden of my argumentdo  specifically support the duty of the supreme court to protect individual liberties. even if unpopular. and even if the objects of such protection are unworthy. i emphasize. as a lawyer. the importance of protecting individual liberties. even if they are unpopular. and even if the objects of such protection are unworthy. for we k as lawyers how the liberties of the individual may be tapped and drained away once we begin to confer liberty on the basis of a judgment as to whether the individual is worthy. what the special committees report does. in effect. is to raise a serious doubt in the public minda doubt extending to whether the court ought to continue to have the power to declare such legislative actions unconstitutional--as to the quality of responsibility in making the decisions involving unpopular cases. particularly relating to subversion. which have come from the court in recent years. whatever may be the specific words of the american bar association resolution regarding continuing supreme court appellate jurisdiction. in short. taking all the events together. i believe it necessary to avoid giving aid and comfort in end effect to the "court raiders." who may be impatient of and displeased with the supreme courts protection of the individuals constitutional rights. i believe that such case for court raiding is made out. but that. on the contrary. should this climate of opinion become fixed in the country. its end result would be an effort to inhibit the court from declaring unconstitutional those measures which it sincerely believes to violate the constitution. and more particularly those which may be enacted to overrule these very decisions of the court which have been brought into question. as the court will obviously  be so inhibited. the conflict would become more acute. with the everpresent residual danger of a new assault on the courts appellate jurisdiction in constitutional law casesa subject upon which congress has the power to legislateor in some renewed effort to pack the court. it is for this reason that i believe it essential to analyze the validity of the conclusions arrived at by the special committee and by the american bar association resolutions in their view that "problems of safeguarding national and state security have been created" by "recent decisions of the u.s. supreme court." it is also for this reason that together with senators clark. hennings.
i am very grateful to the senator from oregon. may i point out that the new york city bar association has dissociated itself from the resolutions of the american bar association. i emphasize that. as lawyers. we still have to get the issue across to the people. even when a bar association states it is seeking to take jurisdiction away from the supreme court only where it thinks the state appellate courts have jurisdiction. and is trying to exclude itself from the term "court raiders." the fact is that by taking such an attitude it is less than militant. with respect to the civil liberties which the supreme court is seeking to protect. in failing to take affirmative action on that issue. i do  think it is doing all the things we expect of it as our trade asociation. if it does  protect these liberties. we must do it. for unless we do. a climate is created in the country in which the court raiders can pursue their ends. the fact that the american bar association is citing the catechism of what it is  trying to do may satisfy it. but that is  egh. that is the essence of my point. to continue. the special committee of the american bar association listed the cases with which it disagreed. in which the supreme court decided against the government. but it failed to talk about cases which were decided in favor of the government and which. even by the committees own definition. helped the government in its internal security affairs. aher of those cases is black v. cutter laboratories (351 u.s. 292). in that case an employee had been discharged. an arbitration board. acting under union control. had the employee reinstated. the employer contended that reinstatement would endanger security. because the employee was a communist. in that case the supreme court upheld the decision of the highest court of california that reinstatement was against public policy. the supreme court acted similarly in the case of wilson v. loews. inc. (355 u.s. 597) a case in which moving picture actors and other employees of that industry. who became kn as the hollywood 10 brought an action against the industry on the ground that it was conspiring to blacklist them and keep them out of the moving picture business. again the supreme court failed to disturb the state court decision for the employers. even in the field of government employment. in which special concern is shown in the american bar association resolution and the special committee report. the supreme court rendered two decisions favorable to the government. which had greater applicability and effect than two. if  all three. of the adverse cases in the field. i refer to the case of beilan v. board of public education (357 u.s. 399) and the case of lerner v. casey (357 u.s. 468). in the beilan case a public schoolteacher with 22 years of service had been discharged for refusing to testify whether he had. 8 years before. been active in a communist organization. in the lerner case. in which i had the ho to file a brief as attorney general of the state of new york. assigning the solicitor general to argue the case. a subway conductor had been discharged for his refusal to answer whether he was a member of the communist party. it should also be ed that the famous decision in the yates case. which is highlighted in the report recommending legislative changes by the american bar association and the special committee. only partially invalidated the state court decision and indeed upheld it in a very important respect. while the court ordered the acquittal of 5 of the 14 defendants. it held. over the objection of 2 dissenting justices there was sufficient evidence against the other 9 to warrant their retrial. while the decisions demonstrate graphically that the court is  blind to security factors. it is true that there have been more cases touching on security decided unfavorably to the government than there have been favorably decisions for the governmentagain from the viewpoint of a group like the special committee of the american bar association. however. this is  surprising considering the mass of state and federal acts and proceedings involving this issue over the past decade and the many el and unprecedented questions which were presented by the impact of that interest. also it may be that government officials. feeling encouraged by favorable decisions in the previous terms of the supreme court. sought to induce the court to overextend its own rulings. and ran afoul of the courts sensitivity to the protection of civil liberties. one of the other major complaints of the american bar association special committee was that the supreme court adopted much narrower grounds for decisions in the various cases which it decided than those urged by the opponents of the government action. thus. it was said. in a subversive activities control board case. the court refused to pass on the contention that the board was unconstitutionally established. and passed only on the question of procedure. the contention that the board should consider whether perjured evidence had been used was the ground on which the case was sent back. in the famous watkins case. the court refused to issue a definitive holding on the question of whether the mandate of the house unamerican activities committee was constitutional or whether questions by the investigating committee violated the free speech protection of the federal constitution. in the sacher and flaxer cases. which also involved congressional investigations. reversals of contempt findings were on narrow rather than broad grounds. the same was true in the cole case. which involved discharging a federal government employee. in the witkovitch. yates. and the passport cases. the court is said to have avoided the issue by ruling on broad rather than narrow constitutional issues. . i believe the jencks case merits separate mention. because there the court extended. or at least reinterpreted. its prior decisions. it will be recalled that the jencks case. which was also very heavily criticized. was a case in which a union officer convicted of filing a false communist affidavit was denied access to an fbi report. withstanding the testimony against him of the man who had prepared that report. the decision in the jencks case is based upon precedentand very soundly established precedent so far as the supreme court is concerned. in that particular respect we go back to cases like gordon v. united states (344 u.s. 414) and berger v. united states (295 u.s. 78). both were decided some years ago. they dealt substantially with the same matters. and the decisions were substantially along the same line. we have already enacted a statute as a result of the jencks decision. prescribing procedure for the production of prior statements of a witness. this procedure. in substantial effect. prescribes the procedure which the supreme court indicated in the jencks decision itself would be constitutional. it seems to me that this is a fair way to proceed. without trying to capture the courts jurisdiction. at the same time. this procedure is fully protective of the courts indispensable value to the american people. i point out that since we have passed a bill to deal with the decision in the jencks case. subsequent decisions have  indicated any difficulty or hardship in applying the rule of jencks. that. it seems to me. is an extremely important point. because most of the hobgoblins which are raised with respect to this decision are  based upon what we actually realize in terms of dangers. but upon what dangers we might realize by virtue of the decisions. i come  to aher point. and that is an overall conclusion as to the recent decisions of the supreme court. as in the case of any group of supreme court decisions. a study of those digested in the american bar association report may indicate the need for legislation in some individual respect. but the foregoing overall consideration reveals basis for the assumption that its decisions in this field are departures from sound principles. or represent an unreasonable imbalance between societys interest in security and individual rights deleterious to security. i believe that the american bar associations special committee offers support for its charge that our security has been weakened through the recent supreme court decisions. that they have encouraged an increase in communistic activity in the united states. or that they have caused a paralysis of our internal security. it seems to me that neither our total internal security apparatus  the effect of the specific rulings is appraised in the committee report. indeed. most of the decisions either did  detract at all from the governmental arsenal of powers to combat communism. or narrowed those powers only in mi respects. for example. in the bonetti case. with respect to which legislation is recommended. bonetti was allowed to enter the united states in 1923. he left the communist party in 1936. he left the united states again in 1937. returning in 1938. he was  a communist when he entered the united states in 1938. or at any time since then. the law as it stood at that time allowed him to enter the country. the law as it has stood since 1950 would keep him out of the country. so whatever door might have been opened in that case. which is indeed a unique case. is  closed. nevertheless. the case is cited as one of the 24 requiring a change to protect our internal security. in the service case. one of the 24 rulings criticized. the ruling was based upon the principle that regulations validly prescribed by a government administrator are binding upon him as well as upon the citizen. it seems to me that this is a very salutary principle. and that it can easily be implemented by regulations validly prescribed by a government administrator. the difficulty in the service case was that that was  the situation. in the witkovitch case. which relates to the governments power to maintain restrictions over aliens. it was held that we have a right to decide exactly what restrictions we wish to have maintained. subject to their being constitutional. i wish to make clear one point which must be clear in discussing this whole situationit is the duty of lawyers to reject any suggestion that we must condemn or correct a decision merely because it is unfavorable to the government. and allegedly affects communism. believer in the rule of law should take the position that principles are to be upheld or abandoned depending upon the issues and the persons involved. rights are guaranteed for all. or they are  guaranteed for any. if a bond were abrogated whenever it was found that its payment would cause a hardship. there would be security in bonds at all. i come  to the concluding section of my remarks. dealing with the bar associations recommendations for corrective legislation. i say at the outset that there are some situations which need corrective legislation. and with respect to which i believe corrective legislation is indicated.  only because of the imperfections of our own statutory enactment. but also by the courts own statements in other cases. in which a statutory change is requested. but wholesale corrective legislation. as suggested by the resolutions leads in one of two dangerous directions. on the one hand. it could lead us into unconstitutionality. one of the grave dangers of the american bar association action in this connection is that the supreme court itself is  inhibited from declaring unconstitutional even a new act of congress. which seeks to correct some situation in these cases. i do  believe the court will be inhibited. matter what we do or matter what the american bar association does. but i believe that when a climate is created which looks with disfavor upon the supreme courts declaring unconstitutional a law which the congress has passed to correct one of these decisions. we then have a pitched battle between the supreme court and the climate of the country. which i believe is a dangerous invitation to court raiding. it is dangerous because congress does have the power to take away the courts appellate jurisdiction in constitutional law cases. either in whole or in part. the jenner bill originally was a court raiding bill. it sought to take away the courts appellate jurisdiction entirely. the jennerbutler bill was a court raiding bill only in one of its sections. the important point is that the congress can do it. it seems to me that we must protect ourselves and the court againt public opinion becoming so crystalized on this subject. without a balanced understanding of all the facts and merits on both sides. as to bring us into a situation in which court raiding might find real receptivity in the congress. i believe that the analogy between court raiding and court packing is most important. in both cases it is  sought to do something about a particular case within the constitutional framework. but to strike at the very foundations of the court as an institution. as to legislative solutions. i shall deal with those very quickly. the first case i wish to discuss under this heading is the nelson case. in bills to overturn the nelson case. an effort was made to provide that states should have jurisdiction. parallel with that of the federal government. to redress sedition against the federal government. or to redress the offense of anyone who preaches. in violation of the smith act. the overthrow of the government by forcethat is. as the court has defined it. preaches with incitement to action. it seems to meand i have given the subject very careful thoughtthat this is very unwise. it is unwise for reasons detailed most eloquently by the association of the bar of the city of new york. which in all these matters has had a most forward looking point of view. its report is valuable to everyone. i shall  seek to place it in the record. it is a fairly lengthy report. suffice it to say that the reasons detailed there. which to me are absolutely persuasive. come down to this: i believe that here is a national effort directed at sedition against the federal government and if it were distorted. that national effort might be thwarted. for example. if a prosecution were started too soon in a state before the whole nest of people involved could be uncovered. the national scheme of enforcement of federal laws against sedition would be far more efficient and effective if the matter were kept within the federal jurisdiction. there was a time when i was attorney general of new york state. when i looked with some sympathy upon the possibility of a federal statute to overrule the supreme courts decision in the nelson case. from a practical standpoint. however. when i came to washington. i saw efforts being made to lift federal preemption in many other fields. and that this proposal was just the opening gun. and i realized the multitudis problem of asserting federal jurisdiction in this kind of case. and how this thing could be complicated by the assertion of state jurisdiction with so many state laws differing in this field. i came to the conclusion that i should change my mind. and i did change my mind. i concluded that the struggle against sedition ought to be kept in the federal government. i concluded that the court was right.  only in terms of its decision. but also in terms of its persuasive reasons why it ought to be a national policy. furthermore. in view of decisions by the supreme court in two recent cases. bartkus against illis. and abatte against united states. i am of the opinion that there  need be fear that state prosecution for sedition will preclude a person from being prosecuted under the smith act. let us remember that a state can prosecute anyone for sedition against the state. there is hing in the nelson decision which inhibits such procedure. the fear might have been. or at least it might have been argued. that a person who was tried for such a crime within a state could  be prosecuted in a federal court under the smith act. because to do so would involve double jeopardy. the supreme court has laid that fear at rest in the two decisions i have mentioned. that becomes. therefore. an added reason why legislation in the field of the nelson case is  required.
i thoroughly agree with the senator from california. i would suggest that on policyand i do  k his view on it. and perhaps it is  necessary that i k it i see it is a debatable question. that is why i have been very careful in defining what i mean by "court raiding." however. matter how strongly i might disagree with the views of those who may wish to change a statute. in order to meet a line of objections which the supreme court has set out. or to move in aher direction from what the court has indicated the statute means. i say that is an arguable case. i may feel very strongly about it. and disagree. and we could argue about it. however. i have been very careful about it. i agree with my colleague that the nelson case. under the law as it stands . is unassailable. i have my views as to what ought to be done. i believe it ought to be allowed to rest where it is. on the other hand. i would fully respect and would be willing to debate the views of others who might think differently about this and other matters. i repeat that. as i shall show in a short time. there are some statutory enactments that should be made where the court has shown us that the law as it  stands is  adequate. i point out that even this is a service. namely. to show us where the law is  adequate. we may be disappointed with the contingency in which the supreme court has shown us we have  covered the situation. however. is that  the essence of why we have a supreme court. for all the court ks. congress never intended it should be covered. at least. congress gets aher look at what it has done imprecisely. in the situation of a man who has been fired from a government position. or held up to public obloquy. where nine justices of the supreme court. or at least a majority of them. feel the law has been stated imprecisely. is there  at least egh reasonable doubt that it ought to be sent to us to make it precise.
i thank my colleague. i  continue with my analysis of the cases in which some change is recommended as desirable or undesirable. we next come to the watkins case. in which the court spoke critically of the breadth and vagueness of the mandate of the house unamerican activities committee. the recommendation that the mandate be rewritten in less broad .and vague language and to make the .vague language precise is helpful. ... when i was in the other body that subject was a topic of very heated debate. -it was urged time and time again. however. it took action by the supreme -court in the area where it hurt in order finally to bring the other body to the -realization that witnesses ought to k what they are upagainst when they appear before a committee. we can assume that because so many witnesses are people we do  likeand that includes methat is any reason for writing different laws as to them. the next point i wish to raise relates to the yates decision. there two issues -were raised. they both illustrate the very important aspects of my whole view of this situation. one aspect deals with conspiring to organize a society of persons who advocate the overthrow of the government by force and violence. and the second issue was as to what is meant by conspiring to advocate such overthrow. on the first one the court held the word "organize" means the communist party when it was first formed. again the court has shown us where we went astray. and we ought to be pleased. rather than angry. on the other point. however. a fundamental issue has been raised. because it is a question whether advocacy means advocacy of action or advocacy of belief. 
subsequently said: . i think under the circumstances. when a man whose ination is up for confirmation for a very high office demonstrates this kind of quality. this kind of character. and this kind of american outlook. which we have every right to expect. we should be extremely pleased. i am delighted that associate justice potter stewart has brought to realization our hopes and expectations in that way. i make this statement only because i did  have the privilege of voting for the confirmation of his ination. and i wish to be recorded as very much in favor of it
i have a question i should like to propound to the senator. the amendment the senator has in mind is much the same kind of amendment i have in mind. perhaps we could also include the requirement that an adverse report from the department of justice would be made available as a part of the body of material which is reported on.
. the bill which is  under consideration by the senate. s. 895. to provide for the representation of indigent defendants. is a historic step forward in implementing the rights guaranteed every accused person under the sixth amendment. it helps assure every individual adequate legal representation in criminal cases. where he is financially unable to secure his own counsel. this bill is identical with s. 3275. which was passed by the senate on july 15. 1958. but was  acted upon in the other body. i was proud to be the sponsor of that bill. together with senators kefauver and wiley. the sponsors of the present legislation. and reintroduced in the present session. together with senator kefauver. a bill on this subject. s. 1079. identical with that originally proposed in the 85th congress. the chief difference between these bills is that s. 1079 contained an additional provision. to make use of the very able and devoted talents of existing legal aid and defender groups and local bar associations. which have carried the burden of representing indigent defendants up to the present time. it would have provided grants for such groups in districts where the need for assistant public defenders or for counsel on a casebycase basis is lessened by the services of such a group. these provisions had been recommended by the national legal aid and defender association. the american bar association. and by local legal aid and bar associations. since the bill reported by the committee on the judiciary did  contain such provisions. i contacted the interested bar groups for their views. meanwhile laying on the table proposed amendments to include such grants. the response of the associations was unanimous in the view that this bill represented such a major step forward that its enactment should  be delayed. even for the important additional provisions for grants. which they continue to recommend. since i am also of that opinion. i did  call up the amendments which have been lying on the table. however. as soon as this bill has become law. as i hope it soon will be. i intend to submit amending legislation to permit a new consideration of the provisions for grants to existing legal aid groups. in addition. there has been some concern expressed by legal aid organizations regarding the provisions of this bill. that. when a defendant is unable to employ counsel. the court shall assign the public defender to act as counsel. their concern is based on the fact that this mandatory provision may operate to exclude continued use of existing legal aid groups. even where the public defender is unable to carry the caseload or where conflicting interests exist among defendants in the same case. i feel that this was  the intent of the sponsor or of the committeeas a matter of fact. the sponsors senators wiley and kefauver have indicated to me their willingness to accept a clarifying amendment on this point. the first problem the bill presents. howeverand this is the reason for my seeking recognitionis whether or  it will adequately cover the situation which occurs when legal aid societies or organizations help indigent defendants without cost. a second problem arises when individual attorneys who may be associated with such legal aid societies or bar associations may be asked by a district court to act as counsel on a casebycase basis. it is a fact that i have on the desk amendments to the bill which would have made very clear the ability of the legal aid societies and bar association groups active in this field to operate. i ask that such amendments be printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks.
however. after consulting with the many distinguished associations which are favorable to this proposed legislation. we have all come to the conclusionin which i concurthat to endeavor to amend this bill would only result in delaying itperhaps. indeed. it might result in blocking it. i therefore have decided. with my distinguished colleague from tennessee . to make a part of the legislative record the answer to two questions which will help us to go as far as we can go . if the bill should become law. an effort may be made subsequently to amend it more precisely. for present purposes. the answers to these questions might be adequate. i invite the attention of my colleague from tennessee to. the following questions: first. in. the opinion of the senator from tennessee. would this bill preclude the use. without compensation. of attorneys from legal aid or defender organizations or bar associations. or other attorneys appointed by the courts to act for indigent defendants. where the interests of justice so demand. as is. the case at present.
the next question is: in the senators opinion would this bill preclude the district court from appointing counsel on a casebycase basis. where this is provided for. from among attorneys who are members or employees of existing legal aid and defender groups or similar organizations. or those which may be formed.
. i submit. for appropriate reference. a resolution to establish uniform rules of procedure for senate committees including several new rules dealing with their conduct of investigations. the major new procedural rules called for in my resolution would provide: first. every witness shall be informed of the subject matter of the investigation in which he is called to testify by a senate committee prior to his appearance. second. committee investigation can be initiated unless specifically authorized by the senate or by a majority of the standing. select. or special committee having jurisdiction. third. all testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation. thus making witnesses who give false evidence subject to prosecution for perjury. fourth. a majority of the committee .shall decide whether to accede to a witness request that television. movie. or -other cameras and lights shall  be -directed at him during his testimony. fifth. evidence exposing the commission of federal crimes shall be brought to the attention of the appropriate federal law enforcement agencies by the committee chairman or a designated memberthis rule shall be supervised by the presiding officer of the senate and the senate committee on rules and administration. sixth. only evidence of probative value shall be received and considered by the committee which shall scrupulously observe the privileged character of communications between clergyman and parishioner. doctor and patient. lawyer and clients. and husband and wife. the resolution contains one key addition which is an adaptation of part of existing house committee procedure combined with totally new provisions to help safeguard the reputation of any person identified by name in testimony before a committee. or adverse comment made by a committee member or its counsel. any such individual would be entitled to make as part of the hearing record a sworn statement filed with the committee. with majority approval of the committee. he could testify in person. and under the same provision he could put to those witnesses whose testimony adversely affected him. through the committee counsel. a series of relevant questions and also request the committee to summon a reasonable number of witnesses to testify on his behalf. the proposed amendment to senate rule xxv would also make several rules of house committees apply to senate committee procedures including: first. that the evidence which the committee seeks to elicit from witnesses shall be relevant to the subject of the investigation as it has been set forth prior to the start of the hearings. second. the right of a witness to be accompanied by counsel of his own choosing. and third. that a brief explanation of a "yes" or " answer be allowed each witness either orally or by written statement. i share with so many of my colleagues grave concern over the failure of the senate to adopt uniform rules of procedure for its standing committees. including rules which will spell out the .rights. privileges and obligations of witnesses testifying during their hearings. during the 84th and 85th congresses. .major legislation to fill this gap was in- troduced by several senators. including senators hennings. jenner. watkins. bush. kuchel. and myself. to enable the senate to fulfill its responsibility to establish reasonable and fair rules governing the activities of its own committees to ensure that their essential legislative work will proceed fairly and effectively. in the past decade. there have been .repeated instances in which the reputation of individual witnesses and the progress of committee investigations have been jeopardized because insuffi.cient safeguards of fair procedure governed the work of standing senate committees. there have been 15 cases in the federal courts since 1949 in which the pertinency of questions asked witnesses before a congressional investigating committee was the issue. with three of these going up to the supreme court. in at least 9 of these 15 instances. the contention of the witness was upheld including the supreme court decision in .1957 on the watkins case involving testimony before the house unamerican activities committee. this case and the opinion rendered were later referred -to in aher decision in 1958 when the supreme court ruled in the case of harry sacher. a witness before the sen:ates internal security subcommittee. that the indictment against sacher must be dismissed on the grounds that his refusal to answer related to questions which were clearly  pertinent to the subject. once more. a supreme court decision substantiated the vital need to amend committee procedures in the senate where at present set rule on the subject of pertinency exists. while adapting the present house rule that the evidence elicited relevant to the subject of any investigation as originally stated before the commencement of hearings. my resolution would also require in just so many words that "the subject matter of the investigation in which he is called to testify shall be stated to each witness prior to his appearance." the other new rules allowing individuals through the committee counsel to. in effect. crossexamine witnesses or committee members who have given adverse testimony about them and to offer character witnesses should go a long way to dispel the doubt about the .ability of a witness wishing to do so to defend his character. the work of senate investigating committees continually affects the prestige of the senate. our experiences range all the way from the storm over the man case in which a canadian diplomat was found dead shortly after the release of unfavorable testimony about him by the senates internal security subcommittee to the attacks on the senates select committee on improper activities in the labor or management field which has done such a distinguished job under senator mcclellans chairmanship. it is dangerous to its functions and responsibility for the senate to go on living on borrowed time in respect to this matter and i earnestly hope that this .session will see the adoption of critically .important amendments to rule xxv governing the procedures of standing senate committees.
. i am today submitting amendments to the proposed civil rights legislation which would make lynching a federal crime. i refer to the proposed civil rights legislation recommended by the administration. and the measures introduced by the majority leader. the senator from texas. . the anncement yesterday by attorney general rogers that the fbi was being withdrawn from the search for the slayers of mack charles parker in poplarville. miss.. because the federal government did  have jurisdiction over this crime once again reemphasizes the critical need for a federal antilynch law. at the present time. there are only two federal statutes under which the federal government could prosecute the killersthe lindbergh kidnaping law where the victim has been transported across state lines and the civil rights act of 1871 which permits federal prosecution only if state officials are involved in the commission of the crime. the tragic inadequacy of these statutes may well be in part responsible for the insolent disdain for law and order which was displayed by this lynch mob. the same disrespect of law which is typical of the fanatics who have shamelessly bombed private homes. houses of worship. schools and places of business in the course of opposition to the desegregation of the souths public schools. the assertion that this killing of a negro prisoner in the south was the first such incident in some years does  negate the basic obligation of the federal government to guarantee equal protection of the laws to every citizen. in the parker case. attorney general rogers has said that it is  a "clearly established" fact that a mob lynched this prisoner. but that "other federal prosecution" could be successfully maintained. demonstrating conclusively the need for a federal antilynch law. the constitutional duty imposed on the federal government by the bill of rights and the 14th amendment was the basis for the civil rights act of 1957 and of subsequent civil rights proposals introduced in the congress. at the beginning of this session. the senate majority leader contended that a meaningful change was made in rule xxii of the senate which allows filibusters against civil rights bills. later the administration by the miity leader. senator dirksen. myself and others. a group of senators including senators douglas. humphrey. case of new jersey. and myself. and the majority leader. senator johnson. introduced three separate civil rights bills. it is to the administration proposals and the johnson bill that i am filing the same antilynch amendment. these major legislative packages contain criminal sections and it is therefore most appropriate that they should also include additional provisions to deal with this most tragic. most violent crime of lynching. therefore. i am today submitting an amendment to s. 499. proposed by senator johnson. and s. 755. part of the administration package. to make it a federal crime for anyone to conspire to deprive any personeither directly or indirectlyof his right to a fair trial or his right  to be deprived of life. liberty or property except by due process of law or for any federal or state official who fails to carry out his duty to prevent such lawlessness. it would carry the following penalties: violators could be fined up to a maximum of $1.000 or a year in prison. or both. should the violation result in serious injury or death. the maximum punishment is a maximum fine of $10.000 or up to 20 years imprisonment. or both. in addition. any official who fails to carry out his duty to prevent such crime may be fined up to $5.000 or imprisoned  more than 5 years. or both. to clarify the fact that federal jurisdiction exists in such caseseven though the crime is committed within the borders of a single statethe amendments contain the following congressional finding: (a) the congress finds that willful interference with. or obstruction of any process or proceeding of a state or territory or political subdivision thereof. for the apprehension. confinement. trial and punishment of any person charged with a crime or held for investigation or as a material witness. through acts or threats of force by persons  acting under lawful authority constitutes a deprivation of rights. privileges and immunities guaranteed to such person by the constitution of the united states. including such persons right  to be deprived of life. liberty. or property without due process of law. the congress further finds that such interference or obstruction threatens the administration of justice of the several states and thereby imperils their republican form of government which. under the constitution of the united states. it is the obligation of the united states to guarantee. in the mack charles parker case. the gover of mississippi has clearly gone on record in support of the entrance of the fbi into the case in his state. according to the new york times report. he said: i want to thank the fbi for a thorough investigation and for making the results available for state action at the local level. it is reported that the gover will  have the case presented to the next regular county grand jury which is scheduled to meet in ember. the american people and our friends abroad will  forget what happened in april in poplarville. i earnestly hope that lawful action by the local people in this community will serve the ends of justice. but there is the federal constitution and there are federally granted rights to be vindicated here. too. lynching is a federal crime in the sense that it involves the national interest. and i deeply feel that the national interest should be protected. and that we should take the opportunity to protect it in connection with the first civil rights bill to come before us. the majority leader. by personal leadership. put through what he considered to be a meaningful change in rule xxii of the senate. which permitted filibusters against civil rights bills. i think we have a right to expect that we shall have a civil rights bill before us at this session. what has happened in poplarville only underlines and reemphasizes the urgent need for such legislation.
i have . but again it is just of a piece with the effort which was made and is being made to emphasize that this man can be trusted. the senator from ohio in his question and in the information which it discloses bears out again my fundamental thesis that we are asked to make a lack of integrity finding. and in strauss case. considering his whole life and the frame of reference. that is tantamount to asking us to convict him of a crime.
i wish to make clear that when my colleague was then presiding over the senate he promised that he would reply. and he is  keeping his promise. i also wish to make clear that. in speaking today. he speaks for both of us. i had the ho to introduce. together with my colleague the senator from new york and the senator from new jersey . the bill which my distinguished colleague  proposes to explain and defend. i am deeply convinced that the bill is in the patriotic interest of the country. i believe my colleague will give a good account of himself in that connection. i hope very much that the senators from california may see fit to respond in terms of the situation of their own state. when my colleague has concluded his presentation. i should like to join in the debate. furthermore. i wish to say that. as a matter of policy and principle. i think to advertise this matter as a struggle between new york and california. or vice versa. does  do justice to either state. i feeland i k that my colleague will speak very eloquently for himselfthat new york and california need apologize to one for their industrial skill and their ability in connection with defense orders. i hope very much that will be made clear. we respect california. we love california. we think california is a great state. and we think it has done an outstanding job in respect to defense procurement. we want new york to do at least as well.
i think all of us would be more reassured if the legislative record were clear as to the full purpose and intent of the resolution. i hope my colleague from michigan will give me his attention. because i am delighted he raised the issue. the full purpose and intent of the resolution will be followed if we address ourselves to the letter written by the chairman of the subcommittee. the senator from south carolina . to the senator from mississippi . in which he refers to the following: many present critical problems of court congestion in our 86 federal districts do  involve merely increases in judges. but also needed are improvements in administrative methods of adjusting caseloads. of dispatching litigation for hearing. of resolving complicated issues and means for developing a better use of our existing and available judicial manpower. including present facilities or the lack thereof. it seems to me that if we add that to the study of the number of judges required to handle case loads in the various districts. if that is represented to us as the basic purpose of the study it is entirely proper.
of course. the answer to that is that i can visualize such situation. again. we have to be very fair about this matter. the difference is that the senator from south dakota feels this has to be cemented into the law in two ways: first. by a criminal penalty. i must say. with all deference to the senator. i think the penalty of making membership in the communist party a felony is a pretty serious one. i think that is one of the grave questions in regard to the amendment.
 nixon.  our will.  the will of the american people generally to maintain peacefully. even if it takes decades. the struggle to obtain justice and freedom. will be sapped. but that instead. all of us will try in every way possible to arrive at concord. but if we have to sweat it out. i am confident we will do so.
. i should like to make a comment. if i may. with the senators indulgence. upon this whole matter. there are many aspects of this problem which relate to different states and their crime rates. i am very grateful to my colleague for taking the matter from the point where the senator from south carolina first made the statement. and  pursuing it. i think the crimiogists and others who study crimes could give us reasons for convictions or imprisonments or crime rates. on this point we have to ascertain first what we in our country are willing to pay as the price of order. it is possible to have very low crime rates in a community if a person feels if he steps out of line he may be lynched. i would say that is the implication-
. it seems to me that the new york attorney general has put his finger upon an aspect of this legislation to which we should give the most careful consideration. it is an axiom in this body that we will  be intimidated from enacting a law by the fear that the supreme court may declare it unconstitutional. but it is an equally valid axiom that the constitutional lawyers hereand every senator. because every one of us. in a sense. is a constitutional lawyerwill give the closest attention to the question of constitutionality. and that we shall be perfectly ready to refrain from passing a law if. for one reason alone. we believe it to be unconstitutional. or a majority of us believe it to be unconstitutional. i therefore believe that this aspect of constitutionality of the law which we are discussing hereespecially as it is brought into issue with the purposeful intent to litigate the question on the part of the attorney general of the largest state in the united states. in terms of population. and which is so heavily affected by this particular situation. i think this is an extremely important point to be considered by the senate. i make it forcefully. i do  believe it has been made before. i believe it is something to which senators should give the most careful and thoughtful consideration.
the senator has put his finger on aher of the very vital reasons why i believe this legislation should be rejected. that is that when we have a situation with so many administrative dynamics. and the need for such direct control in order to be fair. even if we were to carry out the purpose and intent of the statute. if we have a choice in such a situation between judicial means. which can follow all the permutations of the case as they come along. and legislative means. which fix the situation at one particular time in one particular law. we should alwaystake the more flexible means. which can follow the facts as they develop. hence. in my opinion. the decisive point here is that there is an opportunity for full relief for the city of chicago in terms of whatever relief is deserved. after the most complete judicial consideration in the proceedings before the u.s. supreme court. that that is true. and that the proposed legislation would run counter to all the theories by which we soundly try to do a job of this character can be shown by the fact that on previous occasions the supreme court gave chicago relief. the supreme court gave the city of chicago relief in 1940. the supreme court gave chicago relief in 1956. it will give chicago relief again. and it will also administer the time during which such relief can be granted or denied. for example. on one particular occasion relief was granted to chicago for a certain specified period of time. it was able to show that the time was inadequate. so the court said. "we will grant you relief for some longer period of time." cv1081 we can possibly do that. the minute we begin to pass bills. with the idea that the job is all going to be done by the congress. the congress becomes an administrative agency for the diversion of water for the city of chicago. even for legitimate purposes--and we argue that these purposes are  proper. i point that out because i think it makes invalid the whole legislative approach. which would cause end of mischief. this is by means the end. this is only the beginning of a long series of legislative acts which will put us in the middle of the business of supplying chicago with water for its sewer and navigation problem. that is what we are heading into. i doubt very much whether the representatives of that community understand that that is exactly what we are doing.
. whatever may be our individual viewscertainly it is well kn what my views are in terms of carrying out the supreme court decisionthis analysis and report will be interesting to all. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
i think the senator from arkansas has properly raised the point. because perhaps we can do something constructive at this time. i submitted an amendment in an effort to redeem a measure which. under the circumstances of worlds fairs and how they work. can work. in an effort to do something. after investigation by new york state and new york city authorities. i find the measure can be saved. therefore. that accounts for my effort to bring about a meeting of the minds with respect to the committees resolution. which i did out of deference to them. and  out of any expectation that it could be done. it can work. and for the reason i shall state. and i shall  be long: new york does  wish to shut out any other city. and the best proof of that is that in 1939 there were two worlds fairs. one in new york and one in san francisco. resolutions went through congress giving both the opportunity to have worlds fairs. new york does  want a resolution to be agreed -to which will shut everybody out. because the mechanics of appointing a commission to pick a site. which in itself is a very different procedure from what it was before. and because of the political turmoil into which it is bound to throw the whole operation. will result in the united states being deprived of an opportunity to have a worlds fair at all. because. in the final analysis. the choice as to where in the world a worlds fair shall be held is decided by an agency in paris. i submit to the chairman of the foreign relations committee. withstanding the excellent intentions which i am sure went into this matter. that. in the light of the history of world fairs and the way they are run. the enactment of this bill would throw the matter into greater difficulty. instead of helping. i am informed that the state department is in a position to do everything that needs to be done with respect to any american city to enable it to qualify to have a worlds fair in the eyes of the foreign organization to which i referred. without any resolution. therefore. if it is unsatisfactory. and i do  see why it should be. to have resolutions for new york city and washington. d.c.. so far as new york is concerned. we shall be glad to have aher resolution for washington if they are able to carry on a fair. because that is exactly what happened in 1939. but if we can have that. in view of the fact that the state department can proceed anyhow. i think we are better off without a resolution. and the people in new york think so.
. this would be a rather interesting argument even though slightly rhetorical. if it were true. however. very unfortunately for that position. the facts are just the other way. "the uniform crime reports for the united states." published by the federal bureau of investigation. show that the ratio per hundred thousand of offenses committted in many of the southern states far exceeds the ratio of those offensesand they include all of the offenses mentioned by my colleague from mississippiin new york. we are  proud of the ratio we have. but we are  calling any other states which have a worse problem names. we are terribly sorry about it. we are ashamed of it for ourselves. we are ashamed of it for the whole nation. but it is certainly valid argument against the points we are making. especially when it is just  so upon the facts. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point a table entitled "index of crimes by standard metropolitan areas." from "uniform crime reports." issued by the federal bureau of investigation. september 2. 1959.
i believe that is true in new york. too. and the facts bear it out. if the senator wishes me to say it. in charleston. s.c.. the rate is 1.382. as against 1.145 in new york. in columbia. s.c.. the rate is 1.365. in greenville it is 1.419. and so on. . as i said. i am  making this point. i do  believe it has any bearing upon our situation. i am only pointing out that it is  an argument the other way. either. whatever may be the reasons for the crime statistics. i am just as much ashamed of them for my own city as i am for any city in the country. all of us have full responsibility for it. it is nevertheless a fact that it should  be dragged across this discussion on civil rights. on states rights. or on the constitutional points we have been arguing. when it is  borne out by the facts.
one thing might be very interesting. based upon what the senator from mississippi has just said about the density of the races in these states. according to my recollection. in his own state of mississippi there is the largest proportion of negroes to whites in any southern state. and yet from the analysis which i have. there is one mississippi city hereand i believe it is quite indicative of the statein which the crime rate is very low. indeed. the crime rate there is much lower than it is in the new yorknew jersey area.
well. the crime rate in other segregated societies is so much higher that it more than makes up for it. . i have never used the crime rate as a reason for arguing against a segregated society. i have used the constitution. the moral right. the ecoic and moral strength of the country and elementary justice. and the only time the crime rate has been used is to argue against those who would argue against segregation. and i say that is wrong. it is  a fact. and it is  borne out by the figures. that is all i say.
. on monday. the u.s. district court for louisiana handed down a historic and farreaching decisionthe first positive result of the powers given the attorney general under the civil rights act of 1957when judge j. skelly wright ordered the restoratiop of 1.377 negroes to the voting rolls of tle state. the effort by which these voters. long qualified to participate. had been struck from the rolls through the efforts of a citizens council shows exactly why we need law to back up the other such efforts to assure that people shall enjoy such civil rights as voting. in an editorial appearing today. the new york times makes it clear that this important step must be followed by effective legislation when the senate proceeds to the consideration of civil rights bills next month. certainly a most effective means for assuring the consideration of such legislation in its proper parliamentary framework would be passage by the house of the bill  bottled up in the rules committee. and i again urge the members of my party to join in making this possible. i ask unanimous consent to have the editorial from this mornings new york times printed in the congressional record.
. i should like to submit some insertions for the record relating to the current debate with respect to bills which are pending before us to increase the number of judges in the federal courts. we are especially in need of such action in the southern district of new york. i have before me a report on the need for six additional judges for the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york. submitted by the association of the bar of the city of new york. the new york county lawyers association. the bronx county bar association. the empire state chapter of the federal bar association. the maritime law association of the united states. and the new york patent law association. this report is very persuasive and forceful. and shows clearly what the junior senator from new york and i have been fighting for all these months. that is my reason for taking the time of the senate at this time. i ask unanimous consent that this report may be printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks. together with an editorial entitled. "justice versus politics." published in the new york times of january 20. 1960. the editorial approves the report. and shows that the southern district has 20 percent of the civil cases in all the federal courts but only 7 percent of the total number of judges to hear them. we are far behind. and politics should  stand in the way of the administration of justice so urgently needed.
. the 42d anniversary of the independence of the ukraine is being celebrated on january 22. i have suggested that this day be proclaimed ukrainian independence day and last year i introduced senate joint resolution 20 to this effect. the dream of an independence of the ukrainian people was short lived because it was swept away by the power of communist russia. the ukrainian people are 40 million strong and they still keep alive the hope that some day they may again be permitted selfdetermination. that hope exists in their songs. in their literature. in their cultural heritage. and most of all in the spirit of resistance against oppression. i k that they will want to see freedom with peace and equal justice and opportunity for all. we can help to keep that spirit of freedom alive in the hope. which i support. that these efforts will  have been in vain and that the dream of freedom will soon be realized by the justice so much encouraged by the free world.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the association of the bar of the city of new york. favoring the enactment of legislation to create six additional judgeships in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york.
 bespeaks the dignity of our great country with respect to a small country. he bespeaks our respect for the people of that small country and their government. so long as it is their government. and points out that we will adhere strictly to what is correct for us. that strength is to be utilized only where hing else will suffice. but that we certainly intend to exhaust every avenue of the cooperationindeed. the affectionwhich the american people have for the cuban people. to bring about the justice which should dominate the relations between our two countries and our two peoples
we take a chance on everything we do. many of the laws which congress passes are declared unconstitutional. many people tell us that what we do with respect to one thing or aher will be declared unconstitutional. we were told that the civil rights bill. which was under debate for many weeks. would be unconstitutional. as a matter of fact. some elements of the civil rights act have been declared unconstitutional by the lower courts. and are  before the supreme court for final decision. but that is what we must expect every day. it is the risk we run in enacting any statute. of infinitely greater importance. once we feel or are convinced that we are right. is that we are doing our duty with the assurance which the people expect of us as representative legislators. as i started to say. if it is properand we have to be convinced of thatto proceed by statute. that is our first duty. the burden of proof is  on me. it seems to me that the burden of proof is on those who would take the extraordinary course of a constitutional amendment. we legislate daily on all kinds of matters. certainly it would be saferit is the highest lawto proceed by constitutional amendment. we shall have aher civil rights bill before us at this session. perhaps the senator from washington was  in the chamber at the moment i pointed this out. but the minute we say we are going to follow the constitutional amendment route on this question. we will be faced with that procedure in half. at least. of all the measures which will be recommended in connection with the civil rights bill. because numerous constitutional questions are inherent in the proposed civil rights legislation. once we decide that we will follow the course of the constitutional amendment on civil rights. there will be end of such proposals. there is a long history connected with this matter. it has been considered five times in the other body. but they have  sent it over here. we have  acted on it. occasionally we have had what is called a filibuster. it seems to me there is really fundamental question of law involved. any more than there is in other pieces of legislation. therefore. it is our duty to take the statutory route.
our experience with such a process is that the answer can be found by means of this process much more quickly than by means of any other type of statute. because this would require only one decision by the supreme court. i have little doubt that the statute would be promptly contested and the case heard. i would say 1 year. at the outside. although that is only an estimate. based on appeals and supreme court proceedings in connection with cases of this character.
first. i should like to express support of my colleague in his effort to get this very desirable amendment in the constitutional amendment  before the senate. but more than that. i should like to express my appreciation for being associated with a senator who seizes the right opportunity. it is  often that there are proposed in the senate constitutional amendments where we have a chance to act. this is an opportunity. which i hope the senate will  forego today. to do elemental justice to the people of the district of columbia. i am delighted my colleague has taken the initiative to propose it and give us an opportunity to effectuate his proposal. also. i should like to join him in contemplating this major point. this is a season when the united states is expanding its horizons. it would have been unthinkable. in aher day. to admit into the union. the territory of alaska. 1.700 or 1.800 miles away from the mainland of the united states. or to admit hawaii. 2.500 miles away. and separated from us by an ocean. yet our people have had the kind of vision which is truly historic and which marks our capability for being world- leaders. for the mark of leadership is the willingness to expand ones views. my colleague from new york is asking us to take care of the home fires at the same time we expand our vision. and this is an opportunity for us to correct a rankling injustice and give to the people of the district of columbia a right which is denied to the people of very few federal districts in other countries of the world. i think the research of the senator shows that fact.
i express the hope that the senate will see that this justice is done. as proposed by my colleague. in a very elemental way. these are the minimal requirements that one could conceive. why they can be denied or what opposition can be made against them. i can imagine. we have a chance to take care of this situation today. and i hope the senate will do so.
. i think it is very important that time be taken by the forelock. and that is the purpose of my remarks upon the actual outbreak of shooting on the israelsyria border. and that the government may very well consider what steps our country ought to consider taking in order to head off any untoward development in that area.
 employs. this federal registrar then may certify a voters eligibility to state officials and issue a voting certificate to such individuals qualified by state law to vote in federal elections. we make provision to avoid the socalled "jim crow" ballot. wherein the white voters certified as eligible by the federal registrar might be handed a short ballot form for federal officials while those voters registered by local officials would be handed a long form for all inees. local. state. and national. should that situation arise. our bill would require that all voters. regardless of who registered them. would vote for federal officials on a separate ballot. thereby making it impossible to distinguish between the preferences of white and white voters. where a person certified by the federal registrar has the requisite qualifications. our bill requires that he be registered to vote. with the final decision. in the event of a contest. to be made by the courts. any election official or other person who willfully denies a person certified by the voting registrar the right to vote is subject to a fine of $1.000 or imprisonment up to 6 months. or both. in addition. a second enforcement provision is included. permitting civil proceedings by the attorney general or by the individual denied his voting rights. which could result in a temporary or permanent injunction to prevent further denial of voting rights. subtitle b of the voting rights section of our bill incorporates what has come to be kn as the attorney generals proposal for court appointed referees by proposing that. as a consequence of any civil suit instituted under the 1957 civil rights act or under the federal registrars provision of this bill. the court may appoint voting referees to investigate complaints and register voters. furthermore. the suggestion that deputy attorney general lawrence walsh made. during his testimony on the court referee proposal before the house judiciary committee last week. has been included in our billthe decision as to whether an applicant is qualified to register is to be made by the court referee alone and can be challenged at the time of his decisionbut may be tested later before the court. thus. a white registrant is  exposed to a registration procedure substantially more complicated than that experienced by individuals who have been voting right along. in reviewing the need for such voting rights legislation. we should see the issue in true historical perspective. the drive to extend voting rights did  end with the adoption of our constitution. a radical document for its day. for if the voting qualifications which applied to u.s. citizens in the 1780s were still enforced. it is estimated that only between 10 million and 20 million americans would be eligible to vote in the 1960 federal election. republican form of government could long survive today if only 10 percent to 20 percent of its qualified voters went to the polls. sixtyfive million americans are expected to vote in 1960. in the south. under present law. a disproportionately small number of registrants are expected to be negroesonly about 25 percent of those eligible to register did so in 1956. an effective voting rights bill enacted by this congress. containing. as our bill does. a clearcut finding that substantial numbers of citizens are denied their right to register and to vote. that state and local officials are partly responsible for this situation. and that present law is inadequate to deal with this deprivation of a constitutional right. with provision for temporary voting registrars to distribute voting certificates to eligible citizens this fall. and backed up by aher provision for court referees to enforce federal court decisions in voting rights cases. should result this year in substantially more than the 1.200.000 negroes who registered in the south 4 years ago. it could mean by 1964. if  earlier. that more than 3 million southern negroes. equivalent to the national voting average of 60 percent of those eligible. will vote in national elections.
i only hope that the senator from th carolina will follow the lofty principles of this great man in other respects. however. i would say to the senator that certainly congress has the authority and the power to vote or  to vote implementing legislation. the supreme court can make us vote it. it is the position of people like myself that it should vote such implementing legislation. what i was interested in getting from the senatorand i believe he  has answered the question i had in mindwas whether he saw anything wrong with a finding of fact by congress that it was passing implementing legislation upon the interpretation of the constitution as made by the supreme court. or whether the senator felt that we had right to do that even if we wished to do it. does the senator believe as a principle of constitutional law that congress has the authority to legislate. using as its basis a finding by the supreme court interpreting the meaning of the constitution. i gather that the senator feels that it may do so. but need . or may discard that interpretation. i would agree with the senator.
that is the senators argument. i happen to disagree with him. with all due respect. i believe i have a right to rely upon my own legal judgment in determining what i shall advocate and how i shall vote. the senator from th carolina did  have to read judge parker to get an interpretation of the supreme courts decision. the supreme courts decree. made a year after the decision. said exactly the same thing. one point i was trying to make with the senator is that certainly i read the language in the socalled administration package. and what it does is to make a statement of fact about the supreme court decision upon which it then proposes-
i will accept the senators wording: they shall  be excluded. that is what the senator from new york says. practically. he wishes. that is what the senator from new york understands the supreme court to have directed in the brown and other cases.
in my opinion. the supreme court decision enforces hing upon the people which they do  seek themselves by seeking to send their children to schools of their choice. therefore. i think that answers the question very cogently.
i believe the senator from new york has very adequately answered the senators question. i think the supreme court has very adequately answered the question. i would  hope to be able to satisfy upon this issue. much as i might on many other issues. the distinguished senator from th carolina.
 might designate successor organizations which would be empowered to file claims to socalled heirless property vested in the office of alien property. this is property in the united states which belonged to individuals who. while technically enemy nationals. were in fact persecuted by the nazis on religious. racial. or political grounds. such individuals. or their heirs. have long been able. under the trading with the enemy act. to recover their vested property. the 1952 amendment dealt with the situation in which these individuals and their entire families were exterminated. so that there was living claimant. complications have arisen in the administration of section 32(h). as i remember. when it was originally adopted. it was contemplated that $3 million would be recovered under it. represented by the kind of property described. which would be used for various kinds of relief which were thought to be quite in line with what those very unfortunate people would have wanted had they been able to dispose of their own property. section 32(h) provided that the designated successor organization would devote the returned property or its proceeds to the relief of surviving and needy persecutees residing in the united states. it was strongly supported by the administration. was the result of bills introduced on a bipartisan basis. and was enacted by the congress as a simple act of justice. the u.s. treasury does  need.  would it be appropriate for it to be the beneficiary of nazi acts of slaughter. the administration of section 32(h) has turned out to be difficult because of the thousands of claims which have been filed and the difficulties arising in a situation in which by definition the original owners and all of their immediate families are dead or missing. the present bill. therefore. merely enables a bulk settlement to be made of these thousands of claims. it will relieve the department of justice of an emous administrative headache. it will also make it possible for some funds to be made available in the near future to the needy and surviving persecutees who were intended beneficiaries of congressional action in adopting section 32(h). so far as the amounts involved are concerned. the present bill proposes a bulk settlement in the amount of $500.000. this is an amount which the office of alien property of the department of justice has indicated as reasonable. it is very far short of the $3 million maximum authorized to be returned under section 32(h). i understand that the principle of the bill has the support of the administration and of a number of organizations interested in its objectives. it is my hope that prompt action can be taken on this bill. particularly since hearings as to the substance of it have already been held. i hope very much that the bill may receive very early attention in the senate. and that. in accord with what has been done in the other body. we may. at long last. make this sum available in this tragic situation. as a simple act of justice which would cost the united states hing. because all the property is vested in the alien property custodianindeed. very much more than is called for by the sum of $500.000. at the same time. we can relieve the department of justice of a great administrative problem.
i am certain the senator from georgia will make whatever he can of the story. but i still affirm my belief that the country believes that the civil rights commission has made a fair and honest investigation and a fair and honest report. and is entitled to proper credence in that way.
under previous acts. there was apparently some argument about civil injunction suits because of the fact that criminal penalties were included. as well. we debated that fully with respect to the 1957 act. it is. i believe. one of the reasons why the 1957 act was passed. i can only say to the senator that that is really immaterial because the fact is that there is a right to sue under the 1957 act.
i shall be glad to take my seat if the senator from georgia does  want my reply. but i was saying that i shall be glad to analyze the report of the federal civil rights commission with respect to each of the states. incidentally. i did  say "all the southern states." i said "in certain southern states." and. indeed. in certain sections of those states. i shall undertake to analyze the report of the federal civil rights commission and any other information we have. and if i can obtain the names of persons as to whom there has been an actual suit to register. i shall do so. but i shall submit proof that the criminal remedy was found to be ineffectiveas. for instance. in the famous series of cases in ouachita parish. la.. where it was found that the grand jury would  indict. i should also like to point outalthough it has germaneness to the matter of votingthat i must say i was rather sad about what occurred in respect to the one single lynching in mississippi.  long ago. where. as i understood. the grand jury would  even entertain the evidence the fbi had. certainly there is patent on injustice. i am sure that injustice can be found in every state of the union. including the state of new york. so. to pick out a particular. individual case and build a body of legislation on it would be unworthy of our function. i have hesitancy in saying that. but i was referring to a pattern. i do believe that. brought up to date. the pattern shown by the federal civil rights commission report is entitled to a response from those who take the position--as does my distinguished colleaguethat individual states should be given the right. without interference. to deal with these matters on their own. that is why i said i thought the most efficient way was to marshal separately the particular evidence with respect to each state. and then let us see whether the senators from each of the states feel that they wish to address themselves to it. for ought i k and i am speaking  only from memory. i did  have the remotest ion that we would  be engaging in this particular colloquysuch names are in the report or are to be obtained from other authoritative sources. and i shall endeavor to produce them. to meet the view which was expressed by the senator from georgia. but my fundamental approach will be to present the facts. so that senators from the individual states may. if they are moved to do so. address themselves to the particular points which are made by the commission. i think that will be fair. especially inasmuch as the senator himself seems to feel. as he has expressed himself here. that the commission was biased. or that in some way it was  performing the function which congress has assigned to it. so i shall attempt to do that.
and then. . it seems to me that what is sought to be sustained is the majesty and the authority of the united states of america in civil rights cases. therefore. in a representative case in which civil rights are sought to be asserted. the attorney general should have the duty and the authority to proceed to protect those rights. we are protecting society in that respect. just as effectively as the local u.s. attorney is protecting society when he obtains an indictment or lodges an information in a criminal case.
. in answer to the senator from kentucky. i point out that the bills which are before us. and which i wish to analyze brieflyand then perhaps he would like to comment on themare approximately as follows: the administration bill provides for punishment for flight in interstate commerce. to avoid prosecution for destruction of educational or religious structures. it provides for a fine of  more than $5.000. or imprisonment for  more than 5 years. or bath. other bills--and we shall offer aher bill as an amendment to the administration proposalwould make a crime both of flight to avoid prosecution and the interstate shipment of explosives. again i turn to my colleague from new york. who inated that particular concept. we believe that both should be joined in an effective antibombing bill. indeed. it is eworthy that the approach taken by the senator from massachusetts and the senator from th carolina [mr. ervin -to whom i have previously referredand by means of the bill of the majority leader. the senator from texas . is exactly that approach. so the precedent to which the senator from kentucky has referred is exactly opposite to what we hope to offer to the senate. by way of buttressing and strengthening the administration proposal in that field.
that is exactly right. that is. the referee method in state and federal elections. with the provision that the referee method shall. in the case of a question between the two. take precedence over the registrar method. our reason for submitting the matter in that form being that the mal course we expect would be the registrar method. in which the greatest number of persons can be registered most efficiently. only in unusual cases. where very hard resistance is expected. would we then go to the votingreferee method. which would put the court in a position of passing upon every disputed registration. we have thought so faras i have said. subject to our having an opportunity to debate this matter further as we go alongthat that represents the most efficient outcome.
i am glad the senator from georgia is on the floor. i should like to read his question. and then i shall answer it. i refer  to page 2870 of 18. 1960. in which the senator from georgia asked: at this time i should like to ask. if the senator will permit me to do so. one more question of the senator from new york: does the senator from new york k the name of any qualified individual. anywhereth. south. east. or westwho claims the right to vote. and has instituted an action in the courts. either state or federal. and has  been protected in the exercise of that right. i should like to refer my colleague to the following matters: in sellers v. wilson (123 f. stat. .917). decided in alabama in 1954. four negroes sued the county board of registrars for a judgment declaring their alleged policy. custom. and usage in refusing to register them because of race or color was unlawful. and asking for a permanent injunction and money damages. the finding of the court is as follows: the supreme law of this republic is that tests can be required of a negro applicant as a prerequisite to registration as a voter that is  required of a white applicant. therefore. let board of registrars try to devise any scheme or artifice to do otherwise. the plaintiffs have proven money damages on account of the illegal and wrongful accounts of these defendants and therefore award of money damages is made. by virtue of their resignations as members of the board of registrars of bullock county. ala.. these defendants are  beyond the vale of an injunctive directive from this court in this matter. however. the court retains jurisdiction of the case and will grant the injunctive relief prayed for in plaintiffs petitions in the event either or all of these defendants again become members of this board. therefore. . i state that. as shown by the case of sellers against wilson in these particular pleadings. four negroes. fully qualified to vote. were frustrated in their right to vote because the court process could  reach an election board which resigned rather than give them the right to vote. if the senator wishes me to stop at each case. i will be glad to stop. or i will submit the other cases for the record.
i k the senator has asked that question thoughtfully and  lightly. i should like to answer it in that way. in a case which was actually pending. for example. the tuskegee case. a voting referee could be appointed. who would then register the particular individuals. who would then be entitled to vote. because elections were being held. hence. they would be entitled to proceed. election officials who denied that right would be subject to the jurisdiction of the court for contempt. and the question could be tested. there might be some other reason for denying the right to vote. or. as an alternative. the case involved federal voting. a registrar appointed by the president for that particular area could register the people with the same effect. if the macon county registrars had been in this casewhich they are they could vote. if the voting officials denied them their right to vote. and if they had reason for it. that reason could be tested in court by a suit for declaratory judgment. or the matter could wait until the registrar had been accused of a violation of the act after it became law. in any case. machinery would be provided by which an individual could  be frustratedwhich is what happened in this instancein his right to vote merely by the fact that there was ody to talk to or ody to deal with.
i thank my colleague. and if he will allow me to finish my presentation of the list of cases i am very grateful to my colleague for referring to those cases in so specific and marked a fashion. the other class of cases to which i should like to refer is composed of cases in which negroes won on appeal. but the courts found that class actions could  be brought. the courts held that the benefit of the victory in the case was applicable only to the party suing. so the mass problem can immediately be perceived: there would have to be tens or hundreds of thousands of suits. unless there were a more generic casewhich is what we are trying to provide for. with relation to persons who had been barred from registration. the cases in that class included raddix versus lucky. 148 federal supplement 108. from louisiana. in 1957. and mitchell versus wright. 62 federal supplement 580. from alabama. in 1945. those are fair samples. those cases went up on appeal. the appeal citations are as follows: (a) raddix v. lucky (148 f. supp. 108 (la. 1957)): district court denied all relief and failed to grant summary judgment immediately only because there were open questions whether state law had been violated. appeal. 252 f. 2d 930 (1958). negro plaintiff. won. but class action deniedcourt must decide each case on individual merits. (b) mitchell v. wright (62 f. supp. 580 (ala.) 1945)): a macon county case. district court found against plaintiff on the merits. also indicated that whether a person is to be registered is an individual decision and can be determined by class actions. appeal. 154 f. 2d 954 (1946). individual plaintiff won an appeal but ruling of court as to class actions affirmed. finally. . i should like to cite the case of united states against alabama. 177 federal supplement 728. also involving macon county. these cases were completely frustrated by the fact that the local registrars resigned. and the court held that although the civil rights act of 1957 was constitutional. those actions would  lie. in its opinion. under that act. against the state. and that in view of the fact that the registrars had resigned. the only party defendant left was the state. therefore. the actions failed. again. there was question of qualifications. there was simply frustrating complete frustration of the opportunity to vote. that case is pending before the supreme court. and. indeed. i believe it was argued by the attorney general
in that connection. i point out that. as we all k. lynching is condemned by everyone. without exception. including every southern senator. i am sure. they are as much concerned about it as any of the rest of us. we have seen an example. in the poplarville. miss.. situation. of the complete frustration which can come to the legal process. those who feel as i do are of the opinion that even the fbi reports in that situation did  receive the recognition to which we would expect them to be entitled. in respect to the possible prosecution for crime. this is an area in which the intervention of the fbi is left almost to local government request and discretion. the crime involved is certainly one of which the united states should take cognizance. within the spirit of the equal protection of the laws. if. on the other hand. it is said that lynching is by all means a very rare occurrence. let it also be said that when it does occur it is a blot and a shame on the united states. and we ought to have every piece of legal machinery possible. including federal legal and investigatory machinery. to deal with it. we should  be in the position in which we demonstrated our laws to be in respect to this very tragic poplarville. miss.. lynching. one further section of my remarks relates to a question asked by the senator from georgia [mr. russell]. he is   in the chamber. i suggested that it might be well if he heard this presentation. but i am sure it will be before him. so i should like to place it in the record at this time. it will be remembered that the senator from georgia asked why only four suits had been filed under the civil rights act of 1957. if this was such a hot subject. in the first place. the four suits represent by means the totality of the complaints encountered in respect of this subject. first. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks a list of complaints which has been compiled for me. these complaints were made to the federal civil rights commission. this compilation updates the list found in the report of the civil rights commission. involving complaints from the states of alabama. mississippi. and th carolina. relating to denials of the voting right.
i thank the chair for that information. which i think is extremely important and helpful. may i say finally. . that i am glad to annce to the senate that the supreme court has just rendered a unanimous decision. holding the civil rights act of 1957 constitutional. in the raines case. which was recently argued before the court.
yes. i would like to comment upon the question before the senate. . obviously. this is  within the context either of the senate or of justice. therefore. as the rules are silent. it may very well be that an interpretation might be proper. which would say that. at any time a senator presented an amendment. having gotten the floor. he had the absolute right to have it read and lie upon the table. in that case. a senator would  in any way be frustrated in having his amendment considered after cloture. i respectfully submit that it was hardly the purpose of the cloture rule to shut off the possibility of amendment. on the contrary. the rule is quite the other way. it contemplates that amendments which are before the senate in the procedural way specified shall be considered by the senate. i therefore respectfully submit to the chair that the suggestions made from the parliamentarian are  necessarily conclusive on the senate under these circumstances. and that the senate may very well decide upon a far more practical version which will work justice to senators individually. those who have amendments which they have a right to have considered.
i thank the senator from illis. first. . let me say that i think the majority leader and the miity leader are entitled to the gratitude of the entire senate for finding a way to accommodate this situation with justice to the amendments which will be offered. second. in view of the fact that the morning hour itself will be a matter of unanimousconsent procedure. under the procedure we are following. i believe it important to emphasize that this will  only be trueif this is in the mind of my distinguished leader. the senator from illisand that this will  only apply if there is a morning hour. and if there is a morning hour. it certainly will apply. but if there is  a morning hour. then. whenever a member obtains the floor or otherwise. he may do precisely the same thing.
subsequently said: . this is mi matter. hence. i think i should state the summary of the point we wish to make. as follows: yes. we would be among the first to be delighted if the states would give all the people the opportunity to vote. in accordance with the qualifications under the state laws. but we feel that if that is  done. there should be federal machinery which would give the people an opportunity to exercise the right to vote which is granted to them under the constitution. therefore. we do  feel that generic associations on the subjectfor instance. as to peoples dispositionare an answer in regard to the individual situations described as matters of fact. both by the civil rights commission and in supreme court of the united states cases in which there is shown to have been action. under color of state law. to deny people an equal opportunity to vote. we say. and we do so in all fairness. i believe. that it is fine if it appears that. because of the enactment of federal legislation. the states will  administer their laws in a fair and. discriminatory way. and therefore the federal legislation should  have to be used. if that were to be the case. one would be more pleased than would the proponents of the pending legislation. but i believe we should make crystal clear the facts in regard to just what our objective is and just what our purposes are.
. i. too. do  wish to detain the senate in debate at this time. except to e the fact that i inserted in the record what the civil rights commission said about puerto ricans in new york at the same time i inserted in the record what it said about the southern states. secondly. evidence has been producedand i should welcome it if it is producedto show that any governmental machinery was utilized to deny to any puerto ricans the opportunity to vote under new york law. i should be the first. if there were any such evidence. to do my utmost to correct the abuse. and i would like to be able to say that much for officials of states like louisiana. with respect to which the supreme court just ruled.
first. i should like to state to the senator from new hampshire my pleasure in hearing so reasoned and well documented an address. it is quite typical of the senator from new hampshire. with whom i have served for many years in the other body and here in the senate. i understand the senators views on education. and i shall  argue them with him . because i have already had an extended argument on that point. and doubt will again. before we vote on the pertinent provisions. but the senator from new hampshire leaves me in doubt in regard to two points of the socalled dirksen package. king the senator from new hampshire as i do. i am sure he would  wish to leave me in doubteven for himself. one is the socalled antibombing provision. which deals with an outbreak of violence related to the situation of separation of the races. the other is the question of the obstruction of court orders. which. again. has led to considerable violence in various areas. regardless of whether the senator feels that it is or is  an apposite remedy. at least it does  deal with the question of bringing about more or faster school integration. but. rather. deals with the dignity and observance to which federal court orders are entitled. will the senator from new hampshire tell us his views on those two issues.
the senator from new york maintains that the people of the united states. through the constitution. are  trying to dictate to the people of louisiana how to run their schools. only that if they operate public schools. they must give equal protection under the laws to all the citizens and to all the children of all the citizens. . i ask unanimous consent that there may be printed at this point in my remarks table i. entitled "uniform crime reports for the united states. issued september 2. 1959. by the federal bureau of investigation."
. i am one of the troops being led through this valley and i think everyone ks that i am an interested member of that select company. i would like to say that the senator from florida is always very frank and so extremely courteous to all of us king whatever may be our disagreements. they are certainly  personal. and he gives us an opportunity  this morning to formulate what is occurring in the eyes of the country. which could be a little confusing. if the senator would allow me i would like to give an interpretation of one interesting point. first. i would like to suggest to my colleague that the motion to adjourn early this morning by the senator from texas was in my view made in the utmost good faith and. i interpret it. and as i say i am a party as zealous for civil rights as anybody here. with the intent of  whatever interfering with the course of a vigorous effort to get civil rights legislation enacted. there is question about it. it had effect whatsoever on our situation except to give us an opportunity to get an extra hour or two of sleep. although i am  grateful. i did  think so at the particular time. because i was too tired to realize it. aher point which i should like to make is that. on the ervin amendment. which is a collateral matter. i have very grave question in my mind as to whether it is  in fact a good amendment. i hope it will  be tabled. but that the senate will be given an opportunity to vote on it after a little elucidation by the senator from th carolina as to what is involved. so far as senators like myself are concerned. i am glad to be able to say that. i think it would be most unfortunate if my colleagues took the position that just because a proposal emanated from a southern. senator. that made it ipso facto. as we lawyers say. bad. that is  necessarily so. this particular amendment may be appropriate. and perhaps it should be included in the bill. i would like to get a little confirmation from the debate as to what it would do i am sure in his own way he is trying to sustain that reputation just as zealously as i am. as i see what is going on. i think an appeal is being made to a higher jury than the senate. because what in practical effect we have on the table is a bill in seven sections. and amendments must be germane to each section if there is cloture. therefore. we have seven separate packages. the senior senator from georgia has already divided them. there are seven separate propositions. each susceptible of being voted on. together with individual amendments. bringing us to a vote with the same kind of procedure we would engage in on the floor were the senate acting as a committee of the whole. we would take up proposition a. take up amendments. proceed to a final vote on proposition a. and then pass on to proposition b. that is quite an orderly procedure. which has been followed in this body. and i k it has in the other body. where i served. in matters reported out of committee. as to which many members had a lot of differences and amendments to offer. what is happening here is an appeal to a higher jury than the senate. because the southern senators want approval.  by a majority vote. but by a majority of twothirds. and we are going to make the test of legislation in the senate the question whether cloture can be obtained until there is before it the kind of bill that must be passed by a twothirds vote. i think this is something the country ought to hear perhaps more than it has heard so far. i hope the people will understand it very clearly. because if the senate of the united states is to be ruled by a twothirds vote. rather than a majority vote. it may  necessarily be bad. but it certainly was  the idea of the founding fathers. nevertheless. that is what is going on . that is the great struggle going on on the floor. and the senator from florida ks it. because he has his ear tuned pretty sharply to what is going on. there are those of us who say that the majority must rule. and we want these amendments voted up or down by majority. there is aher group. quite outside the senators group. who say. " we want the bill just as we say. or we will  vote for cloture." as is true in any free society. this is a matter that the country will have to decide once it percolates down to the people. if it does  percolate down to them. then the matter is going to be decided adversely with respect to a bill which i think should be passed. the senator from florida is a cultivated and highly patriotic american what i have stated is what is occurring. and the senator gives us an opportunity to lay it before the country.
will the senator allow me just to add one word of perfection of the factual situation. then i will be through. we must remember that whatever the senate does by a majority of one must be tested by the following preliminary tests: first. a debate long egh. extensive egh. thorough egh. to have convinced twothirds that there has been egh debate. although they should  in that way control the legislation. second. that the legislation will be workable. otherwise. it will fall of its own weight. third. the supreme court could reverse what we do if it is unconstitutional. fourth. we all must face the issue of election sooner or later. every one of us. those are the only ones that occur to me at the moment. there may be others. i say that only so that the country will  get the idea that i am talking of a tyranny of the majority. i am talking of the capability of the majority. because that is what we are as a nation and that is what we are under our constitution. at some point to come to judgment. i think what we are restive under is the fact that we are  being permitted to even get that far. to come to a judgment.
. because it seems to me this is the fundamental point about the whole debate. everything upon the basis of which the attorney general could sue in a civil court under part iii. he can  seek to have a person indicted forcan indict himself. but he can ask a grand jury to indictunder the criminal statutes of the united states.
i am very grateful to my colleague. i shall develop that subject. i point out. in response to the argument. that the many statutes under which the attorney general or other federal government officials proceed to redress what are essentially private wrongs do . as the senator has just been told. involve the redress of grievances where the right vests in the united states. a number of these statutes read exactly as does part ii. i refer specifically. among others. to the statute involving enclosure of public lands. enjoining violations (43 u.s. code 1062). that particular grant of authority provides as follows:  1062. suits for violations of law it shall be the duty of the district attorney of the united states for the proper district. on affidavit filed with him by any citizen of the united states that section 1 of this chapter is being violated showing a description of the land inclosed with reasonable certainty.  necessarily by metes and bounds  by governmental subdivisions of surveyed lands. but only so that the inclosure may be identified. and the persons guilty of the violation as nearly as may be. and by description. if the name can on reasonable inquiry be ascertained. to institute a civil suit in the proper united states district court. or territorial district court. in the name of the united states. and against the parties named or described who shall be in charge of or controlling the inclosure complained of as defendants. and jurisdiction is also conferred on any united states district court or territorial district court having jurisdiction over the locality where the land inclosed. or any part thereof. shall be situated. to hear and determine proceedings in equity. by writ of injunction. to restrain violations of the provisions of this chapter. and it shall be sufficient to give the court jurisdiction if service or original process be had in any civil proceeding on any agent or employee having charge or control of the nclosure. and any suit brought under the provisions of this section shall have precedence for hearing and trial over other cases on the civil docket of the court. and shall be tried and determined at the earliest practicable day. in any case if the inclosure shall be found to be unlawful. the court shall make the proper order. judgment. or decree for the destruction of the inclosure. in a summary way. unless the inclosure shall be removed by the defendant within five days after the order of the court. in other words. exactly what we stipulate in part iii. let us take aher statute of the same kind. involving violation of the statute governing. or rules. regulations. or orders )f the securities and exchange commission. by investment companies. that is title 15. united states code. section 80a41. the commission shall permit any person to file with it a statement in writing. under oath or otherwise as the commission shall determine. as to all the facts and circumstances concerning the matter to be investigated. authority is granted to the commission to proceed in such cases. aher example is the longshoremens and harbor workers compensation act. involving enforcement of an order by injunction. that is found in title 33. united states code. section 921(c) : (c) if any employer or his officers or agents fails to comply with a compensation order making an award. that has become final. any beneficiary of such award or the deputy commissioner making the order. may apply for the enforcement of the order to the federal district court for the judicial district in which the injury occurred (or to the u.s. district court for the district of columbia if the injury occurred in the district). it seems to me that these examplesand there are othersillustrate the point. we are all very familiar with the fair labor standards act. under which governmental authorities may sue to recover. for the benefit of the individual worker. compensation which has been denied him by his employer. there are many cases in which the united states says that the right of the individual is so impressed with the public interest. is so much in the interest of the united states itself. that upon his complaint the u.s. government will undertake his case. if it considers it a representative case and desires to do so. the first qualification is that this is  idinate power. the attorney general is to do civilly that which could be done criminally anyway. the civil remedy is a much lesser remedy. second. this is  a new power. it is incorporated in many statutes enacted by congress. the third point is that this is  unqualified power. the attorney general does  have to take every case. it would be ridiculous if he did. he is  required to take every case. any more than he must start an antitrust suit or any other suit under the statutes under which he has authority. merely because someone files a complaint. that is his job. that is why he is the attorney general. that is why he goes in and out of office with the president. he is a policy officer of the government. he must decide what case may be representative egh and which may be great egh from the standpoint of the interest of the united states to warrant his participating in the case. .  only has congress done this time and again. because it is an effective way in which redress can be had with respect to individual rights in cases that are impressed with the national interest. but as recently as 2 weeks ago. on february 29. this very idea. this very practice was approved in just so many words by the supreme court of the united states. it came in a voting rights case under the civil rights act of 1957. in which we gave the attorney general exactly this kind of authority. we passed that statute only a few years ago. i refer to the case of united states against raines. and i should like to read from the decision of the court in that case. case  64. as follows: it is urged that it is beyond the power of congress to authorize the united states to bring this action in support of private constitutional rights. but there is the highest public interest in the due observance of all the constitutional guarantees. including those that bear the most directly on private rights. and we think it perfectly competent for congress to authorize the united states to be the guardian of that public interest in a suit for injunctive relief.
. practically all the members of the court who participated in that decision also participated in the 1954 decision. those judges were  born yesterday. and they have a fairly good idea of how much more complicated the process of desegregation of the public schools has been made by the pupil placement laws. yet the supreme court says that so long as the pupil placement laws are executed for the purpose advertised. they are perfectly lawful and constitutional. however. we k that the pupil placement laws are going to make desegregation of the public schools very much more difficult. in those circumstances. are we to sit idly by. with our hands folded. and  at least provide machinery which will enable the individual to obtain his rights. at the same time that we complicate and make more difficult that process because we want to protect the rights of the very ones who wish to deprive the individual negro of his right to attend a desegregated school. it seems to me that in this matter we must lay on with a completely even hand. and that requires that we adopt part iii. so as to give the attorney general of the united states this authority. which will represent the contribution of the united states to the doing of justice in all the states. we do  want the pupil placement laws to fall. so. even though the pupil placement laws complicate the matter so very greatly. we take steps against the pupil placement laws. but. on the other hand. we believe we should provide machinery which etheless will permit negro students to obtain their rights.
yes. let us assume there were a case in which a pupil placement law was being misused. when we realize the complexity and the difficulty involved in one of those cases. and when we realize the great cost of those cases. we begin to understand something of the difficulties involved. but let us consider a representative case to settle the principle of how these pupil placement laws are to be applied with fairness to both sides of the issue. if only one or two such cases were taken to the supreme court of the united states. the broad and fundamental principle could thus be settled. but to ask the individual litigant to take his case all the way to the supreme court. when he would be faced with the emous machinery of the state. which under the pupilplacementlaw process is. in so many cases. placed on the side of retarding. rather than advancing. desegregation in the public schools. would. we realize. impose on him a burden which would be greater than he could reasonably be asked to bear.
the senator is exactly correct. i should like to point out to my colleague from kentucky. by way of buttressing his argument. that we have learned  that we need this kind of authority. and that it is the way in which to bring about respect and observance of law through the process of mediation and endeavoring to bring people in conformance with the law. and that this is all facilitatedand our experience shows this to be the factwhen there is some place of final resort and when it is possible to crystallize what is meant by observance of law. when we have that authority in our pocket we can then sit down and negotiate and mediate and conciliate. if we do  have that authority in our pocket. we are talking in thin air and we are faced with the attitude of frustration. this is probably the most effective single thing we can do to bring about meaningful and effective civilrights legislation. i wish to deal with only one other point. and that deals with jury trials. it is said that if there is an order in a case of this kind. which would be brought under part iii. if that should become lawand of course such an order can be appealed all the way up to the u.s. supreme courtand if that order is violated. there is contempt. and a person so charged should have the benefit of a jury trial. i would say to all those who insist on this right. withstanding the fact that the whole custom and tradition and practice of the united states. in southern states and in thern states. for the federal courts is to try cases of civil contempt without a juryand we went through all this in 1957if the price of part iii is the jury trial provision in the civil rights act of 1957. i will cheerfully vote for it.
yes. i read from the act: sec. 151. in all cases of criminal contempt arising under the provisions of this act. the accused. upon conviction. shall be punished by fine or imprisonment or both: provided however. that in case the accused is a natural person the fine to be paid shall  exceed the sum of $1.000.  shall imprisonment exceed the term of 6 months: provided further. that in any such proceeding for criminal contempt. at the discretion of the judge. the accused may be tried with or without a jury: provided further. however. that in the event such proceeding for criminal contempt be tried before a judge without a jury and the sentence of the court upon conviction is a fine in excess of the sum of $300 or imprisonment in excess of fortyfive days. the accused in said proceeding. upon demand therefor. shall be entitled to a trial de o before a jury. which shall conform as near as may be to the practice in other criminal cases.
in short. this is a jury trial provision which is unusual in these cases. and which was placed in the 1957 act to quiet the fears that were expressed at that time. as i say. i would cheerfully include the same jury trial provision in the part iii amendment  before us.
the senator from new york argued this question in 1957 exactly as we are discussing it . and excepted a special provision for jury trial. which i read a minute agosection 151 of the civil rights act of 1957only because there were hidden purposes. hidden motives. while agreeing with the analysis of the senator from colorado of the law. i feeland i have little doubt the majority will feelthat he would support an effort which lets him do the same thing if it will result in satisfying some of the kinds of qualms which are expressed about it.
 andrew jackson said to john marshall. "you have made the order.  enforce it." the attorney general says that in this situation he is limited in his ability to obtain enforcement of section 1503 and. therefore. he needs the enactment of a new penalty provision so that by law it will really be a crime for anyone to violate such court orders in these cases. the attorney general says that as matters  stand he is proceeding.  with a broadsword. but with a scapel. and he has said that he faces this situation in tennessee and in little rock. where the troops had to be called out. therefore. the attorney general wishes to have this remedy provided. let me ask the senator whether that is the factor which in his opinion justifies the drawing up of this section in this particular way.
with the contempt power. generally. there may be some laws. and probably there are some laws in new york. which i can recall specifically at the moment. concerning obstruction of justice and various types of interference with the courts or the orders of the courts and the other machinery of justice. but. substantially. for practical purposes. in giving an answer to the question. the courts of new york proceed by the contempt power.
i think we have stated our respective positions very completely. my position is that the wrong or violation of a court order must be the wrong we have encountered in a certain type of case which requires this remedy. a person can take his choice between the view of the senator from ohio and my view. i think we have stated our views very accurately.
is it  true that in the louisiana case the whole 1.377 were the subject of a suit. and that. therefore. the court. after a reasonable sampling of the types of methods which were used to deny them registration. concluded that the discrimination applied to all who were the subject of the suit. is it  also true that if we adopt one of these bills. whether it be the administration bill or the bill introduced by the senator from illis and me. what the court will be finding will be a pattern and a practice that applied to persons who are of the same class. to wit. let us say. negroes in louisiana. but who are  subjects of that suit. but who have come in after the suit has been decided. and the pattern or practice found to qualify in accordance with the terms of law. therefore. we do need a provision which is  included in the present law.
is it  a fact that what we are trying to get at is the situation where persons do  get on the rolls so that they are in a position where they can be stricken off. but they are  on the rolls because they are afraid to come to a registrar. or because there is registrar. as indeed we found in the alabama case. where tile registrars resigned. is it  a fact alsoand i have heard the senator from louisiana make this argument beforethat it is his interpretation of the louisiana decision that these people were  qualified. but were put on the rolls only because they were discriminated against. the rationale of the louisiana decision. according to what the court said. was that it accepted the fact that these people were qualified under louisiana law. and therefore. under the constitution. whether it be under federal law or state law. they could  be registered otherwise.
the court. it seems to me. is very clear on this subject. the court says: the action of the defendant registrar in giving effect to the mass challenges of the individual defendants achieved a discriminatory result in violation of his duties under the 15th amendment. it seems to me that this is the wrong the court was seeking to redress. and in redressing it it did  destroy in any way or change the constitution of the united states. as i have said. i have hope of convincing my colleague from louisiana. it seems to me. however. that the case is very clear.
first. let me express my appreciation to the senator from pennsylvania for undertaking to present this matter to the senate. in due course. i hope to discuss the details in regard to how it came to be. and why we are proceeding in the way we are. and what we hope this will result in. namely. in allowing the majority of the members of the senate to crystallize their views in regard to what the voting rights provisions should do. but for the moment i wish to comment on the matter  under discussion: it seems to me that in view of the fact that a pattern or practice would have to be found by the court. and in view of the fact that there would be a provision in regard to the personal last. clear chance of the individual voter to be registered by the voting referee. the court would endeavor to reconcile both sets of language. and it seems to me that in that effort the court would inevitably hold that a finding of such a pattern or practice was required. in order to justify the issuance of a decree under which a voting referee would be appointed. and that then a showing of a last. clear chance would be required. in order to entitle the referee to register the individual voter. in lieu of having the state registrar do so. therefore. i hope that before the votingreferee provision is voted on by the senate. we shall deal with this section. so as to eliminate that consideration. because unless we do. we shall run afoul of a whole host of wrongs for which we do  provide a remedyin other words. the wrongs in regard to registrars who resign and the wrongs in regard to circumstances which amount to intimidation of voters.
. i can only hope that we shall  again. as we have so often before. forgo the opportunity to be true to ourselves. since essentially we are a nation built on immigration and made by immigrants. by denying the elementary justice of the very moderate bill called for by the administration. i hope that egh support will be marshaled this time to get action on that bill.
is it  also correct to say that in giving the senate these alternativeswhich by  are standardthe senate has a full opportunity to work its will. and that the three alternatives are as follows: first. the pending proposal. submitted by the senator from illis. on behalf of himself and myselfto wit. the registrar proposal. which may be joined withif the senate so choosesthe voting referee proposal. second. the proposal for federal enrollment officersit is the socalled clark proposal. and is cosponsored by mewhich turns upon the fulcrum of a decided supreme court case. and also retains the voting referee proposal. third. the voting referee proposal. in view of those alternatives. it is  the view of the senator from illis that. at the very least. the senate should have an opportunityin view of the fact that. for reasons which are kn to all of us. there has been committee procedure in connection with this billunder these circumstances to consider these classic alternatives. and to either adopt or reject them. and does the senator from illis  also agree that that is particularly true in view of the fact that the chief of these alternatives is  the product of the ingenuity of some one senator. but is the product of the very deliberate and considered thinking and judgment on this entire subject--and  i refer to the federal registrar proposalby the civil rights commission. and that two of the members of the commission who concurred in that proposal are very distinguished men from the south. and that the proposal for federal enrollment officers is  strictly a product of the brain of the senator from pennsylvania or of my brain. but represents the consensus of opinion of six members of this body. three democrats and three republicansand also represents the thinking of the senator from missouri . is that  the situation which faces the senate. and do  such auspices give these alternatives such standing and such quality that the senate almost has a duty to consider them and to permit the majority of the senate to work its will in deciding which one of them will best carry out its purposes.
the second point is to write in what was adopted in the other body. which makes sense. and that is a provision for provisional voting. to give the court an opportunity to decide whether an applicant is qualified or . while at the same time  enabling registrars who might be so minded to deprive the individual of his right to vote in a particular election because of its contiguity to the legal proceeding. i think it is very important to point that out. because i express the hopenay. i express the determinationthat we shall  merely rubber stamp a house bill. there is a prevailing idea that those of us who are for civil rights. when we are defeated on a particular proposal. as we have beenand others have been defeated in battle but have won the warwill take the house bill when it comes over here and send it to the president. i can think of hing which would be a greater abdication of our reputation for being a body with its own mind and its own talents. i respectfully submit that the work  being done will  be wasted in any such way. i k how my colleague feels. i think it is time for senators to begin to make very clearwe hope it will  require more than a few daysthe position we intend to take. i am  mortified by the suggestion of our dear friend from florida that we are engaging in extended debate. but if it requires a few dayswhich is all it ought to requirethe senate should nevertheless make it clear that it intends to exercise its own will and determination as to what should go into the bill. so i hope that as my colleague continues with a scholarly. deliberate analysis of the amendment which we put forward purposefully and seriously. it may be made clear that the senate majority. in accordance with its traditions. if it will listen to what my friend and i and other senators who have joined in this amendment have to say. will endeavor to make its contribution to what should be a measure which will guarantee for people the right to vote with reference to what is being done in the other house. but without the blind idea that we can get a civil rights bill unless we take what comes over from the house and send it to the president.
the end result of the reply of the department of justice is that there is such inflexible barrier in the antitrust laws as many businessmen would have us suppose. on the contrary. there is every desire and every effort to negotiate each individual situation. depending upon the national interests. so that businessman needs. solely on the advice of his lawyer. to say. "i am  going to move into operations abroad." he should go to the department of justice and discuss the situation. there are perfectly lawful ways. within the policy of the department. for working out his problems.
. i invite attention to a tragedy which has occurred. which should appall all members of the senate. i think the whole world must be sickened at heart and struck with horror at what took place yesterday at sharpeville in the union of south africa. where many peopleand they are human beings. whatever may be the color of their skinswere shot down.  only by police action. but by military action. because there was a very large scale riot. whatever may be the problems involved. certainly. as the new york times says today. this is one of the evil fruits of the policy of apartheid. the times asks this questionand i echo it. i think it echoes itself to the whole world: but how often can this be done. does it really settle anything. do the south africans think that the rest of the world will ige such a massacre. i do  believe the rest of the world will. perhaps it requires a horror like the slaughter at sharpeville to bring home to the white south africans themselves the evil which the policy of apartheid represents. we are debating a civil rights bill. some of us occasionally become a little warm over the subject. we often should. and i think very properly. it has been mentioned much too infrequently. but there is a great world issue involved. the colored races of the world will  accept a secondplace status. they are stirred. and if we do  give them an outlet. they may very well embrace the communist doctrines. twothirds of the population of the world consists of persons whose skins are black or yellow. we must realize what is at stake in asserting the morality and validity of our own constitution in the united states. i am  becoming emotional over the subject. but that does  mean that we should  be decisive about it. or that we should  understand. as statesmen and legislators. the important world issue which hangs in the balance as we discuss the civil rights issue. so horribly accentuated by what took place at sharpeville. it is significant that the new york times has placed immediately above the editorial entitled "the tragedy at sharpeville." an editorial entitled "how many civil rights." let us all think about the problem. regardless of what part of the country we come from. and regardless of how deep our views may be on the issue of the difference between races. i say to my colleagues from the south that we are americans first. but all of us want peace and justice in the world. i ask unanimous consent that both editorials may be printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks.
i concur with what my colleague has said. those were his words. and i am looking at the record of what he said. at page 5745 of the record for march 16. 1960. we therefore felt it our duty to try to bring before the senate. almost as a last resort. yet aher proposal of the most moderate and conservative character. which would yet give this opportunity for the registration of the large numbers of citizens who are involved and at the same time  do away with the referee proposal. for this purpose. . all these law professors find very clearly that this is an entirely appropriate remedy. that is. the provision which we have for the appointment of an official either by the executive department or by the court to deal with this question of registration. where. by color of law. there has been a default on the part of state officials.
. i am very grateful to my colleague from illis for giving us ice of the opposition of the attorney general to this proposal. of which we were well aware. i should like to state also that i think the words used by the attorney general could be reversed. he calls this proposal worthless and ineffective. i say. with all respect. that i must reject the words "worthless" and "ineffective" used in the opinion. because it fails to take account of the language of our amendment. and it fails to take account of the fact that we have added a revision to our amendment which is contained in the house bill. and which provides exactly for the contingencies of delay in the event that an application is filed in respect of an election so that the applicant may vote in that election. this particular amendment occurs at page 6. line 16. of our amendment. and. as i say. carries over a provision which is  incorporated in the referee plan in the house bill. it reads as follows: (10) applications pursuant to this subsection shall be determined expeditiously. in the case of any application filed twenty or more days prior to an election which is undetermined by the time of such election. the court shall issue an order authorizing the applicant to vote provisionally. in the case of an application filed within twenty days prior to an election. the court. in its discretion. may make such an order. in either case. the order shall make appropriate provision for the impounding of the applicants ballot pending determination of the application. the court may take any other action. and may authorize such referee or such other person as it may designate to carry out the provisions of this subsection and to enforce its decrees. this subsection shall in way be construed as a limitation upon the existing powers of the court. so that we give the court full power to act. i believe that the attorney general and the senator from pennsylvania and i. as lawyers. and all our other colleagues. feel that there is ground here for a legitimate difference of opinion. we also feel that does  necessarily invalidate what we are trying to do. it depends on what is contained in the amendment. and what the text of it may mean. as to the first point which is made. and which i believe is very important. let us remember that what we are doing is merely carrying over the attorney generals own previous amendment for the appointment of referees. all we have done is added to it a part which the attorney general apparently finds objectionable. all we have done is given the state an opportunity to repair what the court finds to be in dereliction. and that provision seems to be a very attractive provision in the opinion of other senators. in that it gives the state an opportunity to repair what is contained in the decree of the court. at the same time we give an opportunity. under the amendment which i have read. to make sure that such action will frustrate the will of the court. i am grateful to the senator from 1lis for giving us an opportunity to answer the attorney general. and what we say is  said out of disrespect to him. because he is a lawyer and he is entitled to his opinion. as we are also. but as to the objection of the attorney general. to our amendment under which we give the state an opportunity to purge itself of the power of the injunction. we have made it possible for state officials to purge themselves by registering the persons applying. if the court has any reason to doubt the good faith of the efforts being made in this situationand this is the same court which has issued the injunction in the first placeif the court has reason to doubt the good faith of these officials in registering the people. the court is  obliged to vacate the injunction. we believe that every effort should be made to give these officials the opportunity to purge themselves. that is why we have drawn this provision regarding the good faith of the state. unless the court has reason to suspect that it will  act. and in that case the court has authority to refuse to vacate the injunction.
yes. i would also point out. with respect to the federal enrollment provision. that a person in charge of the voting booth would risk running afoul of a criminal provision if he denied the opportunity afforded by this provision.
it seems to me that what we have before us is the fact that the attorney general has stated his position. and that perhaps we should be afforded the opportunity to make more deliberate reply to it. i agree with my colleague from pennsylvania that we should do more than just hear the letter read. that we should answer it. however. i must say that i was acquainted with the points the attorney general makes in his argument. as they had been made to me before. but i think it is very clear that the attorney general believes that the best plan is the voting referee plan. what i fail to understand is why a greater opportunity than is afforded by the attorney generals referee plan would  be equally satisfactory to those who favor providing the voting rights to which the people are entitled. in other words. what is wrong with having two strings to the bow. instead of one string. especially when we are dealing with such vast numbers as we are dealing with here. the essential argument for the federal enrollment officer aspect of our amendment is that we are dealing in such large numbers. to keep abreast of that situation. once we open the gates to enrollment and voting by the thousands of people who have been denied. we must establish a more comprehensive approach. it will be necessary to have more of these officers than can be contemplated in the court proceeding through the appointment of a court referee. one other argument appeals to me in this matter. which i believe is very important. if we all agree that what we are seeking is to provide the right to vote. and if there seems to be a very broad unanimity of feeling on that subject. why do we continue to lay this matter solely upon the courts. why is the executive department. under a mandate of the legislative department. also  brought into this situation. in short. is it fair simply to say that the judiciary is to carry. as it has in the matter of school desegregation. the whole responsibility and the whole administration of the act. many persons. indeed. argue that either limitations will be imposed in terms of very few cases and very few people affected by the enrollment. or the whole judicial system will break down. so large are the numbers involved. as a sheer administrative matter. it is necessary to provide aher way in which to act. so that the courts will  be absolutely loaded down with cases. so we have come to the conclusion that the right plan is. for the generality of cases. to appoint a federal enrollment officer where the hardcore resistance of a group of state officials is  involved. but where a brick wall is encountered. the referee procedure would be applied. a procedure which is related to the contempt power of the courts. in that way. the entire judicial machinery will be relieved of a tremendous burden. if the cases are really in the numbers they ought to be. considering the discrimination which has been practiced. on the other hand. we make it certain that for the hardcore cases there are voting referee provisions. it seems to me that this is adapting a remedy to a difficulty and to the practicalities of a situation far better than the referee proposal standing by itself. rather than having weakened the attorney generals referee plan. i think we have strengthened the whole proposal in terms of providing the maximum opportunity for voting to those who have been discriminated against in such large numbersin the thousands. we have done so by providing an administrative procedure and an administrative official appointed by the president. operating in such a way as  to burden the courts. this will be of emous help in disposing of the multiplicity of cases in which discrimination is involved. we have done so by providing for provisional voting. but giving the state an opportunityand it may be vital in some casesto purge itself of what the injunction provides. if the state shows the desire and the capability. in the eyes of the court. to do what the court requires by its injunction. finally. we have eliminated the redundant requirement for an individual applicant to go back again to the very registrar or registrars. who are  there. or who have discriminated against him. which is a feature of the referee plan of the attorney general. that is completely unnecessary. once the court has found a pattern or practice of discrimination. because many persons will  go back. for fear of reprisals. whether ecoic or social. equity says that when an act is demonstrably futile. it need  be performed again. as. for example. where a demand is demonstrably futile. it need  be repeated. certainly a finding of a pattern or practice of a denial of a right to register and to vote would demonstrate that a new individual demand for the right to vote would be futile. for all these reasons. i believe the senator from pennsylvania and i and our colleagues have presented to the senate a reasonableindeed. a moderatemodel of the right way in which to cope with the practical as well as the legal aspects of a very major problem of our time. i would be less than true to my own conscience if i did  repeat what i said earlier: that the matter of discrimination in the field of voting. and in other fields. toobut certainly in the field of votingbeyond any question is absolutely intolerable in the face of our domestic situation and in the face of the world situation. as is evidenced by what is happening in the union of south africa. which is an evidence of the deep stirring which is taking place in the world. it is up to us.  to find paliative remedies or the easiest remedies. it is up to us to find remedies appropriate to the situation. that is what i believe our amendment offers to the senate.
. i modify the pending javitsclark amendment to the amendment of the senator from illis . as follows: on page 3. line 9. strike the comma and insert in lieu thereof a period. on page 3. lines 912. strike the words "unless any person named therein shall have been registered by appropriate state officials in the intervening period. in which case the order may be vacated on application duly made as to the registration of such person". and insert the following sentence: "the court may stay the effective date of an order with respect to any applicant named therein who. prior to the date of issuance of such order or within such twentyday period. has been registered under state law. upon assurances satisfactory to the court that such applicant will be permitted to vote at any election at which he would be entitled to vote under the provisions of this subsection after such order becomes effective with respect to such applicant."
. i wish to explain that the modified amendment is designed to meet what we consider to be a major objection by the attorney general to the javitsclark amendment. indeed. it was contended that the period of time which we afforded in our amendment to allow a state by its own action to come into compliance with a decree of a court with respect to jurisdiction and voting might result in enabling the state to frustrate the courts order by registering the respective voters concerned. but. at the same time. when their time to vote came around. they would again be challenged. yesterday. i argued that that would be bad faith. and that the court had authority. but was  directed. to vacate a decree under those circumstances. and that. indeed. a court would require proof that the voting would ensue after the registration. however. in view of the fact that we think that was incorporated in the amendment. in any event. due to the fundamental powers of a court of equity. and in view of the further fact that the attorney general had made so much of this objection. we thought that in fairness to the large number of senators who are very much interested in the amendment. we should spell out that point. that is what we have done. we have actually spelled out the point which we thought was implicit in respect to the authority of the court. especially in view of the fact that it was  a direction to the court.
many amendments are offered in committee and turned down. they do  have to be compromised because they are offered. however. i feel that if the department of justice finds this amendment acceptable. there is some basis for the point made by my colleague from nebraska. for the preservation of 2 successive years of voting records. as for myself. i shall interpose objection.
as i understand the senator from nebraska. he desires to convey to the senate the legislative purpose that. if the court orders production of the papers. they must be produced at the place where the court orders.  necessarily at the principal office of such custodian. in short. withstanding the use of the language in section 303. "at the principal office of such custodian." the court may order the production of the very same papers in court. or at some other place. in accordance with the order of the court. withstanding the words in section 303. "at the principal office of such custodian."
would the senator from nebraska object if we inserted. at the end of line 17. "to compel the production of such record or paper in accordance with the order of the court." to negate any interpretation that. having stated specifically that we want to limit inspection at the principal office of such custodian. that could conceivably extend to the orders of the court as well. because this is a statute. and therefore superior to any order of the court. if the statute regulated that question.
so the author of the amendment represents to us. in connection with the adoption of the amendment. that a court may. by process. compel production of a paper or record covered by section 305 in court. or in a place other than the principal office of such custodian.
because the minute we provide that possession shall be pursuant to agreement. it takes two parties to make an agreement. whether the commissioner chooses the terms and conditions under which he will agree. it still takes the other side to agree. i can conceive of any court interpreting the language in any other way. in other words. the court would interpret most strongly. it seems to me. against the power of seizure. rather than for it. the language is "pursuant to an agreement." i think those words are very clear. i do  see any danger that we would be giving power to seize or to grant the right of eminent domain. absent an agreement between the commissioner and the parties who are turning over title.
. even if i may  agree with the senators amendmentand i do --it is a completely separated question from the legislative scheme which is involved. hence. i should like to ask the senator a question. is it  a fact that the legislative scheme which we are seeking to legislate involves giving to the applicant who has been denied his right to register under state law the same right he would have had if he had been granted the right to register under state law. and. therefore. citizen who comes to the registrar to register is at that particular point in an adversary proceeding. with crossexamination. and an oath. et cetera. except as prescribed by state law for everybody. white and colored alike. i will ask the senator a further question. is it  a fact also that the bill we have before us. quite aside from the amendments. provides. as we provide in ordinary registrar proceedings. that when there is a challenge and a court proceeding as a result of that challenge. if there is a material question of fact there will be a hearing on the issue. as a matter of fact. the amendment exactly provides to that effect. beginning at the bottom of page 18 of the bill. when it is stated: the issues of fact and law raised by such exceptions shall be determined by the court. * * * a hearing as to an issue of fact shall be held only in the event that the proof in support of the exception disclose the existence of a genuine issue of material fact. in other words. first we have to get the legislative scheme clear in our minds. so that we will be able to decidethose of us who are for securing the voting rightwhat amendment is proper within the scheme. the legislative scheme is. is it . to give the voter the same right he would have if the registrar under ordinary state law had received and registered him. then. as is true in every registration. if there is a challenge and a legal proceeding incident to that challenge. and a substantive question of law or fact is raised. the court will order a hearing. is that  what we are trying to do by this particular provision. which would be negated by bringing in the adversary proceeding in the earlier stage. when the man is only getting equal treatment with any white applicant for registration.
these are to be court proceedings. unless the court is given authority to seal the papers in these cases. the proceedings will be public proceedings. so. as my colleague has so often stated. i believe we should leave this part of the house bill alone. and should permit the local courts to handle this situation. in short. simply by rejecting this committee amendment we shall put ourselves in the very best position. have  both the opponents and the proponents brought out the fact that that is really the way to handle this matter.
because the minute the word "hearings" is usedand  i am addressing myself to the senators amendment to the committee amendment. which i did  desire to do tonight. however. i shall do so because of my great respect for anything the senator from colorado proposes. the minute the word "hearings" is inserted. i believe the court will be placed in a situation in which the court will face the same kind of adversary proceeding to which we previously referred. if the senator would eliminate from his proposal the part which begins with the words "and all hearings." i would say his amendment would simply restate what is already in the house version of the bill. a lawyer will often say to his client. "what do you want to accomplish. once i k what you want to accomplish. i will write language which will accomplish it." so. . if the senator from colorado asks me what i want to accomplish as a senator. i will say that when the court appoints a referee. i want the referee to function in the way that an ordinary state registrar would function. at that point. based on the local situationregardless of whether the proceeding is in his office or is in the courthouse or is elsewhere. and that may vary. in the various situationsthe point is thatas will a registrar under state lawhe will register the applicant. at that point there will be adversary proceeding or hearing. in the sense of a demonstration before the public. it will  be secret: anyone will be able to come there. but ice will be given. ice would have to be given. anyone who was interested would be able to attend and to ask questions in regard to the facts or the law. and the court could order a hearing. but we k that the real reason why many persons have  registered has been the slightest hint of intimidation. incidentally. today is the 90th birthday of the 15th amendment. which is backed up by nine decades of intimidation and threats to use force. all of which demonstrate that when there is an intention to intimidate. intimidation has resulted. so this is what troubles me about the senators amendment.
if the senators amendment should be adopted. and. as a mattcr of fact. if the court should construe this to mean an adversary proceeding. what would the senator say to the fact that on page 18. at the bottom of that page. there appear the following words: the issues of fact and law raised by such exceptions shall be determined by the court or. if the due and speedy administration of justice requires. they may .be referred to the voting referee to determine in accordance with procedures prescribed by law. in other words. what would the senator say should happen at that point. which is an adversary proceeding.
does the senator take cognizance of the fact that we do have before us a report which indicates that there has been. because of the physical circumstances of registration. restraint or even intimidation in some places with respect to those who wish to try to register at the court house or central place. under state law.
i am coming to that. suppose we wrote into the bill that the applicant shall be heard ex parte. is it  a fact that the court would have the authority to make any such provision as the senator recommends. or different provisions. and that the action of that court would be subject to review on appeal.
i will be glad to tell the senator . or i shall be glad to on my own time. what i think it does is to make two adversary proceedings in this situation. i say that because when we couple the striking out of the words "ex parte" with the use of the word "hearing." the use of the word "appearance." and giving ice. i can see how any court could construe it as being other than the right to examine. crossexamine. or contest at that particular point. and consider it to be a hearing before the official referee. i can see any other construction.
i am opposed to the whole amendment. i think it creates an adversary proceeding. i think the court has full authority to do anything which is required under the legal situation to assure this right without making the proceedings secret. the senator from tennessee has been a lawyer for a long time. as have i. i have applied for thousands of ex parte orders. and so. i feel certain. has the senator from tennessee. the court then often will say. "give your opponents 2 days ice." or 3 or 4 days. or even 10 hours. the court will call counsel into chambers. or he might even consider an ex parte motion in open court as to whether the judge will or will  sign some preliminary order to show cause. or some preliminary suit or injunction. it gives the court a kind of flexibility. particularly as all of the courts actions are subject to review on appeal. i must say to the senator from tennessee that i hope he does  assume i am flattering him simply because i am trying to kk down his amendment. i do  feel that way. because i have great personal affection and regard for him.
i am one- of the lawyers about whom the senator is talking. is it  true that upon the filing of exceptions. every one of the things to which the senator has referred could happen. a person can be an applicant in open court. and he can contest the ruling all the way to the supreme court of the united states in the very same situation. what we are talking about is the initial entry. the first time a person crosses the threshold in an effort to register. from which he has been inhibited for years. that is what we are talking about.  the fact that there is an adversary proceeding in the wings. surely that hearing can be held. we do  want to encumber the first entry over the threshold with anything more than we have to.
is it  a fact that the proceeding we are  discussing would follow a proceeding in which the court would make an order that people were being discriminated against unlawfully because of their race or color and were being prevented from voting or registering. and that when that order had been issued. this proposed law would apply only to those who had been discriminated against. and even as to them. it would have to be stated that the applicant was qualified under state law to vote. in other words. there would previously have been made a finding that a wrong had been done in that case.
. i think there seems to be a fundamental point of disagreement which i do  quite follow. does the senator from tennessee say that those who would appear before the voting referee ex parteif this part of the bill as passed by the house remains in the billwould be of a class of people who. because of their race or color. the court would find had been discriminated against with respect to voting. if the senator from tennessee denies that. then there is use in my questioning him. because in my opinion this measure applies only to people in that class. as to whom the court would have found that they were being discriminated against because of their race or color.
. what does "ex parte" mean. it means that the court may consider whatever is the application before itor. in this case. the official refereewithout ice to the other side. it does  mean in secret. it does  mean somewhere behind a building. it means without ice to the other side. can anything else be done in these situations. if what we are trying to do is. as nearly as possible. recreate the rights to an individual registrant which have been denied him. let us  forget that fact. the court has first found that a right has been denied to a class of citizens. so we try to replace. through court order. what he would have gotten through mal action of the administrative office of the registrar. the referee. more than the registrar. does  k who is coming in to register. this is  an adversary person. this is someone off the street who is a member of that class. and he says he has been denied the right to register. he walks in the door. the court or referee could  have given ice if he had wanted to. the only thing he can say is that at a certain time and at a certain place he will be there. empowered by the court to make registrations. that is exactly what the amendment of the senator from colorado provides.
it seems to me that the question was completely settled by the classic case. which extendedif it is an extensionthis whole concept to the primary. we did  say anything about primaries in the 15th amendment. either. nevertheless. the court said that under section 2 of article xv. the right to implement the 15th amendment. congress acted quite properly in saying that primaries were also covered in zespect to this situation.
certainly. the reason i cited the classic case was that the courts held very clearly that we were  confining elections to the direct election process. but that also the necessary and proper cause. which extends. in the constitution. to section 4 of article i. includes the right to reach primary elections where they frustrate. as was found in that case. the electoral process. i think it is very clear that congress has every right to pass laws which will appropriately implement the guarantees which have been given to the individual citizen.  only by section 4 of article i. but by the 15th amendment as well. whenever we pass a socalled clean elections law. which applies to the states. we are acting almost exclusively within the ambit of our powers. as i have just described them. if anyone has any doubt about that. there is a very recent case. the case of united states versus raines. decided on february 29. 1960. in which the supreme court sustained fully the constitutionality of the 1957 act. that is certainly affirmative legislation. whenever the court directs that a person shall have the right to vote in a state election. it is sustaining that concept of the 15th amendment. sustaining the concept that it does  mean merely a prohibition. but that where an act is prohibited. the court may repair the wrong and cause the affirmative act to be done which ought to be done. so. . we have heard much said in the course of the debate about how people can go behind some building or can attend a clambake or church supper and take on all comers and register them. this assumes that courts are  courts. but are engaged in some kind of guerrilla activities. and that there are appellate courts in the united states. i can conceive of any lawyer for a minute  king that certainly any court taking it into its head to run counter to the law can do so. indeed. i believe that a judge who decided he was going to proceed without regard to the law could do a lot of mischief in a particular community.  only in this matter. but in many others. do our southern colleagues desire us to believe that the district judges in their courts are any different from district judges in other courts. that they are  men who are learned in the law and will  pay strict attention to the law. or do they desire us to believe that if any judge should. in deference to the officials of his state. transgress. he will  promptly be taken up on appeal. in an effort to make him stay his order. even up to the supreme court of the united states. that is sense. what we are  told is thisand this is the key to the whole situation: who has frustrated the opportunity to register and vote. has it been some person who has standing or responsibility acting on his own.  at all. those who have frustrated the right to vote and the right to register have been officials of the state. fully backed by all the legal authority of the state. i say "fully backed." because who defends these cases. who appears before the supreme court of the united states. the attorney general of the state. whether it is alabama. or georgia. or louisiana. it is the full legal power of the state. the power of the attorney general. backed by all the resources of the state. which is fighting the case against the person who has applied for the right to register and vote.
i am very grateful to my colleague. of course he is exactly correct. i am sure that the walls of the old supreme court chamber have rung with denunciation of those who would question the power or authority of the supreme court of the united states to tell us what the constitution means. in terms of what ought to be the supreme law of the land. yet these walls ring with exactly the contrary doctrine. because it does  suit those who have found the supreme court to be the very rampart. because it applies the same mantle of protection to aher miity  quite as popular as themselves. the next point is the question of specific efforts to inhibit litigation in order to carry out the supreme courts decree. which requires litigation. according to its own terms. these specific efforts come under the head of antibarratry statutes. specific laws were passed by the states of arkansas. georgia. mississippi. south carolina. tennessee. and west virginia. laws designed to encumber and hamper the opportunity for the individual litigant to start his litigation. through preventing him from getting anyones help in doing so. this imperils the lawyer who is involved. because barratry is a subject for disbarment. it imperils the professional life of any lawyer who undertakes such a case. i think everyone will agree that this is a very lethal kind of statute. yet in state after stateand i have named themadditional encumbrances have been placed around the right of the individual to seek to redress this intolerable injustice to him of being unable to send his child to a desegregated public school. so the antibarratry laws are yet aher reason why the attorney general should have the authority to intervene in such cases. finally. there is the question of cost. a very considerable and weighty question. i asked the federal commission on civil rights to make a study of the cost in cases of this kind. they came forth with an average of $15.000 to $18.000. in this type of case. for the individual litigant. also with a per pupil average of something like $1.000 a pupil. when we consider the broad general average of all the cases. it was pointed out that in the fundamental cases. such as brown against board of education. the costs run very much higher than the figure i have given. running into the tens of thousands of dollars. in fact. it was estimated that the cost in the celebrated case of brown against board of education was between $50.000 and $100.000. that is absolutely prohibitive. there is a way of denying justice. by the sheer matter of denying the opportunity to the individual litigant because he can afford the litigation. this is extremely effective. it results in holding down the number of cases. and therefore results in holding down the progress in asserting the supreme law of the land. i point out. interesting as it may seem to many. that at the present time there are only 30 cases pending in the federal courts. with the great number of school districts which have  even given countenance to the decision of the supreme court. there are only 30 cases pending in which desegregation in the public school districts is sought. i think that is an indication of how the antibarratry laws and other laws enacted by the states have operated. there are various discouraging factors. including the expense. laws of opposition. the dragging of feet. and intense local public opinion. all these factors operate to discourage the assertion of this fundamental right. i predict that if the u.s. government does  bestir itself about this matter. the whole process will grind to a halt. there will be place for education. the process will grind to a halt. and the whole design of our constitution and the determination. in my view. of a great majority of the american people. will have been completely frustrated. i close on this proposition: this amendment is a reasonable and entirely appropriate. lawful way in which to accomplish a very limited result. by allowing the attorney general to select those cases which are the most representative. the most illustrative. or the most persuasive. cases which might represent the best prospects. in terms of desegregation of public schools. and allow him to intervene in such cases. following the pattern established in such cases. which raise issues of constitutional law in connection with a particular statute of the united states. cvi---455 i point out that a new and even more complex effect upon all these issues. and the antibarratry statutes which have been introduced lately into this whole situation. is the decision of the supreme court sustaining pupil placement laws on the part of the individual states. which will make the process of litigation infinitely slower. infinitely more complex. and. indeed. infinitely more expensive. yet the "liberals" are the first to say. "if that is what the supreme court thinks is necessary in terms of the particular balance between the states and the federal government. we are for it... but that does  mean that we have to be for it. and tie one hand behind our back and see that the process is made impotent. because we will  allow the united states to participate.
i am especially impressed by the senators argument on the question of conscience. i think the senator from pennsylvania has struck exactly the right e. i tried to say it in a much longer speech than that of the senator from pennsylvania. what has happened to the conscience of the senate. what has happened to the conscience of the country. i should like to ask the senator if he does  feel. as i do. sitting. as we are. on the simmering coals. that there are involved acts dangerous to the public order in our own country. and that we have to do something which gives some voice to this tremendous feeling. and make an effort. at least. of measuring up to our elementary responsibilities as legislators and try to head off the need for police action. and  to invite it.
will the senator explain to us why he uses two different references in his amendment. in line 6 he refers to the provision that the rules shall govern any determination of the court on any application "made under this paragraph." then he goes on-"to the extent that such rules are  inconsistent with the provisions of this subsection." if what the senator is trying to do is applicable only to the paragraph. why is there reference to inconsistency with the subsection.
i ice that the colloquy which ended with judge walshs observation on the subject discussed by mr. bloch appears on pages 140 and 141 of the record. it related to mr. blochs views on the procedure which should guide the official referee. at the end of that discussion mr. bloch made the statement to which the senator has referred: as i pointed out. senator. i think it was before you came in. that in a proceeding before the judge. the attorney general of the state. the board of registrars of the state. ody is given any ice of this proceeding.  only  an opportunity to be heard and to submit proof. but they are  even served with it. that is what i was discussing before the senator came in. senator carroll. what do you say to thai. judge walsh. then follows the statement by mr. walsh. which the senator has read. does  that juxtaposition of the subject which the parties were discussing with the answer of judge walsh and the answer of mr. bloch indicate some connection between the practice which will guide a voting referee and the procedure of the court with respect to voting referees. that is what puzzles me about this amendment.
i thank my colleague. before my colleague came into the chamber. when i was addressing myself to the due process of law provision. i pointed out. as my colleague has said in shorter space. that there is a complete adversary proceeding before. on the question of the pattern or practice. and a complete adversary proceeding afterward. after the entering of the interlocutory order that the court has found the person to be eligible to vote under state law and has proposed to have him vote. in both cases. in front and in back. the man could go up to the supreme court without any problem. i pointed out. as my colleague ks. since he is a fine student of this bill and of the law. in this case we  only have the ordinary party defendant but also we have the attorney general of the united states specifically referred to in the legislation. the whole legal machinery of the state would see to the adversary proceeding. both before and after. the real reason for what we did on the referee question and for what we ought to do in regard to this provision. by turning down the amendment. is to expressly try to avoid the adversary proceeding. which has plunged us into all of the difficulties we are  having in regard to voting rights in the southern states. where the climate has been inhospitable to the individual. that is what we would be perpetuating. if we agreed to the amendment. exactly what we are trying to avoid. i am grateful to my colleague for again bringing out. as he did earlier in the day. this particular distinction. it has been a very great aid to me in presenting this matter. and i thank my colleague very much.
. i simply want to make . when many senators are in the chamber. a point which was made earlier. the attorney general made it very clear that this amendment is. in his view. unnecessary. at best. at worst. the amendment could cause litigation which would further bedevil what is already a bill going only a minimal way toward meeting the needs which are shown even in the voting rights field. as to the due process of law argument. there is completely adversary proceeding at the beginning. when a pattern of practice is found. there is a completely adversary proceeding at the end. when. whether the court acts or the voting referee acts. the question comes up for determination. subject to any appeal and any objection. and any trial on all the facts. as to whether the particular individual whose name is to be recorded may be permitted to register and vote under the order originally made by the court. in the intervening period. the proceedings are ex parte. that is the way the senate decided it wants to keep them. tihis should be true whether the proceedings are before a court or before a voting referee. we should do the same thing for both. in order to carry out the full legislative scheme. in view of the fact that at best. the amendment is unnecessary. i hope the zonate will reject it.
is it  a fact that the 1957 act. which we passed. applies to all elections. including the state elections. and that the constitutionality of the act was sustained a few days ago by the supreme court of the united states in the united states against raines.
. i have done my utmost to lay out the law. i repeat. i suffer the disability in this case of a draftsman who did his utmost to bring the parties together. and who then found he does  agree with the draft. the legislative record of what we mean ought to be very clear. in my opinion. we certainly do  mean that the court has to make a conclusive finding. as if it were deciding the whole case. in order to allow provisional voting. what the court ought to have. if the amendment is enacted. is at least the prima facie evidence. he should  need any more than that. i asked that the words "prima facie" be written into the language. that did  seem to be agreeable to the great group of persons who were working on this matter. on one side or the other.
nevertheless. when the courts come to construe it. i hope. if the senate adopts the amendment. the courts will construe it to mean prima facie only. but a court would  have to do that. and a great deal of litigation may ensue. my reason for voting against the amendment is the following. i say it is so essential that benefit should  be gained from a wrong which has been done. the wrong being that of denying the finding of a discriminatory pattern or practice giving to a particular individual the right to register. i say that is so much greater in the public interest that we ought to direct the court to require provisional voting. because. if the court later findsand this is fully covered in this particular provisionthat the provisional vote ought to be canceled because the person was  qualified. then the vote will be canceled. but the greatest incentive to action on the part of the court will  be the direction of the law. which a court. if it desired to do so. could lay aside. and say. "i am sorry. i can tell." though i will  say that judges. whether they are southerners or . will  proceed in good conscience. i say it is possible. and therefore we make the incentive the fact that the election is being held up. i think the result of such an incentive would be a greater bar than the mere fact that he may have made a decision in advance. on the one hand. he may say. "i am sorry. i can decide. therefore. i will  let him vote provisionally." on the other hand. the court may say. "he is ready to vote and only waits on the decision." that is the case.
i wish merely to correct the situation. i do believe that. we have preserved the ex parte character only as to the voting referees. but we have  preserved it as to the court. where we do have the possibility of a full adversary proceeding. that is provided for in the section immediately preceding the one under discussion. beginning at line 8. page 18. and going over to line 7 of page 19. even though i am against the amendment. i do  wish to leave on the record a construction which is prejudicial to the point of view which the senator desires to adopt. i would rather see him adopt it. but  tie it to ex parte. because ex parte does  extend to the court. if the senator would unequivocally answer the question of my colleague. it would help the legislative record. that the court is  bound as is provided in other respects in the language beginning on page 18 and ending on page 19. in that respect.
i am certain the senator from georgia will make whatever he can of the story. but i still affirm my belief that the country believes that the civil rights commission has made a fair and honest investigation and a fair and honest report. and is entitled to proper credence in that way.
 for his approval the civil rights act of 1960. the result of many weeks of deliberation in the congress and the nation. during every moment of that consideration these principles of law and justice were in the minds of many of us. there is a great difference between even such a limited billlimited also by an archaic senate rule on dealing with filibusterswhich is law and the violence which we have seen throughout the world when peoples whose liberties are denied attempt to assert them. much as the southern sitins concern these. too. we look to the respect for law in the final analysis. it would be particularly fitting for us to turn our equal attention on this law day to the rule of law among nations. the recent action by the foreign relations committee in postponing action on senate resolution 94the repeal of the socalled connally reservation to our adherence to the international court of justiceis a blow to our efforts in this area which should be a source of special concern on this occasion. our faith in law and judicial process should extend  only to all the people of our nation. but beyond our frontiers. so that the rule of law instead of force will become the law of nations also. this principle of world peace through world law is of particular significance today as we seek means to control weapons and dictators. i hope that the public observance associated with law day creates a renewed support for this proposal and that the action on it may be considered at an early date. i believe that the expressions of dedication contained in the proclamations of law day and loyalty day issued by gover rockefeller to the people of my own new york state and the remarks by the gover on that occasion. were particularly appropriate to this occasion. and i ask unanimous consent that the proclamations and gover rockefellers remarks may be printed in the record following my remarks.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a hardhitting report published on the front page of this mornings wall street journal on the clogged condition of federal court calendars. where almost half of the civil cases get to trial after a delay of up to 4 years.
 singled out the need for increasing federal judgeships as an urgent national issue demanding "swift action" by congress. since. he reported. "in certain districts injured people must wait over 4 years for justice or compromise their rightsa fact well kn to new yorkers. he reaffirmed the administrations support of the judicial conferences recommendation that approximately 40 new judgeships be created. here in the senate. i urge the leadership to schedule action in the very near future on the judgeship bill reported by the senate judiciary committee. we all recognize that there is a traditional reluctance to move forward on such matters in a campaign year. but so long as the congress does  act and an intolerable caseload burden continues to build up in so many areas of the nation. then the congress must share part of the responsibility whenever justice delayed because of the endless logjam of cases results in justice denied.
. as so often happens in these matters. those who oppose what i call an airing or a study. and what others call an investigation. had a right to fear that it would end up in a freeforall battle of charge and countercharge. which would distract us and tear the fabric of our national being very badly. and thus make us a rather sorry spectacle to the world. on the other hand. those who. like the senator from pennsylvania and the eloquent senator from tennessee and other senators. including myself. and gover rockefeller. feel that this ought to be looked into. had some ground rules. this matter has  been happily composed. i only express the hope that we will give as much credit for sincerity to those who opposed as to those who proposed. because there is so much out of which. to use a colloquialism. partisan hay can be made. and that all of us who feel as my colleagues and i do about these international questions. should be busying ourselves  to firm the structure and cement up the cracks and put new foundations under our determination to work to that end. and to work. as george kennan told us this morning. in his statement before the subcommittee on national policy machinery. with a new burst of effort and a new massing of resources for the integration of the free world and for the development and fortification of the united nations. without being a pollyanna about unity and about people agreeing. i believe that recognition has been given to the fact that those who opposed the holding of an investigation were  all wrong. anymore than those who proposed an investigation were all right. of course this matter has  been happily resolved.
. my purpose in offering the amendment is to make the legislative scheme of the pending bill with respect to process. either served or executed. within an area which would be a federal area under the bill and under the law. the same as we have provided for the ceding of legislative jurisdiction. it will be ed that in the bill as it is written  legislative jurisdiction may be ceded as a matter of discretion. and in the colloquy with my distinguished colleague. the senator from utah. we discussed one area in which the government exercises its discretion  to cede jurisdiction in such matters as would create a situation which would be against the policy of the united states. in respect of civil or criminal process. which is provided for by section 6 of the bill. discretion is granted to the united states except to "issue rules and regulations for the purpose of preventing interference with the carrying out of federal functions." in view of the fact that in quite a number of cases which have been called to my attention we need a casebycase selectivity with respect to the functions of the united states. as to whether or  it will or will  make this service or execution of civil or criminal processfor example. on a military base or a post office. or other federal propertyi believe it would be well to make all these types of jurisdiction consistent. i cite as an example a report which i have received about a most grievous and unfortunate incident which took place at one of our military bases in the south. the military reservation at fort benning. ga.. in which a soldier was chased onto the federal military reservation by civilian peace officers from the local town in connection with a speeding charge. and there. in the presence of his battalion officers. was beaten up by the local officers. this sort of thing is hardly conducive to military discipline or to the dignity of the united states. the commanding officer of the base was rather red faced about it. because he was compelled to report that somehow or other the assault upon the soldier. which was admitted. was completely overlooked in all the reports and proceedings which took place subsequently with respect to the case. of course. this happens to be an aggravated example of the situation i have in mind. however. it is illustrative of why the provision in section 6 with relation to rules and regulations is inadequate and does  meet the capability of the individual federal official in charge. or military commander of a base. to continue to have the option that he has had in order to deal with situations like this. as they occur with respect to civil officers. when they take place upon a federal establishment. i hope very much that the amendment will be acceptable to the senator from utah. because i believe it commends itself to the structure of the bill and to our best judgment. i hope it commends itself also the senator from utah who is handling the bill on the floor of the senate.
. i rise to call to the attention of the senate. as it is about to recess for a month or a little more. to the formation of a committee in new york headed by judge learned hand. one of our most distinguished leaders of the bench. as hoary chairman. and robert dechert. who was recently general counsel of the defense department. as chairman. to work to bring about the repeal of the socalled connally reservation to our adherence to the international court of justice. i k of few more fruitful subjects with respect to foreign policy about which our legislators can think during the recess than this one. which urgently needs attention. a vestige of isolationism still remains among us. as every senator ks. what it means is that the united states does  invite the jurisdiction of the international court of justice in cases in which it does have jurisdiction. but preserves to itself the authority to refuse that jurisdiction. and by so doing. gives to everyone who might have a case the same right. it works out very badly. because the rule of law is very important to us as a leader of the free world. it could have helped us emously in respect to the difficulties about the u2. it could help us emously with respect to the brazenness and the tyranny of mr. castro. who is seizing american property in cuba without any expectation of compensating for it. according to international law. that is an issue which could be taken before the international court of justice. and yet premier castro can frustrate us by himself claiming the very benefit of the reservation which we have established. with so much to gain and so little to lose in terms of the rule of law against the rule of force to be invoked  only between us and other free world countries but between us and the communist countries as well. it seems inconceivable that we should maintain this anachronism upon our statutory books. there is a very distinguished body of opinion in the country working for the repeal of the connally reservation. it has emous support from members of the bar and from the organized bar through the american bar association. i hope very much that when we return after the recess that this may be one of the high priority items that we undertake. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record at this point in my remarks an editorial entitled. "the united states and the court." published in the new york times of today.
 yesterday. in sending his message to congress. urged that we act upon this matter as greatly important. unfinished business. so as to provide more judges. i conclude upon this point: i k of practically matter. other than the subject of war and peace. which intrudes so personally upon the lives of the citizens as the inability to get justice in time. we lawyers k that. very often. justice deferred is justice denied. i k of matter which impinges upon the lives of individuals so intimately as that. in view of the encouragement given by the majority leader in his statement of yesterday. i hope that thoughts of patronage. which are completely under control. will be laid aside. and that we may have action at this session on a judgeship bill such as that which has been reported by the house committee on the judiciary.
. i close by emphasizing the fact. of which we should be proud to be the main protagonists in the world. that capitalism in our country can give equal opportunity and social justice far more dynamic and far more valuable to the individual than anything the communists have ever been able to invent.
. i. too. would like to join my colleagues in congratulating everett dirksen on his birthday anniversary. as well as extending best wishes to his lovely and gracious wife. and especially to express the hope that he will remain in good health. i may say. everett. that we hear a great deal from you. and have many times. about carrying the flag. it is  very often. however. that our distinguished majority leader. and my leader. has told us what is on that flag. on his birthday i would tell him that on that flag are friendship and affection and warm. good feeling.  only for his colleagues on the republican side. but also for his colleagues on the democratic side. and. indeed. also for all the people of our great country who love decency and liberty and justice and tolerance and understanding. and for all of us who may occasionally disagree with him. he has a really big. generous heart. that is what is on that flag. everett. i hope you take that memory with you. and we wish you a very happy birthday.
i would say to the senator from south dakota that i believe the whole point of difference is that the rule of the senate which we are discussing is  an instrument of the constitution. and yet it purports to act as one. and that this is a vice which is inherent in the system which we have remaining with us in this body. one is contending for anything other than for what a majority. which has the power to do it under the constitution. shall be permitted to do. after observing what i deeply feeland i k many other members of the senate deeply feelis all the fairness of full and free and ample debate. i can see for a moment how we would operate in any way such as the senator mentions. i might point out to the senator that in the supreme court packing proposal the senator confronted a question which a majority of the senate could decide. withstanding its tremendous ramifications. had i been there. when the senator was there. i too would have fought the proposal tooth and nail. therefore. i believe the senator has come to the main point of this debate. in my view. if the senator holds with us that we have the power to deal with our rules. the senator. of course. can come to his own judgment and endeavor to influence as many senators as he can as to how these rules might be changed. i think the critical point which we are trying to establish is that the rules can be changed. then we will all exercise our collective judgment on that issue
elect kennedy. whatever may be said about his alleged deferral of interference in the rules fight with respect to the filibuster. the same can be said about these meassures. and i deeply feel that civil rights in this country will  be adequately enforced if only the executive acts. any more than they were adequately enforced when only the supreme court acted. we must have congress involved. and that is the fundamental objective of my colleague. myself and the colleagues who have joined with us on both sides of the aisle.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. on behalf of myself and my distinguished colleague. the junior senator from new york . a bill to provide for the appointment of additional judges for the court of appeals for the second circuit and the district courts for the southern and eastern districts of new york. the bill would provide: first. three additional circuit judges for the court of appeals for the second circuit. second. six additional district judges for u.s. district court for the southern district of new york. third. two additional district judges for u.s. district court for the eastern district of new york. the need for additional judges in the second circuit and the southern and eastern districts of new york has been established beyond a doubt. extensive studies have been conducted  only by the congress. but also by bar associations and other interested private groups. it  takes from approximately 2 years in the southern district to 4 years in the eastern district to reach trial in an ordinary civil case. this certainly can be called adequate justice for the litigants involved. the proposals for additional judges. which we advocate. are based upon a report of the judicial conference of the united states and are actively supported by the bench and bar of the affected jurisdictions. also. these new judgeships were recommended in a joint report by the association of the bar of the city of new york. new york county lawyers association. bronx county bar association. federal bar association. empire state chapter. the maritime law association of the united states. and new york patent law association. their report points out that because of the particular location of the southern district. it handles over onethird of all antitrust cases. and almost half of the admiralty cases pending in the entire nation. the size of the sixmember court of appeals for the second circuit has  changed since 1938. this proposal would add three additional judges to that court to help cope with the tremendous increase in the courts business. for the past 5 years. the number of cases filed. per judge in the second circuit. which comprises new york. connecticut. and vermont. has been over 50 percent more than the national average. in the first half of the fiscal year 1960. the second circuit had more cases filed with it than any other circuit except the fifth circuit. in the eastern district of new york. up to 4 years may pass before a case filed is reached for trial. periodically. corps of visiting judges have even been enlisted by the eastern district to aid in clearing its congested calendars. the caseload per judge in this district is the highest in the country. by increasing the number of district judges in the eastern district from six to eight. the present caseload per judge would be considerably reduced. the southern district of new york is the largest district court in this country. its calendar on december 31. 1959. represented onefifth of all of the civil cases pending in the district courts. yet. the districts 18 judges comprise only onetwelfth of district court judgeships in the 86 federal districts. since 1957. the caseload per judge of both civil and criminal cases in the southern district has increased over 10 percent. it is hoped that by increasing the number of judgeships from 18 to 24 in this district that all litigants will be granted a speedy and deliberate determination of their lawsuits. proposed legislation for new judgeships has bogged down before in political controversies about the appointees. the litigant who must wait years to have his case heard is  interested in the political affiliation of the presiding judge. but he is vitally concerned with his qualifications. to expedite the administration of justice these judgeships should be appointments on merit. and we propose to cooperate toward that end.
. i send to the desk for appropriate reference a bill to provide for the representation of indigent defendants in criminal cases in the district courts of the united states. which i introduce on behalf of myself and the distinguished senator from tennessee . i ask unanimous consent that there may be printed in the record an explanation of this bill.
. i intro- e [uce. for appropriate reference. a bill o establish a 5year crash program to ombat juvenile delinquency. the meas- f ire is cosponsored by the senator from west virginia . the evidence mounts that youth crime c s continuing to rise at an alarming c ate. it is causing deep anxiety to auhorities throughout the country. and r unless an imaginative effort is made  to combat it. the crime picture will grow more bleak when these young offenders become hardened criminals. my bill would: first. assist states in setting up and operating major juvenile delinquency control programs by making available federal funds to the states on a matching basis. second. provide grants or fellowships to municipalities. colleges. and other private agencies for the muchneeded training of social workers and other persons engaged in juvenile work. third. encourage the research. development. and demonstration of new techniques to deal with behavior problems by providing federal grants to states. and other public and profit institutions. on a matching basis. fourth. expand the technical assistance program  provided by the department of health. education. and welfare. fifth. establish a national advisory council on juvenile delinquency consisting of public officials. professional experts. and community leaders. the cost of this program for the first year would be $7 million. and for the remaining 4 years. $10 million each year. i introduced a similar bill last year. major provisions of which were part of a bill reported by a senate subcommittee on juvenile delinquency. of which i was a member. the bill was approved by the senate but died in the house rules committee. i am more hopeful of passage this year because of the recent action liberalizing the rules committee. youth crime is continuing to rise. according to many indications. including last weeks report by new york city police commissioner stephen p. kennedy disclosing that crimes in that city by youths under 16 years of age increased by 6.7 percent in 1960. and crimes by those 16 to 20 rose by 8.9 percent. other crime statistics available for 1960 in both rural. suburban. and metropolitan areas. show that the new york city situation reflects anationwide trend. new jersey juvenile crime cases jumped 14 percent over 1959. in california. youth crime icreased by 13 percent. i also invite ttention to testimony by prison authories that at least 60 percent of adult riminals in the united states have recrds of juvenile delinquency. i wish to emphasize that government ction by itself can solve the growig juvenile delinquency problem. we .eed to strengthen the sense of social esponsibility of all our people. neither hurch. school. parent. policeman.  sychiatrist. judge. jailer. and governnent can provide the whole answer. lut all of them together. and many othrs. can help us toward a solution.
i had the ho of joining the senator from new jersey and my colleague from new york in the resolution to establish a permanent police force for the united nations. i had opportunity of saying anything at the time the senator from new jersey submitted the resolution this morning. but i feel hoed to join in it. first. i should like to express my appreciation to the senator from new jersey and my colleague from new york for taking the position they have as one being of emous service to our country and the united nations. and i am hoed to join them in it. second. i wish to point out that what is sought to be done by the resolution is to establish a force that will sustain a rule of law. that if we are ultimately to get anywhere with respect to peace in the world. somehow or other. we need a rule of law to replace the rule of force. but a rule of law needs a police force. and a police force under the adjudicating body. which would be the united nations. many of us feel that in cases like algeria. and other areas where there have been grave dangers to the peace of the world. an effective trusteeship machinery within the united nations could help people to work out their difficulties in a deliberate way. this kind of trusteeship requires the availability of a force in that particular trust territory. and the united nations is without such means at the present time. i very much appreciate the individual judgment of my colleague on mr. hammarskjolds views. and i feel that the latter should have learned something from what has happened in the congo and what is happening that is endangering the united nations. i hope very much that congress will act on the proposal which has been initiated by my colleague and by the senator from new jersey. who submitted the resolution. and that it will result in an effective contribution toward the establishment of a rule of law in the world
. in january of this year. my colleague and i introduced proposed legislation to add three additional circuit judges for the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit in new york. and six additional district judges for the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york and two additional district judges for the u.s. district court for the eastern district of new york. i ask unanimous consent that the statement we issued at that time on this subject may be printed as a part of my remarks.
. if i have other qualification to be here. i have the qualification of having been a practicing lawyer for many years. and of very extensive experience. especially in the courts. i have tried cases  only in the state and federal courts of my state. i have tried cases in many states of the united states. i have argued cases on appeal right up to the highest courts. i say advisedly. as a practicing lawyer. that if the public is  outraged. it ought to be outraged. by the way it has been treated in respect to the expansion of the federal judiciary. particularly since the action we are about to take is long overdue. justice delayed has been justice denied. especially in view of the problems which have faced our courts. especially in the busiest jurisdictions of the country. particularly the southern district of new york. and the eastern district of new york. and the circuit court of appeals for the second circuit. which covers those areas. is absolutely shocking. it would be a national disgrace in any country. and it certainly is in the united states.  only is this action long overdue. we ought to be apologizing to the country for having "footballed" the judgeship bill around. largely for political reasons. as long as we have. it is wonderful news to the federal bench. to state. county. and city bar associations. especially those in the area from which i come. to the member lawyers. and. most important of all. to the citizens who suffer from this denial of the prompt administration of justice. that we are finally about to get it. nation can truly assert its adherence to democratic principles when the right to effective judicial remedy is frustrated by delay and inadequate process. we must go ahead . we can let partisanship or legislative inertia impede us any longer. we must  proceed with all deliberate speed. the statements and report i have placed in the record contain facts and figures about the way in which citizens have been disadvantaged and victimized. in my opinion. by this denial of prompt justice. i should like to add one further point. yesterday the attorney general of the united states testified before a committee of the other body. we had hearings before the senate committee. i am very sorry to say. i wish we had. the attorney general stated that the best qualified individuals should be selected to fill the vacancies on the bench. as a lawyer and a citizen. i commend the attorney general for insisting on high and objective criteria in selecting our federal judges. as a senator from new york. i am particularly concerned that something be done about the almost impossible workload of the judges in the southern and eastern district courts and the court of appeals for the second circuit. therefore. together with my colleague the senator from new york . i pledge my efforts to work to assist the attorney general to attain his objective of getting the best qualified lawyersand i assume that means without regard to party and without regard to politicsto fill these high and demanding positions of public service. i shall call upon the people of my state to help. and i shall urge our bar associations and other interested civil and professional groups in new york to lend themselves to this vital task. so that when the time comes we can move promptly to name judges who will be a credit to their profession. to their state. and to the principles of equal justice under law promptly administered. i intend. and i k that my colleague does. too. to take the attorney general at his word. we will produce the best qualified men. perhaps he can find others. we want very much to see this standard the one applied in implementing the bill.
yes. it would. to the extent that it would prevent the company from moving out of new york or moving any important part of its operations out of new york. but if the company were going to expand into the production of a new product. and wanted to establish a new factory for it. the provision would  stop it. in fact. the company would be given a special inducement to locate elsewhere than in new york. the senator from ohio is helping me greatly. because this situation is precisely what we are shooting at. we industrial states are going to pay for the bill. and we are going to underwrite it. let us assume most of us are willing to do it because a real problem is presented. but we are  willing to do it at the cost of creating unfair competition as between us and other states.
so. although there are constitutional lawyers. including those of the department of health. education. and welfare. who have rendered an elaborate opinion. believe such a loan is unconstitutional. the supreme court has  so decided. is that correct.
i think it is important to put in focus what i consider to be the constitutional scheme we are following in this regard. as distinguished from the provisions of the bill last year. i had in mind making these remarks in regard to the socalled monroney amendment. but since senators will be reading the record. in contemplation for perhaps more expeditious consideration of the bill on tuesday. it may be helpful for me to make my own views kn at this time. in the first place. there is hing we can do to enlarge or diminish the power given to congress by the constitution to legislate in regard to commerce. we can pass any bill which will make our power greater or lesser than it is. our constitutional powers are fixed. the variable is only the extent and degree to which we shall legislatively exercise these powers according to the necessities of the times. the supreme court has recognized this distinction between fixed powers and changing legislative exercise of them by stating in a number of cases. kirschbaum v. walling (316 u.s. 517). walling v. jacksonville paper co. (317 u.s. 564). 10 e. 40th st. bldg. v. callus (325 u.s. 578). and phillips v. walling (324 u.s. 490) that the present coverage of the act is  coextensive with the limits of congressional power over interstate commerce. in other words. there are still a great many things congress can do under the interstate commerce clause which congress has  done. and. indeed. which are  proposed in the pending committee bill. if i understood the legislative scheme when we discussed it in the committeeand i was very interested in this particular matterit came to this: instead of relying upon judicial extension of the concept of permissible congressional regulation of interstate commerce to include acts affecting interstate commerce. we would legislate within the frame of reference of our interstate commerce powers in the original purest form. and we would ourselves add a set of ecoic criteria which we consider to be the limit to which we wish to legislate at this time within those powers. in short. we laid aside the fact that the courts had by their own construction expanded in a sociological sense the concept of interstate commerce. and we chose a different legislative scheme from last year. we said: "we will strictly state the interstate commerce power. we will  use the affecting concept at all. but we shall state ecoic criteria by which to define those enterprises which we desire to bring under the act." the importance of that legislative scheme is as follows: if the court should find that we are proceeding unconstitutionally in respect of a particular set of employees or a particular enterprise. then the court could under the separability clause of the act and its own inherent power strike down the constitutional application of the act to that particular set of circumstances. but by sticking closely to the elementary power to deal with interstate commerce. we avoid the danger that the court could strike down the entire statute. this desirable objective is the one we seek to accomplish by this legislative scheme. we are  seeking. as i see it. constitutionally. to expand or to change our power to deal with anything other than our very elementary constitutional authority. but only. as the constitution provides. to deal with the word "regulate"-to regulate commerce among the states. what we are trying to do is establish a set of ecoic criteria. which we are trying to urge under the commerce clause. it seems to me that this is a much better legislative scheme than that which we adopted last year. because if our ecoic criteria in a particular situation go further than the court thinks we have constitutional authority to go. the court will strike them down as to that situation. and the entire act is  jeopardized. it seems to me that the committee language states the legislative purpose clearly. as i see it. i thought it was a much cleaner and much sounder way in which to proceed. and i hope very much that we will persevere in that endeavor. in response to the question raised. as to the reach of state power. i think that what i have said answers that question completely. it is a scheme of legislation which is complete insofar as it provides coverage. insofar as it does  cover. then. in accordance with hornbook law the state can step in and act without being inhibited by the federal government. as to the argument of goods coming to rest. i think this same committee provision deals with that concept. but. because we are establishing a legislative criterion as to goods shipped in interstate commerce within the space of a year. basing the volume upon a year. we are then setting the ecoic criteria that this activity represents a current of comnierce. i shall be happy to answer questions to the limit of my ability. i point out in summary that it is a much sounder approach to adopt and proceed from the elementary constitutional law provision about which there can be argument. the supreme court has expanded hing. we use the words "in commerce." and then set forth the ecoic criteria which shall determine *what activities we wish to bring under the law. we would then rely on our view that if those ecoic criteria are met. the product is in commerce. but if the court should disagree with us. the worst that could. happen is that it would be held inapplicable to a particular employee or a particular situation. but the entire act would  be invalidated.
i just wish to clarify that point. i do  believe we could go that far. because i still think that our ecoic criteria must be such as to bring us within the permissive authority under the constitution. and i can easily see a point at which the supreme court could step in and say. "here . you can. just by fixing ecoic criteria. expand the commerce clause because you assume your findings of fact are conclusive." though i am  handling the bill. it seems to me elementary in this situation that our findings of fact are  conclusive. our findings of fact must be consistent with the authority that we have under the constitution. and i believe that these ecoic criteria are high egh. to put it in terms of the opponents of the bill. so that they clearly come within our authority under the constitution. and i think for the sake of the argument on this bill. that is all i need to say. but i can easily see myself arguing in aher situation. with perhaps a very sharp reduction in all these criteria. quite the other way. so i would  wish to let the point go that we are opening the door to every kind of regulation of wages and hours. i do  think so at all. i think the court can test these criteria in terms of a particular situation or any other criteria we set. because there is hing we can do to expand our power under the constitution.
i quote from the famous jones and laughlin case (301 u.s. 1. 1936). a landmark decision in which it is made clear that  everything is interstate commerce. there are many activities which the court will feel free to strike down as being intrastate commerce. the court stated that it has the right under the commerce clause to deal with commerce. i quote  from 301 u.s. 1. page 40. of the jones and laughlin case. citing with approval the first coronado case: if congress deems certain recurring practices. though  really part of interstate commerce. likely to obstruct. restrain. or burden it. it has the power to subject them to national supervision and restraint." in short. what the court affirmed in the jones and laughlin case gives us the key. because the concept is picked up in the committee report on the present bill. the court said: the question is necessarily one of degree. for future interpretation. such is the scheme of the proposed legislation. the question is one of degree. i shall ask to have printed in the record citations of a series of cases which hold that the fact that congress has legislated in the field of interstate commerce in any area. and that would include minimum wages. does  mean that it has exhausted its power under the commerce clause to legislate furtherkirschbaum v. walling (316 u.s. 517). walling v. jacksonville paper co. (317 u.s. 564). 10 e. 40th st. bldg. v. callus (325 u.s. 578). and phillips v. walling (324 u.s. 490). congress had the power to regulate retailing coming under the commerce clause in terms of minimum wages when it passed the first minimum wage bill. it did  choose to do so. by this pending legislation congress could choose to do so  to a limited extent. it can choose to regulate  certain retailing activities which qualify as being in commerce and which meet certain ecoic criteria. such regulation does  mean that we are trying to expand the power of congress by changing the interstate commerce clause for we could  if we would. the committee report is clear on this matter. the report states on page 4: extension of retail coveragethe major thrust of the committee billis tied explicitly to the criterion of the enterprise engaging in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce. that sentence ties into the sentence on page 5 of the committee report which states: the million dollar test is an ecoic test. in short. we have available more power than we are exercising in terms of the commerce clause. we are choosing to exercise only so much. i respectfully submit. therefore. we are  tampering. we are  destroying the historic concepts. for the facts of ecoic life compelled us to establish our concepts some three decades ago. is anyone going to argue that the labeling regulations under the federal protection of the food and drug act are unconstitutional. the cases have been decided to the contrary. (see u.s. v. sullivan. 332 u.s. 689. 1948). the 85th congress legislated (public law 85506) that certain information for prospective purchasers shall be kept posted on new automobiles prior to their sale to the ultimate consumerand which have come solidly to rest. all 4.000 pounds worth. in the dealers showroom. does anyone contend that such an act is  a valid exercise of congressional power. of course . in short. the argument is one made for the occasion. what the senator from oklahoma wishes to do is this: he does  like the measure of adding 4 million newly covered employees. he does  like the measure of covering employees of a big establishment located in an individual state. he wishes to cut new coverage to. say. 21/2 million employees. and to make it ecoically applicable to establishments in more than one state. we can vote for or against the amendment. but i do  see where the argument has anything to do with the fundamental constitutional power.
if at this time there is a law in a state which provides that when a court of competent jurisdiction moves a child from its natural home to a foster home. it shall be to a home of a similar religious faith. the bill would  in any way affect that act.
 of the united states shall. in negotiating any treaty or other international agreement. use his best efforts to secure the inclusion therein of provisions calling for the impartial settlement by judicial means of legal disputes arising under such treaty or agreement to which the united states is a party. taking due account in such negotiations of the availability of the international court of justice as the principal judicial arm of the united nations. earlier in the session. the senator from minnesota . and i cosponsored a bill to strike out the 1946 connally reservation to u.s. membership in the world court. which gives the united states a veto power over the courts jurisdiction. favorable action on both these measutes would erase the incongruity from our oftenexpressed determination to utilize the international judicial machinery to settle disagreements by force of reason and law.  by force of arms. should this judicial machinery get the support which this resolution proposes. it could then be expanded. along the lines studied by the american bar association. to include the establishment of regional courts of the international court of justice. it is my intention to supplement in every way possible the efforts of a committee of the american bar association which is seeking to establish the rule of law through greater utilization of the international court of justice and through the establishment of regional judicial bodies for the purpose of the elimination of disputes between nations. i believe this is the true and final objective toward world peace. which we must assert in every way possible.
. in the committee i took the position that this question is again one of the passage of the bill. as to whether we should deal with this matter in the bill. and upon the very distinct understanding that we have a goodfaith obligation to deal with this whole question in respect of the national defense education act. which i am confident. in good faith. the subcommittee of which i am a member. and the committee. will proceed forthwith to bring to the floor. it is upon that basis. and recognizing and stating a goodfaith obligation to those who deeply believe that there should be aid to private and parochial schools. that i shall find it necessary to vote against the amendment. i am very hopeful my study of the law and the facts will enable me in good conscience to support. in reference to the national defense education act. a measure which will give complete justice and accommodation to the very evident and just needs of the private and parochial schools of the country
first. i believe the amendment is a prosegregation amendment. therefore. to lay on with an even hand. when the time is proper. i shall move to table the amendment. which is precisely what was done to the bush amendment. second. the senator from illis is absolutely correct. this is a critically important amendment which will break the bill. but the back of the bill can be broken just as effectively by those who are against prosegregation amendments as it can be by those who are against antisegregation amendments. indeed. the majority for the bill is built upon those who are against the prosegregation amendment. the miity. i believe. will be found to be on the side of those who are against antisegregation amendments. so the death of the bill will be guaranteed far more surely by adopting the talmadge amendment than it would have been by adopting the bush amendment. why. because it is a quite different thing to be secretary of health. education. and welfare for the time being and give a legal opinion on a certain situation. i may  agree with the opinion at all. i may be able to argue about it. the supreme court may reverse itself on the mellon case and allow taxpayers suits. i believe it would be unconstitutional if any president should or could give money to a school district in contempt of a court order to desegregate. that is my belief. i am entitled to it. but to nail that viewpoint down in the law and say. "this is the way it shall be." tends to give a mandatory direction to the president as a matter of law. madam president. i do  believe a federal aid to education bill is worth that. much as i believe in it. and i believe that the majority of senators who favor the bill will surely kill the amendment. for that reason. so the amendment is a critically important one. as the senator from illis said. regardless of whether one favors the bill or is opposed to the bill. senators surely do  wish to favor locking it up in this way. so i hope the senate will vote in favor of the motion to lay the amendment on the table.
yet. we are told that those outrageously violating the law are being provoked. if any one of the senators who make that point were a supreme court judge. or even the least judge in terms of our judicial system. let us say a criminal court judge. would he pay any attention to a criminal who said. "he provoked me" or "he thumbed his e at me." this is sense. all of us. as lawyers and judges. have been through that for years and years. the resolution which was introduced yesterday by myself and a number of our distinguished colleagues may be accused of throwing more dust in the air. but it certainly is  dust through which the clear sight of the law can see. for the law. the constitution. and all human experience. certainly demonstrate that what we are seeing is the suppression of the laws and the violation of the constitution which has been endemic and under which people have suffered for decades. it has  come to light. and it is time that the people looked at it in the light. finally. to conclude. on the critical point of the countrys complacence or willingness to avert its gaze in other days. it can do so today. because it jeopardizes its own security and the security of the whole free world. people like myself have said that over and over again. the overwhelming majority of the people who will rule in the world. perhaps  during our time. but certainly during our childrens time and their childrens time. and who will determine whether we will be free. are people whose skins are black. brown. and yellow. if we need further evidence of that fact. listen to what the head of the u.s. information agency. edward murrow. said recently: to some of us the picture of a burning bus in alabama may merely represent the speed and competence of a photographer. but to those of us in the u.s. information agency it means that picture will be frontpage tomorrow all the way from manila to rabat.
i have  only an intention. but i have put it exactly into legal words. the tenant is  a "person" as defined by the senator from florida. anyone who owns and occupies such property is  a tenant. a tenant is one who leases. and a tenant will  receive a condemnation award. tenants are the only class of persons sought to be dealt with by the amendment. as for the words used by the committee. the point is that the committee did hing about this matter. therefore. we have submitted the amendment in the same terms as those  incorporated. for example. in the urban renewal lawthat is to say "the cost of relocation." which is a phrase of art. and means the cost of moving from place a to place b. when i said what i did about my hope that the senator from oklahoma would take the amendment to conference. and when i added to that hope the strong view. expressed so well by my colleague from new york . that the senator from oklahoma would fight for the amendment. i had in mind that undoubtedly the amendment would go through some refinement as the conferees got down to dealing with the problem. but the idea is that something should be done. as recommended by the president. and as. i think. justice dictates. if the senate adopts this amendment. that will be accepted as the principle to be followed. that was my only thought.
. in reply to a request to state attorneys general from the u.s. district court for eastern louisiana. the distinguished attorney general of new york state. louis j. lefkowitz. submitted a letter to the court setting out his strong belief. and that of the state of new york. in the constitutional protection of the right to public education. i believe that his reply will be of interest to the members of the senate and to the entire nation. and i ask unanimous consent that his letter addressed to the court be printed at this point in the record.
i thank the senator. but i respectfully submit the world will attach even more importance to the words of the majority leader. deeply as i feel about my own views. for me. i do  see that we have any eligibility to say to the communists. "you must stay in east berlin or in east germany." they can pull out if they want to. they may be violating agreements. there may be debatable legal subjects. but it is the old story which lawyers will always remind us of. there is an old case. called lumley against wagner. which settled a question in the old english law. the case involved covent gardens. which had a contract with a singer. it was pointed out by the court that contracts with singers can be enforced. because singers could sing off key. and they could  be forced to sing correctly. but they could be prevented from singing for somebody else. so far as the russians are concerned. they can get out of east germany or east berlin. there is little we can do about it. but it is a different thing. when we have  taken our position on a free city or pulled out our token forces or token authority. when we depend upon the precedent of the airlift in 1948. and when. as the senator suggests. we change the whole situation and have a free city government. with its own capacity to deal with the russians and the east german regime. and when the east germain regime has been recognized by us in a legal sense. i think the whole situation is radically different in terms of our staying there and defending and maintaining our position. and i think an analogy is what has happened in laos.
. i support the action of the justice department. i think it is a disgrace and a shame to our country that facilities for great airport terminals should be segregated in this way. i point out to those who complain about freedom riders. and others who protest. that in this kind of practice. fundamental rights under the constitution are violated. it involves such actions as those of freedom riders. i think the legal way. the rule of law. is the best way. i am much pleased that the justice department has proceeded in this way. the department. i repeat. has my full support. i do  think such action exculpates congress in the field of appropriating money which is misused in this way. if it is done. i shall raise the point. we have our own responsibility. however. i repeat that i fully support the action of the justice department. i think it is most constructive and it is high time we brought an end to practices which fly in the face of the constitution. the morality of the country. and express law and contract. it is high time we caught up with it and put a stop to it.
. i should like to use my minute to make an affirmative statement to enter a protest against the expiration of the alien orphans adoption law. which will expire june 30. neither the immigration subcommittee of the committee on the judiciary in the senate  the subcommittee in the other body has acted on this matter. indeed. the immigration subcommittee in the other body has advised the attorney general that it does  intend to act and that it believes he has the right to admit the alien orphans under the parole procedure. the difficulty is that if an american family wishes to adopt an alien orphan and does  happen to be a family serving abroad in government service or in the army. it is  permitted to do so under the parole procedure. this has been a great program: 2.934 orphans were admitted in 195859. 1.954 in 195960. and 2.299 in 196061. it has been a fine humanitarian thing that we have done for the world and for ourselves. as one senator. i enter my protest. i have introduced a bill in this regard. my colleague has introduced a bill. the senator from wisconsin has introduced a bill. hing has been done. i shall do my utmost to have something done when we return from the holiday recess
subsequently said: . before it gets too late in the day. i wish to complete the record on the discussion we had earlier with respect to the hijacked plane. the latest information is that the passengers will be released. however. there is word yet as to whether the plane will be released also. i wish to state. having checked the law on the situation in the course of the day. that it is my considered judgment that the plane should also be released. that we should exercise the same firm position with respect to its release as we do with respect to the passengers. and that the situation is  analogous to that of the cuban planes which have been brought here by the owners. for commercial reasons. or have been sequestered under orders of the court for judgments. or for other purposes. this plane was hijacked in violation of law. domestic and international. and is in cuba against the will of its owners. i make this statement because our discussion earlier in the day assumed that it applied to both the plane and the passengers.  we have the statement that the passengers will be returned. and i make this statement with reference to the plane.
. we have all been hearing and reading a great deal about the eichmann trial in israel. which affects the whole world because it relates to a crime so emous as to encompass the conscience of all mankind. i have ed a very interesting and most illuminating editorial on this subject. which i think is well worth reading by all senators. since it summarizes the concept of what has occurred and its implications to all of mankind. this is the kind of legal trial which has those implications. i ask unanimous consent that "the lessons of eichmann." an editorial from the new york post of august 7. 1961. may be printed in the record at this point.
. i wish to address myself to some other matters very briefly. but first i should like to ask the proponent of the amendment to make clear for the record the intent of the amendment. so that there may be question about it in the future. in view of the provisions which are in the senators amendment. separated by commas. is it the intention of the senator. as the amendment is drafted. that the jury shall specify the term of years for which there shall be imprisonment. or is it the intention that the jury specify the punishment as among the three categories: death. imprisonment for life. or imprisonment for a minimum term of 20 years. or whatever other term the judge may see fit to specify.
i would doubt that any of us would take the position that the legislative drafting service. excellent as it is. is omniscient. i simply say to the senator that i obviously have  made a digest of the law. but i certainly hope that in the conference between the senate and the house this question can be resolved in accordance with the settled practice of most states. that may be the practice in the senators state. it is  the practice in my state. and i do  think it is the practice in many other states for a jury to fix the exact punishment in terms of years. i can understand a situation in which the jury would determine whether the punishment should be death. life imprisonment. or less than life imprisonment. and then the judge would fix the precise penalty within the limitations of law. i can hardly understand a jury saying the penalty shall be 22 years. 23 years. 21 years. or 30 years. i doubt very much that that would fit in with the practice of the courts in many states. as i say. i am  prepared. because i have  researched the law on the subject. to argue the question with the senator. i only state the expectation that in the conference this language may be refined so that the provision will be in accord with the practice of most states.
i ask the senator to consider for a moment a suggestion i have to make on that score. perhaps there could be a quorum call while the senator considers it. i wonder whether the words "if the jury shall so direct" should come after the first reference to "shall be punished by death."
it is very difficult to make these delicate refinements. but i think the senator from montana will understand when i say i am  critical in a personal sense of the president or of the senator or of anyone else. but i am critical of the policy. and i have my views about the policy. and i take such action as my conscience and my duty impel. with respect to the policy. i do  think we should confuse happiness about fine things which were done with the fact that certain things were  done. i k the senator is  confusing them. but i think to some extent such confusion was evidenced by the remarks of the senator from arkansas. i am grateful and delighted that the department of justice has moved strongly and effectively. but i do  think that should disqualify me from taking the position in regard to the administration that i take. if i feel there has been dereliction in the performance of duty in regard to legislation.
. this is very clearly good law. i should like to point out to begin with. because it calls for procedure of a type which congress itself has adopted before when it wished to provide real relief. this is precisely what was provided by the civil rights act of 1957 and by the civil rights act of 1960. except that in those instances it was applied solely and strictly to the right to vote. the congress itself has certified that efforts to deal with violations of civil rights are inadequate if they must depend upon a criminal statute. because many senators remember very well the debate which occurred in 1957 and in 1960 in regard to criminal statutes. already on the statute books. with relation to violations of civil rights. and all of us feltand quite properly so. i believethat that was  the proper way to deal with such matters. because it was too stringent. thus. we had to provide some other remedy. and thus it was that we provided the injunctive relief remedyone which i applaud. and this remedy has been found by experience to be the best instrument too blunt.  too sharp.
i am coming to that. i thank the senator. i have the opinion of the court before me. the fact is that there is grave doubt concerning the authority of the attorney general in this field in the absence of new law. whatever may be the decision of the attorney general or however the courts may rule. as is shown in the case of allen against county school board of prince edward county. the famous prince edward school case. in which the court denied the right of the attorney general to intervene. on the ground that his application was  timely made. the court indicated it had grave doubt whether the attorney general had a right to intervene. on the ground that the right of the united states which he sought to protect would have to be a right which he would be specifically empowered to protect. and that he does  have such authority under his general power. to represent the united states in all cases in which it is a party. the tears over the sad situation in prince edward that have been shed should be shed by everybody in the united states. as was so well reflected by a new york times editorial entitled "the children of virginia." in which the question is asked whether a child is more or less entitled to education in terms of the pigmentation of his skin. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be made a part of my remarks and printed in the record.
 was elected in part upon this particular pledge in the platform of his party. and certainly a big play was made for the votes of miity groups in the 1960 campaign. yet all too soon this problem is shoved into the background and the administration turns its back upon coming to the congress. where this question must be dealt with in terms of legislation. with a request for anything except a 2year extension of thc federal civil rights commission. the very minimum which can be effected. i am very proud to say that  all democrats feel that way. i am very proud to say that there is effective support for the position which i am explaining today. which i have the ho to explain in a strictly representative capacity on this side of the aisle. for joined with me in the amendment which. when i am through. i shall offer. are my colleague from new york . my colleague from new jersey [mr. cas ei. my colleague from pennsylvania . and. from the other side of the aisle. my colleague from illis . my colleague from pennsylvania who so manfully made his try a little while ago. and my colleague from michigan . i am very proud. and i count it a very great privilege. to be permitted to bespeak the views of these colleagues of mine. all of whom have done their part in this civil rights struggle. and to have them join in what i consider to be the key to the civil rights fight in the united states. the substantive measure which is essentially designed to do what needs to be done in this field. there is substitute for it. there is other way to get the job done. because this is the rule of law upon which we so deeply pride ourselves. i close upon this e: as always happens in respect to great issues of this character. we speak of swinging pendulums. we speak of statesmanship. and we speak of legislating when legislation can be judiciously and objectively carried through. we speak of legislation which is tailored with a scalpel. and  a cutlass. to fit the particular need for which we are trying to legislate. we speak of legislation which is in the tradition of our nation. of our constitution. of our bill of rights. and of our declaration of independence. it seems to me that those of our colleagues from the south who are so vigorously opposed to part iii should keep in mind one other fact. i name this part specifically. for i k of particular measure which so decidedly raises the hackles of those who are interested in this race relations field as does part mi. i should like to address myself directly to that question because it is a very pertinent issue. i think my colleagues from the south ought to ask themselves why this is so. after all. the courts have been very good to them. the courts have  treated them badly. the supreme court even sustained the pupil placement law. the pupil placement law can defer the desegration of public schools.  for years. but for decades. this is one of the greatest victories that the opponents of school desegregation could possibly have scored. with a technique only remotely consistent with the supreme court decision of 1954. time and time again. in many other cases and on many other occasions. the courts have sent cases back for new orders. new implemention. and new hearings. the courts have taken many years to work out legal remedies. yet. the very legal remedy involved seems to arouse the most opposition. there may come a time when  only the senator from illis . the senator from new york . the senator from new jersey . the senator from pennsylvania . the senator from michigan . and i. and some other members of this body. will consider this situation to be intolerable and will consider that we must do something about it effectively and substantively. we may reach the time when the great majority leader in this chamber will be compelled by events to feel that way. when that time comes. the present action will be a pale imitation of the measure that will be passed in the senate with a whoop and a "whoosh." as we passed the motion to suspend the rules on the 2year extension of civil rights. there is  presented an opportunity to let off steam. to do things in an orderly and legal way. to answer the frustrations. deep aspirations. and deep desires of people without extralegal means. without disorder. without anarchy. without breaches of public order. and without injustices. but by processes of law which can channel the passions of men very effectively. as our whole history and experience has shown.
. i had printed. and there is on members desks. a copy of the amendment to the bill entitled. "prohibition of unreasonable literacy requirements." the purpose of the amendment would be to put into effect the unanimous recommendation of the federal civil rights commission just made on voting. and would qualify. as to the literacy test. every american citizen in any state who has a sixth grade education or more. i have talked this question over with the majority leader. and. without committing him or myself. i have every reason to believe. based upon the previous pattern in respect of socalled civil rights measures. that if this amendment were offered. a motion would be made to table it. also. as my colleague from new york very well stated a moment ago. the temper of the senate is to get on with its business very quickly. to stick to the particular matters in hand. and to leave more extended controversies for aher day. i would  deem it proper to disadvantage this piece of legislation. which is so critically important. its importance being reflected by the unanimous recommendation of the membership of the civil rights commission. whatever may be the background or sympathy of its members. whether from the east. west. th. or south. and based on findings which cry out for justice for every american. accordingly. i informed the majority leader. who is always very gracious. that i would make the statement today that on the third monday in january. when congress reconvenes. or as soon thereafter as it is possible to do so. i shall expect to take an appropriate measure on the calendar and seek to add to it the measure to which i  have referredin other words. to raise this issue at that time in the appropriate way. i make this statement so that senators who are deeply interested in this question may k about it. i call the attention of my colleagues in the senate to the fact that. obviously. it is a measure which could  have any effect until the next election succeeding this one. and to emphasize the fact that. much as we may seek to avoid these issues. as by motions to table civil rights proposals made by me and my colleague from new york some days ago. they cry out for decision. when we get a report so well documented and so thoroughly agreed upon as that which the eminent members of the civil rights commission have given us on this matter. it seems to me it is the very least measure of the agreedupon justice which should be given. whether the administration does or does  move on with its own urging. a civil rights program. or whether the senate or congress is in the mood. all of us. in the main. have agreed time and time again that. if there is one thing that should be assured for every american. it is the voting right. that seems to be the most uncontroverted of the socalled civil rights measures. it seems to me the very elementary measure recommended by the civil rights commission to avoid the circumvention of the clear intent and purpose of the constitution and laws of the united states should. at the very least. be passed. so i shall expect to make that move. insofar as one member of the senate is able to do so. and to give the senate the opportunity to deal with the issue at a very early date in the new session. pointing out that i had every desire and intention to do so on this bill. but i believe. from the practical situation which faces me. the measure would be disadvantaged by its being turned down  on a motion to table. for reasons which are entirely separate from and have relation to the very high merit which i consider the proposal to have.
i am grateful to the distinguished senator from wisconsin. my colleague and i have never said we are closed minded on this question. and that it is absolutely out of the question to have a national code or anything like that. we have only said. presumptively. what we have been doing has worked out very satisfactorily for our consumers. as we go along in respect to the proposed legislation which the senator from wisconsin feels the country needs. we have a remarkably able department of agriculture and markets in the state of new york. gover rockefeller has. as my colleague i think ks. a very great interest and experience in this field. i can assure senators for myself and i think for my colleague. who i believe has stated the same point. that we will proceed at every stage on this question in an effort to be deeply grounded in the facts and the merits. there is parochial thinking in new york. i think we have demonstrated that in a thousand battles here on the floor of the senate. i think the senator and his constituents may feel. in all justice to us. that. as we look at this question. we will look at it with an open mind. i will at least do my utmost. and i believe my collegaue feels the same way. to get the concentrated judgment of all our authorities on the question. as well as ourselves. in order to come to the best point of view. i think we have said. and i think in all fairness and justice that as we stand . we have pretty high standards. we do  want to see them compromised. we think the burden of proof is on those who would give us a new set of standards. i think that has been the totality of my own position. i thank the senator from wisconsin.  and that i may resume immediately thereafter.
i am very grateful to my colleague. i have already expressed my gratitude to my colleagues from vermont and kentucky who spoke in the same vein. it is but aher reflection of the deep understanding of our international situation. as well as the sense of justice which pervades our nation. that the senator has given tongue to these sentiments at this time. i thank my colleague.
 truman. and earl warren. chief justice of the united states. in that atmosphere. in that climate. what else can we expect. people may feel that if they have suffered an injustice. there is other way to redress it except by some form of violent action. therefore. i should like to leave the point in our record. whatever e it may receive. that we must. by denunciation and by effective and quick police action. give assurance to others. so that they will  be intimidated into closing their minds upon this issue. those who commit such crimes are either crackpots or intimidators. therefore. it is the rapidity and the vigor with which they are brought to justice. while extending protection to all others who may be similarly situated in this community. which will determine the effectiveness of our approach. i k the senator from california will move into this situation as he would if it were in new york. and as i have on previous occasions. i certainly pledge to him any aid i can offer. and i k. as the senator from minnesota has said. that that goes for all of us.
it seems to me that there is a fiduciary relationship imposed -on anyone who is charged with the administration of a fund. whether it is technically a fiduciary. like a bank or a trust company. or . and that. therefore. if we were merely going to depend on the criminal statutes and other statutes of accountability which relate to a fiduciary. we would  have this bill at all. the point is that we feel there must be in the federal law greater sanctions than are inherent in the usual laws relating to fiduciaries. which are essentially state administered. hence the reason for the bill. it seems to me that once it is felt that there is a basis for the billthat is. a need for legislationthe only argument i make for coming to this conclusion. and upon which the bill is postulated. is that it is necessary to go all the way. otherwise. it is  possible to have a good bill. much as i understand the concern of businessmen who do  want to be regulated. if they do  have to be. in this way. in this context of a.need for greater sanctions. i do  see how it is possible to justify a cutoff of. or exclusion from. coverage simply because a part of the plan is managed jointly by management and labor. if the senator from nebraska feels in good conscience that the laws with respect to fiduciaries are presently adequate for all purposes. the senator from nebraska will then vote against the bill. i do  feel that way. therefore. i must direct my attention to the other argument. which is: assuming that more adequate protection is needed. how broad shall be its coverage.
. the majority leader and the miity leader. joining together. have already started in that direction. and they have given us assurances on the floor that the senate will. within a 60to 90day limitation period. be given an opportunity to vote on this question. in reliance upon that assurance i am  offering the amendment at this time. i wish to say. in justice to the distinguished senior senator from th carolina . that on behalf of his subcommittee he has already issued a statement of the program under which these bills to which i  refer are listed for hearing shortly after the middle of march. i emphasize again that whatever may be the intermediate steps. whether by committee hearing or committee report. the situation is such that the senateand i have every confidence in the representations made here with respect to the administration billwill have the opportunity to express its will upon this question within a 60- to 90day period. which means during april. i also wish to express to the senator from th carolina my appreciation of his having ed the fact that my own bill. which is to the same effect as the administrations bill. has been pending before the subcommittee since january 1961. and will also be included in the hearings which the subcommittee will hold.
. i  only dence this course of action myself. but also i call upon all civilized men and women in our own country. and in all countries of the world. to dence it. i believe the leaders of the soviet union. who are so very anxious to impress the world with their justice toward miities. are implicated in this instance in the basic. unjust. and harsh action which can only underline a charge of antisemitism. i hope they will come to their senses soon egh  to affront and to insult the world by this brutal manifestation of repression which is so unworthy in view of their sensitiveness to any charge of antisemitism.
i say to my colleague that since we have gotten the letter from the president. i think congress has made itself very. very clear on the positive policy. our debate constitutes a very strong record in the direction of positive policy. but i think we would be shooting with a very big gun at a relatively small target should we mandatorily require the president to end aid. unless he accounts for it in some better way than he is  doing. to countries with respect to which our whole national interest may strongly dictate that we should give aid. withstanding u.n. arrearages. he has that discretionary power anyhow.
madam president. i also ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record as a part of my remarks an article entitled "u.n. justice against israel." written by william s. white. and published in the washington evening star of yesterday. april 11. 1962.
. this is a rather unique situation. the hillburton act. which this proposal is intended to aid. and which deals with construction of hospitals. still has within it the old separatebutequalfacilities formula. which was ruled out by the supreme court in the brown case in 1954 with respect to school desegregation. here we must have an affirmative act by congress in order to cancel out a situation where segregation is permitted by our law. it is an aaly. and therefore unthinkable. although mally i am  favorable to having riders on appropriation bills. i feel justified in acting in this way. because it is the best and most direct way to deal with this anachronism. there is question about the fact that this type of segregation and discrimination exists and is vicious. because my own office made a survey which indicates it is widespread in many areas of the south. there is litigation pending in orangeburg. s.c.. in which allegations are made of segregation of negro patients and discrimination against them. the suit relates to doctors as well as patients. i very much hope. therefore. congress will take the earliest opportunity to correct the aaly in the hillburton act by barring use of funds for segregated hospital facilities. the supreme court has certainly given us the law very clearly on that point.
. i again point out it is difficult to make the distinction. because people are inclined to lump everything together. but it must be done. and i hope the american people will give attention to this matter. it is one thing to approve a denunciation of a price increaseit is a very different thing to countenance the use of the punitive force of the united states. in the department of justice or the fbi. to coerce anybody who is making an ecoic decision when there is reasonable evidence as yet that there has been a violation of law.
let me say a word as a lawyer. in response to the senators point. which i understood perfectly. and also in response to the point made just  by the senator from georgia. the situation is best illustrated by a case decided by the u.s. supreme court in 1959that of lassiter against thampton election board. in that case the court said: of course a literacy test fair on its face may be employed to perpetuate that discrimination which the 15th amendment was designed to uproot. i understood that the senator was saying that the courts could get at this matter on a casebycase basis. however. in that case the supreme court of the united states was  legislating. it was merely stating that the 15th amendment is  to be avoided under the color of a literacytest statute which on its face may seem to be all right. by means of this measure we are attempting to render justice more quickly. so as  to make it necessary to go through a complicated trial in every such case. and we have pointed out that the cases in support of this method are legion.
. who is it who sets the standard as to who is a communist or communist sympathizer. what were the legal issues involved. is it expected that our judges are going to decide differently because those involved are alleged to be communists or communist sympathizers. in short. if the supreme court is to be attacked. it must be defended. so i shall undertake. with the aid of bar associations that will be interested. to analyze this situation and these cases and to come back to the senate. the same forum in which these charges were made and implied. and reply in order to set the case absolutely straight. the supreme court is one of the lest of bodies. it is a fundamental part of our governmental system. attempts are being made to discredit it. it is  healthy to attempt to tear it down. as was attempted yesterday. i think the supreme court is doing very well. whether i agree with one of its decisions or . it seems proper to defend it. and i shall do so on the floor of the senate.
. i should like to make a comment about the appointment of thurgood marshall to be a member of the circuit court of appeals. i am always loath to say much about foot dragging or delays with regard to actions on appointments. i make such a statement only in an extreme case. whatever may be the history of the caseand my colleague. the senator from new york . has felt there was undue delay and has criticized it sharply. and i respect him for the criticismthe fact is that the subcommittee has opened its hearing. and my colleague from new york and i have appeared. there was adverse witness. on the contrary. the reputation and standing of judge marshall are among the highest in our land. and we should accept his legal qualifications. the fact that in 32 appearances before the supreme court. his cause. or the cause which he represented. was successful 29 times would entitle him. in my viewand i am certain it would in the view of eminent members of the barto a confirmation of his appointment. if there has been a delayand it has been stated that one senator was delayed. and one was busy. and only one senator of the subcommittee attended. the senator from nebraska [mr. hruskcathere is reason for delay . hearings have been started on his appointment. his reputation and the fact that there has been adverse testimony entitle judge marshall to have his ination immediately confirmed. we need his services as a fullfledged judge. i attended the occasion of his induction on october 23. 1961. when he received a recess appointment. it is time that his ination was confirmed by the senate. so perhaps bygones should be bygones. and. whatever the reason for delay previously. there is excuse for delay . i urge upon the committee and the senate immediate action on the ination. to refute any implication by any senator that there has been any undue delay. or foot dragging. the ination is under hearing. the first hearing has already been held. this is the time to proceed. and promptly. there is reason why action is  taken. we very much need. in one of the busiest courts in our land. a judge whose ination has been confirmed. and i urge that this be done without delay.
. let us remember. too. that this statute. if it passes. will  upset the mal literacy test procedures of all our states. they go ahead and do business just the same. it will only set a standard where that standard must be repaired to if any person feels he is being discriminated against. there he may use a certificate. in new york state we call for an eighth grade education. the federal government will reduce that requirement to a sixth grade certificate. if this bill passes. an important thing to remember in that regard is that the supreme court of the united states will have to find that it is a reasonable test. a reasonable means for ascertaining the capability of a voter to vote. it is interesting that in all this debate i have  heard questioned the validity of a sixth grade certificate in terms of qualifying a person to understand what he is voting for. so i do  think there is much question about the fact that the supreme court will hold it to be a perfectly reasonable test. i revert to the first point i made. the critical need of a cloture vote limiting debate on the amendment. in my opinion. it is going to be one of the most important votes on civil rights ever cast in the history of civil rights. and it is also going to be one of the most important votes of any kind cast in this congress. let us be very clear on that. if the cloture motion fails. despite the fact that a majority of the senate supports it. and if it ultimately fails on the second vote. and this bill has to be taken down. then we shall have had a clear demonstration. for all the world to see. that the will of the majority. even after reasonable debate. can be defied by a miity and a filibuster. it will show that the failure to get the senate rules amended in january. 1961. and again in september. when the issue was shelved. was a grave error. and it will provide a powerful argument for amending the rules when there is aher opportunity at the opening of a new session in january. 1963. if. happily. the cloture motion should be successful. then it also would be historical. because it would demonstrate that. on the democratic and republican sides. there is egh determination and egh fidelity to the pledges of our respective parties and to the crying injustices in the country to effect cloture. which many senators are  happy about. in order to bring about elemental legislation. if this happens. we shall have a historic milestone in terms of the balance of power. and the power of a miity to frustrate.  only in civil rights. and  only by filibuster. but merely by threat of one in many issues. will finally have been broken. i am  for limiting debate unreasonably or for adopting rules used in the other body. the senator from illis and i. in all our efforts. have  suggested that. the most we have suggested is a limitation of 30 days of debate.  even under germaneness rules. and that then cloture could be brought about by a majority of 51 senators. we have been reasonable in our approach. and understandably. because this is a great deliberative body. but it has come to a historical turning point in these dangerous days. we are either going to be able to do that or we are going to show demonstrably that we can go forward as a body which is ruled by a miity. i hope that will  happen. i do  want it as an argument for january 1963. i would rather we would be successful on a cloture motion. but if we are . i think the country will have clearly written before it one of the major issues of the political campaign of 1962. i thank the senator
. two questions are before the senate this morning. the first is. is the proposal constitutional. the second is. should the senate vote for cloture. i deeply feel that we should consider the proposal to be constitutional and that we should vote for cloture. for the reasons i shall state. in all the arguments with respect to constitutionality. including that made by my distinguished colleague the senator from kentucky . whose opinion i respect highly. one thing is omitted. that is the fact that congress has a right to legislate because of the state of facts. if the congress finds it to be a factand i believe the supreme court will sustain the congress in such a findingthat there is widespread violation of the 15th amendment by denial to people who are negroes. through the misuse of the literacy test. of the right to vote. as has been found by the u.s. civil rights commission. the congress can choose the means by which that situation shall be redressed. and in my opinion the supreme court will go along with the congress if it chooses a reasonable means. these are reasonable means. we have heard one deny that a sixth grade education is adequate as a reasonable test for qualification for voting. that is the essence of this controversy. in all the arguments about constitutionality. hing has been said about the factual case which has been made. second. the fact that there are other means--the fact that there is a law which was passed in 1957 and a law which was passed in 1960--does  mean that the congress can add additional means. if it believes them to be required. and reasonably bases its judgment upon the factual situation. we have seen the finding of the attorney general. who is the enforcement officer of the united states. that he does need these additional means because he can adequately enforce the laws of 1957 and 1960 in practicable terms in order to effectuate the guarantees of the 15th amendment. so the basis of constitutionality does  rest on the constitutional provisions which have been argued pro and con. the basis of constitutionality rests squarely and clearly on the 15th amendment. which has been shown as a matter of fact to have been violated. therefore. the congress has the right to select the means by which to redress that situation. the constitutionality of the proposal has been clearly demonstrated. based upon the facts. and that is what we must always refer to when we are arguing constitutionality in the senate. second is the question. shall cloture be voted. it is perfectly true that there has been a very polite filibuster conducted in the senate. the senate has met from 12 n until 6 or 7 p.m.. and senators have been very gracious and charming to one aher. but constructively. as we lawyers say. there has been a filibuster. because it was well kn that if senators who are opposed to passage of the proposal were forced to do so they were well egh organized to stay as long as necessary. even if the majority leader had made us come in at 1 or 2 oclock in the morning. as we did once before since i have been in the senate. to answer quorum calls. during the previous debate we were forced to come in time and again in the early morning hours. if this were a debate for 24 hours a day. or 7 hours a day. the same senators would be making the same speeches and enlightening the country in precisely the same way. this is  the choice of the majority leader. but it is the choice of the opponents of the measure. the majority leader has said time and time again: "if senators wish to talk for more than 6 hours a day i shall be glad to accommodate them. up to 24 hours a day. but if they do  wish to talk for more than 6 hours a day there is use in keeping the senate as a whole up all night." that is a very enlightened point of view. it makes a great deal of sense. such a debate can be as much a filibuster as if the senate held sessions around the clock becausealthough i sympathize with the idea of trying to end a filibuster by roundtheclock sessionsit has been shown that the senate can break a filibuster by meeting long hours. the senate  ks that the only way it can get cloture is by a vote for cloture.  as a result of physical exhaustion. this will be the meaning of the cloture vote. it must be by a vote for cloture. there never has been cloture in respect to a civil rights bill. withstanding the fact that the modern cloture rule has been in effect since 1917 and the fact that there has been a filibuster problem in the senate since 1872. even before the senate adopted rule xxii. this could well be the showdown. if there is to be a vote. some may  think so. since only a few members have been on the floor and polite debate has been indulged in. but in retrospect. in history. this will be shown to be a decisive and historic vote. let senator who votes on the issue mistake it. this will be one of the most decisive votes we shall have cast on any issue at any time. we may well get a majority vote. i am very hopeful of that. we are within reach of cloture on a civil rights bill. such a vote would be historic in the annals of the senate and of the country by demonstrating the ability. through the legislative means. of coping with the countrys problems. looked at in that perspective. both with respect to constitutionality and with respect to cloture. i deeply feel that senators should support the motion . and should support the measure on the ground that it is completely constitutional and would adopt a reasonable means to an absolutely essential and proper end. i thank the majority leader.
it would be unusual to do that instead of leaving it to the supreme court. but let us assume that. if the supreme court struck it down as being inimical to the federal authority. congress could do it.
madam president. i invite the attention of senators to the distinguished work of the american law institute. which met in washington this week. an admirable example of a voluntary association of citizens working to improve a critically important aspect of our national life. the institute. composed of the countries most respected judges. legal scholars. and practitioners. devotes itself to rationalizing and modernizing the law. it has finally adopted a uniform code of criminal justice for the united states. based upon the work of two law professors. one of new york. i am proud to say. herbert wechsler of columbia university. and louis b. schwartz of the university of pennsylvania. while we labor in the world to affirm and strengthen the virtues of free institutions. we make those free institutions meaningful by the wisdom with which we administer our own affairs at home. this particular code is an extremely important contribution to jurisprudence in our nation. i call it very markedly to the attention of senators. i ask unanimous consent that a pertinent newspaper story and editorial upon that activity of the american law institute may be printed in the record at this point.
. j. edgar hoover. its director. has dedicated his career of 45 years to building up in the fbi of the department of justice. one of the worlds most efficient organizations to combat crime and subversion. every citizen of the united states is in some way indebted to him for the safety of our nation. mr. hoovers profound understanding of the purpose and enforcement of law has unfailingly afforded each individual dignity in defense of his actions and has maintained an orderly functioning of due process of law. the business and professional womens clubs of new york state. inc.. has taken the initiative at its convention. may 24 to 27. to accord proper recognition to director j. edgar hoover for his untiring efforts on behalf of freedom and justice by adopting a resolution praising his contribution to our nation. i ask unanimous consent that this resolution be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
. reserving the right to objectand under my reservation. i understand the senator from wisconsin desires to be heard alsonaturally this is  a critical subject. etheless. there is involved a fulldress study concerning all stock exchanges and all security transactions. it is my desire in interjecting a reservationalthough i shall  object. because i do  believe the proposal will be forwarded by objectingto reiterate to the chairman something which i believe is very important. perhaps the senator from wisconsin has the same thought in mind. that when we considered the operations of the stock exchanges and of allowing the investigation to continue. we made the very strong point that legislative oversight would be maintained in a very pronced way. i should like to ask the chairman again. so that the senate may be reassured on that score. if it is  our policy that if any member of the committee really felt that the sec should be called either before the subcommittee or the full committee. to account to the committee concerning the way in which it was conducting highly sensitive investigations. the chairman would be most sympathetic. even if one member of the committee requested it. to doing that.
this always causes difficulty. of course. senators would be entitled to insist that a bill  be considered in the absence of the printed hearings on it. i am very fond of the senator from florida. and i would  wish to stand in the way of action on his bill. and would  wish to make a point of the absence of printed hearings. but i hope he will indulge me while i try to proceed in the absence of the printed hearings. i have idea whether there is any justice in this position. but when a representative group raised such a question in the absence of printed hearings. i am sure the senator who is in charge of the bill will wish to supply the information which the printed hearings might otherwise supply. the objection made by this group isand  i shall quote from their statement. which apparently was made to the subcommittee headed by the senator from florida. i shall read parts of the statement into the record. as a partial substitute for printed hearings: consider first the reference to state requirements that interstate carriers register their icc certificates and identify their vehicles. obviously. it is desirable to identify the legitimate. certificated interstate carrier. whose service has been found by the icc to be in the national interest. then this organization goes on to say what they object to: there is thus the constant problem that instead of one rule for the interstate carrier. laid down by the one federal agency established to administer one set of nationwide rules. there are growing up 50. or many more than 50 sets of rules. differing. in each state. or in each justice of the peace or magistrates court within each state. uniformity and certainty are lost. it is impossible to conduct a business according to the rules. because the rules are constantly changing. what this organization claims. in effect. is that when the icc certificate is refiled in the states and they are called upon to carry the identification of the refiling on the trucks in the states. it results in giving authority. in practical effectperhaps  in lawto the states which proliferates the slight variance in the fundamental requirements and causes them a great deal of difficulty and hardship. i have read the bill. although i had to do it quickly. because i was only apprised of the matter very recently. and i do find this provision in section 1. on page 10. lines 2 to 9. which reads as follows: in establishing such uniform standards the commission shall give due regard to the needs of the several states for information relating to the authority and operations of such motor carriers engaged in interstate and foreign commerce while protecting such carriers from a duty to file or otherwise comply with state requirements that. in the opinion of the commission. might constitute an undue burden. financial. administrative. or otherwise. on the operations of such carriers. my question to the senator. therefore. is this: did the committee adopt that sentence in the amendment which i have just read in response to the contention to which i have just referred. which. incidentally. was presented and made to me by the movers conference of america. which apparently testified before the subcommittee. the second part of the questionand this is most important to meis this: in view of the fact that one can obviously have any success in amending the billor even have any basis for it. because i have  studied the question. reallycould the senator give us any assurances upon the record. in terms of legislative oversight to be exercised by the committee. that if it is found that these practices are really onerous. upon a study by the committee. the committee would really move into the situation. as representatives of the people. and see that the situation did  get away from us in terms of the regulatory question.
. i have made these remarks today because i consider this situation to be a real aaly in the law. it is a situation of pressing injustice. i hope very much that senators who read the record tonight may give consideration on an urgent basis to the pending amendment and be prepared tomorrow to give it the support which i feel it so properly deserves. in that connection. i should like to direct senators to my original report to the senate on this subject. which is contained 107. part 16. pages 2100221003. to the introduction of various data upon this subject. together with a record of litigations which have been instituted. which appears in the record of february 19. 1962. at pages 24362437. and also to the ice that i would raise this question. which appears in the record of july 3. at page 12648. i hope senators will acquaint themselves with the facts and circumstances to which i have just referred and will give support to what i consider to be an urgently required and essential measure of justice with respect to this particular appropriation.
madam president. these amendments have been debated here before. however. i think rarely have we previously had as humanitarian a cause as this hospital cause. which i think will bear on the conscience of our country. madam president. in these few minutes i should like to comment on the apparent carelessness with which we begin to regard this subject. it becomes a matter of policy  to ask congress for legislation. the executive department depends upon itself because. apparently. it feels it can get anywhere in the congress without invoking sanctions upon other legislation. when a question of this character is brought up. as i have done before. the chamber clears out. members k exactly what they are going to do. and it does  seem to be a critical matter with them. as the senator from illis has said. will we wake up only when the tempers. the minds. and the souls of 18 million americanswhich "aint hay" anywhereare so driven that they will move more forcibly than they have. then will members rise on the floor and decry lawlessness. as they have done with reference to sitins and movements of resistance which we see in the south. congress has an opportunity. upon such a mild matter as this. as my colleagues from california. connecticut. and new york have said. to give some basis of elemental justice in a case in which the federal government itself provides the money. if the congress disregards that opportunity. if the congress averts its eye. i fear we are doing hing but encouraging a situation which will rise to harm our nation. that is in addition to the powerful repercussions all over the world from the way we deal with our racial problems. with the whole world in ferment and revolt. and most of it composed of colored people. it seems to me we are stoneblind when we deny satisfaction in so elemental a demand for justice as is represented by this amendment. in all conscience and responsibility. the senate should vote down the motion to table and should adopt the mild and moderate amendment. which will yet be a small measure of justice in the situation.
. the extraordinary delay in senate confirmation of the ination of thurgood marshall to the court of appeals for the second circuit court in new york is fast becoming outrageous. as a result of the unjust manner in which the process of confirmation would be abused if the end of the session should come without action on the ination. the time is coming soon when the senate will have to meet its responsibilities. even if one of its subcommittees should . really good reason has been put forward to justify the unwarranted delay in confirmation of this ination. i urge the full membership of the judiciary committee to insist on full committee action to discharge the subcommittee from consideration of judge marshalls ination. if that is  forthcoming. the senate as a whole will be called on to face the issue squarely. if this is  otherwise moved. i will myself make the motion. the facts concerning this delay have been laid before the senate and the country again and again. but they bear repeating. thurgood marshall was originally inated on september 23. 1961. 4 days before congress adjourned. he was given a recess appointment on october 23. 1961. on january 15. 1962. his ination was resubmitted. and the first hearing was  held until may 1. 1962. and then recessed. the second hearing was held on july 12. 1962. and at that time the introduction of new counsel and other developments gave every evidence of a long drawt attempt to inject irrelevant material  bearing on judge marshalls confirmation. today. a third hearing is being scheduled for august 1. this could delay matters until adjournment time and bring about a disgraceful situation whereby judge marshall would be forced off the bench because the senate did  act. the justice. the wisdom. and the dignity of the u.s. senate are on trial in this matter. one can objectively look at the record of the hearings so far and come to any other conclusion than that there has been intolerable delay on the question. thurgood marshalls abilities. qualifications. and experience are beyond question. his character is outstanding. his record. including his service on the bench since last october under a recess appointment. has been impeccable. he deserves confirmation. and the u.s. senate should  tolerate any further delay. i repeat that it would be outrageous if. coming to the end of the session. thurgood marshall should have to leave the bench because the senate has  acted to confirm his ination. i shall do my utmost to help to see that the proper procedures are gone through so that the senate may act.
madam president. tomorrow the senate judiciary committee will resume hearings on the ination of thurgood marshall to the court of appeals for the second circuit. this is the circuit. part of which i have the ho to represent. these hearings have dragged on since october of 1961. when  kennedy. i urge the committee. in the name of justice and the national interest. to report favorably judge thurgood marshalls ination. the delays before the committee have left in abeyance the confirmation of the ination of a jurist whose abilities. qualifications. and experience are beyond question. the dalliance before the committee with this important judicial appointment is intolerable. and i feel the nation should insist that this hearing tomorrow shall be the last one. and that the committee shall take action to report the ination . i point out to my colleagues in the senate two matters which are very important by way of comparison. judge william h. cox. of mississippi. was inated june 20. 1961. and his ination was confirmed by the senate on june 27. 19617 days later. mississippi is the home state of the chairman of the committee on the judiciary. judge j. robert elliott. of georgia. who has attained national prominence in presiding over the current albany. ga.. cases. was inated january 23. 1962. and his ination was confirmed by the senate on february 7. 19622 weeks later. yet the reporting of the ination of judge thurgood marshall has  been delayed for 10 months. to what other conclusion can we come than that delaying tactics are being used. my able colleague from new york . a member of the committee on the judiciary. last week stated to the senate that he was considering making a motion to discharge the committee on the judiciary from the further consideration of judge marshalls ination. i wholeheartedly support senator keating in this contemplated acmittee on the judiciary from the further the ends of justice. i shall do all in my power to see to it that action is taken on this welldeserved ination. if  by committee action. then by the senate as a whole. i pledge myself to a course of action such as that proposed by senator keating and other senators. and seasonably. so that the senate will  adjourn sine die and cause judge marshall to be removed from the bench because of the lack of confirmation of his ination. if such action is  taken by my colleague from new york and other senators. i shall employ those techniques myself. the senate owes it to the country to vote on the ination of judge marshall. i am confident that if it does. the ination of judge marshall. who will make an exemplary judge. as he has already shown. will be resoundingly confirmed.
. i am deeply gratified that the majority leader has brought up this bill. last monday. i addressed the national convention of the disabled american veterans. at atlantic city. and i can testify to the senate about the anxiety with which they have awaited the passage of this tiny. yet very important. increase in the compensation of only disabled veterans. they did  understand why it has taken so long. we understand. because of the parliamentary difficulties. but they did . they regarded it as a small measure of justice much too long overdue. i think they will hail this accomplishment. and i think all of us will take satisfaction from this accomplishment at long last.
i thank my colleague for his intercession. i welcome the information he has offered with respect to the other senators who will join in this effort. which is what i would expect of them. as one who has served in both houses of congress for a decade and a half. i k how difficult it is to have a committee discharged from consideration of a matter. and how much more difficult it is when one is a member of that committee. therefore. it is with deep satisfaction that i have witnessed the leadership shown by my colleague from new york . he has just confirmed it from his own mouth. i am glad to hear it on the floor. i think the matter cries out for justice. and i believe justice can be done and must be done by the senate. the rules provide how. and it must be done.
by "lower" i mean lower rates on mortgages. they are able to earn egh money. if they are restricted as they would be under the new restrictions. i point that out to the senator because i do  think he gave that full credit in his discussion. they are able to earn egh money. with the new restriction. which they have never had before. which would be imposed upon them. they would have to go out of business. matter what we do or say about it. there is an intolerable pressure upon them. when i came into this situation and took it up with other senators who are similarly situated. such as the senator from alabama and some other senators. it became clear to us that there had to be some alleviation. though  of the situation in which the institutions find themselves today. they are fine . they would be glad if there were change in the law. they would be happy if the bill were killed. but there had to be an alleviation of the situation in which the committee amendment would put them. because for the first time there would be a restriction. i think there is some justice to the restriction in the sense that competition between thrift associations. such as mutual savings and savings and loan associations should be somewhat regulated so that the savings and loan associations would be preponderantly in the real property field. i am inclined to agree with that. but we can strangle them in the process. therefore. we must give them a little more flexibility. which they need in order to operateespecially the eastern concerns. eastern institutions do  earn the large interest on mortgages which are earned in the far west.  only because of state restrictions but also because of competition. which is good. we have to give them a little more flexibility. the amendment of the senator from alabama would give them the very minimum they feel they need. they feel they need more. but i decided it would be very difficult to have any amendment to the bill approved. with my stalwart friend here holding the ramparts. and therefore i felt it was better to go along with what might be done and with which the institutions could conceivably live than to try for something more. that is the story in a nutshell. i agree with the senator from oklahoma that hidden ball tricks are involved. if the senator feels disquieted about it and does  feel satisfied with any explanations that have been made. let the senator think about it. i assure the senator that i have told him everything i k about it.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record as a part of my remarks a joint statement by gover rockefeller and chief judge desmond. chief judge of our court of appeals. on the court reorganization in new york which went into effect on september 1. this is a milestone in our jurisprudence. and may very well be a model for other states which are troubled with congestion of court calendars and with the problem of a multiplicity of courts. i urge a study of this reorganization plan throughout the country. the plan in new york may go far toward solving some of the most perplexing court reorganization problems in any state. therefore. i ask unanimous consent that the joint statement be printed in the record at this point.
i am very grateful to my colleague for his comments. he. too. has been a stanch fighter for justice in the middle east. justice in that area ties directly into the peace and security for our country and the free world. as evidenced by the fact that our action in leba was only made possible when we knew that our flank and our point of exit were secure because israel was there. otherwise we could never have performed the leba operation.
. i rise briefly to support the ination of arthur goldberg to be a justice of the u.s. supreme court. i have kn mr. justice goldberg for a quarter of a century. i would feel remiss in my duty as a friend and as a senator if i did  state my views upon this very great occasion for him and for the country. his high character and his professional skill have been delineated. one thing needs to be said again lnd again. it is that the country will find. when arthur goldberg sits on the supreme bench. that he will impart to it the lumiity of his mind. the purity of his character. and the high degree of his integrity. completely uninhibited by any past connections. by any representation he may have made. by any ideas he may have entertained. by any cause he may have advocated. by any client he may have represented. or by any other relationship he may have had in life. the people of the country will find that arthur goldberg will make the greatest effort to be truly the embodiment of justice. which is what we expect from justices of the supreme court of the united states. i believe the court. as well as mr. goldberg himself and his family. should be congratulated upon such a great occasion.
ial responsibility which may have to be exercised. we k what is involved. we k that what is involved is the constitution of the united states and the preservation of the union. every citizen of mississippi is also a citizen of the united states. every citizen of mississippi is protected by the amendments to the constitution of the united states. which operate in behalf of every citizen of mississippi. the doctrine of interposition. the idea that the gover of any state is immune from the processes of the federal courts. would destroy the federal constitution and pull down the government of the united states. and nullify the civil war. we all k that. and it ought to be said. too much blood and too much treasure have been spent over this proposal. of course. the senator from mississippi is correct when he says that the courts should proceed in their proper way. there is reason why that can be done. the gover of mississippi can appeal to the supreme court of the united states from any court mandate or order made by the circuit court of appeals in new orleans. however. we are entitled to k from the gover of mississippi whether. if the supreme court holds that meredith should be admitted to the university of mississippi. the gover of mississippi will defy that order. that is the question to which the country is entitled to k the answer. at the same time that the plea is made that orderly and legal processes ought to be followed. there is more salutary way to handle such an explosive and emotional situation as this. i do  question the sincerity of the senators from mississippi. both as to their belief in the issue and what they say. i do  question that the way to proceed is through orderly processes of law. i could  agree more. that is the very reason why we should have passed part iii of the civil rights act. because it would have given voice and outlet to every one of these measures. instead of forcing the department of justice to move in through the backdoor. as it has in this case. to sustain an order already made in a privately brought suit in which the department could  participate. . by all means let us follow orderly processes of court. at the same time let us have a commitment from the gover of the state of mississippi that he will abide by the processes of the court. then the situation will be firm and strong and unchallenged.
on the contrary. i k that the distinguished senator from mississippi yesterday spoke of the fact that the supreme court should first decide this question. that is what the junior senator from mississippi said. i was eager to join him in that plea. that is the way it ought to be done. the point i wish to make is that the gover has the right to apply to the supreme court for a stay. he does  have a right to refuse to ho the mandate of the circuit court of appeals. by doing so. he disables himself of asserting his right. by  comporting himself as a citizen who accepts the mal processes of the courts. i believe it is important to point out that the gover of mississippi may follow an entirely hoable course. consistent with complete sincerity on his part. by going into court. if the circuit court rules against him. and he does  winwe can assume it. because the court has already indicated its viewhe can seek a stay in the supreme court. that stay can be granted by one judge. in a case like this. doubt it would be granted. then the case goes through the processes of the supreme court. then the mandate comes down. as a loyal citizen of our country. he will obey. if the gover deprives himself of this privilege. of accepting the processes. of granting the court  only the courtesy. but by responding to the right the court has. by appearing before the court. himself or by counsel. then he deprives himself of the benefit of the orderly processes of law. and only makes us. as the senator has so properly said. feel disheartened by the fact that these very processes of law. which the senator from illis and my colleague from new york have so properly and ingeniously. i might say. sought to have us invoke. are  used because he refuses to play the game of being an american.
. i invite the attention of the senators to some news accounts which i believe deserve the strictest attention by the senate. it is the news that senate investigators have been sent to mississippi purportedly by the committee on the judiciary and a subcommittee of the armed services committee. headed. respectively. by the senators from mississippi . allegedly to investigate the situation there incident to the dreadful and most deplorable violence which occurred in the effort to bring about enforcement under a court order. i ask unanimous consent that the news report in this mornings new york times be inserted in the record at this point in my remarks.
i call the attention of the senate to the headline. "senate investigators sent to mississippi." i assume a similar headline appears in newspapers throughout the country. e that it is the senate which appears from this headline to have sent investigators. however. so far as i k. neither the committee  the subcommittee has acted. neither has authorized any investigators to be sent. the sending of investigators must. as we all k. have an effect upon the people of mississippi and the people of the nation in respect to the validity and propriety of the acts of the president. who has the grave responsibility of enforcing the laws of the united states. in an incendiary situation of this nature. the sending of investigators to a state and to the particular location where these events have taken place is  something which can be dismissed as a mal prerogative of a subcommittee chairman or a committee chairman. there is reason why the senate should  investigate a situation so dangerous and incendiary as that in oxford. miss.. where 10.000 federal troops are still present to keep order. but. even if the whole senate does  act. i think we have a right to k at the very least. what the committee on the judiciary and the subcommittee of the committee on armed services think about it. it seems to me there is a real defect in this situation with respect to the rules of the senate and the rules which govern committees. this situation has been referred to many times. the question whether a chairman will or will  consult with his committee is left completely in the discretion of the chairman. this is a very unsatisfactory situation. section 134(a) of the legislative reorganization act of 1946 authorizes each standing committee of the senate and its subcommittees to "make investigations into any matter within its jurisdiction." but neither the act  the senate rules specifies what constitutes action by a committee or a subcommittee. this has been left entirely to the committees themselves rather than as i have long maintained. being governed by uniform published rules applicable to all committees and subcommittees. so far as can be determined. the senate judiciary committee has seen fit to publish rules whatever on the subject. the armed services committee has published standing orders. apparently governing hearings but  investigations. it is eworthy that those standing rules require specific authorization by the committee or a subcommittee before a "hearing on an investigation shall be initiated" and require the majority vote of the committee or a subcommittee before hearings may be scheduled outside the district of columbia. particularly in the present explosive situation. there ought at least to be the concurrence of the committees in question before an investigation can be initiated. i do  say that if the committee had concurred. i would  be the first to rise and assert their authority to do so. that is quite right and proper. but in this instance. the action by the committee and subcommittee chairmen. considering that both senators come from the particular state in question was an unwise action to take. in any case. wise or unwise. i think it is important to pinpoint the fact that the action was  the action of the senate of the united states. withstanding the headlines in the newspapers. this was an assertion of authority by the chairmen of a committee and a subcommittee. again. i do  question whether or  they had authority. i think that is a question for their committees to decide in default of a change in senate rules. i do question two things: first. the wisdom of exercising such discretion. if it exists. and second. and very importantly. the complete lack of preparation by the senate to meet a dangerous situation of this character through the absence of any rule which would compel committee action in the premises
. i am very gratified to support the passage of s. 2900. to provide public funds for the representation in criminal cases in the courts of the united states of defendants who can afford or obtain adequate legal counsel. this is a measure which i have proposed over a great many years. beginning with my service in the house of representatives. continuing through my service as attorney general for the state of new york and here in the senate. as attorney general of new york. i recommended a public defender measure to the state legislature as the result of a statewide survey on the availability of adequate legal counsel to indigent youths charged with crime. as a member of congress i have repeatedly introduced and coauthored bills to establish a public defender system in the federal courts. in the 87th congress. i cosponsored two such bills. s. 655. introduced by senator kefauver. and s. 854. sponsored by senator ervin. s. 2900. which is  before the senate. is a carefully workedout amalgam of the best features of all the previous bills on this subject. i am particularly pleased. for example. that the bill authorizes the continued use of voluntary legal counsel such as bar associations. legal defender groups and the legal aid society. which have done such a fine job for many years in new york and elsewhere. the bill also wisely requires that a public defender or counsel appointed under the bill will represent the defendant at "every stage of the proceedings. including preliminary examination. arraignment and appeal." finally. i believe it is most desirable to provide. as does s. 2900. that the appointment of public defenders shall be confirmed by the senate. so that the public defender will have the same rank and status as u.s. attorneys. particularly in this last respect i believe this bill. which will be the third to have passed the senate during the last three congresses. is the best effort to date toward eliminating the double standard of justice described in the committee report. between those who can afford to retain competent and experienced lawyers and those who must rely on unpaid counsel assigned by the courts. this is an aspect of our legal system which is entirely hostile to our traditional concepts of equal justice under the law. and i sincerely hope that this measure will become law. if  at this session. very early in the next session of congress.
. on may 2. 1962. on the floor of the senate the chairman of the judiciary committee delivered a scathing attack on the u.s. supreme court. and the justices who have sat on that court for the past 20 years. after charging that the supreme court has "infringed. invaded. and usurped the powers vested by the constitution" in the executive and legislative branches of the government. senator eastland presented charts that allegedly demonstrated that all members of the court have. for many years. been delivering procommunist votes that "threaten fundamentally the basic security of our country from the onslaught of the communist conspiracy from without and within"-congressional record. volume 106. part 6. pages 75997605. at that time. on the senate floor. i requested of senator eastland the "specific criterion" for his statements and charges. and who had set the criterion. senator eastland said that the criterion had been set by his staff. but that "any lawyer with any sense at all could do that." he said that the test was. "if the decision of the individual judge was in favor of the position advocated by the communist party or the communist sympathizer involved in the particular case. it was scored as a pro. meaning procommunist. if the judges decision was contrary to this position. it was scored as a con. or contrary position"6. page 7604. i was  satisfied to let the matter stand in this posture. with the congressional record showing only the attack on the supreme court. a body that is in position under the constitution to defend itself. accordingly. -i stated that i would have a response prepared. in legal and constitutional terms. to the charges which. particularly made from such a source. were most serious. the response was prepared at my request by associate professor man dorsen of the new york university school of law. at one time professor dorsen served as law clerk to justice john marshall harlan and is presently the director of the civil liberties center. which was established at the new york university law school in ho of the late arthur garfield hays. it is in my view a very excellent analysis which i believe deserves to be brought to the attention of my colleagues. the bar and the public. i fully agree with the thoroughly documented conclusion of this analysis that the charges against the court "are completely unrelated to legal doctrine or historical context." and that these are the only valid standards for criticism of the complex work of the supreme. court. when the cases cited in the attack are matched against legal doctrine and historical context. it is found "(a) that many were decided on the basis of precedent--stare decisisand therefore obviously did  represent a break with the past. and (b) that doctrines employed by the court in cases involving national securitycommunismare also employed in other types of cases." the attack wholly iges the complex factual and legal issues in these cases and instead focuses entirely on the outcome. this "resultoriented" approach. as the analysis cogently demonstrates. produces absurd results if applied to other kinds of cases and has very serious implications for our constitutional democracy. such an approach "depreciates the constitutional protections that all americans enjoy" and undermines the very rule of law which is the basis of our system as contrasted with communism. i ask unanimous consent that the memorandum may be printed in the record at this point.
. it is said that this builtin veto power really does  block a vote. even on civil rights. legislation. i believe one senator said that we have had 70 votes on different types of civil rights legislation. let us look at the record on that subject. in the past few years the record has been very clear. in 1957. and again in 1960. we passed what were called civil rights acts. primarily those acts were confined to the voting right. pretty much everything else. other than what related to the voting right. was tabled. and impliedlyin some cases expresslyit was made very clear that unless those measures were tailored so that they would  be lethal to the opponents who used the filibuster in order to defeat legislation. they could  pass at all. but somehow or other. by the process of national development which occurs. the view had been accepted by those who employed the filibuster in respect to these civil rights measures that they had better let something pass in relation to assuring voting rights. we could  keep the top on the kettle. which was boiling strongly. and it was the path of wisdom to let up a little and to let something of that character pass which would give some assurance as to the voting right. otherwise. it could  have been done. we knew it then as we k it . the legislation was expressly and most carefully tailored. designed. whittled down. and arranged so that it would  transgress upon the principle which would arouse a filibuster. the same thing was true. and even more frankly. in respect of an extension of the life of the civil rights commission. which was agreed to in 1961. a whole series of efforts to expand that measure in order to make of it some kind of meaningful civil rights measure were tabled. generally on the motion of both the majority and the miity together. with the clear implication to the senate that we should take what was offered or we would get hing at all. because the entire measure would be filibustered. withstanding that fact. the final result was 70 yeas to 19 nays. indeed. that is the real aaly in this situation. the final result of the vote on the civil rights act of 1957 was 72 yeas to 18 nays. the final result of the civil rights act of 1960 was a vote of 71 yeas to 18 nays. in short. when we reach the end of the road. the overwhelming majority of the senate. almost the only exception being the southern senators themselves. votes affirmatively on these measures. and yet in the dynamics of the framing of the proposed legislation. in order to show the unbelievable power of the filibuster. what proves to be the overwhelming majority allows itself to be dictated to. controlled. handled. and dealt with by the builtin power of this additional extraconstitutional provision. the power of a miity to filibuster a particular measure. that was the lesson of the death of part iii in the socalled civil rights act of 1957. which passed the house of representatives. and which is vitally and urgently needed in order to give the attorney general powers which he ought to have in order to protect the civil rights of the ordinary citizen. this was clearly evidenced by the fact that the attorney general could  even intervene in a case in the prince edward county schools in virginia where the schools were closed in order to avoid their desegregation in accordance with the mandate of the supreme court of the united states.
. on behalf of myself. and my colleague. the junior senator from new york . i introduce for appropriate reference. a bill dealing with a problem at highland falls. n.y.. which has defied our previous efforts to arrive at some measure of success in attempting to deal with a problem which confronts this small municipality in connection with its relationships with west point. i hope very much that . following our previous attempts on a number of occasions to achieve success in dealing with this subject. we may at long last be successful. inasmuch as a matter of considerable justice is involved.
that is the reason why i said when i began that i hoped this question would be deferred until the senior senator from th carolina could say what the senator from nebraska has said as to the past and as to the future concerning the role which will be played by the committee under this appropriation which is requested. unfortunately. that opportunity is being denied. so all the extrapolation which any of us might indulge in as to what the chairman may or may  do with the subcommittees money for the next 2 years is. i respectfully submit.  dispositive. the fact is that the specifications of this report do  include any investigation of any such matters as i have described.
i was addressing myself to what we have read in the press about the action of the police and other authorities in blocking and breaking up any march by a number of personsfor example. on one day last week by a group of some 100. and on aher by a group of some 42. it is claimedand the courts will try it outthat in the community there is a climate of intimidation which runs counter to the fundamental provisions of the 1957 civil rights act which prohibit interference with any effort to register and to vote. i say to the senator from mississippi that the courts will decide as to that. for myself. i believe that the path of constitutional propriety is to permit people to march peaceably in order to petition for redress of their grievances. but the fundamental point i make  is even more limited than that. i only say that if we do  want violenceand i k of senator who does want it--in my opihiorn. people must have an outlet. so i think litigation of this character is a proper and sensible outlet. and i hope very much the attorney general will prosecute this suit with speed and with diligence.
. but one mistake we can afford. and that is the failure to take account of the legitimate grievances of a great number of our citizens which go to the very heart of their status as citizens. i point out that we are going through the third and most dangerous phase. the first phase centered on the 1954 school desegregation decision. that was the court phase. in 1961 there were the sitins. that was the phase directed to specific examples of discrimination. such as segregation at lunch counters.  we are seeing in birmingham a complete revulsion against the whole social order and every form of discrimination. that makes the hour very late in terms of tranquillity and order in our country.  only in birmingham. but everywhere else. all of us are well aware of the propaganda value to communists throughout the world of our civil rights struggle. especially with such manifestations as the arrest of children and the use of police dogs and firemens hoses. that should give additional incentive to our insistence upon immediate action. the remedies are within our hands. in both the executive and legislative departments. we in congress have failed signally in meeting our responsibilities to the nation and its destiny in civil rights. and the country is beginning to reap the bitter fruits of our failure. the times and our people will  let us wait. if we would  fail our country. we must act .
. i wish to call the attention of the senate to the suit which is being started today by the legal defense fund of the national association for the advancement of colored people to enforce the 14th amendment provision which requires reduction in the congressional representation of any state which denies the right to vote arbitrarily in violation of the constitution. the suit signalizes the relative roles of the judiciary and the congress in the struggle for equality. which is so rapidly coming to a head at this time. in 1945. in saunders v. wilkins. 152 f. 2d 235. a suit brought in federal court in virginia to enforce this section of the constitution because of the disenfranchisement of 60 percent of the voters because of the poll tax. the court stated: it is well kn that the elective franchise has been limited or denied to citizens in various states of the union in past years. but serious attempt has been made by congress to enforce the mandate of the second section of the 14th amendment. and it is eworthy that there are instances in which the courts have attempted to revise the apportionment of representatives by congress. the court dismissed the suit as raising a "political question" which the court could  adjudicate. since congress has continually defaulted on such "political questions" the supreme court has been increasingly pressed to resolve them. the court has accepted the responsibility. in 1961. in the case of gomillion against lightfoot. the court rejected the "political question" rationale which had been used by the district court in virginia and held the virtually total exclusion of negro voters from the city limits of tuskegee. ala.. was a violation of the 15th amendment guarantee against discrimination on grounds of race. creed. or color. this decision was followed by the tennessee apportionment case. baker against carr. which completely put to rest the "political question" doctrine in regard to apportionment. because of this display of understanding of the legal doctrine involved by the supreme court. the legislatures of the nation are  stirring with long overdue action toward reapportionment to reflect the emous changes in population which have occurred in this century. only a fraction of which had been reflected by the legislatures themselves. the case  filed by the naacp legal defense fund is of the same order. congress has failed to take account of even the unanimous findings of the u.s. civil rights commission in its 1961 report on voting that "substantial numbers of negro citizens are. or recently have been. denied the right to vote on grounds of race or color in about 100 counties in 8 southern states" through literacy tests and other qualification tests. arbitrary and discriminatory registration procedures. threats and intimidation. or the fear of retaliation. the response of the congress has been rejection of even the mild sixthgrade literacy test bill and passage of only the antipoll tax constitutional amendment. which is still wending its way through state legislatures and which. i believe all agree. is hardly a major step toward eliminating flagrant denials of the right to vote. though i welcome it. section 2 of the 14th amendment to the constitution provides a clear remedy for denial of the right to vote: reduction of the representation of the state in the house of representatives. the naacp legal defense fund suit lays the ground work for such reduction by ordering the secretary of commerce and the director of the bureau of the census to compile the figures as to the denial of the right to vote at the next census and to submit the proper apportionment of representatives to cong ess in accordance with the 14th amendment provision. again the issue is clearly posed: will congress fulfill its responsibility. or will the courts be required to take the lead.
so i gather that the senator from south carolina has responded to the point about the feeling of the department of justice by stating that the department should be reasonably well satisfied by what the committee has done.
madam president. the great debate on civil rights which is sweeping the nation at this time is quite properly directed to the problems of segregation and discrimination in all parts of the nation.  merely in the south. much remains to be done in all sections. but it must be recognized that the problems differ from region to region and from city to city. one of the major points of difference is the degree to which the public and governmental climate of the particular area is dedicated to eliminating the discriminatory practices which still plague its institutions. i have always been proud of the leadership which the state of new york has exerted in this field and i bring to the attention of my colleagues a most interesting recent federal district court decision in new york in the celebrated new rochelle school desegregation case. which was the pilot suit involving school desegregation in the th. this decision. by the hoable irving r. kaufman. judge of the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit. describing the excellent efforts being made by the governmental structure of new rochelle and of the state of new york. as well as by the entire community in new rochelle in order to comply with the 1954 supreme court decision. is a landmark of good will which i hope will be repeated throughout the country. i ask unanimous consent that the most important and learned opinion of the court be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
. i wish to join my colleagues who have so far spoken out on the floor against the three constitutional amendments proposed by the council of state governments at their december 1962 meeting. it was their proposal that the state legislatures be given power to amend the constitution. that a court of the union be established. so that state supreme court justices could reverse decisions of the supreme court of the united states. and that the supreme courts reapportionment decision be reversed. it is apparent that these proposals. if adopted. would vitally undermine the federal system of checks and balances built into the constitution by the founding fathers. virtually uniced. a number of state legislatures have adopted these proposals. despite their extremist character. fortunately. however. the bar in various states is beginning to alert the public and members of state legislatures to the danger involved in such proposals. the association of the bar of the city of new york has just issued a report on the proposals. stating that they would "revolutionize our form of government and turn the clock back to the articles of confederation of 1777which proved to be a failure and which were replaced 10 years later by the federal constitution." i ask unanimous consent that the report of the associations executive committee be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
. i conclude as follows: i had  intended to raise this subject. but in view of the fact that it has been raised. it was my intention to give something of a balance to the points which have been made as we are seeking the best public understanding of what is occurring. therefore. i thought it importantinasmuch as i am a participant in the hearings. as a member of the subcommittee. though a new one. for this is the first investigation in which i have participated as a member of the permanent subcommittee on investigationsthat i should place these facts on the record. i hasten to add that within the limits of the deep feelings of those involved. including the members of the subcommittee. i believe the chairman of the committee. the senator from arkansas [mr. mcclellani. is doing his utmost to conduct the hearings as fairly as possible. but i do  think that should confuse us as to the importance of the length of the hearings. the way in which questions are askedwhich i believe is also an important factor. the way in which witnesses are dealt with. in terms of what is implicit in the questions askedeven though in their answers they may deny it. and the general quality and character of the hearingsall of which are also. in my opinion. subject to the public test of whether what is being done is in the best interests of the nation. as i say. i do  believe the time has yet come to make an issue. of the length of the hearings. but i do believe the time has come to indicate that that question is very likely to be at issue before too long.
. i hope very much that we shall keep in focus what is occurring. withstanding the tensions and intensities of the hour. which justifiably are great. in view of the indignities and injustices which have been heaped upon the negroes in america. and withstanding all the deep emotions. which are understandable. and the intensity of the demonstrations. i hope that etheless the great majority of the american people. even including at present threefourths of the negro community. will have confidence that the character of our nation is high and moral. i believe that the great majority of the american people are determined that this issue will be resolved on the basis of justice and fairness. and that there is also widespread recognition of the fact that 90 percent of all americans understandably have a very great interest in discharging their responsibilities in such a way that freedom may truly be realized by this 10 percent of our population who are being denied the finest benefits of freedom. and who wish to be treated in the way that all other americans are.
 we believe that there will be question about congress recognizing the justice of the additional authorization which is sought by the amendment. i have conferred with the senator from michigan on this subject. he has very graciously assured usand i am sure he will confirm it that he will accord us a prompt hearing on the bill which we have introduced. i am hopeful that the cooperation which the senator from michigan has extended to us will produce a beneficial result and will stimulate the corps of engineers to give us a report on the subject much faster than has been possible up to 
. first. i commend the distinguished senator from nebraska for his fine leadership in this cause. which is a longstanding one. the report of the committee states that this is the fourth time such a bill has been before the senate. efforts to enact it have been frustrated. and such a bill has never been enacted into law. the genius of the sovereign in matters of government is that sovereign shows it has a heart and a sense of justice. there are few measures which have come before congress that demonstrate this essential confidence in the system of justice in what we call anglosaxon jurisdiction as does a public defender measure like the one  before the senate. when i was attorney general of new york state. from 1955 to 1956. i recommended the enactment of a public defender measure by our state legislature. as the result of a statewide survey with .respect to adequate. legal counsel being made available to indigent youths charged with the commission of crime. when i came to congress i introduced two public defender bills. one with the senator from tennessee [mr. kefauveri. and the other with the distinguished senator and former judge of th carolina. one of our outstanding lawyers in the senate [mr. eavin. who is present in the chamber. interestingly egh. while it is well kn that we do  always see eye to eye on many things. with respect to this particular area of elementary justice we have acted in unison. finally. i believe that the committee has done an excellent piece of work in connection with the three objections it has overcome. all of us are solicitous about seeing to it that bar associations and legal aid societies and local forces have a chance. the committee has cared for that situation very satisfactorily. finally. i should like to add one further point. which i believe is critically important. we often decry juvenile delinquency and youth crime. and the great crime difficulties that are involved. we pass laws to deal with such problems. and i dare say that they are far more expensive. both in cost and in effort which individuals take. because therei are few residuals in the mind of a young personand i have seen this both as an attorney for the defense and as a prosecutorthat make him more resentful than the feeling that he has  had a proper opportunity to be represented. to have the sentence reduced. to clear himself. or to have a lawyer plead his case. because he can afford it. particularly when he reads in the newspapers an article stating that someone else has been able to do just that. this. is an elementary issue. in my opinion.. which is critically important to the fight on juvenile delinquency and youth crime. as well as an expression of heart and conscience by the sovereign. i again congratulate the senator from nebraska for the excellent work he has done on the bill.
i thank mycolleagut for his remarks.  i wish to make two further points: first. since this program began in 1946. there are 104 totally segregated hospitals which have been authorized under the hillburton program. involving $36.996.000 as the federal governments share. that is a crying shame. and it is time to stop it. second. proceedings in court have so far failed. the naacp has sued in order to prevent the use of such funds for two segregated hospitals. the attorney general has tried to get into one such case. so far the district court has thrown it out on the ground that there was cause of action. consequently. this is the place where justice must be sought. it is for that reason that i am pressing this amendment and hope that it will be approved
 . one of the commissions unanimous recommendations to the congress to remedy this situation was that it consider the advisability of empowering the attorney general to bring civil proceedings to prevent the exclusion of persons from jury serv1 lincoln county v. luning. 133 u.s. 529 (1890). hopkins v. clemson agricultural college. 221 u.s. 636 (1911). frame v. city of new york. 34 f. supp. 194 (s.d.n.y. 1940). some states have statutes providing that the victims of mobs may sue the state in local courts for damages so incurred. an example is ill. rev. stat.. ch. 38. secs. 512517 (1959). it is doubtful if liability could be extended by congressional action to state governments. hans v. louisiana. 134 u.s. 1 (1890). palmer v. ohio. 248 u.s. 32. 34 (1918). in re state of new york. 256 u.s. 490. 497 (1920). monaco v. mississippi. 292 u.s.. 313. 32830 1934). ice on account of race. color. or national origin. again. in spite of this unanimous finding by the civil rights commission. the administrations bill entirely iges the field of administration of justice and the attorney general takes the position that part iii is  necessary. we do  agreeand propose that the congress shall have every opportunity to face and deal with this issue on the pending civil rights bills.
under the familiar rule of construction. the court will try to give effect to every part of the law. therefore. the court can say "yes" to that part. without violating the terms of the act. all i say that in the interest of tightening up the legislation i hope that point will be considered.
the second point is this: i ice that on page 8. lines 17. 18. and 19. the representatives of the carriers and organization parties are directed to appoint arbitrators. will the senator state for us again the legislative intent. which i understand to beand if i am in error. i hope the senator will correct methat if the parties fail or refuse to appoint arbitrators. it is contemplated. under section 7. that the attorney general may go into court and obtain a mandatory injunction directing the parties to appoint arbitrators. under the jurisdiction of the court. we may encounter the situation where many of the carriers. or quite a number of them. and the five brotherhoods will  be able to agree on arbitrators. then what happens. the legislative intent should be clearly spelled out. a direction which has implementation except its power to go into court would seem to be sterile. what did the committee intend to be the compulsion which would make the representatives of the carriers and the representatives of the unions carry out the directions of the committee to appoint arbitrators.
 stating: the shock. outrage and anger of american citizens of both races at this callous and deliberate mass murder will make anything less than a strongly reinforced civil rights bill a confession that the federal government is willing to occupy a spectator role in the life and death struggle a beleaguered miity is waging. third. gover wallace. of alabama. can escape the responsibility for encouraging disrespect for law in alabama. which in my opinion creates a climate which at least makes more possible events such as this one. we k there are crackpots and assassins in all tense situations. but when the gover disregards the law. his action creates a moral climate which is far more conducive to dreadful acts of this sort. finally. i dare hope that the aroused religious conscience and sense of fairplan of alabamians themselves will help the federal governmentand i am confident the federal government will do everything humanly possible under lawto bring the perpetrators of this bombing to justice more quickly than otherwise could be done. and will result in more condign punishment. when they are caught and tried in full accordance with law. i do  favor any lynch action. neither does anyone else who is in his right mind. for hing could be more calculated to injure the country in such a time of racial tension.
i merely wished to say to the senator that i submitted a resolution to substitute a microphone system for these rather uselessat least todaysort of inkwell arrangements on the desks. an investigation was made. that is entirely practical and feasible. when i served on the committee on rules and administration i could  get the resolution passed. but i am encouraged by what the senator has said. i most respectfully invite senators. if they are interested. to join with me. and i will resubmit the resolution. i think it is extremely necessary.
i could  subscribe to that policy. first. there is attainder involved. there is implication of guilt. that is why we do  punish a child for a crime of his parent. but the "fallout" in this situation. which the parent caused. would bring a disadvantage to the child. unhappily in our society. this sometimes occurs. the greater wrong is the wrong of denying to any people in the united states fundamental justice.
in terms of the hillburton act. for example. there are a number of court cases. it has been tested in the courts. i am drawing on my memory . and there are many senators who can correct me if i am in error. in the brown case the supreme court expressly stated that it rejected the doctrine of plessy against ferguson. the separatebutequal doctrine. and that it was longer the law of the land. that settles that question. it seems to me.
 of the national italian american antidefamation league. i feel that the hearings currently being held and televised before the subcommittee of the senate permanent committee on investigations. of which you are a member. are giving to the public a grievously false image of the millions of lawabiding american citizens of italian origin. thereby causing a great damage to them. we feel certain that such consequences are  intended to be wrought by the committee. it is our earnest desire to be as helpful as possible to the committee in obtaining its objectives. we believe it can be accomplished without further prejudice to the great body of american citizens of italian origin. we would therefore welcome the opportunity to presenting our views as a pubilc hearing of the committee through former supreme court justice ferdinand pecora. and as chairman of advisory committee of our league. the telegram is signed by samuel difalco. who is one of our distinguished judges in new york. on the surrogate court of the county of new york. i k him well. i k the league. i k judge pecora. i take the floor to assure those of italian extraction in the united statesitaloamericans. as they are often calledthat i can see. for the life of me. how any american citizen in his right mind could for a moment associate these crime syndicates with the communities of those of italian extraction in this country. with which we are so familiar. i think new york city probably would qualify as a city as large as any city in italy. in terms of population of those of italian extraction. i k from firsthand experience that italoamericans in new york city are extraordinarily hardworking and gifted and have made contributions to the city in every conceivable field. in the sciences. in the arts. in banking. in government. one could  find a field to which rich contributions have  been made by them. we are trying to get our hands. in terms of law. on the tentacles of the vast criminal conspiracies and organized crime syndicates. it is  blood that makes a criminal. it is society. i questioned new york police department inspector shanley. police commissioner murphy of new york. and police commissioner andrews of detroit upon this very subject. in each case there was unqualified endorsement of what i have saidthat there is such thing as- an unusual incidence of crime in communities composed of americans of italian extraction. the pattern of crime represents a distinct aberration from the mal. but there is  the remotest implication of unusual incidence or character or responsibility in the community of americans who are of italian extraction. i shall ask the chairman of the committee. the senator from arkansas to hear judge pecora. i hope the senator will grant that request. but whether he does or and i do  think it is essentiali think it is clear to all americans that there is question about the talents. the patriotism. the integrity and the participation in public affairs of those of italian extraction in this country. let us remember that practically every one in this country. including the original settlers from the mayflower. is of european origin. we are of the same boat. class. and quality. the testimony i received from the police officials i have mentioned should underscore the unusually high regard and prestige enjoyed by the community of americans of italian extraction. that is testimony from officials of at least two cities. and i am sure it is generally the thinking everywhere in our great american cities. i hope the national italian american antidefamation league gives to its members the most complete assurance. and through them. to the whole community of those of italian extraction. i hope every american will understand clearly the great debt which our nation owes to the italianamerican community of the united states. and the fact that. as is true of every other group of european racial origin. there is disgrace to them from what has been said by valachi at these hearings. i close on the e of what was said by the police commissioners of new york and detroit. they testified to the extraordinarily unusual devotion to duty and skill of police officials in their departments who are of italian extraction. both police commissioners. interestingly egh. had with them as their principal aides at the hearings high officials in their departments on whom they had placed great reliance. who happened to be of italian extraction. i hope the words i have uttered. together with the facts which are irrefutable. may be of some assurance to italoamericans who may feel deeply about these hearings.
i thank my colleague for his always timely and helpful intercession in the debate. part iii. which my colleague speaks of. of course. is the main pattern which is  inherent in all civil rights legislation. it involves the authority of the attorney general to sue to redress civil rights. it is a power which we have already established with respect to voting. it is one which the administration recommends in school desegregation. it is a power which the senate committee on commerce. following out the recommendation of the administration. recommends with respect to places of public accommodation. the only question about part iii. as discussed in the judiciary committee of the other body. is. shall the attorney general have the right to sue also in other cases. in addition to those which are clearly contemplated even by the attorney general. it is  a question of part iii or part iii. it is a question of how far part iii shall go. if we follow the attorney generals position. we shall be running down the drain one of the most urgent and critical aspects of the civil rights package. which is indispensable. if we are to meet the attorney generals test that civil rights legislation must be adequate to give us public order and tranquillity. what the attorney general is against covers very specifically and distinctly the problem of dealing with the unconstitutional denial to demonstrators. and negroes generally. of their rights as citizens to protest and to meet for redress of their grievances. also the effort to deal with prosecutions. allegedly mal prosecutions. but which are in effect persecutions because of the legal machinery involved. which is based on statutes which themselves are unconstitutional. or because of the way in which the law is administered. or. more simply. the naked and brutal fact of police excesses. all these things the attorney general would omit from redress in the federal courts and would leave to the streets. i respectfully submit that it is  effective civil rights legislation that we shall be passing. it will  meet the test of restoring public order and tranquillity if we omit redress for these acts from the bill. what the administration. through the attorney general. has said about the voting section. about the public accommodations section. or about the education section will  make or break the bill. the question of whether there should be included an fepc section in the basic bill is  the main question. although i feel very deeply that it must be included. this bill is the area where the battle will have to be fought. and it is necessary to have it in the bill. however. the main. serious. important points that the attorney general has said the administration is stepping away from are the questions i have raised. the very issues that have caused riots in birmingham and montgomery. which have brought about the bombing of little children. which so profoundly shocked the country. they are the very issues which the front pages of our newspapers report as the use of police dogs and cattle prods on fellow americans. all these the attorney general would step away from. . . the bill. s. 1693. and the amendment embodying that bill. which has been submitted by me along with other republican senators. with the full determination to propose the amendment as an amendment to any civil rights bill which is debated in the senate. is exactly along those lines and would seek only to protect 14th amendment rights. it is those rights which i have invoked in answering the attorney generals case. but the attorney general retreated much too far. and that is what i cry out against today. in addition. i oppose the idea of loading this responsibility on the back of republicans. which in my opinion is a great disservice to the effort to get bipartisan support for civil rights legislation. including part iii. the apparent acceptance yesterday of the essence of the attorney generals position by the chairman of the judiciary committee of the gther body is clearly dictated by his views as to obtaining the necessary support for civil rights legislation. if we are  to have a tragic retreat on civil rights even before the battle has begun. those of us who are devoted to a meaningful civil rights program at the present session of congress must speak out against it . the republican party may  and should  bear the responsibility which is implied in the statement of the attorney general on the reasons for the administrations retreat from the subcommittees bill. there could be many other explanations inherent in the administrations strategy. therefore. republicans have a duty to express themselves  for the very reason that their votes are indispensable for any meaningful civil rights legislation. and also because the moral status of this issue requires more than the attorney general is supporting. there could be many other reasons inherent in the strategy of the administration. we can count the votes until they are cast. our moral duty to the country and to the issue is so great that i strongly hope that the administration will change its mind and that the attorney general will come back and say. "yes. i do want some change in part iii." i agree with that thoroughly. as i explained. but i do  retreat from it altogether. as he did. it is needed to prevent the people from being subject to indictments and convictions for serious crimes which we k are based on unconstitutional actions or statutes. it is needed to protect municipalities from denying to citizens the right to assemble peacefully and to march to redress their grievances. it is essential to protect against police excesses or police brutality. the police in most places are doing a great job. in my city of new york the police have shown how to do a great job. even with civil rights problems. but when a police officers power is abused. it can be as discriminatory and repressive as the most discriminatory of any of the discriminations that we complain against. i do  wish to see that imposed on any american. negro or . contrary to the constitution of our land without the attorney general of the united states asserting the majesty and power of the united states to protect the right of a citizen of the united states wherever he may be. and in whatever state. and whatever may be his policy on segregation. so i hope that as we speak up. the attorney general will see that we mean business on this question. we will have been here all year. we should  have been here all year in vain. i deeply feel that the attorney general will fall far short of the mark in dealing with the domestic order and tranquillity of our nation if he persists in retreating from a reasonable part iii provision as i have described it.
i wish to express agreement with the senator from rhode island and to tell him that i did  vote for the amendment. because of my emous respect for the courts and the law. the senator is right in presenting this question for precisely that reason. in my opinion. the amendment would deprive the court of its basic function to issue injunctive relief.  only if the suit was  frivolous. but also if the court did  believe there would be any damage that required the whole proceeding to be stayed.
does the senator believe that an underwriter would dare to underwrite or would dare to make a loan with that as the standard in the law. in view of the fact that that is a defense which could be invoked by the united states against anybody. it takes a trial and a jury decision in order to prove it. and the jury decision could go either way. may i give the senator an example. suppose i wish to invest in a housing loan. suppose i send some operatives to investigate. and they fail to look at some bookkeeping analysis or some particular title analysis. and i say. "that is  negligence. my people looked at some other piece of paper. that told them the same thing. or they took the word of a person operating a particular savings and loan association." but the u.s. government replies. "we are sorry. sir. but we do  pay. that is negligence. it has to go to trial. and the jury may decide yes or " is it  a fact that an underwriter who follows the established standard or rule in regard to negligence in connection with torts will  be inhibited at all from going into these risk guarantees.
i think fraud is dishonesty. misconduct is generally considered a violation of some ethical or legal obligation. the word "misconduct" is rather loosely construed. but apparently the underwriting community has accepted this definition. but negligenceas we learn from the decisions of juries every daycan be interpreted in one way or the other. and after the jury has decided. one can argue about it. let me ask this question of the senator from ohio: should it develop. as a practical matter. that the concept the senator from ohio has of the law on this question is  quite in accord with the legal situation. would he then give consideration to adding the words "gross negligence" or some other phrase or clause which would helpalthough it would  necessarily be considered here. because we can do research work on it here. i am referring only to the situation based upon checking back on the senators views as to the law.
 has already ordered an investigation to be made by the fbi. with its report to be made public. other people may have other ideas. which would only.result in so much confusion concerning this terrible. serious. national situation. so i address a plea to the leadership that. within the limits of their authority. they do their utmost to bring about a situation in which. if the die is cast that wayand. as i say. i am sure it can be done. and done superbly wellthe senate committee on the judiciary will be the investigating body. and that everybodys ideas and everybodys desires to get to the bottom of the whole situation may be pooled in that committee. and that its report be the authoritative report to the people. i assure the leaders that the people will  be satisfied with anything but an authoritative report and recommendations on the highest national level. representing the entire nation. if the people are given bits and pieces. many americans will be left dissatisfied. and we would be derelict in our responsibility to the country. i suggest this procedure to the leaders. who i k have the utmost good conscience on this subject. and are most desirous of seeing this dreadful. serious. tragic national duty performed. as i said yesterday. with the dignity that mrs. kennedy showed to the nation we are capable of as a people.
this matter of the use of federal funds to support discriminatory activities is one which deserves specific attention from president johnson in view especially of the number one priority he has given civil rights. wholly apart from the civil rights bill which deals with this only in part. most of the federal agencies recognize a constitutional power or duty at this time. even before passage of the bill. to deny federal funds to segregated state programs. but all of them do . most particularly the department of health. education. and welfare. the president should see to it that the executive branch is consistent in applying what should be. and undoubtedly is. presidential policy. a presidential statement to this effect would clarify this point. as well as infuse all departments with enthusiasm in carrying out the policy. i believe that if a discharge petition is signed -in the house and if president johnson will take executive action with respect to these leakages in the federal establishment. which are supporting state segregated programs with federal help. we shall begin to make real progress on civil rights and have an opportunity to head off the impending demonstrationsin which people. from sheer frustration. because we have failed to do anything for so many months. may feel they have to restort to the streets again because they can get justice from the congress.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. my name be added as a cosponsor of the bill to amend the federal firearms act to further restrict the use of instrumentalities of interstate or foreign commerce for the acquisition of firearms for unlawful purposes. introduced by the senator from pennsylvania .
the senator made one point which i believe needs clarification. he said the terms of the ervincooper amendment could have been revised by eliminating the provision that held up all payments until there was a court test. to which there was considerable exception. in fairness to my colleagues who are very much interested in the ervincooper amendment. let me say that i personally proposed exactly that change. all the senate conferees supported it. the house conferees. however. promptly voted it down. that was the end of it. we really tried to have that provision accepted. this was  a cursory matter. it was argued during the whole session of the conference. i proposed that change. and the senate conferees went solidly with it. however. we could  get anywhere with it with the house conferees.
. when i vote on the question of agreeing to the conference report. i shall be voting in good conscience my conviction that thisproposal is constitutional. furthermore. the supreme court itself. if it ever gets the case. will have to. consider the fact that usage and prac-. tice over the years have shown acceptance of the plan incorporated in the billnamely. that congress has shown. by its usage and practice. that it is  endemic in the constitutional scheme that every grant to a sectarian institution is necessarily unconstitutional. instead. that will depend on the purpose for which it is intended.
. i should like to answer the senator from maine. whom i admire and respect. i- am sure that she understands our sincerity. what is important is that the departments. as the senator ks. pay the strictest attention to the views of the appropriations subcommittee before which they appear. what happens when there is a kind of consolidation of view in a matter of this character is that. the request having been considered and  granted. the department becomes very loath to shift its employees around. in addition. it strengthens the other elements of the bureaucracyand i say that kindlyin the department. particularly when. as here. the positions are authorized in the words of the committee report and they are identified as being earmarked for the tax and civil divisions. as to the question of coupling these items together. especially since the amounts of money involved are so irrelevant to the issues involved. we should really pay attention to the maxim that justice deferred is justice denied. as these positions are needed to do justice in an area as to which there is such a broad consensus. namely. the voting rights area. i hope the chairman of the subcommittee may be prevailed upon to accept a proposal for a reasonable sum. egh to carry the program for the next 6 months.
first. i am deeply gratified by the senators rising at this particular point to speak. he could have chosen any time he pleased. i appreciate very much being associated with him on this subject. it is most important that we on our side and the senator from montana. who is such a distinguished leader on his own sidethe majority leader of the senate--should give some sense of feeling to the world that. first. we support our government and that we are more determined than ever to uphold the morality and justice of the policy that we are pursuing. second. i believe it must be made manifest to the world that we are  unreasonable. blind. or digging our heads into the sand. we understand that there is such word as "forever" in any lexicon. but. as the senator has properly said. at the present time we believe that president de gaulles policy is most inimical to free men everywhere. the expression of that feeling in so august a body as the senate. gives heart and strength to those who would carry on with the more difficult policy by far which we have been pursuing and which so many nations in the free world have been following with respect to communist china.
. i believe this was a grave mistake. a serious blow to american opinion. in addition. our hearts bleed for the families involved in these unnecessary deaths. beyond that. it puts in jeopardy the efforts which so many senators are making on both sides of the aisle to find areas of agreement in which the deep causes of grave danger to the world may be reduced. i hope very much that these fine officers will  have died in vain. that the lesson may sink in that in such an explosive situation they should  be so quick on the trigger. but should ask questions before shooting if we wish to maintain a framework in which there is hope for negotiation and agreement on the part of our great nations. the united states and the soviet union. in respect to the serious questions with which we are faced.
i support my colleague from new york in his eloquent plea to the senate. this is a unique application of a tax. it affects one single item of wearing apparel for womenhandbags. the senators amendment is designed to exclude it from the classification of a luxury. i hope the senate will grant this measure of justice and remove the discrimination that exists against handbags in favor of other items of apparel which are  subject to tax.
. i read with the greatest interest the statements of the majority and miity leaders yesterday on the issue of civil rights. a subject concerning which. i state with deference. i have had something to do throughout my public life. i would like  to comment upon it. the aura cast around the subject by the statements of the majority leader and the miity leader was most creditable. and certainly apposite to the historic and serious character of the great debate in which we are about to engage. first. i should like to pay my respects and tributes to the senator from montana and the senator from illis for the enlightening and patriotic spirit which dictated the very important proncement which each of them made. i have been deeply involved in this issue. and undoubtedly will be throughout the debate. and would like to make a statement generally. also for the purpose of setting the stage for the civil rights debate. the senate is a very different institution from the house of representatives. this is the only legislative body in the world in which a miity of senators may. and often has. prevented. by means of a filibuster. the majority from coming to a vote. or has imposed its terms upon legislation by means of a filibuster or the threat of a filibuster. the proposed civil rights legislation from the house of representatives will need.  a majority vote. as called for by the constitution. but a twothirds vote. as compelled by the senate selfmade rule xxii. the quest.on is and it is the question inherent in everything that was said yesterdaycan this archaic rule be made to work so that the civil rights bill can be passed as the peoples representatives wish it to pass. the civil rights act of 1957 was passed by the senate by a vote of 72 to 18. and the act of 1960 was passed by the senate by a vote of 71 to 18. etheless. somehow or other that legislation was  written by the 71 senators who were in favor of the bill. but what was written in it was very heavily conditioned by what the miitythose who voted against itthought it ought to contain. although cloture has never been invoked on a civil rights bill before and although rule xxii remains an unreasonable barrier to the consideration of such bills. i believe cloture can be invoked  because there is a broad consensus in favor of this bill unlike anything before experienced on a bill of this nature. never before has the whole nation been so genuinely moved by the need for civil rights legislation as it has been moved by the tragic experiences which began with the birmingham riots and the impressive. disciplined. and solemn march on washington in august of last year. for the first time. a broad range of americans recognize  only the moral imperative involved in giving enforceable meaning to the constitutional guarantees of equal opportunities. but also the tragic alternative of a resort to the streets. with all its potential for violence because the government has  reasonably interposed its justice through law to answer the negroes legitimate grievances.
 of the united states ap-" pealing to him to urge action by the senate foreign relations committee where the geide convention has been bottled up since 1950. the administration replied that "it was the intention of the administration to ratify the geide convention upon receiving the advice and consent of the senate." but it did  indicate that it would take any action to urge the foreign relations committee to report out the convention which has been pending before it for 14 years. the support of the united states for the geide convention. which has been ratified by 66 nations including the u.s.s.r.. is essential to the outlawing of this terrible crime against humanity. i have many times called for action to ratify this convention and i shall continue to do so because i believe the united states can avoid making a decision on this issue. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the resolution on the geide convention adopted by the federation of jewish womens organizations. representing 350 groups in greater new york. at its 68th anniversary convention. january 15. there being objection. the resolution was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:
. i thoroughly agree with my colleague. i also point out that if the money remained in the treasury. it might ultimately be available for claimants who later became u.s. nationals. but who were only residents of the united states.  citizens of the united states. at the time of the taking of the property in one of those countries. the department has assured us that if alien property funds are left after payment of contemporaneous u.s. citizen claims. these are the uses to which they would be put. so. whether the property be used for educational purposes. as my colleague has suggested. or for the purpose of doing a degree of justice to those who became u.s. nationals at a later date than the law  permits for claims. this money would be very well usedand much better used than if it were returned to persons who. as shown by the very fact of the existence of this treaty itself. were found to be members of the nazi party or applicants for membershin in the nazi party.
. i point out also that the department of justice has always had reservations about this treaty. indeed. referring to page 9 of the committee report. the chairman. while questioning a witness. saidbefore you do. my understanding is that the department of justice had reservations about the treaty before. and  supports it. is that correct.
. the debate is historic. it starts . matter what intervenes. and i have little doubt that. whatever may be the views of any of us. there will be an intervening bill here and there. the debate will go on for weeks. one thing must be said immediately. for in my judgment it characterizes the nature of the debate in a way in which it was  characterized in 1957 and in 1960. that is. we have had such evidences of the danger to public order and tranquility in respect to the civil rights struggle that i do  see how we can  debate the whole issue except in the light of our duty to do justice under the constitution. to uphold the morality of the country. and also to maintain public order and tranquility. which is equally at stake in respect to this great debate. in addition. as our problems in the world become greaterand they are becoming greaterthe premium upon a country well knit together. integrated with faith and justice. without major causes for public dissatisfaction and disgruntlement. becomes all the more commanding. for all those reasons--and for the basic ecoic reason that if we can bring the american negro to his proper status in american society. the result will be a great ecoic gain. variously estimated at $17 to $30 billion a year in sheer ecoic terms. for all these reasons the debate is historic. the decision which the senate will make upon this appeal is historic. every element of the controversy assumes vital national characteristics. the thing that puzzles me about the presentation of the senator from oregon. who asks those of us who are interested in civil rights to send the bill to a committee. is as follows: if the ruling of the chair were to be overturned. the bill would automatically be referred to a committee and it would promptly rest there forever. that is where it would be buried. this is the history of the senates experience with civil rights bills sent to the judiciary committee. on the other hand. as i read the rules. if the senate sustains the chair and the bill goes to the calendar. the senate will have the control overwhether or  it will send the bill to committee. and for how long. unless the vote is to sustain the chair. senators may be denied the very control which is pleaded for. so if the senate wants control of the bill. if it wants the power to decide when it will call it up or when it will send it to committee. if it wants the power to determine how long the committee shall keep the bill or when it will report it. it should sustain the chair. otherwise the senate may be relegated to the discharge procedure under its rules. which is difficult because there is involved the question of discharging a committee without consent of the chairman. which is practically never done. i have tried it. my colleagues have tried it with civil rights bills that have slumbered in the judiciary committee for a year or 2 years. until the senate adjourned therefore. with all this involved. such a course would be inappropriate. so. as far as we can see . if we wish to have full control of the legislation. the thing the senate should do is sustain the chair. to make sure the bill stays on the calendar. if it goes to committee automatically because the chair is overruled. the fat will be in the fire. and there will be involved the time hoed custom of having the judiciary committee sit on the bill. and the recourse would be to discharge the committee. which is practically never done. as senators well k. the next question is the legal question to which i  address myself. is the senator from georgia correct in his contention that there is an inconsistency between the legislative reorganization act of 1946. and the rule which predates it. rule xiv. which is  being invoked. there is a very well established rule of legal interpretation on the question of inconsistency between two statutes. insofar as the senate is concerned. its rules are. for it. tantamount to a statute. just as much in force and effect as the legislative reorganization act itself. that whole body of law is summed up in the concept of the word "inconsistent." is it inconsistent. the courts have stated many timesand there is really need for a citation. because it is such. hornbook lawthat the courts will make every effort to reconcile two different laws and to do all that humanly can be done to keep them consistent. rather than make them inconsistent and therefore strike one of them down. that is a very common rule-
. yesterdays decision by the u.s. supreme court refusing to review the hillburton antisegregation ruling of the fourth circuit court of appeals was a most welcome development for me. for many years i have sought to eliminate from the hillburton hospital construction act this lingering vestige in federal law of the longdiscredited separatebutequal doctrine. in this congress i introduced once again a bill. s. 1218. to repeal that language in the act. and i have offered amendments to several appropriation bills to achieve this purpose. at the same time i have taken the position that the department of health. education. and welfare. which administers the act. has the constitutional power and obligation. even without further legislative action. to disregard that patently unconstitutional language when approving applications for funds under the act. early last year i requested all the federal departments and agencies to give me their views on their power to withhold federal funds. collected from all in taxes without regard to color or race. from state and local projects which are segregated or discriminatory. most of the departments have ackledged such a power and obligation without the need for further federdl legislation. and i have placed in the record. as has my colleague. the senator from michigan . their answers as they have come in. the department of hew has  completed its answer. and i ask unanimous consent that my original letter to the department and its answer be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
. i have one further word of a somewhat personal character. and then i shall be through. one thing that we who are for civil rights must be careful about is that we are  thrown by the counterthrusts that we had better go back and take care of new york. or we had better go back and take care of illis. and that we had better leave the south to its own devices.  will i accept from anyone. as i stated at the beginning of the debate. the statement that i do  have as much respect for every american who lives in the south as i have for every one of my own constituents and for every other american. i shall do my utmostand if i am wrong. i hope to be correctedto sustain the dignity of every southerner represented in the senate. he is just as fine an american as one can ask for. it is also right and just. when senators from southern states try to show me or other senators from the th the error of our way on one issue or aher. that we show them the error of theirs. we deeply feel this way. and believe that all the interests of the country require that these laws be passed. so i will  acceptand i stated it in advanceany idea that this debate is directed against the south. i will  accept the idea that we can equate what is happening in the city of new york with its racial imbalance in the schools. or in some other city in the united states. with what is happening in the social system in the south. they are as different as day and night. for this reason: in the th. public opinion. government. and law are directed toward attaining a different measure of justice from that applied in the south. we may be deficient. we may be recalcitrant. we may often be unwise. stupid. or blind. but at least our motivation. and frame of law. and public opinion are dedicated to an effort to do justice. when we go into certain areas of the south. the fundamental social system. organization of government. and public climate of the country are exactly the other way. this is as much of a difference as the difference between day and night. this must be made clear in the debate. any senator from the south will be at perfect liberty to say that i am wrong. that they are equivalent. and i ought to go back and take care of new york. that is his privilege. but at least it is my privilege to make clear the position i take and why i take it. so. i agree with the majority leader that this will be a historic debate. it will become much hotter and take more time in terms of the sessions of the senate than the majority leader believes at the moment. or at least that he has indicated he believes. i think we may ultimately have to resort to cloture. we may see a historic first. in the fact that a civil rights bill will at last be permitted to come to a vote because of cloture. the country and the season certainly deserve that. but the ground rules are very clear: a most intense bipartisan cooperation in the best of good faith. a timetable limited by the fact that onetenth of the nation is really outraged about this matter. let us mistake that . third. a moral feeling that we are trying to validate the constitution. that we are  in any way in doing so. casting aspersions upon our southern brethren. but we believe what the senate is doing is for the best interest of the nation. we therefore feel that. in this tense time for the nation and the world. the issue must be pressed home. this is a historic moment. the timetable in terms of public order and tranquillity is clear. the bipartisan possibilities for cooperation were never more auspicious. the need in terms of the domestic needs of the united states and the position which it has in the whole world was never as great. i hope we may go forward into this high. historic mission with that sense of determination.
. i should like to reply to the senator from georgia for 1 minute. we can require anything. the senator from georgia ks that. his speech is a beauty. but he ks as well as we do that he and his colleagues may debate the motion for as long as they please. until the senate votes cloture. the only reason i say that is so that the country may k that we can control anything. we can persuade. we can implore. what senators in opposition to the bill wish to do. they will do... it is their privilege to speak. just as it is ours. this debate will be addressed to america. i believe the impact of america will be brought to bear ultimately upon this subject. that is the only reason why i speak . otherwise. there would be point to it. we all understand the right of senators to speak to this issue for as long as they wish to speak. within the rules of the senate. i do  implore. i do  control. i am  thirsting for battle. but i believe that the struggle in which we are engaged is critical for the nation as a whole. i respect the sincerity of the senators from the south. including the senator from georgia. in feeling that it is critical for their section of the country and for the nation. as well. i respect them. but i think we ought to be equally respected. and i shall say so as many times as the senator fromgeorgia makes it necessary for me to say so. this is an equal contest. the jury is  in the box. the jury is the american people. i have egh faith in our institutions to believe that the american people will make their weight felt. i will  sit here and have my cause either denigrated or demeaned. any more than .i expect those who oppose the bill to have their cause denigrated or demeaned. i shall rise upon every occasion to make that plain.
subsequently said: . the debate on the newsletter was an interesting exercise in throwing dust into the air. but one point of substance does emerge. and that is that there should be spread upon the record the basic points which are made in the newsletters. so that if anyone chooses to read them he may have the benefit of the discussion by the member or members sponsoring them. i believe the legal distinctions made in newsletter  2 were entirely correct as they relate to the constitutionality of title ii of the bill. i shall restate them . the first point made against the bill in the speech of the senator from mississippi on tuesday with respect to constitutionality was that discrimination in places of public accomm6dations can be barredreferring to stores. motels. motion picture theaters. gas stations. and so forthunless state action is involved through a state statute requiring segregation. the senator from mississippi cited the civil rights cases of 1883 to support his contention. the newsletter states that there are two fallacies in this argument. the present title iithe newsletter statesis based on the 14th amendment only when discrimination or segregation by an enumerated establishment is supported by state actionwhereas aher part of that section defines state action for the purposes of title ii as being within the amendment if carried out under color of any law or custom or usage required or enforced by officials of the state or political subdivision thereof. this is an entirely sound view and proceeds from new cases as well as the 1883 supreme court decision referred to. which we interpret quite differently from the way the senator from mississippi does. the new cases are those which define what state action is. whether carried on by force of law or by force of authority expressed in a particular community as representing the governmental action of the state. the leading supreme court decisions on this score are the case of lombard v. louisiana. 376 u.s. 267. decided in 1963. and the earlier case of burton v. wilmington parking authority. 365 u.s. in both cases it was made clear that a law. statute. or ordinance is  required. and it was specifically held in the latter case that the assertion of authority by governmental officials is adequate and demonstrates the position. of the governmental body sufficiently to come within the meaning of "state action" under the 14th amendment. i believe that is a proper conception and interpretation. and that title ii is entirely constitutional under the 14th amendment. also. title ii depends upon the commerce clause of the constitution. reliance by the senator from mississippi on the socalledhoward johnson case. is misplaced. because in that case a howard johnson restaurant was  held to be open to negroes merely because the 14th amendment and the commerce clause are in the constitution. without legislative implementation. whereas. in title ii. we are expressing in terms of law. the implementation of the commerce clause. which was precisely what was lacking in the howard johnson case. the court has held. in the case of national labor relations board against jones & laughlin steel corporation. that "the power to regulate commerce is the power to enact all appropriate legislation for its protection and advancement." as the testimony both before the house judiciary committee and before the senate commerce committee show. it is a burden upon interstate commerce. as pursued by negroes. to deny them the utilization of such facilities. therefore. title ii is entirely constitutional. finally. objection was made by the senator from mississippi . in his very interesting and informative address. based on the fact that a restaurant or hotel or other small establishment. in which we seek to prohibit discrimination on the grounds of color. and so forth. stated in title ii. may  appear to be a significant aspect of interstate commerce. it may  be a significant property in size. it might be a very small establishment. having what may appear to be an insignificant effect in respect of interstate commerce. that question is answered in wickard v. filburn. 317 u.s. 111. involving a farmer who sowed 23 acres. it was held by the supreme court that. though it was a small amount. nevertheless it did have effect and impact. when there was taken into consideration the totality of all the particular such acts in interstate commerce. sufficient to justify congressional legislation. this was set down as: "fallacies in senator stennis discussion on public accommodations." i use those words from the bipartisan civil rights newsletter number two. although i do  fancy the word "fallacies." i believe this is a legal question. with respect to which we are absolutely correct. and on which i do  agree with the construction of the senator from mississippi. i adopt the substantive argument. as a lawyer. i believe. upon the grounds stated. that title ii is entirely constitutional. i shall support it. and i believe every other senator can support it as being entirely constitutional and in accordance with the cases cited. we who are proponents of the bill should expose our arguments to rebuttal and refutation on the floor of the senate. i see hing improper in also putting them in writing. so that other senators may be informed. however. i agree that it would be well to buttress them with oral presentation so that they may. if our opponents choose. be answered.
in the first place. it is a fact that the bill was based on a vast amount of work that had been done by the subcommittee. and it represented various compromises which the democrats and the republicans who favored civil rights had agreed upon. what the justice department did. as i understand. was to cast it into proper statutory language. therefore. i do  believe. in all fairness. it can be said that it was a sudden. brandnew approach which one had ever heard about.
. without granting for a moment the merit of the senators statement. i will say that. as to money spent by the department of justice through its lawyers. congress can grant that money or can withhold it. what i am contending is that when the state of mississippi devotes its money to this purpose. congress should withhold money in grants to the state of mississippi. the federal government should find that that is the wrong way to spend the money. we can pass upon funds appropriated to the department of justice for its own use. but we are  given that opportunity so far as the state of mississippi is concerned. we do  control the states expenditures. we are  in a position from which we can either authorize them or reject them. theoretically. the state of mississippi is spending its own money. actually it is spending money that it has received for federalstate programs. which would reduce the obligation. in that regard. of the u.s. government. i make that point strongly. the amount involved in this instance may be $100.000. but once we have gone along with the principle. the amount could be millions of dollars. it could be any amount. what would there be to prevent mississippi from running an advertising campaign from one end of the united states to the. other. if the federal government made it possible by making good the deficits in the states own programs because of the low per capita income of the people of mississippi.. we have a perfect right to protest that. and that is what i am doing.
i shall ask the department for a statement on the genesis of this proposal. then it can be placed in the record. i think that is the best way. my reason for feeling as i do about title ix is that where there is a difficulty. there should be a complete remedy. when cases involving federal constitutional issues are confined to certain state courts. they are surrounded by the difficulty of getting a court. which operates within a certain social framework within a state which is pursuing a certain social order or policy. to protect the rights of certain individuals under the federal constitution. congress has already provided for removal of such cases from the state courts to the federal district courts. the decision of the federal court acceptng such a casethat is. denying a motion to remand to the state court-.s presently reviewable on appeal. but a decision the other way. remanding the case to the state court is . title ix of the bill would simply equalize the opportunity to appeal. it seems to me that this is a very necessary provision in cases where there is a difficulty or grievance which one is seeking to redress.
it does  mean that at all. it means that whether a general rule or regulation is adopted would be left discretionary with the department. and if one had been adopted. that general rule or regulation would. itself. be subject to court review. if one had . been adopted. the secretary in charge. would be required to make the decision. as each case arose. pursuant to the terms of this statute. and subject to court review as to whether in his decision he was complying with the terms of this statute.
as for the vexation of going to the supreme court. what about the hundreds of cases of poor people trying to get their children into public schools. with an average case costing $17.000. who have had to go to the supreme court to assert that right in the absence of a bill of this character. but here we are discussing the subject of a state going to the supreme court. because state activity has been challenged. we are  talking about some poor. beaten up individual going to the supreme court when we deal with this section. it seems to me the equity is completely disparate. we are talking about state power. going to the supreme court with its attorney general and allthe resources of the state. to protest any rule like that of a government department. i respectfully submit that that is a perfectly proper provision.
i heard with great interest the senators comment about the judges of the district courts. with the senator indicating. if i am  mistaken. that because the attorney general recommended them to the president for appointment. perhaps they might have some feeling about what the attorney general came into court to do. i should like to ask the senators comment on this news item. it comes from jackson. miss.. and it appeared in the new york times of march 9. 1964. it relates to the first judge appointed by president kennedy under the 1961 law expanding the number of federal judges. and to a proceeding before that judge by. apparently. the u.s. attorney seeking under the civil rights acts of 1957 and 1960. to require the madison county voter registrar to handle negro applicants more expeditiously. this is the way the judge is quoted. i shall be glad to hand this news item to the senator: at yesterdays hearing judge cox. the first judge appointed by president kennedy under the 1961 expansion of the federal judiciary. repeatedly referred to negro applicants as "a bunch of niggers." i continue to quote from the article: judge cox agreed that "it is all right for them to get in line if they want to. i guess." he said. however. that it seemed "most of them were just grandstanding. they ought to be in the movies instead of being registered to vote." "who is telling these people they can get in line and push people around. acting like a bunch of chimpanzees." he asked. i ask unanimous consent that the entire article be printed at this point in the record.
if the senator will allow me to say so. without his losing the floor. i would merely say that i believe the very reason why federal judges are appointed for life is that it is expected that such tenure will give them independence. and that. plus the right of appeal to the court of appeals and the supreme court. is as likely to produce independence of thinking and to produce an administration of the proposed law. which would be essentially a law to permit suits to be started. such that. if anything. would be weighted on the side of deliberation and fairness. i see hing in the whole bill that provides for anything more than minimal. the ever present reliance on the judiciary for enforcement is one of the big reasons why it is only minimal in its application. and it is extremely desirable and important.
i have the highest regard for the senator from th carolina as a lawyer. i state it as my considered judgment that the section is capable of only the interpretation which i have made. in my own best judgment. quite apart from being a civil rights proponent. in all sincerity. i believe that any other interpretation would be tortured other than that which a court would make. i state that to the senator from th carolina in all sincerity as a lawyer. and on my ho as a lawyer.
 yet. i would say the final view as to percentage has  yet been determined. but we feel that the present percentages need improvement. the board of education is endeavoring to improve them. as to boycotts and counterdemonstrations. let me point out. first. that in new york they can be made. and are made. without suppressive police action. second. the reason for them on the part of those who boycotted is that they feel that the board of education plans which were annced did  go far egh in that respect. incidentally. a new anncement with some additional planning toward the same end is due this week. perhaps as early as today. with respect to the counterdemonstrations. they are due to the fear of compulsory transfers and the fear of what would happen if negroes were introduced in greater numbers into schools where they exist in lesser numbers . my own view as to the boycotts is that i deprecate them. etheless. people have a right to express their views in any way they choose. however. in my judgment. they may  be permitted to violate the law. i hope the boycotts will  continue. i am glad to see that the second boycott was less intensive than the first. however. i do  believe we have a right to expect any other eventuality than boycotts if we do  respond to the very sincerely and deeply held views of people. backed by our educational authorities. that we should do the very best we can in the field of racial imbalance. also. i deplore and deprecate the counterdemonstrations. for the same reasons. i believe the fears are unwarranted and do  take into account the social needs of our community. i deeply feel that the educational. governmental. and social climate in new york is such that there exists the will to adjust the situation in a fair way. we do  have perfection. so we have boycotts on one side and counterdemonstrations on the other side. i deeply feeland it has been the whole thrust of my statements on this subjectthat. even granting boycotts and counterdemonstrations. the atmosphere of a desire to do justice in this matter. and serve the best interests of society in a way that i think is most conducive to the national interest. is most auspicious in new york. i wish the same attitude and climate existed throughout the country. then i think the country would be under a less grave threat of serious disorder than would otherwise be the case. we are under a grave threat. and indeed we are actually undergoing it in certain parts of the country.
i said before. and i believe i said it better than i shall be able to say it again. that there is a brick wall which keep senators like the senator from georgia from being ready to accept what we are ready to accept: the difficulties and imperfections and dynamism of human conduct. and the struggle. at least. for the justice and equality of opportunity that it deserves. there is a difference between societies. i believe that the society for which the senator is contending. with all of its order and regularity. is archaic. and does  give a great number of people the opportunities they deserve. in my judgment. it imposes great restraint upon the majority and upon their development. after all. the development of the socalled poor whites in the south has been hing to write home about. i do  believe it is a course which our country desires to choose. however. to get the senators to admit it will take a much better man than i am. i pose this difficulty between us. which is that we are ready to admit all the imperfections. but that we are ready to deal with them. we do  believe that the america which our distinguished. and generally very engaging and friendly. colleagues are contending for is the america of today or tomorrow. that is the real essence of this debate.
. i oppose the morse motion. on a very fundamental ground. i entirely reject the charge that we who are the proponents of the bill and the opponents of the morse motion wish somehow to transgress. avoid. step away from. or forget about the rules of the senate. . every rule of the senate has the same standing as any other rule of the senate. the senator from oregon invokes the rule which enables him to move to refer the bill to a committee when it became the pending business. we invoked rule xiv. which enables a bill. when it comes from the other body. to be placed directly on the senate calendar after a second reading. a rule which is used to avoid interminable debate in committee. especially in regard to vital legislation which the people of the united states may need. what is wrong with our using the rules for a change. indeed. it is high time that we did. there is lack of precedent for our use of the rules. the civil -rights bill of 1957 was passed by the use .of the rule. and it is theonly meaningful civil rights law on the books. the 1960 bill. which went to committee. turned out to be a weak and emasculated piece of legislation. what did the committee do with it. i hold up the report of the committee on the 1960 billone short sheet of paper which only says. in effect. "we send it back to you." what does that do to the argument of the senator from oregon about how much the supreme court is going to read out of the findings of the judiciary committee. it blows that argument out of the water. this short paper is the total finding of the judiciary committee. and hing more. there is talk about legislative intent. senators already have a report on this bill from the judiciary committee of the house of representatives. over 150 amendments were considered by the house when the bill was on the floor39 of them were adopted. i have little doubt that a good many of those will be incorporated in the law. if we are seeking to ascertain the intent of congress. we must look to the debates in the house. we must look at the committee report of the house. just as we must look at the debates in the senate. especially the statements of senators in charge of the bill. this is traditional. there is hing unusual about it. the only thing that could result from adoption of the motion would be receipt of a report by the senate judiciary committee which. according to the promise of 1960. will contribute hing to the record. so much for the rules of the senate. we are obeying them. we are invoking a rule. rule xiv is just as good as any other rule in the book. the other part of the argument is that it is somehow good for the proponents of the bill to have the committee consider the bill. let us see how good it is for the proponents of the bill. we have been debating for 15 days the motion to take up the bill. on previous occasions. motions to take up civil rights bills have been debated by opponents of the bills for 8 or 9 days or more. according to the rules of the senate. if the bill goes to the judiciary committee. as proposed. when the bill comes back to the senate it will go on the calendar. it will lie over for 1 day. then what will happen. it will again be subject to a motion to take up. and who is to tell us how long consideration of that motion will take. the pending motion is in reality a motion to reargue the point of order with respect to the procedure under rule xiv. on which the senate has already passed. the senate sustained that procedure 2 weeks ago by a deliberate majority vote when the point of order was overruled. that is all the situation comes down to. we have put our feet on the path of bringing the bill before the senate. a path dictated by everything that was said by my colleagues from new york. michigan. and other states. because of the fact that. matter how one slices it or dresses it up. the judiciary committee has been the timehoed graveyard of civil rights legislation. so it is  less than deserved that the bill was taken up in this manner. i have personally labored on this floor. in efforts to try to discharge the judiciary committee from consideration of a civil rights bill of a most elementary character. and to avail. i am  going to say that. if the senate orders the judiciary committee to return the bill to the senate in 10 days. it will  do so. i do  think any committee would defy the senate in that way. i am  going to enter into arguments which are  germane and fundamental to the issue. but i do argue that we are using the rules of the senate. and that one rule of the senate is entitled to as great respect as any other rule of the senate. we are  bypassing anybody. the history of the judiciary committee. including references to it by this body under these circumstances. indicates that it would be a practically meaningless exercise. the last point. and a very important one. is. "where are the problems in respect to this bill. and are we going to get any help with these problems if we send the bill to the judiciary committee." my colleague the senator from arizona addressed himself somewhat to that point. although the speech of the miity leader has  been made. i have had the privilege of receiving a copy of his speech. i do  think there will be any opportunity to reply to that speech other than this one. for a few moments i shall deal with the generic argument that the bill is very "woolly" and requires clarification. that many of the provisions require resolution. and that therefore reference to the judiciary committee is required. first and foremost. i have already made it clear that we are  going to get very much from the judiciary committee. second. since there were 155 amendments proposed in the other body. one can bet his bottom dollar that plenty of amendments will be proposed in the senate. i do  k whether the number will be 154 or 155. but there will be many of them. very probably. some of them will be adopted. as to those. the senate will  have the help of the judiciary committee. and senators will have to fight it out on the floor. in addition. the questions raised by the bill will continue to be raised. and will survive passage of the bill. i have doubt. i will give examples. we can settle anybodys doubts about every phase of a bill. even though it may have gone through the committee process. and even with a cooperative committee which has painstakingly examined the bill line by line over a period of months. when such a bill comes from the committee to the senate. it is still subject to all kinds of doubts. questions. and debate. one can take his choice of any complex bill on the calendar. whether it came from the judiciary committee or the commerce committee. or whether it was the satellite communications bill or any other complex bill. i say as a lawyer. without the remotest disrespect but with the highest regard for views of others who are lawyers. that many of the questions raised as to uncertainties in the construction of the bill  before the senate are  justified by the terms of the bill itself. i shall give a few illustrations. for example. it is said there are some doubts in respect to title iv. relating to public school desegregation. as to whether the language in any way encompasses a private school. or deals solely with public schools. i respectfully submit. on reading section 401(c). that it is crystal clear that the title relates only to a school which is "operated by a state. subdivision of a state. or governmental agency." there can be question whatever about the meaning of those words. it can apply only to a public school. the constitution will  let us apply it to anything else. the fundamental point is made clearly in the legislation itself. aher question raised is. does the power of the attorney general to institute suits. in respect of achieving desegregation in public education. become complicated and uncertain by reason of the fact that desegregation is defined  to mean assignment of students to public schools in order to overcome racial imbalance. all the attorney general is given power to do is to sue. the courts will determine the substantive issue under the constitution. as at present. therefore. the intention of congress. as clearly set forth in the statute. seems to be adequate in order to give the court itself constitutional guidelines on which to come to a decision. aher point. of some interest to me. is the question raised with respect to the severability clause in the speech of the senator from illis [mr. dmxseni. the severability clause is "boiler plate" which appears in many federal statutes--founded on hornbook lawso that the act is severable in its various parts when any one part is struck down as applied to a specific state of facts. the supreme court. contrary to popular impression. can declare a section of a law unconstitutional except in a particular case. someone else may sue on a different state of facts. and the supreme court might conceivably come to aher decision as to the constitutionality of that section held unconstitutional on the first state of facts. i have given only a few examples. there are many others. the concern. the doubts. the fuzziness of the issues stated to be present in the bill are of a nature always present in legislation which ultimately will have to be battled out on the floor of the senate. by amendment. debate and discussion. which will clearly set forth what the senate had in mind. we are engaged in this process already. judging from previous experience. our purpose will  be helped or forwarded by sending the bill to the judiciary committee. it is said that a committee report is essential in order to give the supreme court an opportunity to understand what congress intended in writing a piece of legislation which may be subject to more than one construction. it is true that the supreme court will take a committee report into consideration. i have already pointed out that there is a committee report on this matter in the other body. but the supreme court will also take many other things into consideration. especially the authoritative statements made on the floor by senators in charge of the bill. and in the case of amendments. by the assertions made by the proponents of an amendment himself. i refer to a recent supreme court case. southern railway co. against th carolina. which was decided on february 17. 1964. in which both the majority of the court and the dissenters did me the ho of quoting me because i was the proponent of the particular amendment which was before the court on that occasion. that is a personal experience. which after all is the best teacher. in closing. the final and conclusive argument with respect to  referring the bill to committee is the question of what it will mean to the country. what will go out to the united states today if we refer the bill to the judiciary committeethe traditional graveyard. as the country ks. and as the occupants of the galleries k. of previous civil rights measures. it will be written down as the first defeat for civil rights in the senate. and the precursor of emasculation of the bill. there is  egh value to the senate in this referral to outweigh any such conclusion being drawn from the action which the senate might take. that conclusion will be drawn inevitably by the ladies and gentlemen in the gallery. if one else will draw it. that this is the first test of strength with respect to a determination of the senate to enact a meaningful civil rights bill in this session of congress. much has been said about the fact that we should  legislate under any threats or with concern over demonstrations or violence. i thoroughly agree that we should  legislate under any threat. that we should  legislate in order to meet a threat. if the legislation is designed for that purpose and is  in itself a valid exercise of the legislative authority of the united states in our honest conscience and our best judgment. but that is a far cry from answering legitimate grievances which people entertain. which are manifest and clear. in many southern states there are state laws on the statute books. or municipal ordinances. to that effect. which provide that a restaurant may  serve negroes in the same space with whites without first erecting a solid 7foot partition between them. in one state. telephone booths may  be used by whites and negroes alike. there is a fundamental social order practiced in many areas of the united states. the argument is made that. "new york is  so well off. it has its problems in the public schools." for the purpose of this discussion. i will be a lawyer for a moment. in a demurrer. we grant the statements of fact of the other side and still say they are wrong. that is what i say about this issue. let us lay aside all the inequities in the new york situation for the moment. we will be bound by the law created by this bill. there are two more ardent advocates of the law. national and international. than the junior senator from new york and myself. it is one thing to try to remind people that they are violating the law by demonstrations in the streets. which may involve violence because they do  feel they can get justice any other way. and aher thing to say to them. "stay where you are. do  do anything. we do  k whether you will get justice or ." it is one thing to say that we will send the bill to the judiciary committee for 10 days and that when it comes back we will argue again whether it should be the pending business. it is quite aher thing to say we are doing our utmost. within the rules and procedures of the senate and the constitution of the united states. to enact such laws as will bring the people justice. only if we are doing our utmost do we have a right to say to any american citizen. whatever may be the color of his skin. "keep your shirt on. sir. give us an opportunity to do what the national interest requires."
it seems to me that the case which absolutely settled the point was the famous case of united states against classic. the socalled texas white primary case. in that case the court went beyond the question of federal elections into primaries. whether local or -federal. hing was said in the constitution. either in the 15th amendment or in the body of the constitution itself. or in the 17th amendment. with respect to primary elections. yet when the court found that the practice was such as to nullify the guarantees of the constitution with respect to the right to vote without racial discrimination. the court did  hesitate to strike down the practice. our argument is that where it has been demonstrated that the practice or procedure within a state is such as to nullify the right of every elector to be subjected to the same qualifications without discrimination. and where it has been found that if a white voter misspells a word in his application. or if he does  give precisely his right age. or if he makes some other mi error. his application is approved. but in the case of a negro. it would be thrown out. then the courts will find that the congress. in implementing the constitutional guarantee. may properly require that the states qualifications be applied to all voters equally. our southern friendsexcept for a few like the senator from louisiana who was disarmingly frank on the subjectabsolutely refuse to admit -that anything is being done or has been done which represents other than the full and equal administration of the constitutional guarantee of the right to vote. the fundamental issue between us is the absolute refusal on one side to admit that a deep and legitimate grievance has persisted for a long time. which we seem unable to reach. hence the need for a law in order to implement the constitutional guarantee. because the constitutional guarantee has been constantly flouted on such a broad scale. that is the essence of the argument. the reports of the civil rights commission on voting are absolutely conclusive as to the outright and outrageous deprivation of voting rights which has taken place for so long in certain areas of the country
i have listened with the greatest of care to the senators argument and to the enumeration of the criminal statutes that are on the books.  we have the civil statutes of 1957 and 1960. i ask the senator whether our real problem is  that those laws do  work. i ask the senator if he takes issue with the summary of the 1963 report of the civil rights commission. which is composed equally of three southerners and three therners. from which. at page 26. i shall read only one sentence: the conclusion is inevitable that the present legal remedies for voter discrimination are inadequate. i also call attention to the following sentence under "recommendations": abridgement of the right to vote on the ground of race persists in the united states in direct violation of the constitution. . i have pointed out those sentences. i would deeply appreciate the senators comment. the senator has said that complaints have been received from new york. the complaints from new york are to the effect that puerto rican voters. who say that they can qualify in spanish. are required by new york law to qualify in the english language. therefore they can vote if they do  qualify in the english language. but there is complaint from new york that a particular voter is intimidated. or. if he misspells one word. his application is thrown out. or that he waits 8 hours on a line and then is told to come back the next day. or that the sheriff sidles up to him with a gun on his hip and says. "oh. i see you are here to register. that is  a very good idea. is it." and the prospective voter then turns tail and goes home.
the senator has done me the ho of saying i am a good lawyer. i deeply appreciate it. but i say. in quiet pride and in all sincerity i am deeply convinced that the legislation we are proposing is constitutional. i would consider it an ho to defend it. and i would defend it in the supreme court of the united states.
the court has implemented the equal protection clause of the 14th amendment by striking down state action which punishes people because they are negro. in these cases applying the state or local trepass laws to negroes seeking lunch counter service.  because they were trepassers but only because they were negroes. therefore one might say. technically. that if a person arbitrarily sat down in a chair at a lunch counter without any intention of requesting service or. after being served. continued to occupy a seat and would  pay his bill. or in some other way breached the peace by his mere passive conduct. which is entirely possible. the court would say. "this is a state problem. an ordinary crime committed under the laws of the state. and he may be prosecuted under them." that would be the end of it. but where service is sought and denied because the customer is a negro and the state enforces that discrimination by prosecuting for trepass when a white man could sit down in the same place and ask for service in precisely the same way without prosecution. constitutes a denial of equal protection of the laws upon which the supreme court will strike down the conviction. three levels of local condition might justify this result: first. the enacted law of segregation in that communityand there are many such laws. either state laws or local ordinances. that is the highest degree. the second degree consists of assertions by the mayor or police chief. or any other person in governmental authority that segregation would be enforced. law or law. the third degree is the practice of segregation in the area. where. for many years a negro had  been served at such a lunch counter. under the first two circumstances the court has said that the states action in seizing the individual and punishing him is in pursuance of a policy or law to enforce unconstitutional segregation. that decision. i believe. is a milestone decision among such cases. the leading cases are peterson v. greenville. 373 u.s. 244. and lombard v. louisiana. 373 u.s. 267. which give the rationale and philosophy of what was done.
i would prefer to describe the hierarchy as first. a law or an ordinance. mandating segregation. and second. segregation or discrimination which is. using the words of the lombard case. commanded by the voice of the state. that is by an official. and so on. in the third category. i am making an inference from the decisions to cases in which. in my judgment. there is a clear pattern of segregation. so that the person demonstrating has an absolute right to expect that it will be enforced against him. i thank the senator for his very helpful intercession. the attorney general of the united states in very interesting testimony before the house committee raised various questions on the question of authorizing the attorney general to institute suits in any case involving a deprivation of any constitutional right. whether or  based on race or color. since the power to intervene in a small class of those cases. cases of racial deprivation of equal protection of the laws. would be granted by section 302. some of those questions should be answered in support of section question  1 was: "can such a part iii prevent sporadic acts by terrorists or isolated excessive acts by individual police officers in racial situations." let us remember the dreadful history of bombings beginning with the bombing of the home of the reverend shuttleworth as retaliation for the efforts of negroes to realize their rights by peaceful demonstrations. it is true. of course. that all such acts will  be reached. but it is also true. as the civil rights commission found in its 1961 report. that suits. whether criminal or civil. may serve as deterrents to illegal violence: "the threat of suits may well dissuade officials from using unnecessary violence. moreover both criminal and civil suits. by directing public attention to police abuses. may develop community pressure for their correction. such public sentiment can also be expected to deter law enforcement officers from committing. and their superiors from condoning. acts of brutality." the commission also found that the cost of paying for civil suits was so great that it made such suits under existing law almost existent. because "the victims of police brutality and racial violence are predominantly the poor and the powerless." clearly. one effective way to inject this deterrent factor into the situation is to permit the attorney general to bring such suits. i make one further point with respect to the question of police brutality which. if i read the signs in the sky correctly. is gradually creeping into the consciousness of the people of the south. lawlessness can never be confined. it will always break its bounds. if a southern community begins to tolerate lawless actions as a pattern in the protest of negroes. it will soon be visited on protesting whites who may be protesting in connection with matters having hing to do with race. southern communities are beginning to give that problem much thought. and well they might. when we consider the shambles that was made in jacksonville. fla.. by racial violence. which is attributable to an obdurate restriction to the march of time. then we begin to realize what a stake the communities have in the issue. when we realize that birmingham. ala.. began to turn the corner away from police commissioner eugene (bull) cons administration because the city threatened to go to pot ecoically. we begin to have some appraisal of why it is so important that such areas of the country be brought abreast of the times in order to allow them to progress.
i thank the senator from ohio. the next question is as follows: "is part iii vitiated by the fact that  all demonstrations are protected by the 1st and 14th amendments. and therefore  all offensive police conduct in connection with civil rights demonstrations would be within the reach of part iii"-in other words. suit by the attorney general. this would be an extraordinary argument. for carried over to other fields. it would mean that law should ever be enacted until it can be shown that it will be entirely effective in eliminating the evil it is directed against. and this is virtually always the case. yet as i have ed. the civil rights commission after careful study finds that most of the demonstrations have been "within the protective guarantees of the first amendment." why should  those demonstrations be protected effectively. this would be the effect of part iii. would part iii require federal courts to make difficult determinations as to whether a particular demonstration was or was  protected by the constitution. this is true. but it is also true of all the difficult constitutional cases presented to the courts at all times. with or without federal statutes authorizing the attorney general to become involved in them. the state courts are  deciding these questions every day in the many trespass and breach of the peace prosecutions which local authorities have brought against demonstrators. many of these cases are being contested. at emous cost and individual sacrificein many cases serious criminal charges are involvedon the ground that the demonstrators were protected by the 1st and 14th amendments. i have stated that one of the charges in such a case in georgia was sedition. for which the penalty could be death. yet those rights are protected by the 1st amendment and the 14th amendment. the supreme court had great difficulty in deciding the case. which i have mentioned earlier. of edwards v. south carolina. 372 u.s. 229. on appeal from state breach of the peace prosecutions. on just these grounds in january 1963namely. that prosecution for exercising the right to demonstrate peacefully is unconstitutional. a suitable part iii would  require the federal courts to handle any new or unusual question which courts are  already deciding. it would simply authorize the u.s. government to initiate such litigation to protect rights of u.s. citizens under the constitution. rights which individuals are finding extremely difficult and extremely dangerous and extremely trying to redress under existing law. it should also be ed that in the cases. in which under existing law the courts are faced with deciding these issues. there is redress for denials of rights where such denials are finally found. and therefore little deterrence to a repetition of the denial during the next demonstration. the demonstrators convictions under state law are simply reversed. this is an extremely important point. because of the following reason: the edwards case. which i have cited. went all the way to the u.s. supreme court. but 2 years elapsed before the case reached the u.s. supreme court. in the meantime. the defendants were in great jeopardy. and when the same person or same group of persons again walked the streets. carrying placards bearing the inscription "give the negroes their rights." they could be arrested by the same policemen. and the whole process could be engaged in all over again. including trial in the state court. conviction. appeal to the state supreme court. appeal to the u.s. supreme court. and. finally. reversal by the u.s. supreme court. part iii would permit an injunction to be obtained. so as to establish the rights of both partiesboth the police and the demonstratorsand would permit the injunction to be changed from time to time. and it would represent the rules of the game in that particular jurisdiction. therefore. the great uncertainty and great hazards  involved would longer be involved. it seems to me that this is one of the most salutary and effective provisions for which we contend. and a consideration of this situation will cause almost all of us to favor most strongly this provision of the bill. would the courts have to decide in advance what police action might or might  be justified in the fastchanging conditions accompanying demonstrations. the supreme court had difficulty in making the applicable distinction in the edwards case. in which it said of the demonstrators. whose convictions were reversed on this ground. that "there was violence or threat of violence on their part. or on the part of any member of the crowd watching them. police protection was ample." and the court was readily able to distinguish this case from aher case in which the contrary was true. these were cases decided after the fact. rather than in advance of it. but the principle is one which local authorities in areas of the south apparently do  accept. even in the face of clear federal law. that is the principle of allowing peaceful demonstrations. it would. therefore. be of emous value for the attorney general to be able to ask a federal court for an injunctive order embodying this principle. against local authorities who have consistently denied the principle. the deterrent value of such an order. punishable by contempt proceedings. can hardly be doubted. 
. the sessions of the american jewish conference on the soviet jewry held sunday and today at the willard hotel in washington. d.c.. were participated in by leading members of 24 jewish organizations throughout the united states. who protested the antijewish activities of the soviet union. my colleague from connecticut made an eloquent speech last night. as did associate justice of the u.s. supreme court arthur goldberg. i ask unanimous consent that three addresses. one by the senator from connecticut . one by supreme court justice arthur goldberg. and my own. together with sundry newspaper stories referring to the conference. and a newspaper report on the repudiation by the ideological commission of the communist party of the soviet union of a shameful and scandalous antisemitic publication in the ukraine. under the auspices of the ukrainian academy of sciences. be printed in the rzcord.
well. i am rather glad that they do . i would be the first to deplore such a list. america is  that kind of country. matter how deeply the senator from illis and i might disagree with the senator from louisiana and other senators who strongly oppose the civil rights bill. i am sure he ks and i am sure he will be the first to affirm that such thought or shadow of thought would ever cross my mind. i would also hope that it would  be true of any other american. and i say that with great sincerity and feeling. but. having said that. let us also remember the deeply held feelings and the deeply held grievances with which we are faced. let us remember the physical violence which is involved. namely. the bombings and assassinations. let alone the hosings with water and the prodding with electrified cattle prods. and the police clubs. and other forms of repression.  against illegal demonstrations. but against demonstrations subsequently found to be legal. because they were legal. such as modest. orderly walks to the town square. the most elementary aspect of an americans protest to lay his grievances before responsible officials. one need only look at the edwards case. recently decided by the supreme court. in which 187 youths were released for being improperly convicted of sedition. and similar cases. therefore. i address this plea to the public. the public can be completely immune from inconvenience. there will be demonstrations. we all k that. there was a magnificent. orderly demonstration here in washington. one of the jewels in the crown of this movement. on august 28 last year. there will be picketing and meetings. the conscience of the nation will be appealed to. the conscience of many individuals will be troubled. and it might well be. there will be some public inconvenience. therefore. . the public must understand. too. just as in labormanagement matters. and other public matters. there have been picketings in new york. as when white taxpayers negroes this timedemonstrated because they did  want their children taken across the city by bus. and there will be other demonstrations i am sure. it is important that each of us should defend the right of people to picket in an orderly way and within the law. provided the law itself is constitutional. and that effort is made to engage in repression under cover of an unconstitutional law. the last point i wish to make is this: it has been said. and i say it again. that in the senate we face a serious timetable on the civil rights issue. let us  think that this matter can amble along from day to day and week to week without facing the timetable. that timetable. in my judgment. is the beginning of summer. if we can provide. by the beginning of summer of 1964. some reasonable redress at law. and an adjustment of the deeply held grievances with which we are seeking to deal. we shall be inviting grave dangers to public order and tranquillity in our big cities. i have consulted the police chief of my city of new york. i invite other senators to consult with their chiefs of police. about their timetable. we had better realize the dangers that face us as legislators. to those who would say that this represents a threat and that we can legislate under threats. i say let us be just. we have a right to say that. being threatened. we will  act under threats. until we do justice. we have right to complain about citizens who have deep feelings on this subject and who protest in a perfectly legal way because we are . in their judgment. acting reasonably. to deny reasonable measures of justice to deeply agrieved americans. thereby inviting breaches of the public order. is a grade dereliction in our duty and a grave disservice to the national interest.
the senator ks i have high respect for him as a constitutional lawyer. i ed that the senator paid attention whatever in his comment on the barnett case to the foote. which indicated some qualification in the mind of the majority of the supreme court. as one must assume that even a foote is a part of the majority opinion. with respect to the severity of the penalty which exceeds the severity of the offense. although it is  settled law. the court at least allowed the possibility that in its decision the punishment for more than petty offenses might conceivably be the rule that we seek to adopt. the court did  include punishment that would require a jury trial. i wonder whether the senator would care to give his view on that point.
will the senator tell us how he differentiates between his desire in respect of trial by jury for criminal contempt in the proposed legislation we are considering. and the fact that it is  contained in the law in his state.
i am sure we do  always agree with our state laws. except that the contempt procedure has been a longstanding and a timehoed procedure. and the appellate courts have had hesitancy about reviewing the merits of a conviction. if we are to call it that. and also have never hesitated. so far as i k. to favor revising materially whatever punishment the court thought it ought to impose in either civil or criminal contempt cases. also. it seems to me that although this provision which was adopted as between the senate and the house is an odd one. still it does  strike me as being such a bad rule of thumb. it is true that there is deep feeling on the subject on both sides. on the one side. people like myself feel that if we eliminate jury trials. the proceedings would be nullified very much as the criminal sections of the civil rights act are nullified. that is the reason for this kind of civil proceeding. the fact that juries will  act does  mean we can complain about it. i agree with the senator thoroughly. it means that we may have to have some other kind of statute. the jury has a right to acquit as well as to determine guilt. but that is the position on one side. on the other side. considering the senators strong jeffersonian feeling that there ought to be a jury trial. it may well be that what has been finally hammered out as a compromise is by means a bad rule of thumb.
i do  believe anybody could charge any person with violating an oath merely because i may  agree. or others may  agree. with a failure or refusal to indict. remember. an indictment requires a vote by a grand jury of citizens in order to convict. it is  for us to argue that question. but i believe there is a pattern of egh experience to indicate that these statutes fell into disuse because of the judgment of the prosecutor. in cases which he certainly thought desirable. that he could get neither an indictment  a conviction. unlike the senator from th carolina. i had idea that this question would be raised at this moment. if the senator would allow me to do so. i should like to ask unanimous consent to obtain from the department of justice a memorandum as to the experience with this criminal statute. i should like to have the privilege of inserting such memorandum as the department has on this subject. the senator from th carolina could then rebut them. of course.
i went into the question of informations. the senator will readily understand that. in aher way. i am as zealously interested as is the senator in his way. i went into the question of informations and ran into the problem of. having informations sworn out in certain areas. again in view of the feelings of the attorney general himself. so again i ask if the senator will allow me to ask unanimous consent to obtain from the department of justice a memorandum. to be made a part of my remarks on this particular point. concerning the use of criminal statutes in civil rights cases. the senator could then have the benefit of it for rebuttal.
i wish the senator from th carolina would clarify one thing for me so that it may be clear in the rzcord. and so that when a reply is made. it may be directed to the senators specifics. as i understand the senator. he is referring to two bodies of law. one is those sections of title 18 which make a criminal offense of a violation of the civil rights of aher. the other is the section of the law which relates specifically to punishment for criminal contempt in the federal courts of the united states where the contemptuous act also constitutes a crime under federal or state law. under title 18. section 402. unless the united states is a party. the rights of trial by jury apply as they would to the person if he stood accused of that particular crime. do i understand the senator correctly. there are two separate bodies of law to which the senator has referred.
the senator also invoked the fact that if a person guilty of a civil rights violation were charged under the criminal statutes relating to civil rights abuses. then that person would have under the mal rules of law a jury trial.
the fact is. the city of new york should be lauded for trying. i shall  argue about the details. many of which happen to be incorrect. even if it were true. we are trying to do even more than the law requires. what the senator is arguing for is that the south should  even do what our fundamental institutions require. i can understand how people as lawabiding as those the senator is discussing can ever gloss that over on the ground that the supreme court did  order desegregation. for: all practical purposes it did. because there are negro children bringing suit trying to fight their way into school. after all. there are people trying to keep them out. even to the extent of public disorders like little rock and birmingham. in other words. senators from the south would have us believe that we are all deaf. dumb. and blind. that we do  read the papers. listen to the radio. or see the evidence with our own eyes. somehow or other we should shut it all out and let the south live as it did a century ago. it can be done in this modern day. that is all this bill declares.
there will be trouble wherever one tries to enforce the law upon a community which insists on concepts which are unconstitutional. but that does  mean the law has to be rammed down their throats with bayonets. the supreme court has given the south all kinds of latitude. in holding that public school discrimination shall be eliminated "with all deliberate speed." up to the present time. it has been eliminated to the extent of approximately 8 percent of the negro schoolchildren in the south. 10 years after the supreme court decree. it seems to me that that is being accomplished as moderately as human beings. can ever move. so that thereis idea of pushing this decree down anyones throat. instead there is the determination to have a national standard to enforce the constitutional guarantees. of the united states* for everyone. whether white or negro.
i have said on other occasions. in response to the same point. that if one is looking for quiet. the quiet of the tomb is the maximum quiet one can find. but that is  the ecoy of society. i have great respect for the senator from south carolina. i k we are going over the same ground again. just as are our colleagues from the south. but it is most difficult for us to grasp. on the one hand. the argument made so eloquently by the senator a little while ago. and. on the other hand. believe. as we deeply believe. that there is a denial of that very freedom. especially when it has the support and the sanctity of a court ruling based upon specific provisions of the constitution. i am sorry i can convince the senator from south carolina. but it is important to place these ideas in juxtaposition. in view of the fact that by means of the bill it is sought to prevent americans from being deprived of their inalienable freedoms
this issue was thoroughly debated in connection with the civil rights acts of 1957 and 1960. congress agreedin the voting section which was then enactedthat a civil injunctive remedy. rather than criminal penalty. is the only effective remedy. i believe that determined the matter. so far as we in congress are concerned. in the right way. so the question of demonstrations. instead of being a confused one. is a very clear cut one. there is a difference between demonstrations which are repressed. but which are perfectly legal demonstrations. and demonstrations which involve civil disobedience. as in the case of the projected stall in at the worlds fair. demonstrations of this kind are ineffective and are  of any help to us in reaching a solution to civil rights problems. in all this debate. and all the discussion with our colleagues from the south. one thing which has constantly impressed me is their absolute unwillingness to admit for a moment that anything is really wrong. or that anything needs to be corrected. this is a sharp difference from our attitude in the th. where there is strong public opinion on the side of correcting these situations. and where much has been done to correct them. we are more than willing to admit our errors. and seek to correct them by the passage of laws which would apply across the board. i deeply feel that until such time as the scales are removed from the eyes of those who will  see what is going on in the country. we shall have this very deep schism which is reflected in congress by the fact that there is an effort. which is almost traditional. to keep the senate from voting upon this very urgently needed legislation. i feel that the only way in which we can get that issue before the country. and obtain the reaction of the country to what is really at stake. is in this painstaking. careful. casebycase. daybyday. issuebyissue analysis of the points made by the other side.
i should like to discuss this matter with the senator from georgia on that basis. because i do  think either of us can condone for a moment excessive police action. whether in new york or in albany. ga.. and i would  try to have my statement regarded as authority for the new york police to engage in excessive violence. any more than the senator from georgia would. as regards the action of policemen in georgia. i would want policemen to be held accountableboth those in new york and those in georgia. and we do that. so i wish to lay aside that question. for i am  trying to defend the degree of force which was used. but i am trying to make this distinctionwhich i believe a valid onebetween violation of a law which would be constitutional in albany. ga.. just as elsewhere. if attempts were made to block the entrance to a public building or to block traffic. and unconstitutional suppression of the right of free speech. the supreme court itself has held that those who engage in illegal breaches of public safety could be and should be prosecuted and should be restrained by police action appropriate to the wrong and to the amount of resistance they put up. however. i was talking about cases. such as the edwards case. decided by the supreme court. about which the senator from georgia ks.
i wish to agree with the sentiment of the senator. i wish to join in it. i agree with the senator on the law. breaches of the peace are qualitative. i was present during the speech. i heard it. if i could have. as a police chief. i would have required silence.
i would have required silence. if i could that the president is above the law. he himself would be the first to rebut that. as to the heckling of political speakers. even for the president. it is something that occasionally must be endured. if i were the judge sitting on a case involving anything of that character the test involved would be whether it were something which might be conducive to violence. but it was  a terribly serious thing. as i think president johnson will confirm. the point i was making was as to their picketing. their carrying of signs. their being there in the crowd as it was forming. which was  subject to restraint. and the police did  restrain them. as to the disrespect to the president of the united states. i am terribly sorry for it. and if it means anything. i will apologize to him for it. indeed. i did apologize to him for it when we rode back on the plane yesterday.
inherent in this discussion about jury trials is the question whether or  we have any right to expect widespread violations of federal court orders in the southern states. which are resisting the pending bill. what does the senator say. have we any right to expect widespread violations in the southern states of orders issued under the bill if it becomes law.
when the senator says. "the senator might expect it." he is assuming that the senator from new york is  talking as a lawyer. but that the senator from florida is. i do  think so at all. i was asking the question for information. i have said consistently that i refuse to make a judgment based upon whether a jury should convict or acquit. when we reach that point. we can make any distinction between southern and other juries.
coming to the assumption that anyone may violate a court ordereven the socalled stallinners had the court order in mind. even though they felt very strongly on the subjecti believe it is necessary to have this discussion on record. i am glad the senator has stated the issue. he is considered a moderate among the group of southern senators. i believe. by this time i am sure we have reached the point where we can speak more frankly along this line than before.
i said it. i believe that feeling on the part of the senator to be important. the other question i should like to ask him is this: the pending talmadge amendment is a sweeping. acrosstheboard jury trial amendment provision. which is quite different from the provision in the 1957 law. which many of us did  like but which etheless we swallowed. even though it slightly stuck in our throats. so. i ask the senator. when he talks about the jury trial amendment. and is making his case for the jury trial amendment. whether he is making a case for the pending amendment. or for the provision in the 1957 act.
will the senator tell us why he believes a greater jury trial requirement should be placed in this bill. in titles other than title ii. than is  contained in the 1957 act. even if his argument were accepted.
i think that is very important. i should like to bring the senator back to the first point. the question of the likelihood of widespread violation of federal court orders and what offenses should be punishable for contempt. the senator himself has exploded the theory that all contempt questions should be triable by juries. it seems to me that if the senator felt that way. he would have to argue the case with respect to existing statutes which provide for jury contempt proceedings. will the senator tell us why he feels. particularly in civil rights cases. to which the bill applies. that there ought to be jury trial in the event contempt of a court order is committed. at this point in his argument the senator must assume the enactment of the bill. otherwise he has argument. he wants jury trials for contempt orders issued under the bill. can the senator give us his rationale of the applicability of a jury trial amendment to contempt orders issued under the bill.
i thought the senator made his point very well earlier today. i do  want senators to lose sight of it . it has been the law in practically all of the states. including the overwhelming majority of southern states. that punishment for contempt in the violation of a court order could be imposed by the courts without trial by jury. i understood that to be the essence of the colloquy between the senator from florida and the senator from illis this morning. am i correct.
i understood the senator from florida and the senator from illis to agree that it was traditional in our law in practically all states. over a long period of time. that the courts do have the power to punish .contempt of court without a jury trial. i am speaking generally.
i should like to develop the subject with the senator from florida. because i believe i see eye to eye with him on the law. i want to be sure that with respect to the general question of trial by jury for the commission of a crime. which is provided for in the sixth amendment to the constitution of the united states. the discussion does  take us too far off the point which i intended to develop with the senator. as the senator from idaho and the senator from oregon said before. we are trying to design a statute which will  leave the courts powerless to protect their own integrity and their own prerogatives. to me a very significant aspect of the barnett caseand i am submitting it to the senator for his opinionwas found in the foote on page 14 of the opinion in pamphlet form. in which the majority of the supreme court said-
the court. in that foote. said: our cases have indicated that. irrespective of the severity of the offense.the comma is very importantthe severity of the penalty imposed. a matter  raised in this certification. might entitle a defendant to the benefit of a jury trial. i shall  read the rest of the foote. it seems to me that the court begins to develop the concept which is apposite to this case. i would  wish to insult the intelligence of my colleague from th carolina. who is a distinguished lawyer and former justice of the supreme court of th carolina. by making any such argument as that southern juries will  convict." after all. who is god among us. to say a is inent and b is guilty. i appreciate the feeling of the senator from florida. having prosecuted cases myself. i have often thought that some rascals have gotten away. nevertheless. we understand that this is inherent in the system. but we would  seek to substitute any other system for it. consistent with the pattern. when we are trying to devise a system which affects personal rights. we must  lose sight of the fact that courts must have the capability to defend their own decrees within a given factual situation. the supreme court has given us in this footea foote is  a part of the decision. i hasten to add. or stare decisis. but only an expression of a group of judges.  an authoritative judgment by the u.s. supreme courtsomething of the philosophy of a juridical concept toward which the senator from idaho was reaching. toward which the senator from oregon was reaching. and toward which i am reaching. consistent with giving the courts the capability to enforce their own decrees and maintain their dignity and their standing. it is possible. etheless. within this kind of philosophy. which they lay out. to find some way. some basis on which we will cut off the absolute right of a court and will bring the jury into the situation. whether the standard be the 1957 act. which the senator from florida says he was against. and the senator from idaho was for. or some other. but whatever may be the quantitative judgment. i believe it is importantand this is why i asked the senator whether he was for the pending talmadge amendment or whether he was for the standard set in the 1957 actto arrive at a consensus which will implement this foote. which is in the most authoritative and latest decision on the subject. united states against barnett. i would appreciate any comment that the senator might care to make on that point.
there is a point that i do  believe has been covered. it is very important. as it arises in these statements with respect to the commission of a crime and jury trial is provided. section 3691 of title 18 of the united states code provides that when the act which is alleged to be a contempt is at one and the same time a criminal offense under any act of congress or under the laws of any state. the accused shall be entitled to a trial by jury. whether the bill is passed or . in other words. if incident to a contempt citation under an order issued under any title of the bill. we are dealing with any violation of any federal or even a state lawlet us say assault and batteryor if we are dealing even with a conspiracy to deprive a person of a civil right. which within the concept of the screws case would come under sections 241 and 242 of title 18. united states codea person charged could ask for and receive a jury trial. i point that out because there have been general denunciations of the fact that a person. under the guise of being punished for contempt. would be punished for a crime without a jury trial. but there is  a law on the statute books which covers that situation.
i wish to answer the statement of the senator. we have adopted a policy of nailing these points down as they are raised. i shall  sit by and allow the bill to be destroyed. if i can avoid it. we are told. first. that if a certain state does  have a fair employment practices commission. that that state is discriminated against. but what is  said is that under the bill. a state need only enact an effective fepc law which covers situations of the type covered by title vii of the bill. if it has such a law. then under the usual practice of comity and state administration. the commission would give the state an opportunity to enforce it. if it does  have such a law. then the federal law would be operative. there would be one standard. one law. if a state did  have such a law. then the federal law would control. and the state could  complain. there would be a single standardthe same standard for the state as for the federal government. as for the provision for a jury trial in contempt cases. i point out that we have the landrumgrifflin act. which has been mentioned. and the civil rights act of 1957. which the opponents of the pending bill have ackledged very graciously and very happily. aher act likewise contains such a provision. so there is ample precedent for congress doing what it believes ought to be done with respect to contempt proceedings. .that does  reflect prejudice against the south. any more than it does against the th. the same judges would apply the same standard. finally. as to the provision dealing with racial imbalance. i shall  sit by and permit it to be distorted. racial imbalance is  segregation within the meaning of the equal protection clause of the 14th amendment to the constitution. if segregation can be proven. then the exemption in the bill with reference to racial imbalance will  be applicable. and if racial imbalance. rather than segregation. can be proven in any state in the south. whether it is the state of the senator who has spoken. or any other state. the same standard will apply. the exception will obtain just the same. racial imbalance is  encompassed within the word "segregation." this will apply to the th the same as the south.
. i would like to ask the senator to comment on a point concerning his amendment. there are a number of titles in the bill in which the injury inflicted upon the person who is injured. should the bill become law. is irremediable by civil contempt proceedings. in which the penalty is suspended once the order has been complied with. for example. if a man is prevented from voting because of race. that is the end of that. he does  vote. his vote is  counted. he is deprived of his vote. and that can never be recreated. even if the voting official subsequently says he is then willing to obey the courts order. the same is true of the provision relating to public accommodations. if a man were subjected to the indignity of being barred because of race from a place of public accommodation. within the language of title ii. that would be the end of that. one could. by being punished by being fined or by being put in jail. provide a remedy for that wrong. the wrong would have been done. under section 302. the intervention section. of title iii. for example. once a person has been deprived of the right to exercise his first amendment right to express his views. hing could be done to give him that opportunity for free speech over again. similarly. if a person were barred from a public park or playground. that particular wrong would then have been done. therefore. it seems to me that the answer that civil contempt remains for the court to adjudicate. which perhaps would be understandable in connection with some of the titles of the bill which deal with continuing wrongs. would  be applicable in cases in which the loss of civil rights would be irremediable. in such cases the power of criminal contempt proceedings is necessary for the court to have. as has been uniformly the rule throughout the country. including the southern states. will the senator from kentucky state why he believes such cases would be dealt with properly by making such a change in the bill as he proposes.
of course i do. and of course i do  question for a moment the senators sincere desire.  do i have any doubt whatever about the fact that the fundamental thrust of this amendment is to serve that purpose. personally. i feel that the limitation on the authority of a judge to punish and to. impose sentence for criminal contempt--as provided in the 1957 civil rights act and in the dirksenmansfield amendmentis fairly well indicated by the supreme courts recent dicta. can the senator from kentucky tell us why he believes the application of that standardin other words. either a provision setting the jury limit at 45 days and $300. as in the 1957 act. or at 30 days and $300. as in the dirksenmansfield amendmentis  a fair way to settle the issue. by giving the judge that limited deterrent power. which he would have to use in dealing with situations in which irremedial wrongs had been committed. does the senator feel that the judge should  have any power to try such cases. except with a jury.
. i speak about the deterrent power in the judge. we are  legislating in a vacuum. we k very well that in certain parts of the country a person subject to punishment for criminal contempt ks very well that once he gets a jury. he will probably be let out.
. i saidand that is all i saidthat the judge ought to have some deterrent power himself. and that was the essence of the compromise which was made with respect to this problem in the first instance in the 1957 act. i saidand i repeat--that in the south a defendant may very well feeland that is why we did what we didthat if he can get a jury in a criminal contempt case. he may very well do much better than he would do with a judge. etheless. i respectand we all respect as lawyers and as laymenthe great traditions of the common law for jury trials. though there has been constant confusion between jury trials for crimes and jury trials in criminal contempt cases. because the universal rule in our country is that in criminal contempt cases the court and  a jury adjudges the punishment. that is deeply imbedded in the rules regarding criminal contempt. for example. a section of the federal criminal code. section 402 of title 18. united states code. provides that if the act which constitutes criminal contempt is also either a crime at state law. in the state in which it takes place. or a crime under federal law. the defendant is entitled to a jury trial. in short. if it were both a crime and contempt of court. the defendant would have a jury trial. as of right. under existing law. we would  have to write any provision in the bill on that score. i pointed out that some of the acts which would violate this bill. if enacted. would be irremediable. the one i pointed to particularly was the question of voting. therefore. the judge ought to have some minimal deterrent power. that is all i am arguing for: some minimal deterrent power in the judge on his own. remembering that even the dirksenmansfield amendment would be a diminution of the power which judges  have in criminal contempt cases throughout the nation. furthermore of course. that is inherent in what the judge must find in order to punish for criminal contempt under existing law. the doctrine of intent or willfulness is included in jury contempt already. and. of course. the courts finding on that point is always subject to review by the appellate courts. the supreme court of the united states. our highest authority. very recently decided in the barnett case that it is entirely constitutional. proper. and in accordance with traditional practice for courts to punish for criminal contempt without a jury. even if we grant the validity of the foote in the decision suggesting a limit on the kind of punishment which a judge may impose in such a case. such as is contemplated by the dirksenmansfield substitute. that is the essence of my point with respect to the senators amendment. i submitted it to him because i deeply feel that the senator. like myself. is trying in his own wayi do  have to agree with him to pay tribute to his sincerityto bring to a conclusion a very important phase of the bill.
. i will  allow the senator from georgia. distinguished as he is. to put words in my mouth which i have  uttered and have never said on the floor of the senate. i invite him the search the record and prove it. i have  uttered on the floor of the senate words with respect to demeaning the people of the south. on the contrary. i have said time and again. and i say it de o so there will be question about it. because i have desire to get into a hassle on this with the senator from georgia. that i have great respect for the people of the south. for their americanism. for their bravery. for their courage. for their dignity. and for their contributions to the country. i am  going to allow to stand any imputation that the people of new york have died in fewer numbers in the interest of the security of our nation.  would i stand for the imputation that they died in greater numbers. they have served and they have sacrificed like other americans. they ask for special credit and greater credit than any other americans. so i fully respect and admire the people of the south. if anything i have said has been taken as an expression of derogation of their dignity or their standing as americans. i hereby apologize to them. because i had such intention or design. the only thing we are trying to do here is to hold the scales of justice as evenly as we can. if there has been any intimation in what i have said to the effect that southern jurors would  do their duty. i withdraw it. i remember a colloquy with one of our distinguished colleagues from the southi believe it was the senator from th carolina in which i was most certain in stating that a lawyer could  impute that there is a difference in different kinds of juries and different judicial systems. or the fact that certain jurors would  do their duty. the courts of the country could never be operated on such a basis. i would like to restate my views. so that they will be clearly understood. all i say is that if a person were to violate a court order under the provisions of the bill. in my judgment. the court should have a right to look forward. within the judicial system. to a remedy. as in the case of civil contempt cases. but he should have a minimum equity power to send someone to jail. because. i point out. in some cases there is the grave problem of the commission of an irremediable wrong. that is all i have said. as i said before. i assure the senator i shall do my utmost to do those things which are necessary in my deepest convictions. i do  in the slightest derogate the fidelity of the people of the south to high standards of justice. i deprecate the social order. which has been spoken of time and time again. which includes the concept of segregation. i pray and shall work for the day when there will be such feeling on the part of the people of the united states. this is a different thing from imputing motives or having a desire to impute motives of lack of justice on the part of certain people. i reject this argument. so that there may be question about it whatsoever. i am  conscious of any time when i have said that or thought it. as i have said. if unwittingly or unconsciously i gave such an impression. i wish to make the record clear. i withdraw it. and make the record certain that i desire to do such thing. this would be demeaning a part of america. and i want to be party to it. i wish to stick to the merits and the justice and the need of a deterrent power in a federal judge over and above the mal civil contempt power.
i thought i had explained that. but i shall be glad to restate it. i point out that some of the matters which would be subject to a court order under the bill would be irremediable once the wrong had been committed. the most striking example is the right to vote in elections. once a man has been deprived of the right to vote. there is way of correcting it in time to permit him to vote. the only way that right could be protected would perhaps be by providing a penalty for the person who was preventing someone from voting.
first. the court tries to afford the remedy by civil rather than criminal procedures. the court would rather get compliance than send people to jail. second. in a case of blocking of a mans registration. the time for registration under the law could pass before the court could act. i give that as an illustration. the question of timing is important. relief might  be obtained until the voting time had passed. that is the reason for providing punishment under criminal contempt. my feeling was that the deterrent was necessary. that the punishment would be relatively small under the proposed compromise provision. and that this modicum of power should remain in the hands of the court.
. i ask unanimous consent for 2 additional minutes. according to the fbis latest uniform crime reports. issued in july 1963. and covering calendar year 1962. new york citys crime rate for serious offenses. including murder and negligent manslaughter. forcible rape. robbery. aggravated assault. burglary. larceny of $50 and over. and auto theft. per 100.000 inhabitants was 1.509.7. what the southern senators fail to e is that the crime rate was higher in the following 18 southern metropolitan areas. which constitute more than a fourth of the southern metropolitan areas for which statistics are collected. i ask unanimous consent that they be listed in the record at this point.
the point is  that new york citys crime rate is satisfactory. the point is that new york citys crime rate is irrelevant to its efforts to eliminate racial discrimination. these efforts certainly do  put it at any disadvantage on this score as compared with many southern cities. and it is about time that the southern opponents of the civil rights bill began to talk about reality. as the filibuster proceeds. it becomes even more critical that each argument asserted in opposition to the bill. in an apparent effort to justify the filibuster. should be nailed to the facts. i believe that the more dedicated we are to this policy. the sooner we will obtain a decided and overwhelming national consensus that the bill must be passed and the filibuster ended by cloture. the time for all reasonable debate  clearly drawing to a close.
i understand. the senator does  contendas of course he could that the constitution grants a person charged with criminal contempt the constitutional right to a trial by jury. has the senator any comment to make upon the fact that in the barnett case there was attached to the majority opinion an analysis of the laws of the individual states. including the state of new york and the state of georgia. can the senator tell us what laws of the state of georgia entitle a defendant in a criminal contempt case to a trial by jury.
may i ask the senator to comment on the following statement from the dissenting opinion of justice goldberg. which is found on page 29 of the decision in the barnett case: if a criminal contempt (or any other violation of law) is punishable only by a trivial penalty. then the constitution does  require trial by jury. does that contradict what the senator has just stated.
i invite the attention of the senator to the foote on page 14 of the majority opinion in the barnett case: in view of the impending contempt hearing. effective administration of justice requires thatthis dictum be added: some members of the court are of the view that. without regard to the seriousness of the offense. punishment by summary trial without a jury would be constitutionally limited to that penalty provided for petty offenses. i asked the senator whether. in his argument in favor of this amendment. he has or has  given any weight to the fact that the court. even in the majority opinion in the barnett case. indicates a disposition to confine the power of the courts to punishment for petty offenses.
i ask the senator whether he does  contemplate in his amendment that an individual charged with violating an order of the court may be imprisoned without a jury trial if the charge pertains to that paragraph of the senators amendment which relates to "civil contempt." i also ask whether the senator does  consider it wrong. to have any imprisonment without a jury trial.
i beg the senators pardon. but i would like to read to the senator a section from his own amendment. the amendment of the senator from georgia. which is amendment  513. provides in line 24. page 2. to line 6. page 3. as follows: " shall anything herein or in any other provision of law be construed to deprive courts of their power. by civil contempt proceedings. without a jury. to secure compliance with or to prevent obstruction of. as distinguished from punishment for violations of. any lawful writ. process. order. rule. decree. or command of the court in accordance with the prevailing usages of law and equity. including the power or detention. i ask the senator. if it is  true that under his amendment. a man could be sent to jail by a judge. without a jury.
does the senator believe that there is an effective remedy in a situation in which a registrar unlawfully refuses to register a voter in spite of a court order directing the registrar to register the voterif the election for which the voter sought to register is held. and he is unable to vote.
where a registrar has been charged with violating an order of the court pertaining to registering a person to vote. is it  possible for the defendant to purge himself of contempt after the election has been held. and would that  end the matter.
. i was rather surprised to hear the senator start his answer to my question by making the point that there was a constitutional right to a trial by jury in criminal contempt cases. it is my understanding that the senator from georgia did  contend that to be the case.
the amendment of the senator from georgia. as i understand itand i am sure the senator will correct me if i am in errorcovers the whole ambit of the federal code with respect to orders of courts which may be violated and a violation would constitute a criminal contempt. can the senator tell us why. in drafting his amendment. he did  confine it to the civil rights bill which the senate is trying to pass.
does the senator feel. as a lawyer. that a court ought to have. in and of itself. without recourse to any other body. including a jury. the power to invoke some minimal deterrent or punishment when the violation of an order is irremediable by a civil contempt proceeding.
but congress has  changed. unless it would do so pursuant to the senators amendment. the whole range of federal law which is affected by court orders and other actions that have been specifically mentioned.
the senator from new york feels he is in pretty good company with the law of the land. which sets forth. even in civil rights matters. what .a court can do in criminal contempt cases. a court can impose a minimal penalty which is well within the confines or limitations of punishment for a petty offense. and at the same time keep within its own hands. as it should and must. the power to sustain the elementary dignity of the court and preserve the effectiveness of its order. it must have some modest deterrent power where there is other remedy. it seems to me this is the fulcrum of difference between us as to these cases. in that a person like myself feels that such minimal deterrent power is absolutely essential to the judiciary. apparently there are those who are making all kinds of rationalizations as to why this provision should  be in the law. why it is unconstitutional. and so forth. withstanding the repeated decisions of the supreme court. withstanding the fact that the law is on the statute books. there is a lingering feeling in their heartsthis is just my own judgmentthat perhaps violators do  really have to perform. because they may  have to pay any penalty if they do . i should like to make clear to the junior senator from georgia what i made clear to his senior colleague (mr. russelli the other day. i am  casting a single aspersion on any southern jury. i am trying to define what i think is american jurisprudence in this case. in order to insure. better than we would otherwise. that orders of courts shall be complied with by individuals. i point out in answer to the statement made by the senator from ohio that some of the most arrogant violators of court orders have been officers of states. including govers of states. as is shown by the barnett case.
the senator could hardly consider it a boast. it does  define itself either as a boast or a boast of consistency. which is what the senator from georgia charged. i respectfully submit that i was in good company with a majority of the senate and the house. which is very important to me. despite the kindly feeling which we had for president kennedy. and recalling the terrible tragedy which befell him. and considering the respect which we owe the president of the united states. i often found myself in disagreement with them. and i still feel. in deep. good conscience. that i was right. i do  say they were wrong. i simply feel that i was right. but this is  a boast. or consistency. or anything else. it is only human nature. it is what we are trying to argue here. all i was doing was giving the facts with respect to my situation in connection with the vote in 1957. i shall be more than happy to obtain the facts on my situation in respect to the landrumgriffin act. the essence of my argument is that whenever congress has provided for jury trials in criminal contempt cases it has been on a highly selective basis. when it was thought that the social. political. or ecoic situation of the* country dictated it. but aside from specialized cases that occur. there is general provision for jury trial for criminal contempt. that is true in all states of the nation. i am quite sure it is true of the state of georgia. in the main. it is true in the law of the united states. and the senator from georgia and i are arguing whether a specific exception should be made in the case of this particular proposed statute. he and i differ deeply on that point. and we have submitted our arguments in connection with it. but i hope that. as lawyers. we can agree that this situation must be judged on its merits. that hing in the constitution requires a jury trial in criminal contempt cases. and that. therefore. one would be deprived of an inalienable constitutional right if the bill limited the right of trial by jury to cases of this sort in which the punishment would exceed that for a petty offense. the senator from georgia and i have argued that pointand to good effect. i believe. however. when some persons attempt to proceed on the basis of a mistaken idea about the existence of a constitutional right of jury trial in criminal contempt cases. and say. "this part of the bill will sweep aside all the legal practice of all the states. but all persons must ackledge that there is a basic constitutional right to have a trial by jury in criminal contempt cases." i respectfully submit that is argument. and it is  convincing.
of course. in our zeal. there are some things we should  overlook. we are discussing the conduct of federal judges. including southern federal judges. i say. with all respect. that senators who have been speaking have been saying about federal judges some of the things that the senator from georgia accused me of saying. the other day. about juries in the southern states. i do  believe that any senator wishes to imply that a judge of a federal district court would proceed in the face of the u.s. constitution. however. if a judge tried to do that. certainly the higher courts would correct him.
of course we have already argued that question. and  we are talking about the procedure of the judges. i do  think that. in our zeal. we should make statements which could be considered as being unfair or improper ones. insofar as certain persons are concerned. in the first place. following the presentation of the evidence to the jury. the judge would instruct the jury. as i understand. that in order to convict the defendant. the jury would have to find the defendant guilty of willful violation of the courts order. and. following the presentation of the evidence to the jury. i assume that the judge would define criminal contempt committed outside the presence of the court.
but the amendment which is the pending question would provide jury trials in all criminal contempt cases. and the leading and most recent case in connection with contempt is that of united states against barnett. so. in order to ascertain the rule. it is necessary to refer to that case. first. as i understand. the judge would have to instruct the jury that. in order to convict the defendant. it would be necessary for the jury to find that there had been a willful violation of the courts order. the jurys finding would depend upon the evidence which had been adduced. if the jury found the defendant guilty. the punishment imposed could. under the dirksenmansfleld substitute amendment. be a fine of more than $300 or incarceration in jail for more than 30 days. however. it is clear that under the barnett case it would be necessary for the jury to find that there had been a willful violation of the courts order.
in my judgment. a jury would be more impressed with that possibility than it might be with an indictment by a grand jury. many defendants are found inent after indictment by a grand jury. a defendant would have all the constitutional protections in a trial on a charge of criminal contempt either by the judge himself without a jury or before a jury. the senator from mississippiand i do  believe that he has checked the facts on the pointmade some rather broad statements earlier in his discussion with the senator from georgia [mr.
i shall make the statement without reference to the statement of the senator from mississippi. some question was raised about due process of law in a criminal contempt case. i should like to read into the record. if i may. rule 42(b) of the rules of criminal procedure. which expressly provides with respect to criminal contempt as follows: a criminal contempt. except as provided in subdivision (a) of this rulewhich is a contempt committed in the presence of the court and. as lawyers. we understand entirely the power of the court to impose summary punishment in that case. but we are talking  about a criminal contempt outside the presence of the court. the rule provides(b) disposition upon ice and hearing: a criminal contempt except as provided in subdivision (a) of this rule shall be prosecuted on ice. the ice shall state the time and place of hearing. allowing a reasonable time for the preparation of the defense. and shall state the essential facts constituting the criminal contempt charged and describe it as such. the ice shall be given orally by the judge in open court in the presence of the defendant or. on application of the u.s. attorney or of an attorney appointed by the court for that purpose. by an order to show cause or an order of arrest. the defendant is entitled to a. trial by jury in any case in which an act of congress so provides. he is entitled to admission to bail as provided in these rules. if the contempt charged involves disrespect to or criticism of a judge. that judge is disqualified from presiding at the trial or hearing except with the defendants consent. upon a verdict or finding of guilt the court shall enter an order fixing the punishment. i should like also to cite two decisions of the supreme court. a defendant in a criminal contempt case is presumed to be inent. his guilt must be proved beyond a reasonable doubt. and he can be compelled to testify against himself. the applicable citations are gompers v. bucks stove & range co.. 221 u.s. 418. and michaelson v. united states. 266 u.s. 42. . as to ice. a reasonable opportunity to be heard to meet the charges against him. the right to counsel. the right to present his own witnesses. and the right to crossexamine others. i refer to the case of cooke v. united states. 267 u.s. 517. i state these affirmative facts only because i do  believe that we would wish to have the record show that we are advocating. matter what happens to this amendment. some license for star chamber proceedings contrary to the practices of our courts or anglosaxon jurisprudence or the protection of our constitution which would apply to any such defendant. whether he were tried without a jury or . it is only fair that these facts be placed upon the record. i thank the senator from arkansas.
let me point out. however. the differences between us on this subject. i did dence the stallin. because it was an element of civil disobedience. unlawful by any statute and under perfectly constitutional ordinances which made it unlawful. but withstanding the public inconvenience. withstanding evenmuch to my dismay and personal embarrassment. and the embarrassment of all senatorswhat occurred in the presence of the president of the united states.
. let us remember that from 1959 to 19634 yearsnegro children did  even go to school in prince edward county. that there was a blackout on education for negro children in prince edward county. if we are going to go through this same kind of procedure in every case with every recalcitrant county that insists on maintaining unconstitutional laws and practices. people will indeed be driven to extremes in their reaction. it is the duty of legislators to anticipate the demands of justice. it is their duty to see that general law covers the demands of justice. one of the great issues we face in the civil rights debate is the timetable. we must have a just answer to give to people like those in prince edward county. or we shall be in for a great deal of trouble. that timetable is rapidly running out. so when many of us speak about the need for agreement on what amendments we shall adopt. and which are in the process of being worked out this very minute. to move into the cloture phase. which will be the "payoff" in the debate as far as the nation and the senate are concerned. it is prince edward county and cases like it which underline exactly what we say. one can only express the hope that.  that the court has laid down its decree. the state of virginia. with its great traditions in the founding of this nation. the home of patrick henry and george washington. will. through its citizens and state and county officials.  loyally carry out what the court says must be done. judge black has written a historic decision that a state or part of a state can. by denying tax funds for schools. effectually perpetuate segregation which the law forbids if it opens a school. i hope the country will take into consideration both the case itself and the long and tragic lapse of time in which there was a blackout of education in the area until some people. in 1963. by voluntary contributions. enabled negro children to go to school. i believe the history of this case helps toward an understanding of what we mean by the urgency of the civil rights bill. the urgency for peace. order. and tranquillity in the country that it be enacted before the summer sets in. i express the hope that the state of virginia and its counties will  use their great tradition of constitutionalism and will carry out in good faith the decision which the supreme court has made.
i am grateful to the senior senator from florida. i happened to come into the chamber as the senator from florida was speaking about the terrible events. in terms of public disorder. in new york. the young people who have been engaged in the patrols have been invited to join the auxiliary police force which we have in new york. they certainly are evidencing a kind of civic responsibility which is very creditable to them and is very much occasioned by the situation. i believe we have gone so often over the ground of the relationship between what is happening in new york and the subject under debate here. that i shall  do so again. except to state that there is a very real and grave problem in our city. we are moving heaven and earth to deal with it. one of our newspapers the other day recommended more police protection and more police. i. myself. feel that a great call must go out to the morale of the people of the city and to the civic responsibility of the great bulk of the people of the city. both the negro people and the white people. whose safety could very well be further endangered in this way. i believe we face a civic problem of major importance. at a time when the country is being shaken by the tremendous struggle in respect to equal opportunity. i would only express one hope. madam president. and that is that the senate will. as soon as possible. do its part in resolving the problem by passing a civil rights bill. for i believe that will have a very important stabilizing effect upon the country at large. and i believe it will also have a very important effect in my own city of new york. in making that statement at this point. it is  my purpose to do so in connection with every item of the civil rights bill. in which i believe very thoroughly. but i only express my sincere opinion as to what i believe congress can do to be helpful to the situation generally. and specifically in new york to deal with a problem which has its origin in the aspects of a feeling of denial of opportunity beyond civil rights themselves. the situation is grounded in problems of housing. in problems of education. and in problems of training. which go back for a considerable number of years. but which i believe in our case are a step ahead of the rather primary problems of the enforcement of civil rights which are inherent in law which we find in other parts of the country. ably in the south. but. as i said a minute ago. it is my judgmentand i state it very sincerely to the senator from floridathat the passage of the bill will have a very material effect on presenting new york and the rest of the country with a more stable situation under law. i am also very hopefuland. again. i am  trying in any way to argue. either pro or con. the meritsthat this may be possible before the onset of summer. it has been my view that the problems of public order and tranquility in the large cities. including new york. will be even more gravely complicated if congress does  pass the proposed legislation before the onset of summer. which will soon arrive. that is the fact as i see it. as i have said. i do  make the statement in any oppositional or controversial sense. i am expressing my deep feelings as a child of new york. having lived there all my life. i am living there  with my wife and my young children. and i feel very close to the problem and to the seat of the difficulty.
. as the crucial showdown cloture vote approaches. it should be made clear that the package of amendments. which is  the basic senate version of the bill. is already a compromise of a compromise and therefore mustat the very leastbe passed as is. the bill which the house of representatives passed on february. 10. 1964 by more than a twothirds majority was itself the result of compromise. the bill for which the senate must  produce a twothirds majority is a further compromise. in a number of respects the bill as passed by the house could have been considerably stronger. matched against the 1960 platforms of both parties as well as against the package of bills introduced by republican senators in march 1963. it could have authorized the attorney general to initiate suits to enforce the equal protection clause of the 14th amendmentas did the housepassed version of the 1957 civil rights actinstead of only permitting him to intervene in alreadycommenced. privately brought suits. it could have extended the provisions of title i. relating to the right to vote. to state as well as federal elections. which would have been consistent with the 1957 and 1960 civil rights acts being amended by title i. similarly. even the new package of amendments submitted by the senator from illis . could have been considerably stronger. principally it cuts back on the attorney generals enforcement powers in titles iipublic accommodations--and viiequal employment opportunityby delaying federal jurisdiction in each case until the states have been afforded a relatively full time for enforcement and even more importantly. by depriving the equal employment opportunity commission of power to bring suits to enforce title vii. it also limits the attorney general. when he finally is authorized to bring enforcement suits. to obtaining relief only when he can prove a "pattern or practice" of resistance to desegregation. in one instance. title ii. the courts may stay federal enforcement indefinitely if they believe voluntary compliance may be achieved under state law. but as legislators we must be realistic and pragmatic. the hurdle of a twothirds cloture vote is too high for any other attitude. and in fairness it must be said that the housepassed bill. as proposed to be amended by the package substitute. is still an effective civil rights measure suited to the national needs. in some few respects the package would even strengthen the bill. in this category i would list the extension of the threejudge court provisions from title i to titles ii and vii as well. and the elimination of the "atheist" provision from title vii. in one respect. however. i believe the bill could be strengthened without raising any new and controversial issues. as one of the captains of the bill on the republican side. i should  seek to raise any new or controversial issues. this is in the area of the administration of justice. in which two statutes are presently on the books but are largely ineffective. i am  submitting two amendments which would carry out the recommendations of the u.s. commission on civil rights on making effective these  virtually crippled remedies. one criminal and the other civil.
. the context of what the senator has read that i said contradicts the senators statement that i made a charge blaming the south. in fact. the context was more than a condemnation of violence wherever it takes placenew york. the south. or any other place. i was speaking entirely in sorrow. and  at all in anger. i charged only one thingand i charge it againand that is if we do  pass an effective civil rights bill by this summer. we shall invite disaster in the th. south. east. and west. that is the timetable which is forced upon us by the sociological facts of life. e of us can sweep those facts under the rug. we have a common problem. that is the only thing i had to say. if i said it inartistically then. i say it in the proper way . i am  trying to make the south a scapegoat. i have sat here for months while senators have been trying to make new york the scapegoat for every small incident of crime. ballooning it up into a great crime wave involving the morality of the people of new york. when i produced federal bureau of investigations latest crime statistics. it was evident that new york in fact has a lower crime rate than a considerable number of southern cities. but the crime rate everywhere is  something to crow about. it is something to cry about. i join senators in deploring and being enraged over it. i take joy in that. i do  want them to take any joy in our troubles. all i say isand it was the whole point of my statement that daythat i condemn violence. matter what its justification. perpetrated by the misguided and unhappy people whose frustrations and problems lead them to it. if the senator has read my whole statement. he ks that is what i was trying to do in this instance. the point i am making . and the point i made at that time. is that we are dealing with a deep national problem in which there should be a fundamental national standard of equal opportunity. in my judgment. as one senator. i am trying to do my best. in good conscience. to deal with this grave national problem. so that there may be stability. the whole point is that the bill would give us a much better chance to deal with outbreaks of such violence throughout the nation. that was the fundamental point i was trying to make. i have made the statement many times before that i respect the south. i respect our fellow americans of the south. i have desire to unburden on them the guilt or responsibility of the whole country. i was only pointing out that we are at a critical crossroads in american life. and. together with many other senators. i think this prescription is essential in order to give us a means to deal justly with the problem. i hope new york will  be made a scapegoat. i have  the remotest interest in trying to make the south a scapegoat.
. for many years of my public service. beginning with my service in the house of representatives. and through my service as attorney general of the state of new york and as senator from new york. i have consistently championed the establishment of an effective public defender system. to assure that the capacity to obtain justice under the law in the courts of the united states is . as it often is at present. limited by the financial capacity of the defendant. in recent years. i have supported the repeated passage by the senate of an effective bill. the latest being s. 1057. which the senate passed on august 6. 1963. the other body passed the measure in amended form on january 15. 1964. the senate asked for a conference on february 18. and. since march 24. when the house agreed to the conference. the matter has been virtually deadlocked. i very much hope a satisfactory agreement will soon be arrived at. so this very much needed reform may at last become law. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record a report. dated may 25. 1964. of the committee on federal legislation of the new york county lawyers association through the chairman of its committee on legal aid. joseph e. steigman. and the chairman of its committee on federal legislation. francis a. brick. jr.. urging enactment of s. 1057 and favoring the senate version of the bill.
. the list is replete. we have picked out a minimum of 25 major incidents or outbreaks of the character described. with great violence. in the list of several hundred incidents. i repeat. i take pleasure in this whatever. on the contrary. it is the saddest possible duty one could perform. it shows that the protestation that all is disorder. difficulty. and crime in the thespecially in new york cityand that everything is peaceful and quiet in the south is simply  the fact. there is a tremendous revolt and ferment going on in this country. and our job as a responsible part of government is to see what we can do about it. and  to repress it. because repression will only breed more of the same. and probably much more serious trouble. we had a very illuminating report from the mississippi advisory committee to the u.s. commission on civil rights. issued in january 1963. i should like to read to the senate exactly what that report contained about the matter of disorders and repression attributable to racial problems. before i do that. let me say that this committee was composed of mississippi residents. they are all distinguished and important people in mississippi. mississippi is. if anything. one of the strongest ramparts of segregation iii the country. yet the mississippi advisory committee to the u.s. commission on civil rights. which unanimously made this report. was made up of southerners. citizens of mississippi. and i should like to read their names into the record: . columbus. miss. dr. a. d. beittel. secretary. tougaloo. miss. adm. robert p. briscoe. liberty. miss. dr. albert b. britton. jackson. miss. rev. thomas e. johnson. jackson. miss. rev. charlemagne p. payne. sr.. jackson. miss. dr. george e. powers. pass christian. miss. the committee was just about evenly divided as between negroes and whites. this is what the committee wrote: the committees investigations have indicated that in all important areas of citizenship. a negro in mississippi receives substantially less than his due consideration as an american and as a mississippian. this denial extends from the time he is denied the right to be born in a segregated hospital. through his segregated and inferior school years and his productive years when jobs for which he can qualify are refused. to the day he dies and is laid to rest in a cemetery for negroes only. this committee could have chosen to concentrate on any aspect of discrimination and found a plethora of examples of denial of equal protection of the law. this includes the denial of the fundamental right to vote and have that vote counted in elections. sixtyfive sworn voting complaints from 13 mississippi counties have been received by the commission. this is third highest in the nation. then the report continues as follows: we name names in this report. and reach final conclusions. in individual cases. we do. however. believe that a pattern exists in our statethat is mississippithat leads to the denial of constitutional rights and. in some instances. to brutality and terror. from the moment a negro adult is hailed as "boy" or "girl" by a police officer. through his arrest. detention. trialduring which his negro lawyer is treated with contemptuous familiarity by the judges and other officers of the courtand eventual imprisonment. he is treated with a pernicious difference. this difference is incompatible with christian ideals about the dignity of man and with the principles of anglosaxon criminal law. i wish that all persons who take kindly to segregation or who feel strongly in opposition to the civil rights bill will ponder those words of the people of mississippi who were acting upon this committee.
i would have preferred the language in the house bill. which was much briefer. and dealt with the subject better. there is question that this is excluded from the statute with or without this language. i would have been just as happy with reference to it whatever. but inasmuch as there was a reference to it. and as the supreme court has very recently made this concept even clearer by denying certiorari in the gary. indiana. case. i had objection to spelling it out more amply as this language does.
i believe that is true. but i wish to point out to the senator that this does  prohibit a court of the united states from issuing an order of this kind under all circumstances. it makes a prohibition as to the authority of this statute. but if the court finds some other legal basis-
for example. i can conceive of the possibility of state and local orders with relation to education which might be challenged in a private suit in federal court under the equal protection clause.  under this statute.
that is true. except that state laws are also subject to the federal constitution. we saw that in the prince edward case in virginia. where the supreme court held that. withstanding the fact that the virginia supreme court stated that prince edward county could close its schools. the equal protection clause of the federal constitution required that children in the entire state of virginia be treated equally. therefore. a decree was issued which related to state law. but which also was a decree based upon the federal constitution. exactly the same thing could conceivably take place in new york with relation to racial imbalance in schools. it has hing to do with the authority given to the attorney general in this statute.
. in the first place. we were  talking about higher institutions of learning at all. the 1954 supreme court decision did  apply to higher institutions of learning. such as colleges and universities. which had many years earlier been required to desegregate. and the figures i gave had reference to them whatever. we are  comparing them even remotely. secondly. for years we have heard the argument about negroes being satisfied. but they have been satisfied under a social order which. by a combination of tradition. ecoics. influence. and depression in terms of fear. has kept them from expressing their dissatisfaction whether theyliked it or . they have demonstrated by the multiplicity of suits which have been started within the last years. when it became possible to start them. that they are  a bit satisfied. they are  satisfied. and the nation is  satisfied. it has right to be satisfied under those circumstances.
would amendments to title ix of the pending measure. with relation to amending the provisions of existing law for civil and criminal relief for denial of civil rights. be eligible as amendments to any of the amendments that are the subject of the unanimousconsent agreement entered into today. for the information of the parliamentarian. the text of the amendments to which i refer are contained in printed amendment  805.
are those coupled. in other words. if offered to an amendmentlet us say. the jury trial amendmentmust the amendment offered. to be eligible. be germane to that particular amendment. or may it be an amendment which is germane to the bill. although it may  be germane to that particular amendment.
i wish to ask the senator a procedural question. if he will permit me to do so. i do  believe that the senator informed the senator from missouri quite correctly. the senator said that senators would have to vote on the mansfielddirksen jury trial amendment. indicating or implying that they would have to vote on it separately.
that is a very important point. the mansfielddirksen jury trial amendment does  stand alone. it will all stand up or all go down as part of the leaderships substitute package amendment to the bill. i think that is a very important point. it is a builtin guarantee that. if the morton amendment is defeated. the mansfielddirksen proposition will be before the senate in such a way as to make it very unlikely that it will be withdrawn or kked down standing alone.
the other question i should like to ask the senator is as follows: does the senator. as the manager of the bill. think that the dirksenmansfield jury trial provision represents a codification of what the supreme court tried to do in the barnett case by specifying the limit of punishment that a judge can impose. without granting the right of jury trial. would  a provision for imprisonment for a period  to exceed 30 days or a fine  to exceed $300 codify in very specific terms the indication in the courts foote in the barnett case as to the limitation of punishment in a jury case as that for a petty offense.
the argument the senator is making about the landrumgriffin act and the risla guardia act is important. i do  depreciate it at all. but i should like to ask the senator this question: is it  true that by cutting down the talmadge amendment. the senator from kentucky is. for all practical purposes. agreeing that the whole question must be considered on a casebycase basis or a statutebystatute basis. i think we should  generically give a person a jury trial in all criminal contempt cases under the whole body of the law at once. that conclusion makes it less important to be consistent from one field to aher. instead we should consider in each case whether under this particular statute. considering the purposes which it is intended to accomplish. we do want to give a jury trial. as we have in three specific instances. so the argument really ought to be upon this particular case as meriting that kind of special treatment. rather than that we are consistent or inconsistent.
 eisenhower. furthermore. it is  crystal clear that the amendment does  assure a jury trial for all those who may go to jail for violation of this bill. they may go to jail just as much under a charge of civil contempt as under a charge of criminal contempt. and this amendment would  give them a jury trial. it is a question of deterrent. it is a question of selected action by the congress in view of other provisions that are made with respect to other statutes. the selection in this particular case is supported by the difficulty of jury and grand jury action in cases of this character. as reported to us by the assistant u.s. attorney general. in charge of the civil rights division. i placed a statement from him in the record. and it appears at page 8244 of the record of april 17. 1964. it is also supported by the u.s. commission on civil rights. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record excerpts from the findings on that score of the department of justice and of the civil rights commission.
so here is an issue which republicans have been through before. and on which they voted almost 3 to 1 the other way on a previous occasion. . we are buttressed by the practice in the states to which the senator from montana refers. by the fact that the provision would  keep people from going to jail for contempt without a jury trial. and by the fact that we would be exercising our discretion in a selected area of a particular type of statute which may be violated. and using our judgment that that deterrent must be included in this law.
the senator from nebraska is a member of the committee on the judiciary and is highly kledgeable in this field. is it  true that in well over 30 statutes the federal government can get injunctions in different cases. when the senator argues for consistency. consistency in the generality of cases would be to leave the power to punish for criminal contempt in the federal courts. which have that power in far more cases than those in which congress has deprived them of it. congress has made four exceptions.  the senator wants congress to make a fifth. the consistency argument. it seems to me. argues the other way. rather than in favor of aher exception.
what the senator has done by modifying his amendment. is to eliminate the danger of state courts giving quick acquittals in order to defeat contempt proceedings under the act. but we still have the clayton act provision and the uniform precedents in the federal courts. where the timehoed rule has been that the courts may punish for criminal contempt as well as try for the crime. since they are two totally different offenses in terms of law. if the senate wishes to change that. it should do so only with the full understanding of the fact. that it would thereby except this particular bill from the general law. if that is the decision of the senate. that is it. but at least we ought to k what we are doing.
. the senator from rhode island properly pointed out that an action to which section 902 applies must be initiated by an individual.  by the attorney general. the senator implied. but did  say. that the attorney general already is entrusted with enforcing many laws by initiating sults in the federal courts. it is  a question of whether we are going to give him a long list of new powers. it is only a question of whether this is the right way of permitting him to assist in the enforcement of already existing constitutional rights. there is one other qualification which the senator from rhode island did  point out--and this is importantthat the rights the attorney general may assist in enforcing are limited to the equal protection of the laws on account of "race. color. religion. or national origin." that is the tightest qualification. the authorization relates solely to the civil rights cases. and only those civil rights cases which involve equal protection of the laws under the 14th amendment. this is  the traditional "part iii." part i deleted from the 1957 act as passed by the other body would have authorized initiation of suits by the attorney general to enforce all constitutional rights. a much wider ambit of power than is involved here. this proposal is strictly limited to equal protection of the laws. it is limited to the civil rights field. with respect to race. color. religion. or national origin. and it is limited even further to intervention in already brought private suits. its purpose is to give the attorney general some power to look into cases which have caused the greatest difficulty. if anything. our southern friends should welcome this. there are cases of excessive police action. socalled police brutality cases. cases in which cattle prods and dogs are used. people complain about this. they say they are unjust. they say that an effort is being made to suppress their constitutional rights. it is proper and direct to let the attorney general look into the case. if he thinks it involves unjust treatment. he will pursue it. if he does  think it involves injustice. he will  pursue it. therefore it seems to me that the provision would do more than give equal protection to all citizens.
 let us remember. because it has been completely obscured in the debate. that these cases will be -in the courts. whether the attorney general intervenes or . the courts will finally decide them. court that i k of is reluctant to decide against the attorney general. even if he does intervene. if the court thinks he is wrong. second. who will be the defendants. the defendants will  be unhappy private individuals who operate little retail stores. they will be police departments and district attorneys from municipalities and states. well able to defend themselves. much more so than the individual plaintiffs in whose suits the attorney general would intervene. i hope the senate will reject the amendment.
 i have pointed out that the section of the bill which we are discussing is a section under which the attorney general would  have to ask leave to intervene. he intervenes. the amendment of the senator from iowa would give the court authority to pass on the timeliness of the intervention. i thought what we voted upon was the issue as to whether. when the attorney general felt he should intervene and certified that intervention was in the public interest. he should have the right to do so and  wait on the judgment of the court as to whether he should or should  intervene. the senator would give the court power to pass upon the question. therefore. i respectfully feel that i would have to move to amend the senators amendment. if he insists upon it. to strike out that part of it. since we passed on the question within the past few minutes. i do  believe we should be marched up the hill and then marched down again by accepting the amendment in its present form.
to be practical. two things are clear. first. this is a question of jeopardy. this amendment may very well be deemed unconstitutional because it would inhibit the exercise of the rights guaranteed by the first amendment. the first amendment applies to the entire united states.  state by state. as the senator from rhode island has so properly stated. under this amendment. before a person undertakes a trip. crossing a state line. he will have to be sure that he is  running the riskwhich he might be running--of violating any of the statutes of the state to which he is going. this is the "nubbin" of the situation. it involves the very kind of state statute which barred rev. martin luther king from the motel yesterday and which is a completely unconstitutional statute. but who wishes to be prosecuted or to run the risk of being prosecuted in a federal court in that particular area of the country because such a law is on the books. there is a doctrine in the law called the doctrine of "clean hands". before one can go into a court of equity to seek justice. he must himself have clean hands. this is  to discredit a lawyer or anyone who advocates it. but to discredit those states which advocate it. those states have laws on the books which can stand up in the courts.
to enact a lawwhich we are being asked to do in this amendmentwhich would help such states place people in jeopardy under that kind of law. is  coming into court with clean hands. to show the kinds of laws some states have. i understand that there is a law recently enacted in the state of mississippi which authorizes the state to declare a public emergency which willonce it is declaredprevent the free movement of people from one place to aher. there is a federal law on the books  to protect fully against cases of unlawful violence: section 1073 of title 18 of the united states code. which makes it a federal crime to flee across state lines to avoid prosecution for. or the giving of testimony in regard to. a felony under state laws. that law is  on the books. it is broad law. so that any state law that can really stand up is fully protected by a federal law. therefore. this amendment is unnecessaryunless it is to serve a purpose which is unconstitutional. to work against people who are seeking to protest an unconstitutional state law.
. we face a strange aaly in the fact that rev. martin luther king. jr.. until today continues to be in jail in st. augustine. fla.. subject to a charge of trespass. his crime consisting of the fact. that he sought to be served at a restaurant "in a segregated motel." lately. i have been listening to a great deal of advice being given the people of the state of new york. which i have  resented. but have instead appreciated. because we will listen to it seriously. and if we believe it is good advice. we shall take it. as florida is also a part of the united states. of course. i believe it is well to ask the people of a state like florida to bethink themselves of their own situation. the argument is being made that there is deep concern in the country over the protest against the deprivation of civil rights. even spokesmen from that area of the country are willing to admit that the pending civil rights bill will probably be enacted into law. thepending bill contains a standard which is exactly the opposite of the standards by which rev. martin luther kingwho is ackledged to be perhaps the single leading individual in the whole negro community in the united statesis being imprisoned. yet. we see this strange paradox of the continuance of his imprisonment in the face of what seems to be a broad consensus. that a man. even if he is a negro. should be entitled to be served in a motel. i trust that much thought will be given to this question and that in the interests of peace. tranquillity and moderation it would even be in order to determine whether state laws like the one under which reverend king is heldwhich are. in my judgment. unconstitutional. and which certainly will run afoul of the standard which will. without too much question. soon become the national standard--should etheless continue to be enforced at a time like this--as if people lived on aher planet. i suggest only that. and submit it. because it does seem so aalous to meand i believe to many other americansas we read the papers and hear the arguments taking place in the senate. that to this very moment rev. martin luther king. jr.. remains in jail because he is a negro in applying at a motel to be served and was refused service on the ground. as frankly stated by the manager that his motel was segregated. he should be released .
the senator may  do that. but i can answer the senators question on his time. i am opposed to the amendment because it introduces a separate element of mental operation. in terms of whether a person has or has  violated title ii. this is  a criminal statute. it is a civil statute. in a civil statute. operations of the mind are  included. the court is given an additional responsibility and an additional duty. one has to prove intent. generally. that requires a jury trial. it is for these reasonsbecause the amendment does  belong in the bill. and would only frustrate its application. which is a direct civil applicationthat i oppose the inclusion of a provision mally associated with intent in a criminal act.
. the senator has stated a number of times that a man can go to jail for an unintentional violation. that is  a fact. the jury trial amendment affords him a jury trial if he violates the law. intent must then be proved. because that is a criminal prosecution. so that the scheme of the proposed statute is complete. i agree with the senator from new jersey that insertion of the word "willfully" would result in nullification. it would introduce the element of intent where the element of intent does  belong. on the other hand. in case of an intended violation of the injunction. the individual defendant will be fully protected.
this is the third time that we have been asked to deal with the particular section of the bill to which the amendment relates. obviously the section has raised the fear of all our friends who are opposed to the bill. because it deals with fundamental opportunities for individuals who are often deeply abused by excessive police action. and would provide some relief in court for such individuals. for it would offer them an opportunity to have the attorney general of the united states look into their cases. the very purpose of this section is to provide for the intervention of the attorney general. the senate has twice sustained the provision. in addition. the senate has amended it at the request of the senator from iowa. in order to provide for timely application to do what we are seeking to do. the senator from th carolina is  making an effort to interpose aher obstacle in the pursuit of justice. in my judgment. the amendment should be rejected.
but. . that is  a condition precedent to the action of taking a defendant into court. a complainant has an absolute right to go into court. and this provision does  affect that right at all. therefore. why kk out this very useful part of this title. when it does  give the power of both prosecutor and court to anyone. i do  believe it does that. on the other hand. it does provide authority which experience has shown to be most desirable and valuable in connection with the matters dealt with by this part of the bill.
the difficulty with the amendment is that it would mean that title vi would  reach the schools in the enforcement gap. the schools in the gap are those which are  already subject to court orders to desegregate. or those which the attorney general will  for a time catch up with by bringing desegregation suits under title iv of the bill. under the amendment. segregation in such districts would simply continue until suits finally caught up with them. a school district which is actually in good faith beginning the desegregation process is fully protected by the present language of title vi because a district can get judicial review of any order to cut off federal aid. whether or  the aid statute itself calls for judicial review. if it does . the district could get review under the present terms of title vi. if judicial review were sought. court which had already entered an order for desegregation would enter a conflicting order under title vi of the bill. as the senator from rhode island has properly. pointed out. the following protective words. with which i do  agree but which etheless are in the bill. will be enforced by the courts. that is. that an order cutting off funds "shall be consistent with the achievement of the objective of the statute" under which the aid is authorized. where the objective of the statute is to feed children rather than to educate children. those funds will  be cut off if there is good faith compliance with the other parts of the law with relation to desegregation. the danger of the amendment is that schools in what i have called the enforcement gap. which may last for 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. or 10 years. will  be reached at all. that is wrong. because it would defeat the purpose we are trying to accomplish. if there is one thing upon which this nation agrees. it is that at long last the money of taxpayers. black or white. of the united states shall  be used to promote the segregation of our schools or any other activity which is supported by public money. therefore. the motion should be rejected.
. yesterday my distinguised colleague. senator goldwater. to whose every word the country  properly gives its attention. annced that he would vote " on this bill. i regret very much his decision and wish very much he had decided the other way. this legislation has been before congress for a year. members of the senate have labored long and hard for this bill under the leadership of senator dirksen. senator mansfield. senator kuchel. senator humphrey. and others. during the past 3 months. they have examined every word and every comma. certainly any fear expressed by senator goldwater that emotion has ruled should have been dispelled in all that time. in all that debate. in all that analysis. and in all that opportunity to amend. senator goldwater made two points with repect to this bill which i believe urgently command reply in view of his important position in the nation today. both points have been raised many times before and answered many times. but since they come from so important a source. they must be answered again. first. he stated that there is "constitutional basis for the exercise of regulatory authority in" titles ii and vii of the bill. dealing with public accommodations and equal employment opportunity. but that such action required a constitutional amendment. and. second. he stated that "to give genuine effect to the prohibitions of this bill will require the creation of a federal police force of mammoth proportions" and will. in addition. he said. result "in the development of an informer psychology." i rise to state my disagreement with both conclusions. the always missing element in the arguments against this bill has been recognition that as to constitutional rights. we are a nation.  a collection of states. that there are national rights and national responsibilities just as sacred. just as vital as states rights and just as fully entitled to protection by all the people. the constitutional basis for both titles ii and vii is sound. as a distinguished national panel of attorneys and law school deans and professors has confinned. with ample citation of legal authorities. in a letter to the managers of this bill which has been referred to many times in this debate. the public accommodations provision. title ii. is squarely based on both the commerce clause and the 14th amendment to the constitution. the equal employment opportunities provision. title vii. is squarely based on the commerce clause. the 14th amendment basis for the public accommodations provision was reaffirmed by the supreme court as recently as last year. in the sitin decisions which struck down stateenforced discrimination in restaurants and lunch counters. to challenge the commerce clause basis for either title ii or title vii at the same time necessarily challenges the constitutionality of the entire range of existing federal statutes based on that clause. such as the child labor and minimum wage laws. the pure food and drug laws. the labormanagement laws. including the recent landrumgriffin act and the equal pay for women act. the false labeling acts. and the antitrust laws. all of which also regulate the ecoic activities of individuals and private enterprise in their relations to other individuals and all of which also are deeply founded upon public morality. all have been repeatedly upheld by the supreme court against constitutional attack. in addition to these. we have the wide range of existing state legislation covering both the subject matter of title ii and the subject matter of title vii. public accommodations and fair employment practices. all these have been upheld by state courts. under state constitutional provisions paralleling the federal constitutional provisions. and have been upheld by the supreme court of the united states. under the applicable provisions of the federal constitution. the state public accommodations laws  number 32. and go back to 1865. it should be ed that 18 of the 32 were enacted before world war ii. and 16 of the first 18 were enacted by republican state governments. nineteen of the state fair employment practices laws were enacted under republican govers or by republican legislatures. and the first four were enacted when republicans controlled both houses of the legislature as well as the govership. i point out that in new york. under gover dewey and a republicancontrolled state legislature. the first fair employment practices law in the nation was passed in 1945. it has worked splendidly in that very important and very heavily populated industrial state. the fears of the senator from arizona of a "federal police force and an informer psychology" are equally unfounded. those fears are rebutted by the long experience to the contrary of a majority of the states with their existing public accommodations and fair employment practices laws. many of which carry criminal penalties and are otherwise considerably more stringent and more farreaching than the pending bill.
 of the united states and the department of justice are hard at work already as they should be and they are entitled to the support of the congress and the nation. they must be supported. and their activities must be implemented with marshals who can be present in mississippi. the responsibility of the united states can be evaded. and it can be avoided. it. must be faced if we acted in good faith here the other day. after 3 months of debate. in passing the civil rights bill. however. whatever it takes to guarantee the safety of all these young people must be provided. the presence of u.s. marshals and agents of the fbi in mississippi. wherever these groups of young college people are in operation. is clearly necessary. in my judgment. there is similarity between the minimal federal presence of federal marshals and agents. as a preventive measure. and an organized federal police force. which the nation is naturally reluctant to see established. the country must resolve to give this safe conduct to its citizens. there is other way for a sovereign nation. there is room for interposition. secession or the idea that new yorkers or the citizens of any other state are foreigners in mississippi. if this be the confrontation. the nation must face it unflinchingly and it dare  fail in its responsibility.
i should like to finish. first. that decision. on the basis of the socalled predominant interest theorythat is. what is the predominant interest in every caseis causing grave questions to arise in the department of justice. anyone who has antitrustlaw experience wishes to k when the department will act and when it will  act. according to its authority under certain laws. it can be appreciated why american business feels that it will be placed in great jeopardy if this matter is allowed to reach the point where there always will be a question as to whether the department of justice will or will  act in a particular case. thus involving such businesses in many borderline situations. a whole list of which i propose to read to the senate.
that is completely incorrect. i can agree with the senator that the justice department can be indicted because it has been lax and has  made people register. in my judgment. it is fair to assumeand it is the only assumption that can be madethat it has  believed that such people should register. the way in which the committee is setting up the ground rules for this particular statute is new. it introduces provisions  heretofore in the law. under these criteria. which i have read with great care. there is very real concern that activities never intended to be reached by the bill will etheless be reached. for that reason. it is felt that some clarification is required. i think the senator has had this whole question discussed with him by me and by others. but so far we have seen light cast on these situations. which. as i have said. i shall describe in some detail. and which perhaps represent the twilight zone. i can understand that situation perfectlyas between what the senator defined in his opening remarks as the commercial objective. and what seems to be defined in the bill as a political objective. we are dealing  so much with a political objective alone. it seems to me that the senator has emphasized the political objective. it is true that we are dealing with a political objective. but we are also dealing with foreign principals. this is the foreign agents registration act.  merely a lobbyist registration act. i think what needs to be clarified is that both of these conceptsthat is. the concept of a political activity and the concept of a political activity pursued for the benefit of a foreign principal are areas in which i think it is very necessary to have the law spelled out in much more specific terms than has thus far been done.
it is the senator from arkansas who is trying to scare us to death. the senator refers to language in the bill that shows that they would  have to register under these facts. but where is the language that says they would  have to registerexcept for that in the committee report. which provides that the department of justice shall determine what is the predominant interest. if they are lobbying in washington. where in the bill is there anything to exculpate a company because it is an american company .
. i have submitted an amendment to the bill. and i had intended to propose aher. the first amendment would amend the social security act to raise from 18 to 21 years the maximum age of children receiving survivor benefits if they are attending schools during those additional years. the other body. in its wisdom. has included this provision in the social security bill pending before it. i very much hopeand i believe i have reason to believethat the senate committee on finance will consider with sympathy and will likely adopt this provision when it comes before it. and therefore i see need for pressing the amendment at this time. with respect to the other amendment. the senator from virginia has assured me that he will give every consideration to the situation of children surviving one who was  either a natural or an adoptive parent but who stood in loco parentis to the children. this is a very vexing problem. it is one which the senator from virginia has assured me will have sympathetic consideration by the committee. on the basis. first. that the primary amendment i have. extending survivor benefits from 18 to 21 years to children attending school. is contained in the bill pending in the other body. and. second. with the assurance of the senator from virginia that the other amendment. dealing with foster parents. or with people who stand in loco parentis. will have every consideration by the committee. i am prepared to withdraw my amendments to the bill.
. is the senate. in the face of this kind of sacrifice. less shocked to do its very utmost. in terms of the struggle for justice in our country and in the world. with every measure of resource and power which we have. to bring about decent and just and humane conditions for mankind and for our own citizens. when a young american such as lieutenant case sacrifices his life.
. whatever may be the judgment of the senate. i wish the senator from oregon to k that i love him and respect him. there is hing in my amendment which does anything but give the congress an opportunity to consider vital defense decisions and provide for a fair hearing for which he himself pleaded at the end of his remarks. i am sorry the senator from oregon was  in the chamber when i first began to lay my case before the senate. but the very first thing i said was that is all we seek. is a day in court and that if a decision is in the interest of national security or justified in the interest of the ecoy. then we must cheerfully abide by that decision. all we ask for is an opportunity to present our case. that is the whole purpose and intent of this amendment. so. with all respect. i believe that is the case for everyone who sponsored the amendments. i have been asked to add the name of aher sponsor to this amendmentnamely. the name of the senator from massachusetts . we are all aware of his intensive efforts to obtain a fair appraisal of the situation in massachusetts and of his dedicated work in this endeavor. we regret that he is  here to join us in this expression of deep concern and wish him well for his recovery. i believe that the senate clearly understands what we are trying to effect. we are living in a grave situation in these communities. and the least we can ask. and the only thing we can ask for is that careful deliberation be given by the congress to assure existing communities that although the defense department is  omniscientas we all kit has made a decision grounded upon the fact that in the national interest the decision stands in the judgment of the very congressional committees who are seized with responsibilities in this area.
. i wish to speak in memoriam for the three young men who went to mississippi on the council of federated organizationscofoproject to inspire negroes there to register and vote. and who apparently have been found to have met foul play. their bodies have  been reported to have been found in a shallow grave about 6 miles from where they were last seen alive. this is time to engage in a controversial diatribe on that subject. it is sad and tragic news that three young people. idealistic and aspiring only to help their fellow man to establish the strength of our country in terms of morality and justice. should have met foul play at the hands of misguided people for whom we can only weep bitter tears of regret. more than condemnation. for the commission of this crime. this is the time to utter words of sympathy and understanding to the families of these young men. this is the only comfort that we can bring to them. comfort in the understanding that they gave birth to children who had the inspiration and the desire to act in the face of such manifest danger. when people demonstrate such courage. it should be an inspiration to all americans. it should be an inspiration to all negroes so that the overwhelming majority of the negro people will k that their cause is so just that they must join with the nation in suppressing violence. which would hurt their cause. these young martyrs have endured death for their cause. i k that if they were able to speak. they would speak of it only in terms of morale. in terms of dedication. in terms of inspiration. and in terms of fervent hope that their sacrifice will  have been in vain. that justice in race relations will come to this country. even to mississippi. and that the whole nation and its youth will be helped by their sacrifices.
 of the united states. who will receive this great grant of confidence. which i am sure the senate will give by an overwhelming vote. and from the foreign relations committee. which has direct charge of these matters in this body. as vigorous a diplomatic effort as we are authorizing in the other field. we have every right to believe that the nations in the seato treaty have interests in this region as great as ours. they may  be able to muster the military power we can. but they certainly can muster some help which will give them a sense of participation. we k they can muster great moral strength. there is a great population in that area. pakistan has a population of more than 100 million. india. though in dire trouble. is still the counterweight to communist china. she has a profound interest in what happens in that area. indonesia. malaysia.. and thailand have considerable influence. all those strengths must be mustered. in a physical and moral sense. the same is true of france. great britain. and others. i thoroughly agree with the senator from oregon as to the moral strengthalthough i do  agree with him as to what we have to do in this situationthat must be mustered by the united states. constantly and continuously. to appeal to the conscience of the world. in order to give the world an opportunity to bring about a sense of justice and morality. and an opportunity to act in its own freedom. in fundamental aspect. the prize that the chinese communists are seeking is the possession of the great arsenal of production in asia. including japan. the aim of communist china in respect of japan is parallel to that which the soviet union. in its worst stalinist days. had toward germany. they seek a readymade arsenal in order to develop it quickly-
. for a long time i. too. have been interested in providing adequate legal counsel to indigent defendants charged with federal crimes. i have worked with bar associations and have introduced bills to bring about what was contemplated by the senatepassed bill. i appreciate very much the desire of my colleagues to make the bill as good as it could humanly be made. the senator from nebraska is quite right in his concern about the omission from the bill of the socalled public defender provision. which would have authorized a fulltime public defender where needed. i feel that the senator from nebraska. my colleague. the senator from new york. and the senator from th carolina are entitled to the thanks of the whole country. especially the thanks of the families of accused persons. who. wandering around in a labyrinth of law. feel that the law is blind or unjust. this law is a milestone and a landmark in the solicitude and care of lawyers for the accused under our system of justice. and a blessing to the families of the accused who must confront the whole majesty of the law and in doing so are absolutely lost and confused and bewildered. our colleagues have rendered a signal service. and i congratulate them from the bottom of my heart. i k that thousands of families will bless them. this bill is a beginning. we hope that all the bar associations and legal aid societies who provide these services will measure up to what is expected of them. because what will happen in connection with this law. and how well the law will be administered will in a large measure be up to the organized bar. at whose door it is laid. we hope they will take this mandate from congress and treat it as a sacred trust and see to it that every dollar that is spent will produce the devotion that is contemplated. thousands of families will be grateful to them.
does the senator believe also. as a rule of decision. that we should be bound by the court decisions in the particular case if findings are made with respect to the validity of the certificate of appointment.
. it seems to me that we would make it a rule of decision that if the credentials were valid on their face. substantively. we would  go behind the certificate. but we would let those who have a statutory right to do so. question the validity of the credentials. for example. a citizen of california could challengeand. i presume haschallenged the govers right in the state court. the question has been decided by the highest court in california. it seems to me that if we did this. we could save ourselves from being a court of last resort. in terms of law. as well as a body having power to decide whom we should accept and whom we should . in terms of membership. but in this particular case. as the senator said. i. too. like my colleague from new york . consider the argument of the senator from kentucky on constitutionality to be very impressive. i was merely trying to phrase what i had in mind by way of precedent as to whether this could  be based on the principle that whoever questions credentials that are presented. other than on substantive grounds. must challenge them in the appropriate forum. this is  an appropriate forum.
. first. i wish to congratulate my colleague for having brought about a hearing on the bill to make columbus day a national holiday. he has given pleasure to many millions of americans in bringing to pass a measure of justice long overdue. i hope very much that the bill will be enacted into law at the earliest possible time. i congratulate the senator on causing it to advance as far as it has.
yes. it purports to do that. i had intended to develop that point a little later. perhaps it is just as well that i tell the senator  what i have in mind. it purports to do what the senator has indicated. however. it contains an escape hatch. the escape hatch is "in the absence of highly unusual circumstances." if the court finds highly unusual circumstances. it may deny the application for a stay. in my judgment. had the dirksen amendment omitted that provision. it would have run directly in the face of at least two u.s. supreme court decisions. which i shall cite in the course of my speech this aftern. and would have been held to be unconstitutional. it would therefore have been thrown out by the court. that is my considered judgment as a lawyer. the justice department felt that the addition of the words. "in the absence of highly unusual circumstances" meant that a court could say. "we are  absolutely bound. because of the language highly unusual circumstances. and we can therefore deny the stay." i feel that the original dirksen proposal. which lacked such an escape clause. would have been thrown out as unconstitutional. or run the danger of a serious confrontation between the power of the supreme court and the power of congress to invade the supreme courts power. this would be a confrontation similar to the one which occurred in the previous century. which almost led to the impeachment of a president and to a dismemberment of the organs of our government. i do  want to see anything like that happen. i believe that the court will have to say one of two things about .the amended dirksen proposal. the proposal requires the court to issue a stay order unless it finds highly unusual circumstances. as a fact. but when we consider the nature of the cases involved. highly unusual circumstances already exist when there is malapportionment. and therefore it is difficult for me to imagine what else would be highly unusual circumstances. if the court were honestly to administer these words. it is therefore my judgment that the court would either strike down the stay amendment on the ground that it is a usurpation of the judicial power. especially in already pending cases in which decrees have been handed down and to some extent complied with. for these are equity cases. in which the courts may retain jurisdiction until the decrees have been fully complied with or longer. or the court will say. "we shall treat the amendment as a request. because it is  really binding updn us in view of the exclusionary language. "highly unusual circumstances. we will treat it as a request. and because we  have the sentiment of congress. we shall ho it as a request." i answer the senator as follows: it would be much more dignified and sound and in the interest of our government. since the court must treat it as only a request in order to uphold it. to remake the amendment in the form of a request. does any senator believe that the supreme court would treat a considered request of congress. enacted by both houses of congress and signed by the president. as a nullity. it would do such thing. but the dignity and integrity of both the judiciary and the congress would be upheld.
that is exactly it. the senator has chosen a situation which could represent highly unusual circumstances and in which the court should therefore refuse to issue a stay. i should like to tell the senator. if he does  mind bearing with me a few minutes. exactly what the situation is in a number of states which have already acted in pursuance of the courts decision that their state legislatures must be reapportioned.
the answer is "yes." i do  believe the court would require that. i believe the court would then invoke the words "highly unusual circumstances." where a decree has been issued in an apportionment case and compliance with that decree is under way. it would read "highly unusual circumstances" to mean that it should  issue a stay order. and therefore would  issue one. this bears upon the argument i made a moment ago. that the court may strain to sustain this amendment. if we adopt itand i understand there is some chance we shall. after all. to be realistic. when the majority leader and the miity leader join in sponsoring an amendment. it has a pretty good chance of success. although i understand from what i have read in the newspapers that they may differ as to the reason why they have submitted the amendment. one account i have read says that the miity leader believes it will afford time for the states to approve a constitutional amendment partially revising the courts decision. and that the majority leader believes it will afford time for the states to comply with the decision. in any event. if the court will hold that "highly unusual circumstances" is an escape hatch. i am sure that the court could sustain the amendment in such a case as the senator has described. but the amendment then would be. in effect. hing more than a request. that is the only basis upon which the court could sustain it. on the other hand. if it is held that this language is binding. and that the "highly unusual circumstances" must have occurred in connection with the original lawsuit which challenged the states apportionment system and that the issuance of a decree and compliance with that decree is  in the category of "highly unusual circumstances." then i go back to my original proposition that this amendment would be thrown out on the ground that it represented an effort to make a rule of decision for the court in pending cases. in my judgment. the precedents are clear that the court will  let that stand. and i do  see anything in social philosophy or anything else which would induce me to believe that the court would abandon these precedents. on the contrary. i think the court will hold with them. if . we shall have what i am deeply concerned about: a confrontation between the power of the court and the power of congress. which. in my judgment. does  bode very well for either.
yes. in my judgment. if we adopt this amendment and the court upholds this as a valid exercise of constitutional power. it will be required to stay the effect of its order until january 1. 1966. at least.
that is so. i have already stated that it is my considered judgment that the dirksen amendment as originally offered. until redrafted in consultation. as i understandand i have inside kledge except that which is generally availablewith the department of justice. would. in my judgment. have been unconstitutional as violating the separation of powers. it may or may  be saved by the phrase with respect to "highly unusual circumstances." if it is saved by that clause. it would only be because the court construes the whole amendment as being a request. if that is the caseand i deeply believe it isi ask. why  adopt a dignified course. a course more hoing the separation of powers. and put it in the form of a request. because that is the only chance of its being sustained. i point to the cases which. in my judgment. decide this issue. the first case which decided it is the case of united states v. klein. 13 wall. 128. decided in 1871. that case related to a reconstruction controversy with respect to the indemnification of southerners who had been granted amnesty. for property seized during the civil war pursuant to law. congress endeavored to deprive the court of jursidiction to indemnify claimants in connection with pending cases. the court in the klein case refused to accept that legislation and declared it unconstitutional. that case was decided after the mccardle case. which is being very heavily relied upon by the proponents of the dirksen amendment. the distinction between the mccardle case and the klein case and the distinction between the mccardle case and the dirksen amendment is that in mccardle the appellate jurisdiction was taken way from the court. effort was made to impose upon the court a rule of decision in a pending case. whereas. that was exactly the purport of the legislation in the klein case and is also the purport of the dirksen amendment. if it is to have operative effect and is  to be treated merely as a request. in my judgment. the klein case is decisive. the klein case was succeeded by the case of glidden v. zda. 370 u.s. 530. a case decided as recently as 1962. in which the majority opinion in the klein case was cited with approval. the glidden case concerned the power to assign a judge of the court of claims to a statutory 3judge court. a constitutional court. as it is called. the court invoked the doctrine of the klein case in order to sustain its judgment that the assignment was properly made. almost 100 years elapsed between the klein and glidden cases. and the court stood by the klein decision. it did  invoke the mccardle case. and that is very significant. in my judgment. i have given the senator from wisconsin my considered judgmentwhich is the best each of us can go byas to what the supreme court would do in respect to the particular approach which we are discussing. that is why i came to the conclusion that the only honest thing to do--and i do  use that term invidiously. the senator from illis is an excellent lawyer. and his judgment is as good as mine. i am speaking of integrity to act based upon my concept of what will or will  be upheld as constitutionalwould be to make a request of what. in order to be sustained. would have to be considered a request in any event. instead of seeking power which in my judgment we do  have and should  have under our constitutional form of government. it is only aher way to pack the supreme court. if we are going to try to tell it what to do in interlocutory proceedings in a pending case. that is exactly what the klein case held.
that turns on what the court will hold with respect to the words "highly unusual circumstances." if i may develop that point with the senator for a moment. we have already covered the point that if there has been a decree and partial or total compliance with the decree. the court could then say that even though those circumstances occurred after the entry of the decree. those are highly unusual circumstances which entitled the court to refrain from issuing the stay which would be authorized by this amendment. i can conceive also of highly unusual circumstances preceding the litigation itself. if a state legislature gave every indication of  cooperating in an effort to reapportion. the court might deal with that situation as it has certain civil rights cases in which the court has held that there is use going to the local authorities to obtain relief when the entire history of the local authorities. such as a voting registrar. for example. has been characterized by discrimination on racial grounds. therefore. the court has held it would be fruitless to require that the plaintiff exhaust the remedy provided by state or local law by appealing to those authorities. such a situation might constitute "highly unusual circumstances". and i believe that they are important. i mention them because they bear upon the answer to the senators question. but laying aside the meaning of the words. "in the absence of highly unusual circumstances." unless the court uses that as an escape hatch. the amendment would run afoul of the separation of powers. in my judgment. and would endeavor. in defiance of the decisions which i have mentioned. to impose a rule of decision upon the supreme court. i do  believe that a discussion of the mccardle case avails to save this type of legislation. it is for that reason that i state that it is my considered judgment that the only thing which places it in some doubt is the meaning of the words. "in the absence of highly unusual circumstances." if the court were to give those words the weight it needs to give them in order to hold the legislation constitutional. it would have to treat the whole thing as a request. so long as that is what the court must consider it. why  frankly face the question  and ourselves maintain the principle of separation of powers and make the request which is the purport of the amendment which the senator from minnesota and i have offered. i believe that if senators will search their own minds on the subject. they must perforce agree that that kind of request will be hoed by the supreme court in accordance with the spirit in which it is made. i point out. too. that the amendment as i have proposed it. in the form of a request. covers the problem of interfering in pending cases. the proceedings which have taken place in a pending case give the court an opportunity. pursuant to our expressed wish. to defer decrees of the lower courts which in my judgment have been oppressive. the amendment does  challenge the good faith. the sincerity. or fidelity to duty of any lower court. however. i believe that in effect we have a right to say to the supreme court that we believe this issue is being ridden too hard. especially if we do  believe that the acts of these legislatures are per se invalid because the legislatures are apportioned on a basis of which the supreme court disapproves. therefore. sufficient time should be given so that adequate government processes may operate in an orderly and judicious way. i have given some examples of the types of order so far issued by some lower courts which are illadvised in terms of bringing about the reapportionment reform ordered by the supreme court. i shall  refer to the situation in a number of states in which the effort to apply the naked power contained in the dirksen amendment will upset steps already taken to comply with the supreme court decree. in the state of colorado. for example. the supreme court held on june 22 that the legislature was malapportioned. on july 8 the legislature reapportioned both houses on a population basis and on july 9 a threejudge federal district court issued an order upholding that reapportionment. the supreme court of the state has  held that action invalid under the state constitution. the matter is thereby very much in the status of the courts having it under consideration for future decision. with the necessity of reconciling federal and state court decisions. to introduce into the situation the kind of naked stay which is incorporated in the dirksen amendment would be disruptive and unwise. a similar situation exists in kansas. where a plan for the reapportionment of both houses was upheld by the state supreme court on march 30. 1964. it is  awaiting implementation. the same situation exists in the state of new york. where a threejudge court ordered reapportionment. although i disapprove of the idea of three elections in 2 years as ordered by the courtwhich i mentioned a minute agothis question will be before the supreme court. and i believe that to attempt to stay those proceedings by congressional fiat would be distinctly ex post facto. in th dakota. the legislature is acting on four proposals for reapportionment. pursuant to a court order. in tennessee. the state of the original decision in the case of baker against carr. a court proceeding and legislative proceedings are pending to reapportion. pursuant to court decree. in vermont. i have already stated that there is a lower court order ordering the legislature to reapportion and to disband without transacting further business. the wisconsin supreme court has ordered reapportionment with various provisions respecting the 1964 elections and thereafter. until the legislature and the gover bring about the enactment of a valid reapportionment plan. there are many other statesin which various proceedings involving this issue are in the process of litigation. in approximately 16 states there have already been court orders entered. in approximately 23 others litigation has already begun. in many of these 39 states. as well as in some of the other 11. some legislative or executive action has already been taken toward reapportionment. all those judicial proceedings would be placed in jeopardy unless the supreme court were to hold the dirksen amendment to be ineffective to change a rule of decision in a pending case. at the same time. on the merits. the situation which we face is  at all an openandshut issue of one man. one vote. there is the federal compact. which is constantly in the minds of the people of all our states. which gives the senate two representatives from each state. regardless of population. how often have many of us from the great populous states. like new york and california. the state of the distinguished presiding officer. the junior senator from california . felt ourselves frustrated by the fact that actions. which we consider inimical to our states. are brought about by a vote of senators from very much smaller states. but this federal compact has worked well for almost two centuries. and we wish to see it continue. there is reason. in my judgment. why the people of the respective states should  have the same opportunity. i emphasize the word "opportunity." many states may  wish to follow the federal pattern. the state of nebraska has a unicameral legislature. there are other states in which a onehouse legislature is  contemplated for simplicity or for other reasons pleasing to the people of those states. our great sister free nation. the united kingdom. has functioned for centuries. for all practical purposes. with one house. it has worked very well. it has been a model of parliamentary government. indeed. for the whole world. on the other hand. consider the situation which obtains in the state of oregon. which reapportioned both of its houses on the basis of population a few years ago.  it has encountered a new form of discrimination in terms of representation. that situation involves discrimination against areas in favor of the oneman. onevote concept. for example. 8 of the 30 senators in the state senate of oregon live within the city limits of portland. oreg. one state senator represents 28.000 square milesa district as big as vermont. new hampshire. rhode island. and new jersey combined. the question raised is. should the people of the state of oregon have a right to say. "we enjoy these tremendous areas. too. we want them to be worked. cultivated. and developed. we want to have people brought into those areas. we want them to be given agricultural and industrial opportunity." i emphasize that word "want." should the people have a right to say. "we want more than one voice in one of the houses in our state legislature with respect to the resources concentrated in such an emous area." i see reason why the people of a state should  so decide. they ought to have that opportunity. i can see a very orderly pattern worked out to effectuate the mandate of the supreme court and conform to the desire of all of us to see that it is worked out in such a way as to be  unduly disruptive of our social order and state governments. to give the people the opportunity. if they wish. within a very proximate time to enact a state constitution which will apportion one house on a basis other than population. they might express themselves by turning down the proposal and proclaiming that they want an apportionment of both of the houses on the basis of population. which is their privilege. i do  see why we can effect all those purposes by requesting the supreme courtas a coordinate branch of the government along with ourselvesto stay its hand. the supreme court is acquainted with our plans. we should ask the court to stay its hand until we act with prompt and deliberate speed. i use the phrase which the court itself used in the civil rights case of brown versus board of education. we would thus avoid the need for placing the supreme court in the position of turning down an act of congress which purports to have a statutorily operative effect. but which. in my judgment. if it had such an effect. would have to be struck down by the court as unconstitutional because it interferes with the prerogatives of the judiciary. why should we have that confrontation when it is  necessary. how often do we see in a decision of the u.s. supreme court the phrases: "we are sympathetic with what the losing party is claiming. but this is a problem for congress. we invite the attention of congress to this problem." how often have we seen congress thereafter legislate in that field. why . in a historic moment in american history. do the same thing with the supreme court. why should we  say to the supreme court. "this procedure is being crowded too hard and too fast by the lower courts. we do  expect you to declare the acts of our state legislatures to be invalid. nullities. or void. even if the state legislatures are elected on a malapportioned basis. therefore. we ask for time within which our plan or legislative scheme for dealing with this problem can be worked out." that is the dignified. respectful way in which to do it. it is the way in which the supreme court has dealt with us. it is the way in which. in my judgment. we ought to deal with the court. i believe that a confrontation between the power of the supreme court and the power of congress is so dangerous that it could be disruptive of the american system. we are operating in the atmosphere of a presidential campaign. it is a presidential campaign in which there will be sufficient overtones of attacks upon the supreme court and dissatisfaction with supreme court decisions in the civil rights field. the school prayer field. and other fields. this will impose more than an adequate strain upon the body politic in the united states. why add aher. that is the question i ask. why add aher when we can accomplish a legitimate result by being respectful ourselves. as we expect the supreme court to be respectful of the orders. views. and plans of congress. at best. we shall be home for 3 months. since baker against carr. when this whole process was initiated. a period of years has elapsed. therefore. what harm would there be in waiting to see if the approach which the junior senator cx- 1247 from minnesota and i have suggested works. we shall soon find out if it does  work. there is plenty of time in which to apply power. if power is necessary. there is plenty of time to apply power. if the request does  work. it is upon that ground that the junior senator from minnesota and i believe that the amendment in the nature of a substitute. which we have proposed. represents a fair way for congress to work its will. and at the same time to respect faithfully the institutions established by the constitution. of coordinate power to rule our people. . i suggest the absence of a quorum.
i am pleased to have been able to join with the senator from minnesota in this effort. there are two approaches to this situation. the first approach is one which. in my judgment. was struck down in 1871 in the case of united states against klein. it is the approach of the mansfielddirksen amendmentas the senator calls itundilutedthat is. without the addition of the clause "highly unusual circumstances"-which perhaps gives the court an escape mechanism. the other approach is the more condign approach. of depriving the appellate court of jurisdiction entirely. which was the course pursued in the mccardle case. a very old case which predated the klein case. there is grave doubt in my mind that the supreme court would follow the mccardle precedent with respect to pending cases in the federal courts. even though those pending cases were in the lower courts. there may be some statesbut very few of the 50 statesthe apportionment of which has   been called into question in the federal courts. therefore. if the mccardle doctrine. which has been questioned in later cases. were  to stand up. we would again be running the risk of a direct confrontation between the judiciary and congress in an area in which it is  necessary to have a confrontation. it is my conviction that in the cases which are already pending before the federal courts. if the supreme court would have to regard the mansfielddirksen amendment as more than merely precatory. they would therefore strike it down. the amendment which the senator from minnesota and i recommend would best square with existing law. the likelihood of a new decision on this legislation by the supreme court. and the substantive result which we have a right to expect from the court. of crowding the whole situation quite so hard in terms of implementation of the law which the court has laid down.
i thank the senator for his intercession. the idea of a "sense" resolution was very much the idea of the senator from minnesota. i was hoed when the senator felt that i should take the laboring oar in it. i k that it will be regarded as our joint endeavor. i hope it might have some helpful result in resolving the question before congress. i k the senator joins me in the realization that it is a real problem that has to be coped with. matter what should happen to the legislation here. it would be most unfortunate if the supreme court allowed the situation to be dealt with quite as hard as some lower courts seem to think it must be.
let me tell the senator what i have in mind. and if he wants to make a critical analysis of it i am sure he will. in his usual. candid way. give it. i had in mind that an amendment to the u.s. constitution should be adopted by threefourths of the states. through their legislatures. which would entitle a state to amend its own constitution to provide that one house shall be apportioned  on the basis of population. and which required that the people of that state would have a right to judge whether or  they would amend their constitution. we face a serious situation in this regard. if the decisions of the supreme court on this subject. baker against carr and reyds against sims. should be construed as meaning that the acts of our state legislatures are unlawful because so many of the state legislatures44 out of 50are based upon an apportionment which the supreme court has stricken down or would strike down. we are really in chaos. in the final analysis. it seems to me. if there were time. the people of each state. including the state of oregon. would have the opportunity. when it comes to amending their state constitution. to determine this question. that was the limited point i was making in my statement on this subject yesterday.
. i invite attention to the untimely death on august 9 of prof. edmond cahn. who may well be considered a prototype of the legal philosopher. i knew professor calm. who was a member of the faculty of new york university law school. my alma mater. he was also a highly distinguished author and lecturer on the supreme court and the philosophy of justice. whose works will long stand as monuments in the field. i ask unanimous consent that the obituary with respect to professor cahn. published in the new york times of august 10. be printed in the record.
. earlier this summer the new york state bar association issued a statement on civil rights under law which has become increasingly significant. the statement very concisely summarizes the correlative responsibilities of all elements of our society in achieving justice through peaceful and lawful means. and it emphasizes the leadership which is properly expected of the legal community in this moral and social crisis. kings county surrogate orri g. judd. one of our most distinguished lawyers. prepared the statement as chairman of the state bar associations committee on civil rights. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
i might say i throughly join the senator in his attitude toward the court. it is a coordinate branch of government. we would certainly  be very happy if they called us a bunch of screwballs. i am happy to join the seriator from illis in defending the supreme court. its good faith. the distinction of its membership. and the great leadership given to the court by chief justice warren. i have defended the court before. when it was charged with making communistoriented decisions. and presented the detailed facts. assembled by legal authorities. which showed that there was hing to any such charges. it was merely that the senator who made the charges did  like their decisions. there is a great deal in the tuck billto which i am as fully opposed as is the senator from illisthat is reminiscent of the courtpacking idea. it deserves to have as much of a reaction in the country against it as did the courtpacking proposal. even the courtpacking proposal. after all. did  so openly forecast anything about decisions. it just sought to have more justices on the court. but it was felt it sought more justices because those to be appointed by the thenpresident were expected to rule differently and to constitute a different majority than those who were on the court at that time. which was deciding cases in a way the president did  like. with the tuck resolution. it is the congress this time. and  the president. who is trying to pack the court. by taking away its appellate jurisdiction which would deprive it of the opportunity in this field to serve the american people and protect their freedoms under the 14th amendment. which is as much a part of the constitution as the original constitution and the first 10 amendments. the bill of rights. therefore. the matter  rests in the senate. i rather thought we could come to a resolution of the matter on the dirksen amendment through some form of precatory resolution such as senator mccarthy and i have proposed. but we have before us  a housepassed resolution that is completely unacceptable and very dangerous. in my opinion. to the liberties of the people. therefore. the decision will really rest here. in the senate of the united states. it seems to me that this justifies the detailed discussion which has been undertaken with the senator from illis and his colleagues on this subject. we have really a burning. major threat. in my judgment. to the public liberties. does the senator  feel that the issue raised by the tuck bill is analogous. in terms of the exercise of power by congress. to the issues raised by the courtpacking proposal of approximately 25 years ago. and thus deserves the critical attention of the american people in the same manner as did that proposal.
i hope the senator will forgive me if i take a minute in this discussion. but i believe that although what has been said is extremely important. it may involve a danger. too. first. i join the senator from montana in supporting the work of the police where it is performed impartially and justly among all the citizens of our country and where the police obey the rules of civil liberties and civil rights. we have had a most important and interesting experience in this connection with the new york city police department. which. under commissioner michael j. murphy. has. i believe. generally performed as justly in cases of racial disorder and racial protest as could be expected of any police force in the country. i favor civilian review boards in cases which involve excessive police action. i believe it is very important to make it quite clear that by supporting our police at the same time. we do  condone actions in which police take policymaking into their own hands. or. as is true in some cases in southern states. enforce laws which are later proved to be unconstitutional. or use an amount of force which is greater than the courts would uphold or than the laws prescribe. i join the senator in his desire to uphold the police. they are like our army. navy. and air force. they should impartially do their duty as laid down by the higher authority which regulates them. without trying to take the law into their own hands. and without giving vent to hatred in the process. that may sound a little difficult. but it is  impossible. i believe it is very important that that corollary be added to the timely and very fine statement which the senator from montana has made.
 can vetoin the closing weeks of the session. so i do  believe we can have one side posing as a model of virtue while enforcing against the other side an unusually strict limitation of debate. on the merits of reapportionment. i have said before that i am opposed to cx1371 the dirksenmansfield amendment in its present form. my position in this case is a middle position. although i am  always found in that part of the road in respect to controversial questions. i find myself there . i have long believed that there is a need for fairer representation of some of our urban and suburban areas. which have been disadvantaged by apportionment which was esablished when our nation was less centralized in urban areas than it  is. but i believe that some of the lower federal court decisions purporting to implement the supreme courts oneman. onevote decision of june 22 have been pressing state legislative reapportionment too rapidly. in the light of some states electoral procedures. my own state of new york has a particularly acute case. there. a threejudge federal court has ordered three elections in 2 years. with state senators and assemblymen serving for only 1year terms instead of the 2year terms prescribed by the state constitution. the speaker of the new york state assembly. joseph f. carli warned during the past weekend. that this would produce a "virtual legislative stalemate" in the legislature because of the practical inability to enact new revenue measures in election years. i fully agree with him that this is quite likely to occur. similarly in vermont. a lower court has ordered the legislature to meet only for the purpose of reapportioning the state legislature. and then to disband without transacting further business. this is a most drastic injunction. one that is hardly compatible even with the dignity of a state. i respectfully submit that the lower federal courts. unless corrected by the supreme court. may produce a climate in. congress which. in my judgment. will be. most inimical to the ultimate implementation of the decision of the court itself and strongly against the national interest. yet such a climate could be produced. i do  believe i would be touched by it. but i believe that others might. the time has come for the lower federal courts to understand two things: first. that every act that is adopted by a legislature. withstanding the fact that the legislature is malapportioned. is legal. this is  a case in which legislatures are acting illegally. and in which the supreme court has to hasten to shut down the business of a legislature because all of its acts are a nullity. that is sense. in my judgment as a lawyerand i think it is borne out by the cases--the supreme court will hold that every one of the acts of any state legislature. matter how malapportioned the legislature may be. is legal. under these circumstances. such drastic injunctions as requiring 1year terms or forbidding legislatures to do anything except to meet and reapportion are hardly compatible with the dignity of the states. i would urge the supreme court. whatever may happen with respect to this proposed legislation. to pay particular and strict attention to what is said on this subject in the interests of the nation and of the courts own future and the future of the balance of powers between the legislature and the judiciary. haste of the kind which i have described might have been warranted if there were any danger that the acts of malapportioned legislatures might be considered per se invalid. but it is unthinkable.that the supreme court would so hold. in fact. those courts which have faced this issue since the decision in baker against carr. in 1962the basic decision on this subjecthave uniformly held to the contrary. namely. that the acts of a malapportioned legislature are and continue to be valid. in addition. i believe it must be said that there may be a case for an amendment to the u.s. constitution. if it is limited only to permitting the people of " any state. if they wish it. to choose by referendum to have one house of their legislature apportioned with reference to a factor other than population. such a proposal has been introduced in the other body by representative mcculloch. of ohio. and i shall sponsor it in the senate. along that line. the constitutional amendment proposed by the junior senator from illis has perhaps caused more difficulty than the dirksen amendment to the foreign aid bill. the proposed dirksen constitutional amendment would purport to do two things: first. it would cut off the power of the supreme court in respect to apportionment cases. i thoroughly disagree with that. the supreme court should continue to have that power. second. it would put it within the possibilityand i emphasize the word "possibility"-of a state legislature. once the constitutional amendment were adopted. to reapportion without the action being subject to scrutiny and consideration either by the supreme court of the united states as to the fairness of that reapportionment or even by the citizens of that state in a referendum. i do  believe that is right. one of the houses in every state legislature should be apportioned strictly on the basis of one man. one vote. but the people of that state should have the right to make some compact among themselves as to the apportionment of the second house. as has been made by the united states. there may be different historical reasons. but the idea of a senate  necessarily based on population is  so thoroughly ingrained in the american public consciousness that i believe it would be difficult to convince people that it is fair to insist that both houses of a state legislature must be based strictly upon population. ifand it is a big "if"-the people of that state do  prefer it that way as to one house. it seems to me that the concept of the united states. namely. that one house is based solely on population. is a sound one. let us remember that the whole constitutional system is based upon the premise that the american people can rise in their might and power in 2 years--a very short period of timeand stop all the machinery of government. if they choose. by electing members of the house of representatives who.. for example. will  vote a nickel for any government department. that is their privilege. that is all right. that is the way it should be. according to our concept of government. the question. then. is how congress may constitutionally manifest its desire for time to avoid hasty solutions and perhaps to propose a constitutional amendment. i do  believe the dirksenmansfield amendment can do so validly under the doctrine of the separation of powers of the coordinate branches of the federal government unless the court construes it as a request.  an order. i have heretofore argued that in my judgment. the supreme court will strike down the dirksenmansfield amendment unless it construes the words "unusual circumstances." as contained in the amendment. to allow it. for all practical purposes. to consider that amendment as a request.  an order. that is a dangerous piece of business. the court may feel constrained. as a matter of morality in the construction of the law. to hold that this is an order to the court. and to strike it down. and face the terrible confrontation between congress and the court. which i do  believe anyone who loves our country and its institutions should invite. if the amendment is mandatory. if it is a statute. then it could well be construed as an attempt by congress to impose upon the federal courts what is called. in words of art. "a rule of decision." this has been held invalid in cases involving constitutional rights already pending before the courts. i have argued on the floor of the senate the famous mccardle case. there is a great likelihood. in view of the later klein and glidden cases. that the mccardle decision is unlikley to be the law of the land as construed by the supreme court at this time. it is for these reasons that i wish to avoid this confrontation. to give us the time which i believe is properly needed for the dignity and efficiency of our system of government. the senator from minnesota and i have introduced a "sense of congress" resolution. requesting the supreme court that adequate time be given to comply with the supreme courts decision consistent with each states electoral process and with its procedures for amending its constitution. and also to afford time for consideration of a proposed amendment to the constitution along the lines which i have described.
let me say to the senator from montana that the court originally laid down a strict standard as to what malapportionment would be obious to justice. the senator from montana will remember that. i believe it is. in words of art-
invidiousexactly right. the court ratified that to mean one man. one vote. what happened is that the lower courts picked up that ball and ran with it harder. faster. and more drastically than anyone expected. we do  yet k what the supreme court would say about the lower court orders. for example. in new york. the order of the threejudge court. with all respect and dignity. is being appealed to the u.s. supreme court. other cases will come up in the same way. but i believe that on a question of this great importance to the people of each state. it would be appropriate to evidence congressional intent that the people be given an opportunity to absorb this question. and that the congress be given an opportunity to deal with it in some fashion by a constitutional amendment. it seems to me that there is  too much difference in this approach from the many cases which the senator from montana. who is learned in the law. has read. in which the court has stated. "we are deciding that such and such a thing is unconstitutional and. of course. it can be changed so that it is constitutional." the court does  hesitate to lay down the responsibility upon us. in just so many words. when it believes it is deserved. i believe that although it may be somewhat el. it is  unusual in the sense that it is only reciprocal for us to lay our feelings at the door of the court and. as the senator from minnesota and i have suggested. say. "we intended to propose a constitutional amendment. there is a likelihood that we shall. we ask you. as a coordinate branch of the governmentjust as you ask us many times to correct something in the lawto exercise a little moderation in this process and give us an opportunity to act in good faith."
i value very highly the favorable views of the senator from montana . i k that he comments as an honest and studious lawyer on the approach which has been suggested. i believe we are facing a rather grave potential confrontation between the supreme court and congress. i believe that it behooves all who love our system of government to use  only their ingenuity but also their patience and forbearance in such .a situation. to see whether the practical result which we all seekthe senator from illis . the senator from montana . the senator from illis . the senator from montana -can be achieved without this confrontation. incidentally. this suggestion was originally senator mccarthys suggestion. i told him that i should like very much to join him in carrying it out. and in his typical modesty he insisted that i should introduce it and that he would join with me. but it was originally a mccarthy suggestion.  this approach is expressly designed to give senators like myself. who do  wish this confrontation. who wish to avoid the confrontation. and who believe it can be avoided. an opportunity to support an approach which would allow things to cool off a bit on this subject. and  endeavor to have a confrontation on constitutional powers which. in my judgment. could only be serious to the nation.
i thank my friend. earlier today i annced that i would vote against cloture. i analyzed the situation and gave my opinion that to sustain the dirksenmansfield amendment would require an interpretation by the supreme court which would make it of more effect than our "sense" resolution. therefore. it seemed to me much more appropriate. under the doctrine of the separation of powers. to avoid a confrontation between congress and the court. as long as it could be done with dignity and propriety and achieve the same result. so i urge adoption of the substitute which. as the senator ed. will be offered at the appropriate time. i am glad the senator from minnesota was able to join in that measure.
in response to my beloved friends commentsand i shall answer every one of the items to which he has referredi shall tick them off to be sure i understand them. what he has said is  within the contemplation of this senator. and i think it should be reflected also that it is  within the contemplation of either senator from minnesota. senator mccarthy or senator humphrey. what we have to do. if we can. is to make it clear to our colleagues who entertain these doubts. i hope we can do that. that is why i welcome the opportunity to make any modifications which may be necessary in the language. with respect to the reference to psychological pressure upon state legislatures. we have desire to have any psychological impact brought to bear upon them. when i was stating my case for the substitute. i made it clear that we hoped to find a good faith quotient in the way of the time given the legislatures to proceed to conform to the supreme courts decrees. i did  state that we were going to deal with a wholesale stay until everything was completed. the second point is that the senator does  personally favor any constitutional amendment of any kind and. therefore. does  think we should leave any implication that we are going. in good faith. to respond to the courts giving time by getting time to have one. i happen to favor some kind of constitutional amendment. the one which i favor and have submitted would require approval by the people of each state before one house of a state legislature could be apportioned on a basis other than population. the senator from illis does  wish to be committedneither do ito the proposition that based upon this "sense" resolution. we are by implication committing ourselves to proposing an amendment to the states. expressly or by implication. third. the senator from illis stated that indefinite time would be granted. i pleaded my case on the basis that the best way for the coordinate branches of government to proceed would be step by step. as the state legislatures move forward or as congress moves forward. at every step the courts. by a series of relatively short steps. can determine whether egh action is being taken to justify further stays. king of the intentions of congress and of the state legislatures. so i do  contemplate any wholesale stay of 1 or 2 or 3 years. but contemplate instead that the courts will take a look at the matters and determine. within the intention of congress that stays are deserved. finally. op the question of malapportioned state legislatures. i point out that odyneither the senator from illis  any of his colleagues. matter how strongly they may feel about this matteris saying that the acts of the state legislatures which are malapportioned are invalid. if that were the result. as the circuit court of appeals for the 10th circuit has said. there would be anarchy. the processes of government have existed for a long time. and must continue. therefore. the idea is to move forwardi do  even use the words "with all deliberate speed." because those words were used in aher context. and i do  want to use them in this context. but we should go forward with all the celerity of which we are capable. i read one of the supreme courts own decisions on this subject as to what it means to go forward. it is found at page 50 of the pamphlet decision in the case of reyds against simms: with respect to the timing of relief. a court can reasonably endeavor to avoid a disruption of the election process which might result from requiring precipitate changes that could make unreasonable or embarrassing demands on a state in adjusting to the requirements of the courts decree. all that we are trying to do by our amendment is to state to a coordinate branch of the government our desire to afford some period in which to determine the intentions of state legislatures. so that the court may itself determine what are and what are  unreasonable or embarrassing demands on a state. answering the four points the senator has raisedand again i make plea for the original language of our proposal. it may very well be that it will be very much better expressed. and i hope we can come to that conclusionthe intent of our proposal is certainly different from what we have just been discussing. it is  intended to put psychological pressure upon the states. there is intention to guarantee that a constitutional amendment will be proposed. it is  the intention to stay the matter on a wholesale basis. and there is intention to defer all actions to correct malapportioned legislatures beyond what is required to avoid dealing with states in an unreasonable or embarrassing manner. and within that definition to see that the situation is corrected at the earliest time. but bearing in mind that what the legislatures are doing is  invalid. that we are  in anarchy. and that it is possible to accomplish the purpose in a way that is reasonable and  embarrassing. which is very much the standard that the court has laid down.
. the reason for submitting the modification is very well kn. it is an effort to bring together the support of as many senators as possible for a solution of the problem which faces the senate. it is impossible to suppose that men of conscience and fidelity to their principles would take positions other than those consistent with their principles. hence the senator from pennsylvania . as we have heard. thinks that the amendment could do harm and it would be a way of resolving the parliamentary dilemma. i believe it would be a serious and meaningful expression of our desires to the supreme court of the united states. which the supreme court would listen to. i think we would make very clear what we want. and i invoke two doctrines in respect of the effectiveness of what the proposal represents. the first doctrine is the socalled doctrine of equitable abstention under which the federal courts in innumerable cases have stood aside upon occasion in order to let other bodies. such as state courts. interpret a state statute. we are dismissing cases in equity. therefore. the court could. with complete authority. based upon decided cases. state. "as this is the demonstrated intent of the congress expressed to us. we shall  stand aside and let it operate." second. for those who will call the amendmentand i suspect that some willan apparition of an apparition. or try to dismiss it as completely superficial. i point out that time and again. upon the most serious matters. the congress has passed senseofcongress resolutions. upon a senseofcongress resolution the marines went into leba. upon a senseofcongress resolution the 7th fleet defended taiwan. upon a senseofcongress resolution we premised action which resulted in oceans of treasure being expended and the blood of american troops being shed in various parts of the world. even those who violently oppose the senseofcongress resolution have offered such resolutions. including my distinguished friend. the miity leader. upon very serious questions. because we realize that there are cases in which two branches of the government have coordinate powersthis is such a caseand that is the only way in which coordinate bodies can really express their considered intention and desire to each other.
. in my judgment. therefore. the amendment. as modified. would be a very meaningful act. thoroughly in accordance with the traditions of our country. juxtaposing one coordinate body to the other. finally. when we talk about supplicationand it has been said here that we are "supplicating" the supreme courtthe supreme court is a coordinate body. it is our duty and responsibility to respect it as much as it respects us. if we have power. the least we can do is to inform the court of our intention. it is my judgmentand senators must vote on the question yea or naythat we do  have power to direct the supreme court to carry out a rule of the decision in pending cases. we could   make the principle applicable merely to new cases. because the apportionment of the legislatures of 34 of the 50 states is already before the federal courts. so we can backtrack on that. hence. we can mandate the court. and the proposed amendment is the only way in which two great. dignified. and coordinate bodies can express their intention and desire to each other.
. i should like to answer some of the points which were raised with respect to our argument upon the subject. in discussing the question. the senator from oregon spoke of the fact that court "busting" bills have always failed. in my judgment. that is  quite an accurate statement. and for the following reason: court "busting" bills which would overturn the institution of the court and the court as an institution have failed.
that is quite all right. the amendment is joined in by the two senators from minnesota . it is very much a bipartisan effort. the language that has  been substituted has been developedand i say this with their permissionby the senator from illis and the senator from wisconsin . we have had the intermediation of a number of other senators. including the junior senator from montana . what does our proposal come down to. it comes down to this practical question: if one does  agree that the supreme court has the power to make the decisions that it made in baker against carr and in reyds against simms. and if one feels that congress has the power to mandate the supreme court as to how to decide pending cases. then obviously this "sense" amendment is meaningless. but if one believes. as i do. and as i deeply believe a majority of the senate should. that the supreme court has the power to decide cases under the 14th amendment and that the supreme court has power to deal with pending cases. withstanding any mandate we may give the court to the contrary. then we face a problem of power as between two coordinate branches of government. in my judgment. it is essential to the security of this republic that each branch respect the other as it would itself wish to be respected. and that the legislative branch  seek to assert power which would compel the supreme court to say. if it is to be left as an institution at all. and to have any selfrespect. that we do  have. it is the function of governance to avoid dreadful confrontations. that is the reason we take the position we do. and. also. because there is a doctrine in the courts. secure in law. kn as equitable abstention. i shall be happy to give the citation to sustain my view. there is the case of louisiana power & light company v. city of thibodaux city. 360 u.s. 25. and also the case of harrison v. n.a.a.c.p.. 360 u.s. 167. both cases invoke the doctrine of equitable abstention. which means that the court. dealing with equity casesand the apportionment cases are all equity caseshas the power to stay its hand. and will stay its hand. for whatever reason it believes equity dictates. one of the classic reasons for doing so is in a case involving the construction of state statutes. to give an opportunity to the state courts to decide that issue in the first instance. without in any way surrendering federal power. aher instance. which we are  invoking. is to give the states and the federal government a reasonable opportunity to work their will. by passing the "sense" resolution. we inform a coordinate branch of government as to what we wish done in this regard. i do  believe that we have the power to tell the supreme court how it must decide a great majority of state apportionment cases. because they are all pending cases. the precedents. in my judgment. are clear that it represents a rule of decision which the court would have to strike down. we face aher practical question. there are  egh votes in the senate for cloture. we realized that recently.
cloture failed  by a yard. but by a mile. there are  egh votes to table the mansfielddirksen proposal. the country is standing still right  in terms of our activities. it is our duty as legislators to find some hoable way out. i believe that we have given the senate an hoable way out. consistent with the powers of coordinate branches of government. consistent with respect and dignity of each body. and consistent with the needs of the situation. the senator from colorado. the senator from illis. and i. complaining about the new york case. state that we believe some lower courts have gone haywire in this matter and it needs to be corrected by the supreme court. what better way to correct it than by declaring to the court exactly what we propose to do. step by step. from  onwhether a constitutional amendment in the federal establishment. or state action to meet the standards set by the supreme court on apportionment. finally. our country is growing into an urban society. more than 70 percent of the american people  live in urban centers. this. it seems. is but a sociological certification of the march of time and the march of progress. what we need is the opportunity to conform to it. what we need is to give the people of each state the opportunity to decide. if they choose. and they may choose to have one house of their legislature  apportioned by population. they may take a federal constitutional amendment. this takes time. so that the decision as between senators who will vote for our substitute and those who will vote against it. i believe in all fairness. is one between those who agree or disagree with the fundamental premise of the supreme court. we seek the time to bring that about. they feel that it is wrong. they want to direct the court  to do it. i do  believe that they can do that constitutionally. except by a constitutional amendment. i seek to avoid that dreaded confrontation. hence. this substitute. . i reserve the remainder of my time.
. in this particular case we have a unique reason for staying our hand. that reason is that it seems to be the overwhelming. prevailing weight of opinion that under the constitution. the supreme court has the right to act as it did in these particular reapportionment cases. if that is the case. the only way in which we can act to assert ourselves in the face of what we consider to be the abuses of discretion in the lower courts is in this fashion. the history of our government. in terms of comity extended by one coordinate branch to the other. is well kn. the difference between this case and the case that the senator from illis has been using. of the shipment of wheat into the communist bloc. is that in that instance we had the power to act by law. and in this instance. the basic premise under which we are proceeding. we who propose the amendment. is that we do  have the power to mandate the supreme court in respect to these respective cases. therefore. we are doing what respect for the other coordinate branch of the government requires that we do. in the only way we can do it.
. a project which has been underway at the westchester county penitentiary in valhalla. n.y.. since july 1962 is demonstrating the progress that can be made in rehabilitating criminals by teaching them how to read and write. participation in the program is voluntary on the part of the inmates. and it is conducted at the penitentiary by qualified teachers with the cooperation of the custodial officials. social workers. and the psychologist at the institution. the significant aspect of this program lies in the fact that it was conceived and is being carried out under the auspices of the westchester citizens committee of the national council on crime and delinquency. i ask unanimous consent to print in the record an account of the project entitled "legislation slated to aid schooling in penitentiaries." which appeared in the reporter dispatch. white plains. n.y.. august 14. and an excerpt from the report of the westchester citizens committee.
. it will be recalled that. together with the senators from minnesota . i authored a senseofcongress resolution upon this question.  we have finally before us a senseofcongress resolution of which the majority leader is himself the sponsor. it is my belief that the resolution will carry. i wish to express my support of it. and point out what has been so very much implicit in the debate. it is an addition to. rather than a derogation of. the dignity of our standing in the hierarchy of the federal establishment when we recognize. rather than tear down. the coordinate power of aher branch of the governmentthe judiciary. there is hing in the resolution that shows weakness on our part. on the contrary. recognition of the strength of equals shows strength on our own part. many times legislation has stepped in where the supreme court jurisdiction has ended. the best evidence of that is that we have passed bills such as the bill designed to answer the problem of the yates case. in which the supreme court narrowly limited the definition of those who would be charged with counseling the overthrow of government by force to the original organizers of the communist party. the congress was  satisfied with that decision. it enacted legislation expressing its intention that the statute relate to any such organization. including one established later than the original communist party. in order to bring such later organizations within the purview of the law. the court had interpreted a statute. so the congress had the power to act to reverse that interpretation. but  we are dealing with a constitutional interpretation by the court. therefore. we do  have the power. except by a law of equal authority. namely. a constitutional amendment. to affect it. the pending resolution. if heeded by the supreme court--and i shall come to that point in a moment--would accommodate the possibility of a constitutional amendment. i have already introduced substantially the amendment offered by representative mcculloch in the other body. that proposal would permit a statewide referendum in any state to determine whether the people of that state wish one house of its legislature apportioned  according to population. americans believe that they ought to have that right. in my judgment. because they do  follow the labyrinth of reasoning that the establishment of the senate under the federal constitution was the result only of the original federal compact between the states and the trading within the constitutional convention. i believe it is endemic in the conscience of americans that a type of legislative body like the senate is a good thing. many states. by a vote of the peopleone person. one votemay put such a provision into effect. we ought to give the states an opportunity to do so if the people wish it. the sense of congress resolution accommodates that idea. finally. i should like to make the point that. in my judgment. the supreme court would listen. the supreme court should listen. the lower courts should listen. this whole controversy was brought aboutand we must give credit to the senator from illis for highlighting itby the fact that the lower courts in many cases showed an unreasonable lack of practicality. with all respect to the courtsand one has fought for them harder than i havethey did so in new york. compelling three elections in 2 years and curtailing the terms of individual legislators elected by the people is. in my judgment. to quote the language of the supreme court itself in reyds against sims. unreasonable and embarrassing to any state. the courts did so in vermont. they forbade the legislature from doing any business except redistricting. which was again demeaning to a state. i believe the supreme court decision in the case of reyds against sims should be enforced and can be with great dignity and respect to the authority and the standing in the federal establishment of every state. we have constructed our legislatures since the founding of the republic pretty much in one way. and we should correct the situation. i am all for it. but it does  have to be done with quite the ax which was forecast in some of the threejudge court decisions. i hope that the senate will  resolve this dilemma by voting to adopt the mansfield substitute. which will do what we want to do and. at the same time. respect the power of a coordinate branch of the governmentthe judiciaryand i am confident that the supreme court will listen
. i shall vote against the motion to table. i believe that in good faith toward the people of the country. who have watched this battle go on in congress. where the middle position has finally been successfulas it so often is in this countrywe should go through with what we have finally decided as the consensus of this body. the reason is that it takes as much strength to respect a coordinate branch of the goverment as it does to try to override it when we have power to override it. the congress has power to override a constitutional interpretation by the supreme court. except by a constitutional amendment. in my judgment. the argument for tabling is invalid because we have a remedy. we have a remedy under the supreme law. which would have the same authority as that which justified the supreme courts decision. namely. a constitutional amendment. and we have the power and the right to start such an amendment in motion. in my judgment. if we seek to assert an authority over the supreme court that we do  have. we are guilty of exactly the same kind of tyranny which those who argue for the tabling motion have argued against the supreme court. this is  strength. it is weakness or pique. i hope the senate will  do it.
. the senator from illis has stated exactly the three points which i feel must be covered by the constitutional amendment in order to give the people in each state the right to have one house apportioned  on the basis of population. they are: first. that the supreme court shall retain jurisdiction of the oneperson onevote basis for the house which is  the subject of the peoples action under that constitutional amendment. second. that compliance with the amendmentthe way in which a house is to be apportioned  on the basis of populationalso be subject to the review of the supreme court. and third. that the people have continued control so that having apportioned one house  on the basis of population. they might make changes in their determination. or even reverse their determination without having a builtin permanent constitutional amendment to that effect. in that way. the people will have the same power that they had when they established the senate of the united states in the constitution. i am confident that we can work this out. i believe that senator dirksens purposes are precisely the same as mine. i hope to be in complete accord with senator dirksen and the cosponsors of his amendment. in due course. i shall introduce a resolution to that effect. i compliment my leader on taking this kind of leadership. which is. in my judgment. taking a moderate course. in the middle of the road. in respect to this very critical matter to the american people.
. the reason for making these proposals is as follows: the primary problems in water pollution in the united states are in areas of large concentrations of people. i understand the mal feeling of the congress with respect to favoring the small places and the places of sparser population. but unfortunately that it  where the major problems reside. as the dangers of pollution exist far more pressingly in centers of population than they do in the less populated areas. it seems most ill advisedand experience has demonstrated itto require mandatorily in the law. first. a distribution of the funds which does  bear a relation to the concentration of the problem and the need for federal assistance. and secondly dollar limitations on individual projects which limitations inhibit some of the largest and most meaningful projects that could be undertaken in the united states. for example. my state of new york is prepared to undertake a $1 billion program. provided that certain limitations are removed. so that the federal government may contribute a straight 30 percent share. which in round figures would be approximately $513 million. therefore the amendment would be a meaningful contribution to the overall results which this bill. if enacted. could bring about. yet efforts like new yorks and those of many other states are inhibited by the restrictions which are imposed by the dollar limitations incorporated in the existing federal law. and which prevent these states from shooting at the target. which is where the water is polluted. namely. in heavily populated areas. a single pollution control project in the city of new york has cost $87.6 million. so we can even begin to think about meaningful attacks on the problem within the limitations of the present law. however we may feeland. as i have said. i k the mal feeling which generally obtains. some senators wish to be sure that the smaller communities get their sharethe fact is that on this question we would  be hitting at the complete problem. i support the increase of the dollar limitations in this bill. but more can be done. gover rockefeller has pointed out the emous scale of works which can be undertaken in our state if we are enabled to do it by a law which really directs itself at the fundamental target which is involved. i realize that the proposal represents a very major and a very important orientation of the impact of the bill. so i have discussed the subject with the distinguished senator in charge of the bill. and i hope very much that he will give us assurances that the subject will have the kind of detailed and earnest consideration and hearings by his subcommittee. within a very short time. which this matter deserves.  that we have brought the matter so sharply to the attention of the senate and the country.
 of the united states. upon the adoption of such a resolution as the one i have introduced. or soonerand i hope very much soonerwill exercise the great influence of his office to see that there shall  be what would constitute one of the gravest miscarriages of justice in the history of man: the escape of any nazi war criminal because of the operation of the statute of limitations.
. i send to the desk a proposed constitutional amendment to allow the voters of any state. in a oneman. onevote referendum. to determine if one house of their state legislature should be apportioned on a basis other than population alone. i have long believed that urban areas require fairer treatment in the apportionment of many state legislatures. it was this principle which the u.s. supreme court recognized in the 1962 baker against carr decision asserting jurisdiction in the federal courts to test the fairness of state legislative apportionment under the equal protection clause of the 14th amendment. and also in the landmark decision last year. reyds against sims. holding that both houses of state legislatures must be apportioned upon a population basis. that is. on a oneman. onevote basis. while i believe that the court was historically correct in its decision in reyds against sims. i feel very strongly that most americans are firmly convinced that the socalled federal system is a wise one and should be applied equally to the congress and to state legislatures. my proposed constitutional amendment would permit the people of a state to determine in a oneman. onevote. statewide referendum whether they wish to have one house of their state legislature apportioned on a basis other than population alone. under the proposed amendment the second house would still have to remain apportioned strictly on population. my proposal seeks to achieve the same goal as the constitutional amendment proposed by senator dirksen. the miity leader. but it differs from his in three respects. first. my proposal eliminates the first sentence of senator dirksens proposed amendment. although i am sure this was  senator dirksens intention. this sentence might be construed to limit the supreme courts jurisdiction asserted under the baker versus carr decision. this was what the struggle in the senate last session was all about. and i believe there should be vestige of this issue in the effort to obtain a constitutional amendment authorizing the use of the socalled federal systemthat is. one house of a legislature based on population and the other on factors other than population. secondly. my amendment adds the phrase "in a statewide referendum" to make it absolutely clear that the people of the state in a oneman. onevote referendum a state legislature or a constitutional conventionare to be given the sole power to authorize this departure from the strict population apportionment. thirdly. my amendment would provide that when the people vote for a departure from a strict population basis for one house. they also be given the opportunity to determine whether the new apportionment will be tested by the people in future referendums. at least every 10 years. the amendment therefore permits. but does  require. that the federal analogy be ratified by the voters following every decennial census. if the people so chose. this would avoid the freezing of the federal analogy into the legislative setup of a state and would let the people periodically redecide the issue. i hope that action can soon be taken by both houses of congress on a constitutional amendment of the type i am introducing today.
. the people of the nation deeply mourn the death of one of the most brilliant of our supreme court justices. associate justice felix frankfurter. justice frankfurter has made an outstanding contribution to the jurisprudence of the nation and. indeed. to the structure of anglosaxon law. so critically important to the history of all mankind. his incisive. articulate court opinions have left a permanent imprint upon the framework of our country. his craftsmanship as a lawyer and a judge has been recognized and acclaimed far and wide. it is significant that the span of justice frankfurters creative and energetic career ranges from the saccovanzettl case to the tennessee apportionment case. it is pertinent to the history of our country and a source of great inspiration of our youth that felix frankfurter was a jewish immigrant who sailed from europe to this country in steerage at the age of 12. he worked his way through harvard law school and had a distinguished career in the federal service and in 25 years on the faculty of harvard law school prior to his appointment to the court in 1939. justice frankfurters deep concern with the doctrine of judicial restraint was etched throughout his many articulate opinions. he had a passion for fundamental fairness in criminal proceedings and civil liberties. a deep belief in the protection of individual freedoms. the life of felix frankfurter is  only a monument to the great tradition of justice which we have inherited from the christianhebrew civilizations. of which we are so much a part. but. more than that. is an eloquent tribute to the fact that there is still plentiful opportunity for the poor. the immigrant. and the lowly born in this nation. if felix frankfurter could speak to us today. i k his parting words would be: "may it ever be so." i extend my condolences to his family and my deep thanks on the part of the people of my state for the important contributions felix frankfurter has made in the interests of our nation. the world. and all mankind.
. the west german cabinet voted yesterday to support an extension of the may 8 deadline which  marks the end of the period of limitations for the prosecution of nazi war criminals. this matter will be acted upon by the bundestag in a debate to begin on march 10. i express the hope that the bundestag may follow the cabinet in ratifying this decision. mally. we do  consider what is taking place in the parliament of aher government. however. this is properly a subject cognizable everywhere. including the u.s. senate. because it deals with world crimes of the most heis characterdesignated world crimes by the tribunal at nuremberg and by the action which that tribunal took in the name of legality and justice throughout the world. those words--"legality" and "justice"-are the key words which were used in the resolution adopted by the west german cabinet. all of us must feel deeply gratified that chancellor ludwig erhard has led his cabinet into making this constructive decision. much is at stake only bringing to justice men guilty of the most heis crimes. but also upholding the conscience of the people of germany in the eyes of the whole world. and upholding. too. the image of the federal republic of germany as being a: government determined and empowered by the peopleto do justice in its own heart with respect to the crimes committed by hitler and his cohorts in the name of the german people. when this is done. the responsibility for action will rest clearly upon east germany and the satellite powers of the soviet union. which have made many allegations that they have evidence of nazi criminals  yet prosecuted who will escape prosecution if the deadline of the statute of limitations is  extended. i am confident  that the deadline will be extended by the will of the german people. we shall see  whether the communist countries will play politics with elementary justice and hide from the just punishment of their crimes thousands of nazi criminals concerning whom they claim to harbor information. it seems to me that what is proposed by the west german cabinet is the way the matter should be handled. as one who believes there can be a paneuropean renascence and a unified germany if the path of justice and
there are many such actions pending. arising out of the selma situation and i would hope that the attorney general would carefully consider this section of the new law. in this particular matter. as happens from time to time. we have reached the boiling point. let us  get beyond the point of return. it is time for the united states to assert itself in respect of selma. ala.. in uncertain terms and say whether or  excessive police action is violating the due process of law. it is clear that such action was taken to a degree which really was  required by the conditions. or the laws as they were interpreted by the gover and authorities of the state of alabama. in my judgment. this is unacceptable. to the point where the president will. i hope. assume direct authority in the situation.
. i send to the desk. for appropriate reference. and ask that it may be appropriately referred. a bill to deal with the question of excessive police action and what might be done about it in the federal establishment. entitled "protection against official violence act." introduced by myself. the senator from california . the senator from new jersey . the senator from pennsylvania . the senator from hawaii . the senator from colorado . and the senator from kentucky .
. the bill carries out the unanimous recommendations of the u.s. commission on civil rights in its exhaustive report on the administration of justice in 1961 and repeated in its 1963 report. the bill would: first. amend the existing criminal statute--section 242 of title 18. united states codewhich prohibits deprivation of constitutional rights. to make that provision specifically applicable to particular unlawful acts of police officers. the statute was restrictively interpreted by the supreme court in the case of screws against united states to require specific intent to deprive of a constitutional right. rather than the usual general criminal intent. and the bill would remedy that defect so as to make the statute usable. the screws case involved the killing of an individual by a sheriff. the government contended and a jury found. that the killing was in violation of section 242. the supreme court reversed the verdict and the sheriff was released because proof had been given that he had killed the man with the specific intent to deprive him of a particular constitutional right. therefore. in order to deal with that decision. we seek to amend the law. the acts specified as crimes would include: subjecting any person to unnecessary injury for an unlawful purpose. subjecting any person to unnecessary force during the course of an arrest or while the person is being held in custody. refusing to provide protection to any person from unlawful violence at the hands of private persons. king that such violence was planned or was then taking place. or aiding private persons in any way to carry out acts of unlawful violence. that would cover. of course. the situation alleged. to have taken place with respect to the three young men murdered in mississippi last summer. second. amend the existing civil statute--section 1973 of title 42. united states codeto make any county. city. or other local government entity jointly liable for damages in suits by victims of police brutality against its police officers. at present. the statute. which authorizes such civil suits only against the officers for deprivation of constitutional rights. is virtually useless because few such officers are able to pay a substantial money judgment. the bill would correct this situation in conformity with the usual rules of agency law. under which an organization is liable for the unlawful acts of its employees. third. the bill would also protect officers of the united states who are  covered by laws prohibiting interference with the carrying out of their duties. such as various attorneys of the department of justice and members of the armed services. other than the coast guard. which. interestingly egh. is the only one  covered. some years ago an attorney of the civil rights division of the justice department was beaten and injured during a civil rights crisis and the absence of this criminal sanction was underscored. as it is today. with members of the division continually required to be present in crisis situations which may explode into violence. mr. doar. whose ination we recently confirmed as head of the civil rights division of the department of justice. was himself present in the confrontation yesterday between the marchers and the police at selma. ala. he could have easily became involved in an element of violence at that time. standing there as a distinguished and important officer of the united states. that completes the statement made jointly by the senators who are introducing this bill. the people of the country have reacted strongly and quite properly to the terror in selma. ala.. with complete understanding that enforcement of the law does  require excessive action. indeed. it would throw the law into disrespect and jeopardize its enforcement if there was excessive action or the substitution of terror for law. there has been a great outpouring of indignation and protest by many americans of the most distinguished kind. especially clergymen. priests. and nuns. joining with the marchers in selma to give a demonstration of solidarity  too frequently seeneven in our own countrywhich certainly should give the people locally great pause. etheless. it is true that people still have the right to look to us and say. "have you examined your own laws under the federal establishment." they k full well that we can have a national police force and that we can substitute ourselves for the local police. etheless. people still have the right to say to us. "have you looked over the national establishment to do everything that you can to see that there are more safeguards than apparently  exist against this kind of situation." with my colleagues. we have looked over our laws and the recommendations of the u.s. commission on civil rights and we have come forth with these tightening and correcting revisions which we believe can be helpful in this situation. at the very least. they will serve clear ice to those who participated in what happened to the marchers in selma. that they can shrug off their responsibility on the groundheard so often wherever terror has been perpetratedthat it was done on orders of their superiors. the individual has a duty. too. when he is asked by his superiors to commit an act which is obviously questionable on its face in terms of morality. and equally questionable in terms of the law. as this affects debate and the fundamental right of citizens of the united states. and as it relates to the safety and security of every americanas has been so dramatically and sharply brought into focus at selma. ala.-i k that i speak for all my colleagues. who jointly and as equal partners have introduced this bill. when i say that we have a right to expect early and favorable action by congress on this bill.
i am very grateful to the senator from new jersey. i k that he feels as both the senator from kentucky and i do. we have always done our utmost to contribute in a legislative sense to the efficacy of what is done. both procedurally and substantively. it would certainly be very simple for us this aftern. at the same time that we introduce this bill. to introduce what we believe to be the proper prescription for the voting right. but we have a deep sense of responsibility with respect to this subject. we wish to see it prosper. so we felt it was the prudent and advisable thing to proceed along this line. which apparently was  being discussed in other quarters. and which seems peculiarly to us to require being done. at the same time that we are considering a greater means for implementing the opportunity to obtain the voting right. i join the senator from new jersey and the senator from kentucky in their assertion of its critical importance to the survival of our nations freedom. it is an old adage that when a right is denied to any miity. it is denied to every one of us. whether a member of a miity race. color. religion. or otherwise. therefore. it is of critical importance to the health of our country as well as to justice in our country that the voting right be secured at long last. on the question of excessive police action. i should like to conclude by saying that where police in a community. by excessive action. in effect take the law into their own hands.  only the negro community. which happens to have been the immediate object of it . but also the white community. must beware. this is way in which law. order. and domestic tranquility may be encouraged in the community. i deeply believe that it is critically important that we have been assured here on the floor in recent days that there is a great sentiment in the south which begins to see the consequence to the whole society there of these deprivations and what is done in their name. the most fervent hope of any american senator must be that this stirring of conscience will have a decisive effect. and it would be so much more preferable for everyonefor the nationif what is done could be done organically from the local community. or at least the state community itself. one of the things that has distressed me and so many of us the most is that often on the level of government we have had the expression of an idea which has been so incompatible with the search for justice under our constitution. which i think so many of us have been making here. . i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record as a part of my remarks on the bill  introduced. excerpts from the reports of the u.s. civil rights commission of 1961 and 1963 bearing out the necessity for this bill and the recommendations of the commission on that score.
. i draw the attention of the senate to the fact that the bundestag of the german federal republic yesterday acted affirmatively by an overwhelming vote in taking the necessary parliamentary step to bring about an extension of the statute of limitations so that there should be time limitation at all applied to prosecutions for murder and geide. three hundred and thirtythree of the four hundred legislators present voted to send to committee proposals to eliminate entirely the statute of limitations as it applies to these crimes. this action of the bundestag is convincing proof of the desire of the german people to take the necessary steps to prevent any nazi criminal who can be found from escaping prosecution for his acts. the bundestag of the german federal republic is to be highly commended for the forthright stance it has taken on the side of justice. i ask unanimous consent that newspaper articles on that subject may be printed at this point in the record.
subsequently said: i wish to e that the bills for the relief of a isabella samuelli. which have been passed. involve a woman who suffered terribly at the hands of the communists because she was an employee of the american embassy. it has taken a long time .to do justice in this matter. the senator from kentucky and i were both interested. as were also other senators. i express my gratitude to the majority leader and to the committee which has reported out the bills and brought about their enactment today.
 and with the greatest desire to uphold his hand in doing what is right. i feel deeply that this will be the time to push for the terms and the timing and to get done what must be done for the country. i hope very much that the bill which i have introduced. s. 1497. with the senator from new jersey . the senator from california . the senator from pennsylvania . the senator from hawaii . the senator from kentucky . and the senator from colorado . dealing with excessive police action. may similarly have the prompt consideration of congress. the need for this measure has also been markedly emphasized by the events in selma.
. and expedite action to the maximum extent possible consistent with our duty. i hope that the committee will consider  only the voting question. but also the question of excessive police action. which has sought to substitute terror for law in order to inhibit negroes from asserting their right to vote. i have introduced a bill with other senators on that subject. s. 1497. which i hope will also be considered in committee. to summarize. many citizens have been denied the right to vote for too long. and the figures show it. there has been ample opportunity for the states to show their responsibility by at least giving them the right to vote. in some states. of course. they have done so. this bill by means sweeps across all the states of the old confederacy. it affects only a number of them. on the basis of the facts we  have. thus. those who have been denied the right to vote. by the failure of the states to give it to them.  have the right to say: "how long. 0 lordhow long." it is our duty to answer: " 1 minute longer than is absolutely essential." i compliment the distinguished majority leader and the distinguished miity leader for perceiving this urgency. and also for perceiving where our duty lies. we all k that it will  stop all demonstrations. we k. too. that with demonstrations we face the razors edge. will they be demonstrations which go over the edge and become revolutionary in character. because there is honest effort to satisfy honest grievances. or will they be demonstrations which stay this side of the edge which we do  wish them to cross. it will depend upon our good faith in trying to satisfy the honest complaints of honest. godfearing american citizens. that is what we are doing today. i congratulate the miity leaderand also the majority leaderon leading the senate in doing so.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to amend the civil rights laws to make it a federal crime to interfere with the exercise of federally protected constitutional rights. the bill would allow the court to impose penalties more in keeping with the crimes committed. including life imprisonment for conviction of a crime which resulted in death. the bill is. frankly. an effort to deal with the situation under existing law by amending the penalties which are imposed by sections 241 and 242 of title 18. so that they may more nearly make the punishment fit the crime. we are all aware of the terrible terror deaths of the reverend james reeb. jimmy lee jackson. and mrs. viola. liuzzo in connection with the voting rights drive in selma. and also of the deaths. last year. of three civil rights. workersandrew goodman. michael schwerner. and james chaney. in the year before last. the most prominent victim of the racists. medgar evers. he and countless others who were murdered for the same reason. were martyrs to this cause. in  one of the cases i have cited. has anyone been convicted for the crime in either the federal or the state courts. and the public quite properly wants to k. "why ." while federal laws exist to prevent violation of civil rights. the drafters did  contemplate that tactics such as murder would be employed to keep citizens from voting. the 1870 law. therefore. provided only for a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison or a $5.000 fine. together with what i believe to be millions of my fellow citizens. i believe that the time has come to make the punishment fit the crime. for too long. we have seen murderers set free because of the failure to obtain criminal indictments or the failure of juries to convict for these kinds of crimes. for too long we have contented ourselves with charging killers under the old federal statute where only the minimal penalty is available. we must  revise that statute in light of the atrocities and injustices which have occurred. the bill i am introducing would draw on the precedent of the antibombing law which was incorporated in the 1960 civil rights act. that law provides three levels of penalties dependent upon the nature of the act and its consequences. the bill which i introduce today would amend both title 18. united states code. section 241which can be applied to any individualand title 18. united states code. section 242 which applies to those acting under color of law. where the prohibited actions resulted in personal injury. a penalty of 20 years and $10.000 could be imposed by the court. where death results. any term of years. including life imprisonment. could be imposed. the bill would provide for appropriate penalties in murder cases. but we must realize that our efforts will  be successful until southern communities awaken fully to the dreadful cost to themselves and the nation when such crimes go unpunished. only when the rate of convictions for racial crimes begins to be consistent with the more realistic rate of convictions for all other crimes will the criminal laws fulfill the function which all citizens rely on them to fulfill. for our entire code of criminal justice is based upon faith in the jury system. but that system can work only when the passions of a community about racial or other considerations do  override the higher duty to dispense justice evenhandedly. i hope. together with the junior senator from wisconsin . who has seen fit to act upon this matter. too. that the very earliest hearings may be had upon these bills and that congress may act quickly to close what is obviously a serious loophole in the law. i realize that southern juries are loath to convict. but perhaps when faced with a penalty which is really apposite to the crime. their patriotism and their desire to have fair administration of justice in the country may prevail over any local prejudice. i ask unanimous consent that the bill may lie at the desk for 5 days to permit the addition of cosponsors. the bill is introduced for myself and onbehalf of the senator from new jersey . the senator from california . and the senator from pennsylvania . i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
i do  believe we should allow the record to stand with the statement of the senator from th carolina that the bill condemns the states without a judicial trial. the fact is that the states can go into court in the district of columbia. the bill so provides and establishes procedures by which they must take themselves out from under the provisions of the law. therefore. there is a legal avenue through which they can act the senator from th carolina has consistently reiterated that there is opportunity for the states to go into court. i can agree with him. the fact is that the states must motivate. rather than that the united states must motivate. which has been the cause of the breakdown under the present law.
in answer to that question. there is one fundamental concept about his bill which we must understand. that is the analogy with a person who was speeding and then comes into court and says. "i am  speeding any more." this bill was designed  only to correct an active history of discrimination. the denying to negroes of the right to register and vote. but also to deal with the accumulation of discrimination. our means may be reasonable or unreasonable. they may stand up or  stand up. but to assume that this bill has only one dimension and to say. "i am  discriminating " is neither the background  purpose of the bill. the bill would attempt to do something about accumulated wrongs and the continuance of the wrongs.
if i may finish my thought. i would then welcome the senators observations upon this subject. if it were felt. for example. that the socalled 5year provision. which is contained in section 4(a) (1). should also be applied in those cases. i would be certainly very sympathetic to that kind of an amendment. in my own judgment. if i had to make the sole decision as a lawyer on the interpretation of section 4(a) as to a county covered by the socalled 25 percent trigger. i should say that it is  absolutely certain in my own mind at all. i went along with the overwhelming view of the members of the committee. i subscribe to that and stand by it. but it is  absolutely certain in my own mind that a court may  construe section 4(a). as it is  written. as stating that such a county shall come out under the 60 percent provision. or that the court could hold that. as there is violation of the 15th amendment on a purported showing of fact. the act does  apply at all. in that case. there would be need to utilize either the 60percent mechanism or the 5year mechanism specified in section 4(a). the provision would be susceptible to that kind of interpretation. too. i have joined with the great majority of committee members in the construction which is set forth in our views and oppose the 60percent provision
. may i point out to the senator. with respect to the problem of the 21 parishes we have discussed. that in the louisiana case the court found. in respect to the interpretation of what the senator referred to as the law. that it was certainly unconstitutional. on page 4 of the pamphlet opinion. the court said: there was ample evidence to support the district courts finding that registrars in the 21 parishes where the test was found to have been used had exercised their broad powers to deprive otherwise qualified negro citizens of their right to vote. that is the factor that could figure in the judgment of the attorney general in determining with respect to this statute whether the trigger should or should  be pressed.
. frederic donner is the chairman of the board of the general motors corp. and exemplifies the businessman in government service and business in the public interest in its best expression. we are very proud of alexander b. trowbridge. he is a very distinguished new yorker. i am confident that he will acquit himself most creditably in the highly important post to which he has been appointed.
the answer was broader than the question. the question referred to nullification of state laws. the answer referred to activities  unlawful under state laws. i gather that i- is the answer rather than the limitation of the question which would control the legislative history. it is both those items specified by state laws as well as other practices which are  held unlawful under state law. is that correct.
i am grateful to the senator from new jersey. who is one of the most distinguished lawyers in this body. i am much pleased that he should feel as i do about this highly controversial subject. as to the pollwatchers proposal. it seems to me that this is an elementary aspect of american public life. the republican and democratic and other parties in new york. send watchers to the polls merely by having the party leader write a certificate and send it in. it seems to me that to hobble ourselves with the requirement of a court order before watchers could be sent in to see that what the united states has ordered is carried through. is an unnecessarily troublesome requirement. i hope very much that we shall  relinquish that opportunity. but will continue to fight it through in the endeavor to have the situation at least as it was in the committee bill. finally. there is the matter. which was the subject of a series of questions and replies between the senator from michigan and the senator from montana of the real meaning of the detriggering mechanism of section 4(a) of the substitute. to which these particular questions referred. it will be ed that this material is contained on page 4. beginning at line 15 and ending at line 24. it deals with the showing that must be made by a state or political subdivision in order to take itself out. for all practical purposes. from the provisions of the act. the operative words of course are especially the words: "that the effects of denial or abridgment. if any. of the right to vote on account of race or color." then there are these tremendously important words--"have been effectively corrected by state or local action and that there is reasonable cause to believe that any test or device." and so on. and the tying up of this operative triggering mechanism with the provisions of section 4(b). and especially the parts contained in 4(b)(1). (2). and (3). the answers given to those questions by senator mansfield. have. as i see it. gone a very long way to pin down exactly what the operation of this statute would be and to give some reassurance to those who are deeply concerned by the loss of heritage which this statute is designed also to deal withthe denial or abridgment of the right to vote which denial or abridgment has discouraged voting to the extent that we have in some places this almost fantastic juxtaposition of registration and voting figures for those who are white and those who are negro. i am very pleased that senator mansfield has seen fit to make replies to these questions. . i shall  in any way characterize or rephrase the questions or the replies. i think it is essential for the legislative record that when the bill becomes law. those questions and answers stand exactly as the majority leader has dealt with them. along with the senator from michigan . i have. however. first. because of my great personal respect for. and.. second. because of the cosponsorship of the substitute by the senator from illis given a copy of what transpired to the senator from illis. i hope very much. without necessarily asking for anything from him. that he might find these answers to be satisfactory to him so that insofar as possible. those who were the authors of the substitute will themselves have given their understanding of precisely what it means.
and it resides on the lassiter case. which was mentioned here. in which the supreme court reserved the right to strike down a state literacy test when it finds it violates the 15th amendment guarantee of the right to vote without discrimination on grounds of race or color. therefore congress has full power to impose reasonable restrictions. acting pursuant to its constitutional powers. which we are doing under section 2 of the 15th amendment.
it is a strange one. i would  want to say more. i have too much regard for both the majority leader and the miity leader to say anything beyond that. but i must say it is a strange one. it gives the attorney general a direction by saying. "we have heard some evidence on this subject. we do  rightly k what to do about it. except to ask you to go into court and find out about it." the attorney general obviously can go into court and do that even without such a provision. a virginia case is  pending in which people who are paupers and are unable to pay the poll tax are presenting to the supreme court the fundamental constitutional proposition to which we have referred. that is. the invalidity of the poll tax under the combination of the 14th and 15th amendments. however. it does  present to the court the much more favorable situation which a finding of fact by the congress. as we make in our amendment. would present. the mansfielddirksen poll tax provision is a rare bird. indeed. we would be saying to the attorney general. "we have heard some evidence. we are sorry that we can make up our own minds. so. mr. attorney general. please ask the court to make up our minds for us."
i do  k what a court could read into an act of congress. we have  referred to that. we have  dealt with it as a question of legislative intent. we are dealing with a specific measurethe poll tax. i can hardly see that the amendment would affect what the senator has spoken about. but i could  stop any court from reading any implications it chooses into the law. frankly. i do  see any.
we have been discussing the proposition of adding a declaration of finding of fact. it seemed to be generally agreed on the floor of the senate. by senators who favor the bill. that there should be a finding of fact as provided for in section 9(a). paraphrasing lines 8 to 10. which would relate to the evidence presented to congress that the constitutional rights of citizens of the united states to vote is denied or abridged by requirement of the payment of a poll tax. it seems to me that the views of the senator as to the fact that this seeks to channel the court into the area of how it is to decide a case. is emphasized by the fact that proposal is made. even in the amendment. to include such a thing as a finding of fact. therefore. we would be making a finding of fact. and if the bill should remain as it was. we would be speaking of evidence upon which we would base a provision which is broader than the area in which we would allow the court to decide. it seems to me to be such an inconsistency as to make the court wonder whether we knew what we were doing if we should vote for this amendment.
i do  k what would be the decision of the supreme court on that set of facts under the clause contained in the bill-"has the purpose or effect of denying or abridging the right to vote." i point out that hing we would write here in connection with the prouty amendment would in any way stop an individual taxpayer from raising that issue in the u.s. supreme court in a suit and having the issue decided on constitutional grounds. without reference to what congress does in a statute. what we would do if we took the amendment would be to limit the kind of cases the attorney general may start. we believe he will deal with cases only when the poll tax is a precondition to voting and is used for the denial or abridgment of the right to vote in areas where it is practiced. we have concept. and i believe i can say the attorney general has concept. of moving in other areas.
i thank the senator. that is exactly the ground upon which i based my argument. that we can restrict the court as to its findings. we can restrict suits by many people. but we can destroy something that we are trying to do. by dealing with a situation in vermont. namely. to defeat the poll tax. and in directing the attorney general to sue. there would be a special appeal to senators who voted against the ban. on the ground stated by the senator from kentucky. to vote against this amendment. and depend on the compromise remaining in the bill.
. i think i owe the senate an explanation as to why i join in the amendment. i herewith propose to make one. this amendment may very well be tested on constitutional grounds. there is telling what the supreme court may do. we can overrule the constitution. but i have carefully analyzed the amendment in my mind and believe there is egh on which to base it in terms of its being constitutional to enable me to say that i should support it. because i believe it contains an element of justice which deserves support. .the 14th amendment calls for the equal protection of the laws. and section 5 of that amendment provides: the congress shall have power to enforce. by appropriate legislation. the provisions of" this article. it is my belief that that language means that congress may  only restrain states from violating the 14th amendment. but may also use its judgment as to what is equal protection of the laws. and that where congress feels that there is a lacuna in the legislation of a state on that subject. congress may legislate upon it as being its best judgment as to what is the equal protection of tle laws and what that protection requires. it is that which congress would be doing in this case. and that is what the supreme court would pass upon. the supreme court has  passed upon the comacho case. to which the senator from th carolina referred. i may say about his argument that it is quite consistent with his position on the bill before us. he has argued consistently that congress does  have power. constitutionally. to deal with the qualifications of voters in his state. many of the rest of us believe congress has such power when those qualifications contravene the 15th amendment. and that congress may act when the constitution permits us to do so. so i ho the senators consistency in his own argument. although i do  agree with him. i believe this amendment stands soundly egh constitutionally so that i should favor it. there is a feeling of injustice on the part of those from puerto rico who were educated in americanflag schools. as my colleague from new york has already said. they did  choose that system. the fact i emphasize is that the federal government allows the instruction there to be in spanish. as there is adequate machinery in new yorkthree spanishlanguage newspapers and one radio stationi am satisfied as to thatfor giving spanish speaking people information on public issues. i think there is justice in their complaint.
this remedy. as i see it. would be the only way in which. by proceeding under section 13. a political subdivision may come out of the examiner status. here is an original amendment relating to how it may go in. and how it may proceed in court when it is put in. is that  correct.
 has given me the two jobs. there is hing for me to do but to do the best i can. i have worked very hard. i k that he has worked very hard. he said: i will do my utmost to do justice to the two jobs. therefore. in order to resolve the gordian k. i offered my amendment.
. i ask unanimous consent that a resolution of the u.s. conference of mayors endorsing federal support for improved police training. in line with s. 1409. which i introduced. along with senators kuchel. case. fong. and scott be printed at this point in the record. s. 1409. entitled the "state and local law enforcement assistance act of 1965." would provide a federal matching grantinaid program to assist in the improvement of training. education. and recruitment of local and state police officers. the senator from michigan has introduced a similar bill which is pending before the judiciary committee.
i do  believe so. and i shall explain to the senator my view. in a situation in which the congress has conferred. and enacted legislation providing for a new body. and it would be my judgment. if i were a judge sitting on a case involving the constitutionality of that legislation that if that power of congress were exercised. it was exercised to give exclusivity to the other body. i believe that the court would construe this amendment to most feasibly accomplish the purpose of congress. as the purpose of congress is to settle this kind of issue. rather than leave it in a great area of uncertainty and controversy. would it  be completely contrary to the purpose of congress to create two bodies which could compete with one aher. i believe that the construction which the courts would give to what we are doing is that if the congress were to exercise the authority that the amendment would give. the courts would hold that that body has exclusivity as to its action. that is my opinion as a lawyer. and i have submitted my reasons to the senator.
. in raising the questions relative to the ination of former gov. james p. coleman. of mississippi. to be a judge of the circuit court for the fifth circuit. i wish it to be understood. first and foremost. that i do  take this responsibility lightly.  is it at any time pleasant to have to oppose the ination of a man who has served most of his life in useful public service. . from the vote in the committee. would it appear that i have. so far at least. been joined by many members of similar mind. however. i believe that we face a portentous question. it is one of the most profound duties of a senator to fulfill with conscience the requirement for advice and consent. and to use his honest judgment and discretion in giving such advice and consent. i feel it my duty to lay this question before the senatei hope with objectivity and due regard to the dignity of the office. it has been recommended by the judiciary committee. on a divided vote. that the ination of gover coleman be confirmed. i shall relate the facts and circumstances bearing upon my opposition so that the senate may. with deliberation. act upon them.
. in the past we have perhaps too perfunctorily approved inees. and the results in some cases have been unfortunate. one judge in the fifth circuit. for example. found as a fact that the university of mississippi was  segregated in 1961 when james meredith applied for admission. we have examples of district court judges in this circuit refusing to carry out mandates of the circuit court of appeals. i ask unanimous consent to have the list of cases showing where that has occurred be printed at this point in my remarks.
there is the problem of delay in the disposition of civil rights cases. delays may occur for example on motions for temporary injunction. by postponing trial dates. and by misinterpreting mandates of higher courts. thereby necessitating remands for other proceedings. the meredith case. which took 2 years. is replete with these problems. the meredith case came up in february of 1961. that term and the two summer terms of 1961. the two regular terms of the 1961. and two summer terms of 1962 all lapsed while the case was in litigation. it is our duty to scrutinize very carefully inees for any vacancies. as i have tried to do in this case. with more than ordinary care. withstanding the fact that the president names them. again i state that i make moral judgments for anyone but myself. but it is our duty  to be inhibited about voting against such inations if we feel in good faith that our duty requires such action. and that justice will be served thereby. that is how i feel about this case. i shall conclude in a moment. during the hearings i had a very interesting colloquy with the attorney general of the united states. it was most unusual for attorney general katzenbach to appear in support of the ination. and  only to appear. but to take account of the quotations and statements attributed to gover coleman. which. it seems to me. almost on their face would require. if he continued to hold such views. disqualification in respect. to confirmation by the senate. or even appointment by the president. as i am a lawyerand this is probably my dominant character in lifei did  wish to feel that i was proceeding in an arbitrary way to embarrass the life of aher lawyer. i posed the moral question. so far as it affected opposition to the ination. i put it to the attorney general himself. whatever may be the judgment of any senator. pro or con. i think it is fair to say for myselfand the attorney general had to agree with methat if i felt as i did. it was my duty to oppose. i should like to read that colloquy because it represents two honest men talking with each other honestly. senator javrrs.  there is only one real thing i would like to ask you about. i ice with great interest your statement: " all judges approve of all the laws they administer. yet they apply them just the same." that was the statement which the attorney general had made in his testimony in chief. continuing to read from the testimonyi ask you. if you would. to test that statement in this qualitative way. where we have a juror in a capital case where the state law permits capital punishment. it is the mal practice to ask him whether he believes in capital punishment. and if he does . he is generally discharged. . in this case if we findif we should find that the segregationist views of gover coleman are so deep as to amount to a conviction of the character that i have mentionedjust does  believe in mixing of the races. if you willinsofar as the laws which we have  passed. or the supreme court decisions have already stated to be the law of the land according to the constitution. would you have as attorney general. as a lawyer. any different opinion than the one you have stated. " all judges approve"-i emphasize the word "approve"--"of the laws they administer. yet they apply them just the same". attorney general katzenbach. i would  recommend to the president. in this or in any other judgeship. a man whom i did  believe would faithfully apply and administer impartial justice irrespective of the parties. of their race and on any issue that he would support to the best of his ability the constitution of the united states. and that he would fairly interpret it. and that he would follow the decisions of the supreme court in both spirit and letter. senator javits. then would you say. mr. attorney general. in fairness to us who are questioning this appointmentand i emphasize the word "questioningthat the inquiry as to whether the views of the prospective appointee are a deep inner conviction or our question of approval or disapproval is neither a captious  a capricious question but a real hoable question of fact upon which men may differ. attorney general katzenbach. i am  sure that i quite get the question. senator. perhaps you can repeat it. senator javrrs. i will be happy to try to make it more clear. i ask you as a lawyer and attorney generalbecause i respect your viewswhether in view of what you have just testified. it is a legitimate rather than a capricious or captious question of fact for those of us who question this ination to find out whether gover coleman approves or disapproveswe k he disapprovesof the decisions of the courts and the laws like the civil rights act of 1964. et cetera. or whether this is such a deep inner conviction as to disable him. in the judgment of men who want to be just as fair as you do. from honestly and fairly enforcing the laws of the united states. attorney general katzenbach. if you were to believe this was such a deep inner conviction that he could  fairly administer and judge the laws of the united states and the constitution. then i would suppose that under those circumstances i should  have recommended him. and that is my conviction. and you would  consent to the appointment. i do think. senator. i am satisfied myself with the record. i havent any question about it. even given a lesser responsibility than that of a federal judge. the record is replete with examples of his devotion to the law and to its processes. senator javrrs. i was just trying to test for myself the hoable character of the inquiry. i deeply feel. in all conscience. as a lawyer and as a senator. that the character of the inquiry was proper. that it had to be made. and that it has been made with all the fairness of which i am capable. i have done my best to state to the senate. objectively and fairly. the pros and cons. in my own conscience. based upon my own beliefs. i feel that gover coleman. without any derogation of him as a man or as a lawyer. can met the test which the attorney general himself has set. and on the basis which he says he would  have recommended him and does  feel that the senate should consent to his appointment. for that reason. when the roll is called. i shall vote "nay."
i would say for the president of the united states that he has a great many problems which may very well have been before him in respect to a proclamation of this kind at this time. but i feel there is question about my affirmation. and i deeply feel that it represents the general feeling in our country that we are dedicated as a people to help and promote in every way possible. by peaceful means. the attainment at long last of the selfdetermination and freedom which these people of central europe. who are  the captive nations. should by all right enjoy. and which were taken from them by unlawful and unjust means. we will pray and work with them in every peaceful way for that happy day when their desires and expectations may be fulfilled and they may again be restored to the rolls of the free.
. when i spoke on last thursday. i mentioned four states which have representatives on any of the circuit courts of appeals. i did this to demonstrate that we do  necessarily have to reach out in order to find someone in mississippi who could be appointed to the fifth circuit court of appeals. oregon. south dakota. alaska. and hawaii are states which. even if this ination were to be confirmed. would still  be represented on the circuit court of appeals which covered their particular area. it seems to me that the senator from pennsylvania in his colloquy with the senator from michigan has pretty much set the key to what i had in mind in opposing this ination. if i were considered as leading the opposition. in the sense of having taken the matter up and studied it very carefully. i could  challenge gover coleman as a lawyer. i would  in any way attribute bad faith to gover coleman when he states that he can decide civil rights cases in good faith. as far as he is conscious of his own feelings in the matter. i do say that these segregationist views are ingrained in him. as can be seen from examining the entire career of gover coleman from the 1950s down to the very time when he testified before our committee in relation to this ination. we had  seen any evidence of a contrary viewpoint until his appearance before our subcommittee this month. thav makes me feel that the weight or preponderance of the evidence is  on the side of finding that he will judge civil rights cases objectively and free from segregationist viewpoints. we are  talking about a man being extreme on the side of segregation. desegregation. or integration. we are  talking about extremes. we are merely talking about the law of the land. which provides that the segregation of the races and the denial of the right to vote because a man is a negro are wrong. it is wrong to bar a man from any place of public accommodation. such as a store. or from municipal facilities. such action violates both the constitution and specific law passed by congress. the burden of the evidence of proving objectivity in such a case must be borne by the inee or those who would speak for him. it is in that respect that i think the most significant and revealing testimony appears on pages 139 to 140. inclusive. of the hearing record. i beg senators to listen to this because it traces a mans history and his reasons for acting as he did. it establishes how he accounts for his statements and actions. it shows that in his entire record and career. up to the time of his testimony before our subcommittee. he did  give any evidence of a departure from those views. i read from page 139 of the transcript of hearings dealing with the ination of james p. coleman as follows: senator fong. you have been in elective office for approximately 24 years.
s appointment of mr. fortas. i k him very well. he is one of the most distinguished lawyers in the nation. he will. in a very admirable way. fill the big shoes of those who preceded him. including mr. justice goldberg.  our ambassador to the united nations. i shall have the privilege of considering the ination of mr. fortas to be a member of the u.s. supreme court when the committee on the judiciary considers his ination. it gives me great satisfaction to learn he has been inated for this high post.
. during the summer of 1964. and this summer. a number of civil rights workers have been actively engaged in picketing. demonstrations. and marches in the cause of civil rights. the newspapers have unfortunately been replete with incidents of violence and brutality visited upon these people seeking to exercise their constitutional rights. in some cases it has been reported that agents of the federal bureau of investigation refuse to make arrests for such offenses even for assaults committed in their presence. on june 18. i contacted the attorney general of the united states about this matter specifically citing title 18. sections 3052 and 3053 of the united states code which outline the powers of the federal bureau of investigation and u.s. marshals and deputies to arrest persons in cases in which the assault was committed in the presence of the officials. i requested information from the attorney general on why these statutes were  used more widely. in his reply to me of july 20 the attorney general cites the case of screws v. the united states. 325 u.s. 91. which declares that a finding of specific intent is a necessary element of violations of civil rights statutes. while i believe strongly that a specific intent to violate ahers civil rights can be proved in cases of assaults on civil rights workers in situations such as i have just described. the attorney generals letter serves to underscore the need for legislation which would clarify the situation created for us by the screws decision. i have introduced such legislation. s. 1497. unless and until federal law enforcement officials and juries are willing to take action in cases of assault and murder. we must be prepared to bring the full force of the federal government to bear on these offenders. sections 241 and 242 of title 18 create clear federal offenses and. with the removal of the requirement of specific intentwhich my bill would accomplishthese sections could be used more widely. while i do  accept the attorney generals explanation of the bureaus reluctance to arrest. i again urge prompt senate action on my bill and ask unanimous consent that the correspondence between the attorney general and me be printed at this point in the record.
. the constitutional proposal which i have made is a logical and fair solution to an otherwise insoluble dilemma. it gives to the court additional constitutional language on which to base a careful casebycase determination of fair apportionment in the second house of state legislatures. it maintains the courts role in determining the fairness of apportionment of both houses of those legislatures. and it provides for the possibility of a departure from strict population apportionment of one house of the legislature. if the people of the state so desire. and if they manifest their will in a oneman. onevote popular statewide referendum. as i see it. the opposing sides on this issue are making the following basic arguments. the opponents of the dirksen amendment say that the courts oneman. onevote decision was necessitated by the stubborn opposition to reapportionment. over a period of years in practically all the states. often in spite of state constitutional requirements for reapportionment to reflect the shifts in population from the rural areas to the cities. and from the cities to the suburbs. the opponents of the dirksen amendment argue that the right to an equally weighted vote for every citizen is inalienable and basic and that therefore the state legislatures must be reapportioned as the oneman. onevote rule dictates. as i have ed. some opponents privately point to language in the majority opinion in reyds against sims. which suggests that the court would permitdivergencies from a strict population standard if "based on legitimate considerations incident to the effectuation of a rational state policy." it will be ed that this basic and fundamental thought is carried in my substitute. except that under it the court would  have to assume that power. we would give that power to the court. the proponents of the dirksen amendment argue that we are  living in a pure democracy. they contend that the people have accepted for 177 years the fact that the pattern of a states legislative apportionment was a political decision beyond the reach of the courts. so the proponents of the dirksen amendment argue that to upset that expectation. which the people have entertained for one and threequarter centuries. necessarily causes grave social and political repercussions. they say that the people have the right to determine their own legislative apportionment and that if it is unjust. the people have the responsibility to correct it. these proponents of the dirksen amendment argue that strict population apportionment of state legislatures could itself be most unfair if. for example. a political miity were shut out completely by the atlarge election of state legislators.
. reserving the right to object. in the first place. the mills of the gods grind slowly. but they grind exceeding fine. the senator referred to the socalled humphreyjavits amendment. which then became the mansfield amendment. we wound up by urging the court to suspend action for a reasonable time. i hope very much that. in the present circumstances. we shall again end. as we should. by leaving the matter to the jurisdiction of the court. with the majority free to work its will. however. be that as it may. i should like the indulgence of the majority leader while i make a few parliamentary inquires.
. i was discussing earlier what i believe to be the point of view of the proponents of the dirksen amendment. they point to the federal analogythe apportionment of the u.s. senatewhich could have been prohibited to the states had the founding fathers believed that such apportionment was inconsistent with the constitution or had the framers of the amendment believed that it was inconsistent with that amendment. finally. the proponents point to the chaotic situation in which the states are  left. take the example of my state of new york. the highest state court ruled that a particular plan of reapportionment upon which an election of the legislature was ordered this year was in violation of the state constitution. but the federal court held to the contrary. and only within the past few weeks the federal courts have prevailed. so that the state courts stayed their hands and allowed an election to take place this year. cases in colorado. hawaii. kansas. and other places indicate similar practical problems which are greatly unsettling in the states. the courts are left in this matter with such an uncertain standard. that they are holding rather strictly to the oneman. onevote theory for both houses of state legislatures. i believe that one of the greatest recommendations for my substitute is that it would untie the hands of the courts and give the courts a standard by which to judge. it would make people feel that it is worth trying to find aher way. if the people of the state wish to find aher way. because the courts would have the latitude to allow it to take effect. if there is reasonable need in the state shown for it. i am personally most deeply impressed by the need for some flexibility so that the states can. with the approval of their citizensapproval. incidentally. which would have to be given on a oneman. onevote basisreflect the needs of the state in the apportionment of at least one house of its legislature. i believe that the majority opinion of the court in reyds against sims may have had this in mind in the language to which i have referred. but. let us remember that this was dictum. and leaves the matter unclear at present. particularly in view of the emphasis of just this point in the dissenting opinions of justices stewart and clark. and in view of the almost undeviating district court decisions since reyds against sims rather strictly enforcing the oneman. onevote theory. the proposal which i have made would overcome this uncertainty by authorizing specifically this kind of flexibility while fully retaining the power of the court to insure that the deviations from strict population apportionment would be rational and based upon valid needs of the state and its people. indeed. it is just this sort of test which the court itself uses repeatedly in assessing state action under the equal protection clause. that is. whether the means chosen by the state are rationally related to achieving the valid goals of the state. also highly important to me have been the allegations that the dirksen amendment would defeat the voting rights of negroes which have been effectively and unlawfully denied in a number of southern states over the years. one of the strong arguments against the dirksen amendment is that the representa.tion of negroes in some state legislatures could be perpetuated for a decade or more by the vote of the white majority. at least until negroes were able to vote in those states. my proposed substitute would insure that the court would retain its authority to protect against depriving negroesor for that matter any miity--of representation in state legislatures. it would do so by stating specifically that a plan of apportionment must beand i quote from my substitute: "consistent with the provisions of this constitution. except for the provisions of this article." consequently. the solution which i have authored deals with all the objections made to both the supreme courts decision and to the dirksen amendment provides an opportunity for meeting those objections without the disadvantages or dangers of either course standing alone.
i do  believe that any court would construe this amendment so as to cancel itself out. certainly  after the congress had gone to all the trouble of writing the amendment. and having it ratified. the court has said many times that the meaning is what the meaning is to an ordinary and reasonable man. what we want is to preserve all the requirements of the constitution. except to the limited extent that we are changing the constitution in this article. in other words. we are changing it only to the extent of allowing apportionment of one house of a state legislature upon the conditions set forth in this article.
yes. the senator heard me ask the senate to allow me freedom of action. by  asking for the yeas and nays at this point. king my colleagues as i do. i am sure that i shall have that freedom of action. i am grateful to the senator for his views. i shall again examine the amendment. though i have been very conscious of this situation and i have done my utmost to deal with it. it is one of the basic problems. i believe. with the dirksen amendment. i do  want to open the door. directly or indirectly. to the kind of situation which the supreme court faced in the famous tuskegee. ala.. case. gomillion against lightfoot. in which the court struck down a gerrymander designed solely for the purpose of keeping the negro population from casting votes in the city. i want to leave the supreme courts jurisdiction intact on that score. the senator from pennsylvania enables me to repeat what i have said many times before. the reason my own amendment is in such direct juxtaposition to senator dirksens proposal is that i want the courts to do more. rather than less. that is the purpose i have. i feel that under our system of government it is the only way in which any satisfaction can be given to people who complain about a situation. i believe that the most ardent defenders of the supreme courts opinion will  stretch that argument to the point of saying that the supreme court has found the perfect solution to the problem. ratherand i have heard many say thisthere is something to be said for the argument that the decision in reyds against sims may  be "as hot as it is cooked." it is very difficultalthough i have tried my hand at it with great study and careto draft something which will provide some easing of the situation without running afoul of many other problems about which the proponents of the supreme court decision feel deeply concerned. one of them. which i k is a dominant question that has concerned me. is the civil rights question.
so i believe it is this standard of reasonableness. set forth in my amendment. which can lead us out of the dilemma in which the courts and the nation have been cast by these decisions. i am heartened by the dissenting opinion of justice stewart in the case of reyds against sims. which i think. as time goes on. will be more and more respected as a magnificent statement of what the law should be. justice stewart in his dissenting opinion looked exactly toward such a solution as i am offering here. i quote from that opinion. because it is so apposite to the argument and position i have taken. and the further fact is that throughout our history the apportionments of state legislatures have reflected the strongly felt american tradition that the public interest is composed of many diverse interests. and that in the long run it can better be expressed by a medley of component voices than by the majoritys moithic command. what constitutes a rational plan reasonably designed to achieve this objective will vary from state to state. since each state is unique. in terms of topography. geography. demography. history. heterogeneity and concentration of population. variety of social and ecoic interests. and in the operation and interrelation of its political institutions. but so long as a states apportionment plan reasonably achieves. in the light of the states own characteristics. effective and balanced representation of all substantial interests. without sacrificing the principle of effective majority rule. that plan can be considered irrational.  humphrey and i had very considerable objections to giving the court an order to stop deciding these cases. that the whole world would collapse around our ears. it has . but over a measurable period of time. there will be great strain unless we do the really wise thing.
i will tell the senator what i have in mind. first. there is a sense of disquiet and fear in those parts of states which urgently require development and additional settlement. but which have small populations. this situation will develop from the pressure of those who feel that their needs are  being adequately represented. just as pressure for reyds against sims came from the people in the cities and suburbs who were materially underrepresented and felt that the legislatures were too conservativeindeed. in some cases reactionaryand were holding up the march of progress as to housing. sewage disposal. mass transportation. crime problems. and the other things which are difficult for cities and suburbs to handle. i do  like to see the pendulum swing completely the other way. that is the reason why i suggested reasonableness in my approach. it will leave the problem manageable. it can be handled. i wish the supreme court had left it that way. that would have been an ideal solution. but unfortunately. i do  believe the court. for practical purposes. has left it that way.
that is dictum. if the senator will examine the cases which are being decided all over the country. he will find that the lower courts. generally speaking. do  feel themselves as having any real latitude. the supreme court left itself some latitude in its dictum. but the lower courts do  feel that way. in their decisions. they are quite strict about population being the only basis for the apportionment of both houses. indeed. there is an argument. withstanding what seems to be the clear language in the decisions. with respect to the length of the term of one house. even on the oneman. onevote theory. there was some feeling by professors in colleges and in law schools that if a political subdivisionand the court seemed rather solicitous about political subdivisionsmade even a material population difference. the court. unless it were an invidious discrimination. as the court said. might let it stand. but the lower courts are  acting that way. and the reason is that there is really latitude. that is what i am arguing for. the supreme court in the basic decision gives itself latitude. because it is arguing for the oneman. onevote rule. it is arguing for absolutely strict enforcement. they have gone to the extentas the senator from pennsylvania asked me. and he is quite right about it. from reading the majority opinio saying. "you are depriving the individual of a civil right if you deprive him of his oneman. onevote weight. when he votes for a representative in the state legislature." i feel in all franknessand. as the senator ks. i was unwilling to vote for. the dirksen amendment in committee. i annced i would vote against it if that were all i had to vote onthat the court is tying its own hands so unnecessarily tightly. that we ought to give an opportunity to recognize what i think justice stewart. and even the majority of the court. have recognized. every situation is  the same. there are considerations. and valid ones. which would induce the people of a state to change to a better practice: to give some weight to geography or a political subdivision. in a given case they may be warranted in doing so. and the oneman. onevote theory should  hold them quite so tightly. if the opponents of the dirksen amendment wanted to justify voting for my amendment. they could do so by extending the doctrine of the dictum into law. but i do  argue for it on that basis. i am willing to assume. whether i win or loseif i lose. lawyers and judges will still be concerned with dictumthat the law will be refined and further defined. i hope it will. i have desire to see everything prove that i was right and everybody else was wrong. on the contrary. i hope to be proved wrong in the fears i have. rather than right. but i feel that we should  leave the situation in quite the strict posture it is . according to the way the lower courts construe it. by vesting complete authority in the courts and the people. we are safeguarding the exercise of this authority and. at the same time. providing the degree of flexibility which is deserved by the political and social conditions which are involved.
i thank the senator. i realize that my amendment falls between two poles. and that the lines are so tightly drawn that it is extremely difficult to work out what i am seeking to work out practically. it is sad. but it is true. i understand the situation well. i appreciate what the senator has said. i k his mind will be open on it. and so will the minds of other opponents. i am gratified and rather solaced by that. but i point out that almost the same situation existed with respect to such a tight provision when the tuck bill was passed in the other body last year. and when we were face to face with a resolution to lower the boom on the courts in these cases. proposals were made. they did  seem to get anywhere. they were rejected overwhelmingly. . but somehow or other. the basic concept prevailed. because it seemed to commend itself to reason and justice. i hope. therefore. that in the debate. as we move along. and fight this proposal out. this concept in my amendment may be demonstrated. because i think there is a deep feeling throughout the countryand i believe it is a majority feelingthat the oneman. onevote situation in a state should  be locked in by reyds against sims. generally speaking. absolutely and forever. for example. a great newspaper like the new york times stated that they see a lot in the argument that this concept should  be locked into law. but that perhaps we ought to wait a while and see how things come out before deciding what kind of an amendment we should have. in many ways. my suggestion would accomplish exactly that. because the standard of reasonable need. which is a constitutional concept and is used in many statutes and decided cases. is a continuing one. what the court might construe as reasonable need today and what the court might decide as reasonable need tomorrow might be very different. i realize the difficulties in trying to arrive at a solution. however. i also point out that once we freeze vested interests in control. when we make a change in the apportionment of these legislatures. with different majorities. then the pendulum would have swung completely the other way. the people would longer have an opportunity to give the flexibility to the court which i seek to give.
the dictum of the court is a general indication. it is clearly spelled out by justice stewart. i would rather say to the senator that i am trying to implement the construction which justice stewart has placed upon what the supreme court is trying to do. the justice said that the court did  do it. he said that the way the court decided would  lead it to do it. i say. let us have a constitutional amendment which would settle the question of what is to be done and how it is to be done. i have tried to make it clear that population is the standard except where the states have a legitimate reason for deviation. the court itself implies that. the court goes on to negate it by saying that stones do  vote and fences do  vote. or words to that effect. the court said that only people vote. the fundamental dictum is there. too. justice stewart drew it out to what he considered to be the logical conclusion. i felt that because he did that. it would be entitled to some consideration. the court felt that the dictum was by means the dominant objective of the majority opinion. that is why i felt it was  egh to argue. as does the opposition. that there is latitude in the decision. and why i believe that we must incorporate it and give it meaning and substance for the future. in an appropriate form of law.
. after listening to the postulates laid out by the senator. i would agree as to wisconsin. however. i should like to give my own state of new york as an example. new york state has a population of approximately 18 million people. eight million are in the city of new york. in the five boroughs alone. when we add the contiguous areas. those in the suburbs who work in new york city we get a population of approximately twothirds of the population of the entire state. or something like 12 million people. there is quite a case to be made. for example. with relation to the thern counties which constitute an emous and undeveloped area. a case has been made .with reference to the socalled southern tier underdeveloped counties. the senator will remember the amendment to the appalachia bill offered by my colleague. the junior senator from new york. and myself. we do have areas which would probably qualify for aid under the appalachia bill. . these are the sociological questions which face me. i am  afraid of them. the mere fact that i come from new york city and am devoted to the city. and that this question has been a big cause in the city for years does  disturb me. that one house should be apportioned on the basis of population is already a big reform. and it would be a major reform to provide that for the other house. if we were to adopt my amendment. the burden of proof would be on the state to show that a reasonable need existed to deviate from strict population apportionment. the way in which legislatures already have been reapportioned is revolutionary. there has been a big gain in the number of people in the suburbs and the cities. do we have to go all the way in that concept. i do  believe that it would be in the interest of people in the city and the suburbs to go all the way. my proposal would still leave some room for flexibility and modification so as to suit the situation of the state. always obtaining the sanction of the court to make sure that hing goes haywire and one imposes on a miity.
laying that question aside. we would  be able to do that under my proposed amendment. my amendment would continue using population as the fundamental basis. but making any deviation from it justiciable and requiring justification on the ground of reasonable need. the same supreme court which handed down the decision in reyds against sims will be passing on the question of need. if my amendment is adopted. i represent my people fully in this effort. they will have complete protection of themselves and at the same time will  have a situation which is completely locked in. without the flexibility which i think my state requires.
. i am very understanding of the portentous issue and the great decision that face the senate today. the days of debate have highlighted the importance of the decision. it is interesting that the issue is what politicians call a "sleeper." in that the public has  as yet become aroused to what is at stake. but i believe it will. also. i believe it is the kind of issue of which much can be made and undoubtedly will be made in future campaigns. it is the kind of issue that develops slowly when something is done about which the people are unhappy. at some point they will suddenly return to the fact that the action has been taken and it has made them unhappy. and then they will look to what we did about it herewhether we adopted one of the two amendments or whether we did hing. it is our job to look down the road of time and of history. and viewed in this way the issue is fully as important as it has been made by the opponents and the proponents of the proposals that are before the senate. aher aspect of the matter which strikes me as highly significant is that the substitute amendment which i have presented to the senate has stood up amazingly well in the analysis and the debate which has ensued. my staff and i. together with the aid of experts in the field of constitutional law. developed this substitute. and whenever one postulates a standard of this kind. he anticipates its being shot full of holes. but if hing else results from this effort on my part. i am  convinced. more than ever. that if a solution is desiredand i think that is undoubtedly the prevailing view of the senatethis is a feasible. just. and constitutional solution. today. i wish. first. to deal witl the essential differences between the substitute which i have suggested and the original proposal of my beloved leader. the distinguished senator from illis . and then to deal with the major arguments which have been made against any amendment to the constitution. and to show how. in my judgment. the substitute which i suggest meets all the arguments conclusively. first as to the changes: it will be ioted that the first change is that in my proposal there is a joinder of the population along with geography or political subdivisions as factors in the apportionment of one house of a bicameral legislature. let us remember that the reason why we are here at all is that the supreme court has decided that both houses of a bicameral legislatureand undoubtedly the one house of a unicameral legislature as wellmust be apportioned strictly on the basis of populatioe man. one vote. the court has indicated that there may be a difference between the two houses. but  in the matter of the weight of voting. in accordance with population. it is important that we understand exactly how the court felt about that. so i should like to read from the decision. in slip opinion form. in the case of reyds against sims. at page 41. the court said: we do  believe that the concept of bicameralism is rendered anachronistic and meaningless when the predominant basis of representation in the two state legislative bodies is required to be the samepopulation. a prime reason for bicameralism. modernly considered. is to insure mature and deliberate consideration of. and to prevent precipitate action on. proposed legislative measures. simply because the controlling criterion for apportioning representation is required to be the same in both houses does  mean that there will be differences in the composition and complexion of the two bodies. different constituencies can be represented in the two houses. one body could be composed of singlemember districts while the other could have at least some multimember districts. the length of terms of the legislators in the separate bodies could differ. the numerical size of the two bodies could be made to differ. even significantly. and the geographical size of districts from which legislators are elected could also be made to differ. and apportionment in one house could be arranged so as to balance off mi inequities in the representation of certain areas in the other house. in short. the court allowed for the continued use of two housesbut only within the strict population standard for both. it should be ed. therefore. that the first change which my substitute amendment makes is to require that population be the base. but that the factors of geography or political subdivisions may also be given consideration in addition to population. the difference between the dirksen amendment and my amendment in that regard is in the use of the disjunctive in the dirksen amendment: "population. geography. or political subdivisions." the first difference thereforeand i think it is most meaningful. because it goes to one of the primary objections made by the opponents of any constitutional amendmentis that under my amendment. population must continue to be used. but geography or political subdivisions may also be used as factors. while it is charged that under the amendment of the senator from illis . any one of the three may be used at the option of the people. the next difference. which is critically important. is my omission of the provisions in the dirksen amendment which read: giving each factor such weight as they deem appropriate. or giving similar weight to the same factors in apportioning a unicameral legislaturethe effort in the dirksen amendment is obviously to place whatever decision is made on this subject within the limits of geography. political subdivisions. or population. in the hands of a majority of the people in a referendum. without tying them to any particular standard. the dirksen amendment would make the states judgment final. in the case of my amendment. the jurisdiction of the supreme court would be preserved to determine. in the first place. whether population has still been used as the base. and geography or a political subdivision have been utilized as an additional factor. that is the second distinction. the third distinction is. in my judgment. most basic. it concerns the relationship of the plan of apportionment to the needs of the state. the new words which i use are: bears a reasonable relationship to the needs of the state. is consistent with the provisions of this constitution except for the provisions of this article. this language contains two separate ideas. one relates to the fact that even if the majority of the people in a state desire to apportion one house on a basis of  only population. but also geography or political subdivisions. it must yet be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the courts that the mixture of factors which the majority of the people seek bears a reasonable relationship to the needs of the state. this is a timehoed standard of judgment which the courts will pass on. i have cited. and will cite again in the course of these remarks. the fourth amendment to the constitution itself and a host of statutes under which the courts have dealt with precisely such a standard. such a standard is entirely appropriate and is one with which the courts can deal. this would mean that proof would have to be given to the court that the nature and the needs of the state are such that one of the houses should be apportioned on a basis other than strictly population. let me cite some examples. because they are classic examples in this controversy. it is a fact. for example. that in my own stateand it is always best to start with ones own statesome twothirds of the population of the state is concentrated in the five counties of the city of new york and the contiguous suburban areas. that represents but a small part of the state in area. however. it represents twothirds of the population of the state. the other onethird of the population of the state occupies the overwheiming percentage of the total area of the state. a similar situation exists in alaska. in two heavily populated areas of alaska. anchorage and falrbanks. reside half the population of the state. in hawaii. fivesixths of the population is concentrated in the houlu area. in arizona. threefourths of the states population is concentrated in the area in and around phoenix and tucson. in nevada. threefourths of the population of the state is concentrated in and around las vegas and re these are classic cases. there are others. my colleagues have debated the situation which exists in colorado. colorado is a classic instance of that character. although i do  have the figures in front of me. it is roughly in the same order of magnitude as the cases i have cited. however. colorado is also sharply divided by a mountain chain which almost compartmentalizes the state in a physical sense and gives the people of that state a great desire for apportioning one of the houses of their state legislature with that concept in mind. these are classic examples of the relationship of the geography of a state to its legislative apportionment. there are 62 counties in new york. the counties to which i have referred as being contiguous to or part of the metropolitan area of new york city. in which twothirds of the states population reside. comprise 8 or 9 of the states 62 counties. the disparity is immediately apparent. the other counties. constituting the overwhelming part of the area of the state. are relatively sparsely populated. therefore. i have drafted a substitute. and proposed it to the senate. it would seem to me that an apportioning of one house of a state legislature. which would differ from the strict population approach and relate to the need for development of parts of the state which are  heavily populated. would qualify within the concept of. a reasonable relationship to the needs of the state. in referring to judicial review. i believe it is important to e that even the dirksen amendment is  free from the need for court construction. indeed. limiting the permissible factors. as that amendment does. to geography or political subdivision or population would itself open a plan of apportionment to challenge in the courts on the ground that some other standard had been used. i point out also that in an early draft of the proposal of the miity leader. senate joint resolution 2. the word "reasonable" appeared as applicable to the method by which a unicameral legislature might be apportioned. once the word "reasonable" was introduced. the court would have jurisdiction. it is my judgment that. even under the dirksen amendment as  drafted. the court would have to give special consideration to the situation of a unicameral legislature. to proceed with my analysis. the basic and fundamental difference and the third difference between the two amendments. is the standard in my proposal. that a plan must bear a reasonable relationship to the needs of the state. in that connection. i refer again to a partial list of statutes i had printed in the record on monday. in which the concept of "reasonable" is written. and which the courts have for years construed in many cases with trouble at all. as they have also in the case of the fourth amendment to the constitution. which prohibits "unreasonable" searches and seizures. i refer to these statutes  by title. they are: the interstate commerce act. the packers and stockyards act. the federal food. drug. and cosmetics act. the judicial code. insofar as condemnation and forfeiture of property is concerned. the federal law relating to bridges over navigable waterways. the federal power act. which has the word "reasonable" in quite a few of its sections. and the federal railway labor act. i refer especially to the renegotiation act of 1951. in that act the words used are practically the same as the words which i use in my proposed constitutional amendment. these words have been construed by the executive agencies and the courts with trouble. just as the words in my proposal can be construed by the courts with trouble. in my judgment. section 1216 of the renegotiation act of 1951. which relates to a cost allowance and deals with inventory. states:
. for the present i should like to conclude my argument upon this e. the question is. what am i doing in my amendment as it relates to the basic decision in reyds against sims. there are two things i am trying to do. one is to implement the dictum which the court itself uttered. we lawyers call a dictum an observation  necessary to the decision in a case. my second purpose is to implement. to spell out what that dictum meant. a meaning which i find in the dissenting opinion of mr. justice stewart. joined in by mr. justice clark. it is extremely important that we understand that point. because it seems to me it is the final proof of the fact that what i am seeking to do is follow along. within a very welltrodden path. that precedent. and that my proposal draws on  only the dissents. as shown by mr. justice stewarts opinion. but also the majority opinion of the court. as to the majority. it will be recalled that i read to the senate from page 41 of the majority opinion. with emphasis upon the fact that both houses.  merely one house. must be apportioned on the basis of population. the court went to some pains to point out-
that did  mean that one of the houses could  differ from the other. the court specified what could be the areas of difference. for example. the court said that one of the bodies could be given a longer term. those serving in that body could represent broader geographical areas. and there could be fewer legislators in that body. and it could have different powers. but the court emphasized that that was the only latitude permissible in the requirement that both houses be apportioned according to population. then the court. in a very interesting understanding of realities. went on in what i call dictum. at page 44 of the slip opinion. the court said: so long as the divergences from a strict population standard are based on legitimate considerations incident to the effectuation of a rational state policy. some deviations from the equalpopulation principle are constitutionally permissible with respect to the apportionment of seats in either or both of the two houses of a bicameral state legislature. the court indicated that even they had to accept the fact that they could  be quite so strict as they might like. then we find on page 8 of the dissenting opinion of . i reserve the remainder of my time.
one can listen to the senator from illis without pleasure and without profit. it should also be stated in great tribute to him that his amendment has undergone considerable modification. the modifications have been sought in an endeavor. insofar as the senator could. to meet the views of people like myself as to necessary procedural safeguards. such as the repeated submission to the people of an alternative straight population plan. and the limitation of permissible factors to geography or political subdivisions only along with population.  in lieu of it. he has endeavored in every way to improve his amendment. it should be said to senator dirksens credit also that he never once first said. "if i make these changes. do i have your vote." that was typical and generous of him. he has answered the argument of the senior senator from illis by saying that my amendment is merely sprinkling formaldehyde over the dirksen amendment. i do  believe that is so. our proposals do have fundamental differences in principle. the dirksen amendment reflects the view. honestly and deeply felt. that the court should have refused jurisdiction in baker against carr and reyds against sims on the ground that for 176 years the supreme court had said that legislative apportionment was a political decision and would  touch it. and that it is  a matter for judicial cognizance. but the court took jurisdiction. in doing so it made a great. historic breakthrough in american history. which the court justified on the ground that the people had other way of getting out of the clutch of malapportionment. my proposal accepts the courts jurisdiction. therefore it differs from the idea of the dirksen amendment.
what the senator has said is most congenial and most interesting to me. whatever his action might be on my amendment. i believe every senator wishes to feel that he has tried to propose something which makes basic sense. i have  highlighted what i feel very deeply. in the present argument i am on the side of the court proponents. but i believe the court tied its hands in a way in which logic dictated. it could do hing else. as we look through the decisions. withstanding the dicta which have been referred to. i feel that they would allow some flexibility. when it comes to deciding cases. they are straight down the line on the oneman. onevote principle. they feel that that is what they must do. they find it difficult to do anything else. unless we tell them that that is what we would like to have done.
i express my disappointment that that was  done. a suspicion was sought to be created that that was omitted because it pertained to the state of texas. i do  join in that suspicion. i have the greatest faith in the efforts of the senator from michigan to have that particular provision adopted by the conference. i believe. also. that the department of justice will. with fairness and impartiality. pursue these cases under section 3 wherever they arise. i am very much disappointed that those parts of states will  be reached because the trigger has been stricken out. could the senator tell us whether. by virtue of the long amendment. which. in the other body. was the boggs amendment. we are letting out any specific parts of states which. when the bill left the senate. we believed the triggering device would reach. aside from the 25percent provision.
. i appreciate the efforts of the subcommittee chairman. the junior senator from maryland. in expediting action on this bill which means so much. in particular to federal employees. last year. my former colleague. senator keating. of new york. introduced legislation which allowed claims for compensation to be filed by federal employees in u.s. district courts. thereby enabling an employee to join in one action in the district courts. suit for reinstatement to his government position. and a claim for back pay. because of the monetary limitation imposed by the tucker act. however. claims for compensation which exceeded $10.000 could  be so joined. and would have had to be filed separately in the court of claims. this bill was introduced to raise the limitation on suits against the government in the district courts from $10.000 to $50.000 thus enabling more of such suits to be brought in the more accessible district courts. it has the support.  only of civil service workers and their organizations. but was endorsed by the judicial conference of the u.s. administrative office of the u.s. courts and the department of justice. this single. rather technical change will greatly benefit a number of individuals. will expedite court cases and promote more orderly settlement of employee claims.
. first i should like to express my support for the bill. which i favor very strongly. it is critically important to the improvement of local law enforcement capabilities and to the prevention and control of crime. i think it is also critically important in the field of racial relations. i believe that all of us realize that we must have intelligent and effective police handling of demonstrations. and of other responsibilities. with all that in mind i introduced. together with senators kuchel. case. foand scott. a similar bill. s. 1409. which was referred to the committee on labor and public welfare. in my bill primary responsibility for the administration of the act was placed in the department of health. education. and welfare. a very serious question of division of authority is involved here. because. while in the federal establishment the attorney general is charged with dealing with crime problems generally. this is in part. at least. also an education bill. as it relates to training the police to handle the complex challenges of juvenile delinquency and mental illness. and other similar aspects of maintaining public order. the proposed program therefore raises the question as to the extent of cooperation which the attorney general would be required to have with the department of health. education. and welfare and vice versa. the attorney general has said very frankly that he is  in the business of dealing with these types of problems. but he felt. in all fairness. that the program really should be his responsibility in terms of principal administration. because it deals with police forces and with law enforcement. he indicated in his testimony before the special subcommittee. of which i was a member. that there were areas of close cooperation. which he felt would be essential. with the department of health. education. and welfare. that department has had considerable experience with existing training programs in a number of related fields and with the juvenile delinquency program. a letter from the under secretary of health. education. and welfare. wilbur j. cohen. which is included in the committee report. bears this out. i should like to address myself. if i may. to the manager of the bill. and to the distinguished ranking miity member of the subcommittee which handled this bill. in order to ascertain. as a basis for legislative history on the bill. whether we may expect. in passing it. that there will be close cooperation and coordination in their related fields of interest between the attorney general. in whom we are vesting principal authority under the bill. and the secretary of health. education. and welfare.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. on behalf of myself. the senator from new jersey . and the senator from california . two bills to provide for effective law enforcement and discriminatory administration of justice in civil rights cases. because of the public outcry in recent years caused by the acquittal of persons charged with crimes against negroes and civil rights workers. the attention of legislators and civil rights groups has focused on this problem and we propose action during this session of congress. the bills wouldfirst. make it a federal crime for a person or a group of persons to conspire or to act to deprive aher person of his constitutional rights. and would provide greater penalties when bodily injury or death results. and second. provide a uniform method of jury selection through the use of names from the u.s. census. and allow the u.s. attorney to seek relief in the court of appeals if a local jury commissioner continued to discriminate even in the use of names from the census lists. it is ackledged that in many parts of this country citizens are excluded from participation on juries solely because of race. in large measure. the reason is the wide discretion given jury commissioners in choosing members of jury panels. in some districts panel members are chosen from the voting lists. which even today contain few negroes in some states. in others. they are chosen from the telephone books. where the poor are  represented to the same extent as the affluent. and. in at least one instance. juries were chosen from the membership lists of the local ptahardly an organization likely to produce a jury of his peers to try an illiterate negro laborer. when an unrepresentative jury convicts a man unjustly. he has a remedy in an appeal to a higher court. and if systematic exclusion can be proved. the conviction is reversed. when guilty defendants are unjustly acquitted. however. remedy exists because the state can appeal an acquittal. these bills seek to provide such a remedy. first by making the trial of civil rights offenses possible in federal instead of state courts and by providing meaningful penalties and second. by providing a uniform method of jury selection which will preclude the possibility of systematic exclusion. the first bill is actually a composite and expansion of bills i have already introduced. combining my earlier bill to clarify court interpretation of section 242 of title 18. with my bill to increase the penalties in civil rights crimes where death or serious bodily harm result. we  offer a completely rewritten section 241 and 242. these new sections would make it a federal crime for an individual or group of individuals to conspire or act so as to deprive aher of his constitutional rights. penalties are greater where bodily injury or death result. it is our intention to make it possible to try offenders such as the murderers of michael schwerner. andrew goodman. and james chaney in federal courts under these statutes. and to provide appropriate penalties. this bill also makes local governments responsible in civil damages for the wrongs of their employees. we believe this legislation is critically necessary. and shall do our utmost to obtain action on it. the second bill provides a uniform method for choosing jury panels so that when these cases are brought to federal court. the accused will be judged by a truly representative cross section of his community. briefly. the method set out in the bill requires the director of the bureau of the census to submit a list of names. chosen at random. to each jury commissioner. and requires that jury panels be chosen from those lists. of course. some of the names on the list may  be useful since the latest census would  necessarily reflect deaths and changes in residence. but as many names as would be necessary to form a jury panel would be made available by the census. further. if the jury commissioner continued to discriminate among the names submitted. the u.s. attorney would be empowered to go to the u.s. court of appeals for that circuit and ask relief. these bills may  be the final answer. different versions will be submitted by both a bipartisan group of senators and by the administration. i welcome those bills. in fact i fully expect to cosponsor them because i believe every aspect of this problem should be studied and considered and particular solution is. at this point. definitive. in off ering these two bills today. however. i hope we are beginning the debate. and putting before the public this grave and pressing problem. we respectfully submit that action is urgently due. and that grave deficiencies in our judicial system. causing it to be held in disrepute. have been evidenced. and we hope there may be early action.
if the deparment of jdstice does its job and the courts ultimately apply this test. de oin short. is it  implied clearly. from the right of regulatory agencies to go into court. that the court will determine this issue. and. i am sure. being influenced by what the regulatory agency decided but  being bound by it.
. in connection with the bill to treat alcoholism as a diseasewhich iv is. the fourth most lethal disease in the countrythe u.s. fourth circuit court of appeals recently held that a chronic alcoholic can be stamped as a criminal "if his drunken public display is involuntary as the result of the disease." the court pointed out that the decision does-  preclude appropriate detention of the alcoholic for treatment and rehabilitation so long as he is  marked a criminal. it was also emphasized that an intoxicated person in a public place might be arrested. but criminal prosecution if the individual is a chronic alcoholic would "affront the eighth amendment as cruel and unusual punishment." the decision in this important case underscores the fact that alcoholism is the fourth most serious health problem in the nation and that the alcoholic should be given medical attention. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point the decision of the u.s. court of appeals for the fourth circuit in the case of joe b. driver against arthur hinnant. superintendent of the halifax county prison unit of th carolina state prison department. decided january 22. 1966.
madam president. i have undertaken a study in detail of a number of federal programs of grantsinaid to state and local governments. in order to determine whether and to what extent such programs fairly allocate federal resources among the states. particularly those such as new york. which have emous new needs because of the massive flow of population into densely populated urban centers. it is estimated that by 1970 some 75 percent of our nations population will live in urban areas. this study has  been completed and it concludes that there are serious disproportions in the patterns of aid in what should be urbandirected programs. matched against the needs for. and costs of. basic governmental services in new york state as compared with other less urbancentered states. the report identifies the interstate allocation factors in each of some 20 programs which result in disproportions of federal aid.. and recommends legislative amendments to overcome the unfair effect of those factors. this is  to say that we ought to cut down on aid to states with sparser populations. but the formulas should be revised so that programs directed primarily at urban problems do what they were intended to do. congress should face realistically what is needed to do the job. rather than stand by while the major urban centers and the states in which they are located continue to be discriminated against. in a number of significant cases those cities and states are adversely treated and starved because of the changes which have occurred in our societyparticularly the massive change which is occurring in the location of the populationsince the allocation factors were built into the law. i am submitting the report to the new york congressional delegation and believe it should also be of concern and great interest to members from other urbanized states. we should. with all urgency. get together and discuss the problems of the big cities. which are aggravated by the fact that the *taxing power is effectively in the hands of the federal government but the interstate allocations of federal funds are loaded against the big cities and the states in which they are located. i k that my colleagues from the urban areas will join with me in efforts to bring about a greater element of justice than  exists. i ask unanimous consent that the report be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
. on march 12. chief justice earl warren of the u.s. supreme court addressed a meeting of international judges which was held at the peace through law center in geneva. switzerland. the group was gathered for the purpose of organizing a world association of judges of which chief justice warren will be the chairman. certainly the chief justices reputation for leadership in the movement of world peace through law is truly illustrious. it is a singular ho both for him and for this country that he has been chosen to head the new organization. and i ask unanimous consent that the text of his remarks on this occasion be printed at this point in the record.
. i say to my very distinguished miity leader that he states the case exactly. i have never been afraid to deal with this subject by amendment but the supreme court is a coordinate branch of the gov"ernment.. we. too. have our duties. and thepeople have their duties.* the only questionthat troubles me and others is the question of whether this is the time to erect a new body of law. it should  be done unless we feel that social conditions require it. - the senator from illis. whose judgment is very impressive to me. believes that the time has come  and . that we should establish a mechanism to respond to the social needs. i want to satisfy myself. and i feel sure that others feelfthe same way. based upon experience with the decision. that there is a social need. i respect the viewpoint of the senator on that. and i am sure that when the time comes. he will have just as much respect for my viewpoint.
. it is a privilege for me today to submit for inreport on communist china by the ripon society. the ripon society is a group of young republicans dedicated to infusing the republican party with new ideas and new approaches to the problems of american society and u.s. foreign policy. this ripon policy statement. "china 1966: containment and contact." is the product of 9 months of intensive research. the members of the society have met with leading experts in the fields of asian policy and national security. the report urges that the united states begin a serious and prolonged investigation of communist china and united states relations with communist china. it suggests that we stop thinking in terms of stereotypes and stop using the old rhetorical jargon in our thinking about communist china. it is a hardheaded report which  only points out the need for flexibility. but also insists on the necessity of the containment policy in regard to communist china. the report is very much in accord with my own thinking on this matter. i believe that in the long run we must find some way to get along with the government of mainland china and that perhaps the most vital step in bringing the communist chinese leaders themselves to this conclusion is to maintain our own strength and those of our allies on the periphery of the china land mass and to frustrate communist chinesebacked wars of aggression called wars of national liberation. it is necessary in this regard as the ripon report asserts to bring discussion of these matters to the attention of the american people. the ripon society report has been extremely well received. along with the report itself. i wish to submit editorial comment and ask inanimous consent to have them printed in the record.
. i should like to ask the senator from vermont a question. as a lawyer. i am disquieted about this amendment. the senator from vermont ks me well egh to k that i am more than anxious to be persuaded of the incorrectness of any position i take. it appears to me. from the argument that the senator has made. that he does  feel a court would in a proper caseperhaps the senator feels that there is such caseactually order a stay itself. under the provision in the bill. would the senator tell me why he would  be willing to rely on the mal equity processes of the court.
the senator spoke of the emergency board which he headed as being a quasijudicial board. the fact is that it does  have plenary power. and court can order its decisions into effect. therefore. we must act. i believe the record should be complete. we must act on either the plan of the senator from oregon . the plan of the senator from ohio . my plan. or some plan providing for definite action to protect the public interest. that is what we are all contending for and that is what must be done.
. it is  necessary in this case. for this reason: the courts have  made it clear that suits from state courts have a hard. fast track to the u.s. supreme court. where the constitutionality may be tested. the supreme court does  necessarily have to take the case. but denial of certiorari is in itself an indication of the courts attitude as to the validity of a particular case. only last month. the maryland court of appeals decided the case of the horace mann league against board of public works of maryland. holding that a state program of grants to churchrelated colleges was violative of the federal constitution. attorneys for the defendants have advised my office that they will file a petition for certiorari with the supreme court next month. in all probability. the court will. at its next term. have an opportunity to decide the entire first amendment question. in addition. undoubtedly if the court refuses to grant certiorari in the horace mann case. it may want to explore this question on some other occasion. again on appeal from a state court. i point out that there was problem in getting the socalled prayer cases before the supreme court. they were cases which came from the state courts. the horace mann league against board of public works case is an indication of aher area into which the federal courts can reach in order to develop the question of constitutionality. in my judgment. the balance of convenience or the balance of public interest weighs in favor of  having the proliferation of suits which the proposed statute. if it becomes law. will engender on the question of whether to extend this right even more broadly than it is  available. as against the fact that the supreme court has been able to reach major decisions in the cases involving these questions largely on appeals from state courts. and it seems to be in a position to continue to do so. a provision in section 2 of the bill states that any public or profit agency or institution which is or may be prejudiced by the order of the federal officer making the loan or grant under authority of any of the acts enumerated in the section has the right to sue. that is perfectly sound. if an amount which an institution might otherwise receive is reduced by virtue of the fact that some other unconstitutional loan or grant is being made. the damaged institution has the status to sue. however. it is my strong view that it has the status to sue . certainly in cases coming from the state courts. where the status to sue is premised exactly on this provision. this bill would make possible an opensesame field day to take advantage of every amendment to sue. to harass. and to disturb programs which. if there is any serious problem about their constitutionality. will be tested generically in that regard on appeal from state courts. courts which have  had any major problem in reaching these cases and testing these issues on account of the disqualifications of the parties . the suit. for these reasons. and because i consider the bill unnecessary and only a way of bedeviling all these programs in a kind of an open season for shooting at them. i oppose the measure and shall vote against it. whatever the ultimate vote may be.
the senator has put his finger very ably on the basic point which troubles me. and that is the lack of selectivity in the bill. of course. the frothingham decision. which is the basic decision in this whole field of law. was based on the question of interest: what interest did the individual have in the suit. it was held that the taxpayers interest was  adequate. because if that were allowed. it would result in litigation for every conceivable aspect of the operations of the government. including defense appropriations. the senator from th carolina and the senator from oregon have realized this. they have confined the operation of the bill to nine specific acts. however. i am still opposed to the bill because i think it opens up opportunities for suits too broadly for the needs of the situation. that is what it comes to. if we had a frame of reference in which we had a hotly contested piece of legislation. we probably would try to amend it or cut it down. but really it is  that critical. and there is  that much opposition. therefore. i have decided that the best thing to do is to vote "nay" on the whole thing as representing my reservations. but the distinguished senator from michigan certainly has put his finger on the basic point. that is. that when we act in this manner we always have to worry about opening up a vast number of units. we are initiating something which has  happened beforea taxpayers suit to test constitutionality naturally. we confine it to the first amendment. as indicated. we confine it to a list of measures which are clear to all of us. but it would be impossible to argue that it could  be used as precedent by those who would seek the right. as a taxpayer. to test every other form of activity or appropriation of government by the same set of standards: is it constitutional. so why should  i. as a taxpayer. have the right to challenge it. if the senate passes the bill. as it undoubtedly will. it may very well have to pass the next one. if 18. 23. or 42 other acts are involved. i suppose it is a perfectly valid argument. but to say that we do  open the door to that situation is. in my judgment.  so. we do. we would be recognizing the right of the taxpayer. which has heretofore  been a right under supreme court decisions. to proceed against a particular piece of federal legislation which does  directly affect himexcept the fact that he is a taxpayerin order to test its constitutionality under any aspect of the constitution. we may confine the jurisdiction to the courts of the district of columbia. but we are certainly opening a door which has never been opened before.
senator morse has pointed out that perhaps such an employee would feel he would lose his job. or lose some of his perquisites. he may very well. but i do  k necessarily that he will lose anything. in addition. i believe that. by and large. the men feel they should return to work when congress asks them. mr. siemiller said that himself. that they will come back to work because they are honest. patriotic americans. and if congress asks it or if a court asks it. they will do their job. i am absolutely confident of that. i will ride in airplanes with the greatest feeling of security and peace of mind. confident that every mechanic and machinist is doing his job to the best of his ability. and will  take out his grievances on the plane or on safety.
 and the congress. specifically stated that they have hesitated to accord priority to. applications for these kinds of grants because they did  fit the definition of training or demonstration programs authorized by the act. the purpose of the amendment which i offer today. therefore. is to make such grants possible. the federal government must. in the coming decade. devote more resources and more -imagination to the problems of the* city. this proposal is one of a number of changes which are necessary if we areto save our urban centers from crime. decay and bankruptcy. a well.equipped and effective police force is. in fact. a prerequisite to urban progress. for without respect for the law and a climate of safety and order in our metropolitan centers. our cities can be saved. at the hearings on the cities every witness testified that the  1 priority is money. this is an effort to obtain a little help in a very sensitive area. where a reasonable amount of money can do a great deal.
i appreciate the eloquence of the senator from maine. i think the case could be allowed to rest exactly as he left it. i propose to do exactly that. i rise only because i was the sponsor of the amendment with relation to college housing. i respectfully submit to all senators that this government can do what justice demands. whatever the demands are. this government can do. we certainly demonstrated that by appropriating almost $60 billion for defense the other day with a unanimous vote of the senate. we certainly showed that we intend to do what justice demands we should do. however. let me say to all senators. in connection with my vote on the demonstration cities bill. that perhaps i am one of the very few men in this chamber who is. really. thoroughly and right down to the ground a product of the big city :from the poverty level up. where this problem festers. this is where i was born. this is what i k. i speak as a witness from personal experience. the cities are strangling. they are in the gravest danger. it is wonderful to me that a barefoot boy from maine could say it as eloquently as he has. he sounds as though he has done what i have done. let me assure him that it is breaking through to the consciousness of the federal establishment. this bill is one of the indications of that breakthrough. a new day is dawning in our country. that is what we are signalizing in a relatively modest way. it is so serious that the attorney general can say to us that the danger of riots and violence exists in every one of the 40 cities which he is  looking into. it seems to me that. on that basis. our line of action as intelligent men is currently indicated. -the senators amendment would gut the bill. i hope very much that it will be defeated.
it would be subject to court appeals. and so forth. that is the case in regard to discrimination on grounds of sex. that was discussed today. as was the case of discrimination in regard to equal pay. and discrimination on grounds of color.
i do  challenge at all what the senator from mississippi has said. i only point out that mrs. motley was inated for the federal court judgeship in january 1966. a subcommittee was finally appointed. consisting of the senator from th dakota . the senator from michigan . and myself. that subcommittee met. after due ice. on april 4. 1966. ice of hearing was published on march 16. 1966. certainly there was a reasonable time. one appeared in opposition to mrs. motleys ination. the ination. therefore. was recommended by the subcommittee. only considerably later was it made kn what took place before the internal security subcommittee. the material which has been referred to here on the floor. bearing upon mrs. motleys past. we thereupon requested. as was proper. that members of the committee who are  members of the internal security subcommittee should have an opportunity to read the record. that record was made available. we read the record. at least. i did. i suppose other members of the committee did. then the ination was confirmed by the committee with two dissenting votes. i can guarantee what other members of the committee did. but they had an opportunity to read the record. as i did. and i read it. the senator from michigan and the senator from th dakota certainly read it. we voted to confirm. with only two dissenting votes. we kept the record open so that all members of the committee would have an opportunity to vote. therefore. as against the uncorroborated testimony of one woman with respect to events which went back 24 yearsas the senator has said. in 1942 and 1943at a time when she was 21 years old-
the senate has a right to go back to the time of ones birth. but the senate also has a right to evaluate the time involved in view of the record built up. and measure it against the uncorroborated testimony of one witness with respect to events which occurred 24 years ago. i merely say that is a fac-. tor to be considered by the senate. i do  say that this fact should  be considered. i only say it should be weighed against the record of  of manhattan. again in the white light of public scrutiny. again with hing brought up against her. finally. to cap it off. the justice department gives a most thorough going over to such applicants. so does the fbi. the administration is  going to be embarrassed by having anybody inated who can pass the test.
yes. if i may just finish. i must say. too. that i resent seriously. in the name of the country for myself. because i am devoted to the senator from florida and am a great admirer of his--the innuendo that we are unmindful of the burnings. the bombings. and the violence which have taken place. i might say. in terms of the justice of this cause: look who is talking in terms of cause. when for years and years and years there was intimidation. suppression. violence. and assassination. as well as burnings and the denial of elementary justice in large sections of our country. i am sure that the senator from florida would never condone that. but when we weigh these things on balance we might insist. before we get so strong and so indignant about the amount of violence which is going on . that it does  hold a candle. it does  begin to rate with what has been going on for 100 years in this terrible situation. let me tell all senators that i think. and think very deeply. that we will be taking a chance on more violence than we have had before--"you aint seen hing yet"-f we deny justice where justice is due. i say. do  be intimidated by violence. but do  be blind to it. there are  egh policemen or soldiers to enforce the law in this or any other country. we must apportion the law to justice which the people demand. they have a right to demand it. very much of this is orderly. and deeply felt. those of us advocating this measure would be derelict in our duty if we did  think to be responsive and to emphasize justice. only 5 percent of children in southern states are in desegregated southern schools. punishment for murdering a civil rights worker under a federal law is 1 year in jail and. i think. a $5.000 fine. if convicted. under the statute as construed in the socalled screws case. before we wax wrath about the situation. let us look at the facts. let us look at the comparison between what has been going on and what is going on .
there are two answers to the question. one. this says "violation of a law." it does  require the finding of a court by conviction or any other judicial proceeding. the adminis.rator will have to find in each case whether or  a local. federal. or state law has been violated. second. . in our country we do  impose sanctions under various laws for the violation of all kinds of other laws. we do  do it with the maritime industry. we do  do it with the transportation industry. we do  do it with the airlines. we do  do it with the farmers. we do  do it with a host of people who benefit under other programs of this government. why do it with the poor man. who can least afford it. it is basically unfair. in addition. it is an administrative monstrosity. because it does  require a judicial finding or a conviction or anything else. it just says that the administrator shall determine that a person has or has  violated some local law. which could be. as the senator from tennessee truly says. a fistfight altercation between two men. the man has  been tried by a magistrate. but there is a mandate to the administrator of the oeo to deny him any participation in that program.  only directly. if he is in the job corps. or one of the other programs. but indirectly. if he benefits from the headstart program or aher program.
. this morning. the committee on the judiciary reported a bill designed to extend the life of the office of law enforcement assistance. i trust that the senate will act quickly on the measure. while i support the bill. i regret that the program could  have been expanded so as to provide funds for grants to local lawenforcement agencies for the purchase of equipment designed to modernize police methods and to assist police in their allimportant work. it is especially critical for our large cities to have equipment such as electronic systems. computers. and motorized equipment in their efforts to stem urban crime. on august 19. i introduced a bill to authorize the office of law enforcement assistance to make grants of this kind and to provide an additional $10 million a year for the program. in response to that bill. i received letters from the chiefs of police in a number of large cities.  only endorsing the bill. but outlining in detail their specific needs for such a program. i ask unanimous consent that the letters be printed at this point in the record.
i will forgo asking other questions. because i see the senator from michigan is present. but i would like to pursue this particular matter. i wish to confirm what the senator from pennsylvania has said. we were both opposed to the antiriot provision. with respect to the words "found to be in violation of." contained in the amendment added on the floor. would the senator from pennsylvania agree that the intention of these words is that there should be a finding which is judicial and that that finding is to be made by some court which is concerned with the act in question. rather than putting on the office of ecoic opportunity the burden of trying such cases.
. last year. i introduced. and the senate passed this bill to amend the tucker act. to increase from $10.000 to $50.000 the jurisdictional limitation of the federal district courts in certain contract cases against the federal government. the bill was supported by the department of justice and the administrative office of the u.s. courts. but was  passed by the house. the primary purpose of this bill is to allow former government employees to join suits for reinstatement with suits for back pay. the former must be brought in the district courts. but the latter must  be brought in the court of claims if the amount in question exceeds $10.000. the justice department has estimated that if the jurisdictional limit were raised to $50.000 as contemplated by this bill. more than 99 percent of the backpay claims could be heard in district courtfreeing the court of claims for more important work and considerably reducing the cost of litigation for claimants outside the washington area. in addition almost one third of all the other contract cases against the government could be heard in district court. i. therefore. send to the desk. for appropriate reference. a bill to amend the tucker act which is identical to the measure i offered in the 89th congress.
i thank senator kennedy for expressing what so many of us feel about bernie fall. and also join with senator kennedy. on the part of myself and my wife and my family. in extending our deep condolences and appreciation to the family of bernie fall and to the families of the other pressmen for their sacrifices in this struggle. crime
s commission on law enforcement and administration of justice. like the recent. report on crime in the district of columbia. reflects the growing. national concern with our na-. tions fourth .largest health problem. alcoholism. recent court decisionseaster against district of columbia. and driver against hinnanthave established the- principle that intoxication cases must be handled medically and socially. the crime commission report deals with the problem of public and chronic alcoholism on this basis. other nations in the western world have long recognized this principle and . it would appear. the united states is following suit. the crime. commission has recommended the establishment of detoxiflcation units as part of comprehensive treatment programs. aftercare for alcoholics and expanded research into alcoholism. the problems of alcoholics. and methods of treatment. together with the senator from utah [mr. moss]. i am preparing comprehensive legislation along these lines to be introduced by us and cosponsoring - senators from both parties in the near future. this measure will be the successor to the bills we introduced in the last- congress. the chapter of the crime commissions report dealing with alcoholism and drunkenness offenses merits study by every american. i ask unanimous consent that it be included as a part of my remarks.
i do  think it should be a partisan issue. and i do  think it is a partisan issue. it is a fact that the movement was led with the deepest sincerity and the greatest skill by the miity leader. the distinguished senator from illionis . that is why i identified the results with the outcome of the movement. i felt originally that the supreme court would  be completely rigid in the matter. and i believe that the supreme court has  been completely rigid and that. therefore. the attitude of people like myself to sustain the court was justified. i merely gave these figures by way of indicating that the fears that had been engendered by the miity partymy partyin the reapportionment debate were apparently  realized in the election. i believe that this is an important question which. politically. every senator and every representative will want to ask himself. the figures i have stated are persuasive. without in any way questioning the deep sincerity and good faith of those who have sought very strenuously and lobbied to convince state legislatures that these resolutions should be passed. and without questioning the deep conviction of those people that the constitutional convention resulting could be confined to the one issue requested by most of the legislatures. it is my judgment that the real danger is that it can as a matter of law. and certainly  as a matter of practice. be so confined. that you could have a runaway constitutional convention. at the very least. that this danger has  been adequately portrayed to the people of the states. that the state legislatures have a right to rescind those resolutions. as they had a right to pass them. before congress actually acts upon the matter. therefore. it is the duty of those who feel as i do to enlighten and inform the people as to what is at stake. so that they may exercise their influence with their state legislatures. affirming at one and the same time my fidelity to my oath as a senator. that if i am convinced that 34 state legislatures have actually and properly requested a constitutional convention. it will be my duty to vote for an appropriate and feasible measure which will give voice to their proper demands.
. s. 1308. good as it is. does  go quite far egh. the problems which the eeoc has encountered in handling its caseload are well kn. its performance so far has been excellentwithin the budgetary and staff limitations which have been imposed on it. but because of these limitations it has been forced to spend far too much time handling individual cases. and this has  been able to turn its efforts toward sponsoring affirmative programs to end racial discrimination in employment. the recently published first annual report of the eeoc describes the plight of the commission well. it states: budget and staffing for the new commission was predicated on estimates that 2.000 job discrimination complaints would be received in the first year. by june. 1966. the commission had been deluged with 8.854 individual complaintsmore than twice the number all state fair employment practice agencies receive in a year. this dramatic response to the new law reflected the confidence of civil rights organizations and miity persons in this new avenue to relief from discrimination. it also almost swamped the small commission staff. in the midst of establishing investigation procedures and organizing the new agency. thousands of hours of uncompensated overtime were devoted to the flood of charges. despite these dedicated effortsand cooperation of charging parties and parties chargedthe commissions first year ended with many hundreds of unreached cases. even though this backlog bore heavily on limited resources. the commission and staff. nevertheless. did accomplish eworthy results with the new lawmany of which were farreaching and precedentsetting. a major feature of the bill which i am  introducing which is  included in s. 1308. is the strong link it would provide between the eeoc and the nationwide resources of the department of labor. particularly the investigative manpower of the vast existing network of its wagehour division. that division  handles compliance surveys of over 30.000 companies each year. by allowing the commission to utilize the manpower of the labor department for investigatory work. the bill we are introducing would increase its resources immeasureably. the commissions staff would then be able to concentrate more on its primary role of developing a general. affirmative antidiscrimination program. to aid the commission even further in this respect. the bill would also authorize the commission to accept volunteer assistance. particularly from business and industry. the bill also goes further than s. 1308 in several other ways. it would. for example. extend the coverage of the law to all employers having eight or more employees. s. 1308 would leave present coverage unchanged. present law. at its widest. will cover only employers with 25 or more employees. and even that coverage will be delayed until july 1. 1968. existing law will cover only 259.000 employers. only 8 percent of the total. and 29 million employees. only 40 percent of the total. extending coverage to all employers with eight or more employees would expand the coverage of the law to 700.000 employers employinz 40 million employees. or 21 percent of the nations employers and 54 percent of its employees. the present bill will also extend coverage to employees of state and local governmental units. s. 1308 neglects entirely the highly important area of coverage of state and local government employees. the u.s. commission on civil rights in its 1965 report on law enforcement in the south. made the following recommendation: in order to help assure that justice is administered in a discriminatory manner. employment in lawenforcement agencies should be available to all persons. regardless of race. color. religion. or national origin. title vii of the civil rights act of 1964. providing for equal employment opportunities. does  cover public employment. although discrimination in public employment can be challenged in private lawsuits. administrative and judicial remedies also should be provided. the commission recommends that congress consider amending title vii to extend its coverage to public employment. the bill also goes further than s. 1308 in providing speedier. and more effective relief for violations of the act. or the orders of the commission. the time which may elapse between the filing of a charge and the issuance of a complaint is limited to 30 days. temporary injunctions may be obtained prior to the entry of a final order. the commission is given power to issue final cease and desist orders which may require the establishment of onthejob training programs. and to award damages. a civil penalty of $5.000 may be levied upon persons who violate commission orders.
 of the association. robert sweet.  deputy mayor of the city of new york. jack greenberg. head of the naacp legal defense fund. and g. wallace bates. aaron benenson. robert l. carter. john r. fernbach. murray gordon. daniel gutman. robert h. jaer. j. robert lunney. barbara scott preiskel. hon. scovel richardson. alan u. schwartz. and asa d. sokolow. all distinguished members of the new york bar. briefly. this bill would allow removal of certain cases from state to federal court where it is alleged that state prosecutions had been instituted to curb the exercise of rights guaranteed by the civil rights act of 1964. or by the constitution. this is a limited approach and would  authorize wholesale removal simply on the accusation that racial bias was a factor in the prosecution. but it would allow a fair hearing in a federal court where such a hearing might  be available in state courts. last year. the supreme court. in two cases from the fifth circuit. greatly restricted the removal power. and held that the 1866 statute allowed removal only in cases where the state statute in question was patently unconstitutional. justice stewart. writing for the majority however. specifically stated that a broadening of the removal power would be within the purview of congress. i hope our bill will receive the early attention of the subcommittee on improvements in judicial machinery. in connection with their consideration of jury reform legislation which both senator kennedy and i have cosponsored.
. franz paul stangl. identified as the nazi commandant of the infamous treblinka and sobibor death camps in poland. is  under arrest in brazil. he was taken into custody at the request of the austrian government. which asked for his extra4tion in order to place him on trial as a wai- criminal. subsequently. the polish and west german governments also requested that stangl be extradited to their countries to stand trial. stangl is charged as having first supervised the building of the treblinka and sobibor camps. where hundreds of thousands of jews and others were put to death. and then became commandant. and as beingkn and dreaded as a "specialist" in findhifg and persecuting jews in hiding. according to the public prosecutor of poland. stangl was described by one of his nazi superiors as "the best of the camp commandants." the polish government also has a document. allegedly signed bystangl. dealing with the shipment of 52 boxcars of clothing collected from persons killed at the treblinka camps. the supreme court of brazil is  considering the requests for extradition. which were .accompanied by literally thousands of pages of documents concerning stangls charged complicity in some of the most dastardly crimes in history. austria. west. germany. -and poland have all agreed to abide by brazilian law. which forbid -capital punishment or prison sentences of more than 30 years. the government of the netherlands. 80.000 of whose jewish citizens were murdered in the camps. and the government of israel have urged the brazilian government to accede to the extradition applications. it is essential that franz paul stangl be extradited and tried so that justice may be done in his case. according to the charges. he is one of- the many nazi officials and functionaries who still have  been brought to account for deeds which are almost beyond human comprehension. the brazilian government should grant one of the extradition requests. justice demands it. it is the least that can be done in memory of the millions of inent men. women. and children who were ruthlessly destroyed by nazi geide- during the years when they* held europe in their bloody grip.
. in the summer of 1964. when civil rights litigation in the south accelerated at a rapid pace. it became apparent that local lawyers were unableand in some cases. unwillingto handle the volume of work. a group of civil rights and civil liberties organizations. including the legal defense fund of naacp. core. the aclu. the american jewish committee. and the national council of churches. then organized the lawyers constitutional defense committee. this group of lawyers provided legal services for those trying to exercise their constitutional rightsservices which would  have been available without these volunteers. lcdc has  sent about 250 lawyers to the deep southmany at their own expenseand is  concentrating efforts in jackson. miss.. new orleans. la.. and birmingham. ala. these efforts have been met with obstruction from many sides. the most damaging of which is a challenge to their right to practice in state courts. it is a matter which congress should exploretogether with other court reforms proposed in the administrations civil rights billsince without these volunteer lawyers. many persons in the south would be without the right to effective counsel. a perceptive article written by george b. driesen. a washington lawyer. who was himself a volunteer in louisiana. was published recently in the reporter. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
i intend to join the senator from tennessee and the senator from massachusetts in respect of this amendment. for this reason: justice delayed is justice denied. and that is the situation we face here. i believe that the additional element of negating so much that the courts have done. if we pass this bill and seek a new confrontation with the supreme court. which in my judgment can possibly go along with the 35 percent variation. represents the case for supporting the proposed amendment.
. i think the senate has the picture clearly in mind by . i should like to bring my part of the debate to a close. incidentally. i have never used the argument that when an amendment is turned down it means that something is fixed in the resolution. there could be 44 resolutions with 44 variations of the word "censure" that would be in order to the whole resolution. the way we are locking in language procedurally. matter what we do with sections (a) and (b). we will have censure. i do  accept the argument of the senator from texas or the senator from florida that because the senate rejected the tower amendment. that means that this is our optimum definition. and that that is what we are going to have to take with sections (a) and (b). once we tie our hands in this procedural way. i think i have spoken more than egh timesas have other senatorsto demonstrate that we are locked in if we follow this procedure. definitely. the only way in which we can get ourselves off this dime. to allow senators to vote their consciences on sections (a) and (b). is to get unanimous consent. we may  get it. i should like to point out that if any senator has it in mind to objectbecause i am going to ask unanimous consentthe senate will be tying its hands. and we shall be unable to make. as it were. the punishment fit the crimea very elementary proposition. i think we shall be making a great mistake to do so. court would do thatand there has been much talk that the senate is sitting as a court. we would  find a judge who would lock his hands in by a motion of this sort. the only way we can get ourselves out of thisand we have great facility. when we want to. for getting ourselves out of embarrassing situationsis. if unanimous consent can be obtained. that the final resolving clause be opened to amendment following the vote on (a) and (b). that kind of unanimous consent would enable us to work our will. whatever that will may be.
. before the third reading. i should like to ask a couple of questions of the senator from alabama. if there are other amendments. senators will e that section 907. which appears at page 59 and is popularly kn as the hobson amendment. deals with a denial of payments. assistance. or services with respect to any individual convicted. and so forth. in a federal court of inciting. promoting. or carrying on a riot. first. i should like to ask whether it is understood that the proposed amendment. if agreed to. will be effective only after the effective date of this actto wit. the appropriation act.
. i call the attention of the senate to the fascinating cover story in time magazine today. dealing with the situation of the cities as they are affected by riots in the ghettos. and the position of the 97 percent of the population of those areas who are lawabiding. and working hard. fighting to get the processes of their country to work to do justice for them. the article particularly features the work of the most constructive and statesmanlike organization of whitney young. who is the head of the urban league. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the article entitled "races: the other 97 percent." published in time magazine for august 11.
. along the same line. i call the attention of the senate to an editorial dealing with problems in east harlem. n.y.. one of the very important areas in respect of the struggle which is being waged in what i call the agonies of the cities. printed in el diariola prensa. which is read by thousands of puerto ricans and people of similar ethnic origin in new york. dealing with the cooperation and the perfectly extraordinary performance by the new york city police in that area. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the editorial entitled "the police are on our side." signed by 0. roy chalk. publisher. and published in el diariola prensa for july 26. 1967.
i iced with great interest that the senator referred to frank hogan. the district attorney of my county. and to gover rockefeller of my state. in aid of the bill. as the senator ks. i was attorney general of new york in the years of 1955 and 1956. as attorney general. i had the power the district attorney has to institute proceedings which could result in electronic surveillance. as it is. euphemistically called. i would say to the senator that it is by means an openandshut case. the senator ks i am very proud of my record on civil rights and civil liberties. i think it would be most unfair to the senator and his colleagues to proceed on the theory that it is unthinkable for us to engage in crime detection with some form of electronic surveillance. so i will say to the senator that i will study his bill very carefully and do my utmost to see if there is some way my own experience can be helpful to him. if i think his bill is worthy. i may well ask to have my name added to it.
. that begins when the last gun has ceased firing in vietnamand  until then. until then. my feeling about eastwest trade is exactly the feeling my grandfather had about speculators during the civil war. they bought cotton from our friends in the confederate states. while both sides were shooting each other down. and then sent down supplies and money to aid those who at that time they regarded as our enemy. i hope i may be forgiven for this illustration. as the bitterness and sting of those days have long since gone. when we got off the track was when we sent our men into vietnam. until we get them out. so far as i am concerned. i am prepared to oppose any traffic with the enemywith those supplying the weapons killing our boys. yesterday. the decision was clearcut. taxpayers dollars in the exportimport bank would  be used to aid the enemy. it was better than a twotoone vote. i have every confidence that the conferees. should the time come for a conference with the house of representatives. will bear in mind that this was  an amendment to be taken to conference. it was an amendment with a record vote of better than twotoone in favor. and the amendment means. to most of us. the life or death of the bill. i do  say this as a threat. i merely say it in order that we may lay our cards on the table and be fully frank. if there should beand i trust that there will  be. because i think our friends at the other end of the capitol will feel as we feel about this--but should the byrd amendment be weakened. i would debate for days before i ever consented to adopt a conference report. i congratulate the senator from south dakota on his leadership in this field. i also congratulate the senate for a day which restores my faith in the senate. and in humanity.
. by recognizingand that is all we would be doing in adopting the cooper amendmentwhat the 97 percent are worried about. we make them feel that the investigation is something which will help them and which is directed toward answering a call. a cry. in their hearts. finally. without repeatingbecause it would be redundantthe splendid arguments made by the senators from kentucky. new jersey. pennsylvania. oregon. and michigan. may i say that though a good many cities have erupted. the estimate is very much larger than anything that has happened. there are a hundred cities in this country with negro ghettos. just yesterday. in the testimony before the committee on appropriations. which i heard. the community relations service estimated that in this category of tension cities which they should reach there were well over 80. if memory serves me correctly. the figure was 84 or 87. there. again. is an indication of the fact that. withstanding our troubles. the overwhelming bulk of the american people respect the processes of law. respect order. k that rioting and violence hurt the ghetto dwellers worse than anybody else. and that it takes the most extreme kind of frustration and feeling of injustice to even create a climate in which the riots are possible within the ghetto areas. in deference to this tremendous constituency. which wants the processes of law and order to work. we should at least show them a recognition of what we k to be the full problem.  just the superficial manifestations of policing or the ability of the national guard and matters of that kind. further. i point out that the resolution itself. aside from senator coopers amendment. speaks of longstanding causes and longrange prevention. and the preservation of law and order. so we are saying it. anyhow. we might as well get the benefit of saying it in words which are intelligible to the overwhelming majority of the population in the ghettos. we are going to do it. anyhow. we might as well get the benefit of saying in advance what we are going to do. for all those reasons. i shall support the cooper amendment. and i am proud to be a cosponsor.
. i conclude by saying i joined in what the committee did. i think the committee is right. i think we are all on the same basis and posture. we want to exploit this great america to the maximum for what it is worth to our air force. as long as it seems to be doing better. we want to redeem everything we can for our navy. but we do  want to be foolhardy about it. i still feel as i did when the investigation was over. people may have been very unwise and discretion may  have been what any of us would have done. but i deeply believe that the committee rightly investigated this matter down to hard pan. and that there is basis for a finding of bad faith or banality or active culpability. i could  agree with the senator more than to dence what he considers improvidence. arrogance. or other sins. but i am convinced that in hindsight. as i was then. whatever may have been those faults. faults of immorality. in the usual sense. were  present. this is such a serious matter of great debate in the country that we should be grateful. and i am. for the great contributions of our distinguished chairman.
i wonder whether the senator from michigan would agree with me that after all this criticism of the court. when we get up against the wall here. and actually face a decision on such matters as legislation to overturn the decision on confessions. or to overturn the requirement for the presence of a lawyer before an accused person can be put through any questioning. or to permit delays in the opportunity to communicate with a lawyer or relatives. and matters of that character. whether when the senate actually faces a vote to really overturn a decision of the court by legislation. we would  have some second thoughts about the matter. and i wonder whether the senator from michigan would agree with me that that certainly indicates our respect for the institution. and the fact that we do  fear its decisions as much as many of us pretend we do.
. i shall take only a minute. because i think the manager of the bill understands the purpose of the amendment very well. in examining the bill very closely. we find a contradiction in the terms of the bill which it is evident was  intended. it will be ed that both sections which i intend to amend. subsection (b) (1) and (2). on page 5. make it unlawful for a political committee or candidate to sell goods. commodities. advertising. or other articles. or any services to aher other than a political committee or candidate. when we look at a later sectionthe one i refer to in my amendment is section 204(b) (2). which is found on page 15an accounting is required for tickets for dinners. luncheons. rallies. and similar fundraising events. we must k what we are doing. we are either going to or we are  going to allow political testimonial dinners to be held and require them to be reported as campaign contributionswhich i have always done. and i agree it should be done. i have one underway . that is the generally accepted moralityor we should rule them out. we can have provisions in the law which are inconsistent. i believe a testimonial dinner is a perfectly proper way to obtain campaign contributions. provided they are treated as contributions to a candidatethat is. to report the name of each one who buys a ticket. and  just report the generic amount. the purpose of this amount is to allow such events to take place. but to require them to be reported as campaign contributions. as provided in section 204(b) (2) of this bill. the reason for using the designation "campaign funds disclosure act of 1967." which is this bill. is that the section i am amending is a part of the criminal code. whereas the campaign funds disclosure act will be a separate act.
. i just heard the senator from connecticut explain his bill to establish within the department of justice a division for the investigation of missing persons. the bill seems most appropriate and timely. i ask unanimous consent that my name may be listed as a cosponsor.
. i would  even give up on the american bar association. close votes have turned the other way on previous occasions in this and in other bodies. including the american bar association. i still hope that the lawyers of the country will recognize the justice of this case. and i hope that interested lawyers will take heart and support the position taken by the senator from wisconsin and renew the fight in the american bar association.
i thank my colleague. that is important to business people. as it  stands. the bill is limited to protecting people between the ages of 40 and 65. the senator from colorado. in his individual views. has raised the possibility that the bill might  forbid discrimination between two persons each of whom would be between the ages of 40 and 65. as i understand it. that is  the intent of the legislation. i do  think any such reading is justified by the terms of the bill. i think we should nail this down. section 4 of the bill specifically prohibits discrimination against any "individual" because of his age. it does  say that the discrimination must be in favor of someone younger than age 40. in other words. if two individuals ages 52 and 42 apply for the same job. and the employer selected the man aged 42 solelyand i emphasize that word "solely"-because he is younger than the man 52. then he will have violated the act. the whole test is somewhat like the test in an accident casedid the person use reasonable care. a jury will answer yes or  the question here is: was the individual discriminated against solely because of his age. the alleged discrimination must be proved and the burden of proof is upon the one who would assert that that was actually the case. would the senator from texas be kind egh to advise the senate whether he agrees with that interpretation of the bill.
. one of the arguments with respect to organized crime is whether it is  infinitely more prudent to have the state and other respectable authority deal with lotteries. horse racing. and so forth. rather than to leave this field to the criminal elements. and especially the large organized criminal elements. i repeat that prohibition was the best example of that. in respect to the statement of the senator from new hampshire i understand his position. i am glad that he was able to get the amendments in the bill which he did. however. as we stand in this chamber. the recommittal of a bill represents the fact that the senate decides against the bill. the committee is at liberty to bring back a bill. but it is unlikely to do so.
i take it that the two senators who are joining in what i think is a very essential and very desirable effort feel. like myself. that our country. by dint of tremendous power and ability. can do both. we are  afraid of shooting the saturn rocket. but we are also very concerned about shooting off a dud. which we are doing right  in the antipoverty program. i must express my gratitude to the senator from michigan and the senator from pennsylvania. senator clark and i have joined hands in all these antipoverty efforts. this is aher stage in it. i can begin to tell the senator the gratitude i have in being joined by two such stalwart sponsors of that program.
the committee has  extensively discussed this title in relation to the bill. and i think it is a matter of considerable importance as it represents basic constitutional rights. . on the main point which i wish to discuss. title iii of the bill puts. in effect. a rather unique question of how to deal with a problem which has been widely complained about by millions of parents. that concerns the mailing to them or to their children or to their homes of material which is. to use the words of the committee and the words of the bill. "erotically arousing or sexually provocative." this is a rather new catechism and it differs from the language of the court decisions and existing statutes on the subject which bar only obscene material from the mail. the scheme of the bill is that the citizen ifies the post office to order the sender to discontinue the sending of such material to him. the post office department then ifies the sender to take -that person off the mailing list. if the sender does  do so. then the post office department may move in court for a cease and desist order against that sender to compel him to do so. the difficulty is that the bill requires finding on the part of either the postmaster general or the court that the material is actually "erotically arousing or sexually provocative." all that is needed is for the sender to say so. and that is the end of that.
we may find that it is an overwhelming problem. my other question is this: i ice a certain curtailment of the power of a court to consolidate actions. this would require separate actions to be maintained for each loan or grant. even if consolidated. might it  be desirable merely to let the court ruling obtain on that score. that provision of the amendment is at page 5. lines 15 to 17.
let me say to my good colleague from michigan that one of the things that comes out of my own experience. and bears so markedly upon what we are trying to do here. is the fact that it is injustice remembered and unredressed which becomes a great rallying cry for the most extremist elements in a group which has suffered as a group from injustice for so long in this country. the advocates of extremismand i am  talking about superficial black power which is so much controverted anyhow as to what it really meansbut there are various groups who define it differently. let us take an extremist group preaching. "go get a gun. use talking to white people or the government. go get a gun." we have never heard a speech like that. we have never seen a performance of that character without invoking the catalog of murders and the bestiality which i have described. and which the senator from michigan has also referred to so eloquently and so feelingly in respect to this matter. these are the shades which are invoked always with the peroration that it  only can happen but will happen again. because what we are talking about. there is still determination in given states where these things have occurred to mete out justice where there is a negro killed. or a negro intimidated. or a negros house bombed. or a civil rights worker. with the classic expression that he would  have gotten hurt if he were  interfering in something "that was  his business." because he did  live in mississippi. alabama. and was a "foreigner" from new york. michigan. ohio. illis. or pennsylvania. or some other state which is really endemic to this thing. thus. we can have the millennium. there are ideal remedies. but at least we will have made a contribution to the fact that there is a growing realization on the part of the miity of over 20 million persons in the united states. that in the courts of the united states there is available arraignment. trial. public branding. and opportunities to convict. which negate what the extremists are preaching. that there is law or. if there is a law. it will  be enforced and there is only one chance left and that is to take matters into our own hands.
but. is it  a fact that considering the attitude of the department of justice with respect to these matters. there has been considerable improvement already in the federal jury system. in the selection of juries. and so forth .
the senator is absolutely correct. that is true. i thoroughly agree with the senator. we are dealing here with a substratum and a stratum. the substratum is a new orientation. it is a concept that justice can and will be invoked on a discriminatory basis. that the state will . by its intercession. be able to negate that concept. that the united states will intercede. on the contrary. in order to see that it is asserted. this question deals with the basic effort to show that there is a new attitude and a new situation in the country. upon the structure of the greater acceptance of the fact that justice will be done. we shall build aher structure relating to the practical measures which we are talking about. of jobs. education. housing. and so onlaw enforcementand all those things that go with it. and upon efforts needed to go further. at the same time. right . in this bill. we are dealing with the basic structure and the fact that 14 years have gone by since 1954. that we have passed other civil rights bills. and the fact that to many militants among the negroes this seems kind of "old hat" so to speak. that we should be doing something more radical or more violent ourselves. but that does  negate the fact that this still has to be done. the fact is. it has  been done. the fact is. its absence does result in abuses and injustice. so that this will make a contribution to the great body of the peoplethe great. major partwhich is  shouting and screaming on the hustings every day but which feels these injustices very deeply. which has had bitter experience and which bears the scars of the kind of violence and intimidation we are talking about here. including the scars which the parents of the older generations still feel. therefore. that it will be meaningful to them that this will  happen again.
. january 22 marked the 50th anniversary of the ukrainian declaration of independencean anniversary of great importance for american citizens of ukrainian descent. they are a loyal group who have been doing everything they can to protest soviet oppression and to regain the independence and freedom of the ukraine. which was enjoyed but a short time despite all the sacrifices made by the ukrainian people. in spite of the years of communist oppression. the people of the ukraine have kept alive their hopes for freedom and eventual independence. all americans must deplore the enslavement of these once free people. the right of selfdetermination is a principle of international justice and the united states has emphasized over and again that it will never become reconciled to permanent communist domination of the peoples of the east european countries against their will. as we commemorate the anniversary of the ukrainian independence we must reaffirm the hopes of the people of the ukraine for the return of selfdetermination and their zeal for independence. we must use all the resources of diplomacy. morality. and world public opinion in a continued effort to free these captive peoples to express themselves.
the other point i wish to make here is that what we are going to deal with represents the moral position of the nation. precisely because there is fear that there may be disorders in the cities. as there were in 1967. and precisely because it is the determination of all members of congress to uphold the law and to inexorably suppress insurrection. civil disobedience. and public disorder. precisely for that reason. we must be in a moral position to be able to say to the country. "we have done everything we can as legislators to begin to afford opportunity where it has been denied so long." that is the attitude we must bear in mind. in my judgment. this is as much an antiriot bill as any suppressive measure or any measure to fortify the armed forces or the police could be. this represents the moral basis of the country. we are trying to do justice. if we deny it. we have complaint if people feel government processes are impotent and that they can work even if a decided majority wants them to work. so there is other recourse but extralegal means. i hope members of the senate will think of it in that manner in view of the very portentous issue before the country
just a moment. the senator can get his own time momentarily. and i will be glad to respond. that is one point. so there is a presumption latched right into this. exactly as these gentlemen were talking about. and one of the things that is omitted by the request of the senator from south carolina is  just what my colleague. the senator from kentucky referred to. lines 11 through 14 of page 3 read: unless such defendant explains his travel in. or use of such facility of. interstate or foreign commerce to the satisfaction of the jury (or of the court when tried without jury). that. is  all that would be taken out of this amendment. the senator also wants to take out the wording on lines 10 and 11 of page 3. reading. "with intent to commit one or more of the overt acts described in such subparagraph." he wants to remove the intent and leave in a presumption and have the senate hastily agree to something because it has the label "antiriot
mx. president if i need it. i have rarely seen anybody try to argue that the words prima facie did  create a presumption. that is what they are there for. why write them into law if we have  got a presumption. if we leave those words in. the court can establish intent. i beg the senate to consider that this document can be amended. it will be latched into the bill. it will stay there. there is way to get it out. i urge the senate to reject the pending amendment. i repeat what i have said before. i think that i sense the feeling in the senate chamber. i will do my utmost. along with the senator from michigan . to get the best measure possible. if the senate does  like what we present. it can table or reject it. just as we ought to reject the pending measure. however. we ought to be much more -thoughtful and considerate before we make this drastic change in the law. we have time to act. and i pledge myself to do everything that i possibly can to bring to the senate an effective measure.
. under the limitation of time under which we suffer. especially those of us who must deal with many amendments. i deeply pray that the senate will give me its attention. let the senatei hopefollow what this is: what it does would be to change the base completely of what we did on yesterday with the thurmondlausche amendment which took us into a totally different concept of trying to deal with the riot situation. the thurmondlausche amendment dealt with people who came from state a into state b to cause a riot. here. we are dealing with people who are  coming into state b to cause a riot. they are in state b . and they are causing a riot. i am  going to argue about whether it is a little riot. with two or three fellows in a bar breaking a window. however. that is in the definition of the amendment as constituting a riot.  we are really drawing in a national police force because under the thurmondlausche amendment at least we could argue-
because there is a demonstrable connection between that and the public order and tranquility which relates to the enforcement of the 14th amendment. there is a demonstrable difficulty there. whereas. so far as we k. there has been difficulty with state police forces suppressing riots within their state. or calling up the national guard. or federal troops. there is call for that.
. again may i plead for the attention of the senate. because this is  a simple problem. first. let me say i had the greatest sympathy with senator cooper when i read his amendment. on investigation it appears. however. that it will  accomplish the purposes of this law. if we pass it. or meet the situation factually in the field. if you prevent a from doing something that he has a right to do. that is a crime. but in this particular field if you intimidate or use force on b. that also can. though it would  be operative in law. discourage or change the disposition of a to assert his rights. that is exactly what has happened. suppose the ku klux klan beats aher negro. or kills aher negro. in order to intimidate the whole group. that way preventing the whole group. the whole group could still vote. but etheless they are effectively inhibited. we tried to find a satisfactory word. i think "discourage" is a word. as senator cooper says. that in a criminal statute is a little too ephemeral. i found aher word in "blacks law dictionary." the word is "deter." to deter is: to discourage or stop by fear. to stop or prevent from acting or proceeding by danger. difficulty. or other consideration which disheartens or countervails the motive for the act. citing a georgia case. incidentally. very interesting. it is a southern case. it is the case. if anybody wants it. of haynesworth v. hall construction co.. 44 georgia appeals. that is precisely the word we are trying to reach. i would be delighted if senator cooper could see his way clear to conform with what is our problem.
. the senator. himself. has stated the most fatal argument against his own amendment. and that is that the u.s. district court would have to find that a local district attorney had failed to carry forward such proceedings in good faith and with due diligence and reasonable promptness. for all practical purposes. with all the interference of states rights we are talking about. that would enable the u.s. district court to impeach the local district attorney. that is the fatal defect. in my judgment. a second defect is that the amendment does  say anything about what happens with the proceeding. suppose it is prosecuted with reasonable promptness but with skill or in a prejudiced atmosphereand this is the very thing which this bill is trying to reachand the proceeding thereupon fails because of the social order in a given community. we are trying to attain contemporaneous jurisdiction. but of a serious kind. so that the attorney general. himself. must certify. incidentally. this was the subject of a discussion with senator dirksen. and agreed upon with him. because he had some questions. so we changed it to require a certification by the attorney general or the deputy attorney general. personally. and one else. on the ground that this was really a case requiring. in the public interest. prosecution by the united statesa pretty highlevel certification. and one given too easily. senator dirksen was satisfied with that. because it preserved what needed to be preserved in the proposed legislation without running afoul of these other propositionsto wit. impeaching the district attorney. which i believe is very much worse. or dealing with a question where state proceedings just go forward to acquittal and the united states is foreclosed out. that is the situation which this bill is trying to reach. for those reasons. on behalf of senator hart and myself. we feel that we must oppose the amendment and ask the senate to reject it.
my point was as the senator stated with respect to this added power. the senator favored this plan. and i pay my tribute to him. i k it was hard for him to do so. the reason we feel it is essential is because experience has shown you have to be prepared to move in asserting rights. that does  mean you get them. but you must assert them. witnesses pass away and people can be found at the needed time. with respect to the problem of comity. that is the problem of the federal court. think of the kind of dilemma that would be created if the district attorney thought you were assailing him. he would have you in court in 4 months. this is an essential rock on which we would founder if we do  determine where we stand. if the senator does  like "certification" perhaps he could suggest a better word. we tried to work this out with the senator. the senator suggested he favors the miller amendment and he is faced with the same problem. and we face the same thing.
 i think the situation on this amendment is precisely the same as the situation on the previous amendment. our colleague is just dissatisfied with the position of the u.s. supreme court on confessions. a subject with which we have been struggling here in the district of columbia and all over the country. as the senator from michigan said on the previous amendment. this is a problem which has to be analyzed and deliberately put before the senate as a proposition to make law which will in essence reverse the supreme court decision. we certainly can do it. we have the power to do it. it seems to me. as it did to the senator from michigan . most imprudent to do it here under the circumstances of this bill. for that reason. the managers of the bill urge the senate to reject the amendment.
. for a man of consequence and a man of conviction. are the words "i am persuaded." everett dirksen was big egh to utter those words and act them out. without him. there would be civil rights act of 1968. i am confident there will be. and i think if we manage to survive with relative security this long hot summer. this evidence of the concern and of the demand of congress to do justice will have been a major factor in it. and will be a landmark in american history. just as he was one of the great architects of the civil rights act of 1964. he must be recorded in american history as a major architect of the civil rights act of 1968. i rise to pay him this very well deserved tribute. he is at the stage of life and service in the senate when these are the only goods that count.
. why do i propose this matter . it is a fact. and it is only fair to say. that there are two deeply conflicting philosophies which obtain here. one philosophy is traditional american pride in the fact that a man should be entitled to own a weapon if he wants one without any encumbrances or difficulties. it is imbedded. as we k. in our traditions. and in the constitution. the other philosophy is the necessity. due to the burgeoning crime rate. which must sandbag us all because it is so serious. and the deep concern all over the country over what is going on. it has its aspects in the riots and the violence. there is also tremendous concern on the part of the police who are faced with a riot in a city which may be based upon a racial problem. or a college problem. or some other problem. the first thing the police want to k is. "are there any snipers." once that has been ascertained. then a different order of magnitude prevails as to the character of the disturbance with which the police will have to deal. snipers. as we all k. use rifles and shotguns. it is a long gun operation. so when we couple that with the fact that 30 percent of murders are committed with long guns. we find a situation where there has to be some accommodation between the two philosophies. that is what is really taking place on the senate floor today. the effort i am making to have my amendment adopted is an effort to find an accommodation between these two philosophies. . whatever regulation there was. was really a small ice. it has properly come at this stage of debate because it is true that the kennedy amendment was a much stricter form of regulation than the last amendment of the senator from connecticut . which was rejected by the senate. it is time to do something about long guns. in my judgment. if a senator is inflexibly of the view that every american is entitled to a rifle and should be allowed to go down to the corner drugstore and buy it. or purchase it through the mail. then my amendment will  satisfy him. there is use fooling about that. but. it must be realized that we are living in a different society from the pioneer days of the 18th and 19th centuries. that a rifle is just as lethal today as it was then. that is a fact. i do  think anyone can controvert it. if we take even the most extreme figures. say. of 90 percent murders with handguns. that still leaves 10 percent. we say 30 percent. the figures bear that out. as will the various analyses  on senators desksit would indicate that in states where there are controls. there seems to be less incidence of crime by the use of firearms in a material wayby onethird to onehalf. therefore. i say. i can hope to satisfy men with this amendment who feel that it is an inalienable american right to own a gun and they are  going to touch it so far as the long gun is concerned. but i would point out that the minute we are willing to do something about hand guns. in view of the fact thatand it is a factthat long guns are used in the same way.  so often. but in the same way. as i point out. its particular character in respect to what we are so concerned about to wit. riots and civil disturbances. where long guns seem to be the key as to whether it is or is  a riot or a civil disturbance. is a critical question for the police. from all my information. what has been discussed here. and what has been going on. this is really an effort to compromise. it is  inhibitive. at the same time. it is  politically permissive. an affidavit for a long gun must be certified as to the facts and it can be held against one upon a given occasion. then the law enforcement officials will k in every town who has a rifle. which they do  k today. which is itself a very useful piece of information. as we all k. when the police blockade an area. they will tell us-
the police will tell us everything that is in that area. one of the things they should be able to tell us is how many rifles are in that area. as well as handguns. so that they will k what kind of situation to face in the event of a civil disturbance. it is on that ground. without laboring the issue unduly. that i feel this is a fair middle ground between the two philosophies. a fair middle ground is essential. in view of the urgent problems which face the country.  only present but also prospectively. i hope that inasmuch as such a large number of members of the judiciary committee itself saw the value of this compromise. a majority of senators will see it also. mr. preside:at. i ask for the yeas and nays on my amendment.
to do what the senator from massachusetts wanted done under his amendment. but for my purpose. it is adequate. and that is to flag the criminal. the authorities can do it because they have records. as to the longer investigation for perjury. the authorities are  limited to 7 days.
there was one other consideration in our minds which has  been fully expressed. when a candidate is a gover. generally. he has the protection of his state police organization. when he is  a gover he does  have even that but depends on his private resources and his own organization. so many of us thought that senator robert kennedy. who suffered so tragically. allowed himself to be exposed too much. but this is  tragic history and we are trying to prevent for the future what the tragic history of the past has taught us. however. the candidate who is  a gover will have a form of safeguard which is  only in his interest but also in the national interest. i wish to ask the senator if he would  agree with me. and it should be a part of the legislative history. that we do  look with favor on the "daring do" of declining this protection. and we also fervently hope that every candidate will accept it as being in the national interest if he aspires to be president of the united states.
i should like to mention two aspects of the matter. first. we will argue on our own time. without allowing that to obscure in any way the senators argument. that under our plan. we have worked out a fair compromise. and we will demonstrate that it would accommodate very effectively states plans and. would give the states a very effective role. without blocking the program. the second point is that the senator has given the analogy of the omnibus crime control and safe streets act. we. ourselves. point out that there are different ways of treating this federalstate relation in many actsthat in welfare. in general education. in vocational education. and in crime control. a state role has to be differently designed than it is for antipoverty. housing. urban renewal. model cities. onthejob training. ecoic development. and small business. we have had to adapt this plan to the exigencies of a program which is just getting underway and is just gathering some kind of history and some kind of experience. so that it may effectively go forward.
. domestic tranquillity is a great issue in our country. the words "law and order" have. unfortunately. become syymous. in the minds of the black community and many miities. with repression and the police presence. we are  going to change the words "law and order." there is a tradition for them. as there was in the open frontier. but we can give the poor the feeling that we will try to do justice at the same time wc apply the principles of law and order. that is what the senator from rhode island is trying to do. i joined him with deep conviction in the committee. and i join him with deep conviction . i can think of any more false ecoy than this kind of reduction in this appropriation. i think by . by offering it himself as a member of the appropriations committee in high standing. he has given us precisely the figure which is needed to do the minimal job. i hope very much. in the interest of the tranquillity of our cities and the tranquillity. of the country the senate will adopt the amendment.
. i sit on the committee of the senator from arkansas. i have  been there as often. naturally. as i would like to be because i have my own time problems . however. i have done my utmost to get something of the flavor of the woodlawn episode to which the senator refers. it involved. in round figures. $1 million. it was an extremely bold experiment to try to see what could be done about a hardcore gang in chicago. let us assume that it failed and that very serious and bad things were uncovered. my people say that the office of ecoic opportunitys own auditors uncovered frauds and sent their reports to the department of justice. however. by that time the senator from arkansas had already gotten into the matter. that is good. that is the kind of race we like to see. we often lament that government agencies are dead on their feet and do  take any chances. in this instance a government agency took a chance. the office of ecoic opportunity was  dishonest. it took a chance in an effort to try to do something that would have been great if it had succeeded. they tried to take over and work with a most difficult group of young mensome of whom even have criminal recordsin an effort to make good citizens of them. the effort was  entirely successful. i do  think we want to inhibit an agency as new as this by penalizing it because it took an honest chance on something which. if it had succeeded. would have been great for america. they are  guarantors or underwriters of the success of the program. they would take chances if they were. with full cognizance of everything that the senator from arkansas has had to say. i still think it is  an argument against the amendment. but an argument for the amendment. the fact that this agency was bold egh to take a chance and try to do what needs to be done shows that they are trying hard to be successful. i ho them for that. it is perhaps true that we must do something to tighten up procedures. however. the fact that a government agency has taken a chance in an effort to accomplish some good should  necessarily be a disastrous blow to that agency.
s tradenegotiating authority this office has a legal basis to continue. ambassador roth has complied with my request. and the department of justice has rendered an official opinion. in that opinion. assistant attorney general frank wozencraft concludes: after reviewing the matters you have brought to our attention. we see reason to disagree with your conclusions that the special representative. his staff. and his office were  given a temporary character by the trade expansion act or the executive orders. and that therefore the authority for their continued existence is   limited as to duration. i agree with this ruling and ask unanimous consent that the letter from the office of the special representative for trade negotiations and the reply from the department of justice be printed in the record.
. when the personal motives of the justice who renders the opinion begin to -be questioned. i a case in point is the obscenity issue which has been raised out of all proportion so as to make it appear that the personal morality of justice fortas was somehow in question. opponents seldom mention. for example. that justice fortas provided the crucial fifth vote affirming the conviction of ralph ginzburg in that landmark case. further. many of the decisions for which he is specifically being -criticized were per curiamwithout written opinionso. in fact. we do  k the grounds on which they were decided. in this connection. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the excellent letter of joseph omeara. dean emeritus of the re dame law school. published in the washington post on september 10.
dean omeara. speaking for himself and four other law school deans. said. in part: the senatorial opposition has focused on the courts reversals of convictions in schackman v. caliornia. decided per curiam on june 12. 1967. and in jacobs v. new york. which was dismissed as moot on the same day. in neither of these cases did the court issue a written opinion explaining its reasoning. and in neither of the cases did . this matter has become the central issue confronting us today. i point out that if mr. justice fortas does  have the votes. he should  be confirmed. but i believe that he has them. the right to vote should  be blocked by the invocation of an archaic rule of the senate. extraconstitutional in its effect. thus doing a grave disservice to the national interest.
. i have  heretofore spoken on this bill. and i should like to make a few observations on it. the gun control controversy is really one of the big city issues before our people. proposed gun control legislation represents a recognition of the fact that america is  70 percent urbanized. it is a recognition that practices respecting firearms which have been traditional in a more rural america must  be made compatible with extensive city and suburban living which provide so many more opporunities for crime and violence in which firearms are important elements. i believe that gun legislation. including registration and licensing under the very practical provisions to be submitted to the senate by amendment. represents the best compromise between our urban and rural interests in respect of gun control. it will give some measure of protection in the cities but will  in any way interfere with or levy any charge upon the enjoyment of the use of firearms by hunters and sportsmen. the bill which we have before us today is a modest one when we consider it in light of the emous need for legislation which has been demonstrated during the 7 years in which the senate juvenile delinquency subcommittee has been conducting its investigation. for 2 of those years. i was a member of the subcommittee. and i am personally familiar with much of the evidence and testimony which has been compiled. i have said time and again in speeches on this floor that strict. comprehensive gun control legislation was needed and i am pleased that the senate has been given a second chance this year to enact iteven though the circumstances which propelled this issue to national attention once again are so tragic. the last time we considered gun legislationas one title of the safe streets and crime control act--an effort was made to prohibit the mailorder sale of all guns on the simple theory that some control was necessary to keep these lethal weapons out of the hands of juveniles. criminals. and the mentally ill. then. we achieved only a partial victory banning handguns from the mails. since that time a massive surge of public opinionaroused by the senseless and violent assassinations of my colleague senator robert f. kennedy. and of dr. martin luther king. jr.-has found voice and made its impact felt in the congress. any senator whose mail on this subject is similar to mineand i received more than 100.000 letters favoring gun registration during the month of june aloneks that the people want this law. legislators should  be deceived by the organized efforts of a special interest group whose real influence has. in the last few months. been heavily discounted. in the last 2 days. many have spoken on the proposed committee amendments which. in my judgment. would severely weaken the bill. i am already recorded against twothe licensed collector and the ammunition amendmentsand today. i shall vote against one other. the committee amendment lowering the federal standards for licensed dealers would create a significant loophole for those wishing to purchase guns outside the scope of this law. removing the requirement that applicants for licenses must operate a business premises and substituting his own statement of intent for a judgment by the secretary of his likelihood of engaging in business will make it possible for thousands to obtain guns intended. by congress. to be available only to bona fide dealers. one hundred thousand licenses are already issued annually and the treasury department estimates that 20 percent of these go to persons.  engaged in the firearms business. who obtain licenses to avoid restrictions imposed on other citizens. this loophole should be closed. if possible.  broadened as the committee amendment would do. on the merits of the bill itself. i favor the strongest possible control of these lethal weapons. i will vote for a ban on mailorder sale of long guns and i will strongly support the addition of gun registration and licensing to the provisions of the committee bill. i have spoken at length on a number of occasions on the merits of this legislation but there is one final point i would like to emphasize today. as the senior senator from new york i have grown increasingly conscious of the charge made by opponents of gun control legislation. that my statewhich has a strong gun control lawhas the highest crime rate in the nation. this is simply factually correct and its implications are grossly misleading. in fact. our law covers only concealable weapons. requiring a license for their possessionexcept in new york city which. beginning 1 month ago. covered long guns also. so the new york law is  as strong as this proposal  before us. second. states surrounding new york do  have as effective gun control laws. which makes new york enforcement most difficult. and finally. in spite of these two handicaps. which a good federal law would cure. new yorks crime rate is  high at all when compared with that of other densely populated jurisdictions. in new york city. for example. 25 percent of all murders in a recent year were committed with guns. in dallas and phoenixwhere there are gun control lawsthe figures were 72 percent and 65.9 percent respectively for the same year. nationally. about 80 percent of all murders are committed with guns. and. of the 10 largest cities in the nation. new york. which has the largest population. and the strictest gun control legislation. has the fifth lowest assault rate. the third lowest murder rate. and the lowest robbery rate. these facts. obtained from the fbis uniform crime statistics report. are compelling. they show that strong legislation has a significant impact on the rate of violent crime. and is the first step which must be taken by those who cry for a return to law and order in this land. votes on this bill may well prove to be a clear indication of the intentions of those who have made this slogan the base of the 1968 election campaign. it is  easy to be for effective gun control legislation even in new york. i just received word that a local gun control lobby in the midhudson valley. located in saugerties. n.y.. has opened a campaign "to beat javits." as they say. because of my stand in favor of effective gun control legislation. they are advertising the fact that they want sportsmen "to help dump javlts." as they say. to cite a little example which may be illuminating to members of the senate. the name of any new senator would have far less power than the name of jacob javits with 12 years seniority. we must center our interest on the political tiger in order to dramatize the effectiveness of an aroused citizenry. and we do have an aroused citizenry in the state of new york. i have recounted the number of letters i have received. i have rancor about this attack. there is hing in the legislation. including the registration and licensing provisions contained in the bill of the senator from maryland . which in any way jeopardizes the interest of or costs any money for a legitimate sportsman who is interested in target shooting or in owning or carrying a gun. a rifle. a shotgun. or even a pistol. the only effort sought to be made in the bill is to come abreast of the dangers in this country at the present time occasioned by the emous sea of weapons in which we swim. the traffic in these weapons is completely unregulated and uncontrolled. it is high time that in this urbanized society there be. in my judgment. at least a minimal amount of registration and licensing provisions and prohibition on interstate shipment. i make an analogy with the automobile license which also involves a lethal weapon. there is. of course. a difference in the cost factor. i shall support in every way the legislation as amended by the pertinent provisions of the measure of the senator from maryland
. unless this filibuster. which seems to be getting going really holds us up to the kind of humiliation which i think we will all experience. works and prevents us from votingwhich is why i say shortlywe should be voting on the qualifications of justice fortas to be chief justice of the united states. some will undoubtedly use this opportunity to cast a vote of censure on the court. with justice fortas acting as scapegoat for its decisions. if the vote will be so interpreted. so be it. but. i will cast my vote in favor of confirmation and in favor of the court which has so courageously and in its highest tradition served as the guardian of our liberties.
. i support the ination of mr. justice fortas to be chief justice. and i shall vote affirmatively on the motion to effect cloture. i wish to point out a very interesting aaly which we should e. those who oppose justice fortas on the ground that strict construction of the constitution has  been the rule for the socalled warren court. and the suspicion that he will continue his influence as a man of the same kind of thinking. do  observe it by being a party to a filibuster in order to prevent his confirmation. for strict construction of the constitution requires only that a majority of the senate vote to confirm him. though some have attempted to suffocate that majority by a filibuster. i believe it will be clear. when we do have the vote that there is a majority ready to confirm him. that is precisely the kind of construction of the constitutionto wit. an extraconstitutional restraint upon the senates actionwhich is condemned in the warren court. and in a far more outrageous way in this instance. because here the precedent has been precisely the other way. even as to theuse of the filibuster. the arguments which have been made primarily against mr. justice fortas have been dealt with here at length. as to the individual cases in which the justice has joined. these cases have been analyzed ad nauseum to demonstrate that if that rule were enforced upon confirmation. sitting justice could ever become chief justice of the united states. i think senators who are parties to a filibuster against mr. fortas confirmation will one day deeply regret the precedent which would be set by a filibuster on a supreme court ination. but be that as it may. this whispered issue is that opposition has arisen because of the inees faith. i have done my utmost as a responsible senator to lay that talk to rest. however. one thing is a fact. it is being used by many antisemitic groups in the country to get a free ride. the dangers are being pointed out. and this happening in this chamber does  help us to deal with this type outrage endorsed by various types of lobbying and telephone campaigns.
. therefore. some point must be made with respect to what is happening here. what the senate does with respect to the confirmation of mr. justice fortas. it will do. i believe he should be confirmed. and i hope that he is confirmed. but. i do protest the use of the filibuster for the purpose of an extraconstitutional requirement that there be twothirds instead of a majority in order to do what the constitution directs. it is for those reasons i hope the senate votes to invoke cloture and bring about the confirmation of mr. justice fortas.
i may say here. too. i am baffled by the language that is used in terms of citizenship. should the crime be of that seriousness. in terms of any other disqualification. the word "conviction" would mally require that the conviction should have been finally sustained. what a court would do under this language. in terms of the interim during which the appeal was pending. which will in mal circumstances  exceed the 9 months which are finally involved. because we are dealing only with the period to the end of fiscal 1969. is something which. it seems to me. leaves the house language completely up in the air. senator has pointed that out more accurately than has the senator from rhode island . i feel certain that i do  k how to cope with it. but. obviously. in a very short time. perhaps. from that point of view. that problem will solve itself.
. i am pleased. once again. to be part of a bipartisan effort to enact civil rights legislation. measures of justice in this field should at all times have the interest of the nation and especially in this time of crises and danger like the present. the measure which we send to the desk today is designed to improve the administration of laws we have enacted in the last 5 years. the first title extends the voting rights act of 1965due to expire next yearfor an additional 5 years. the second title removes an appropriations ceiling which was imposed on the civil rights commission last year. so as to enable them to meet cost increases without reducing the level of their activities. the third title would give the attorney general the right to initiate suits attacking jury discrimination in state courts. the jury selection and service act of 1968 provided comprehensive reform of jury selection in federal courts. but did  authorize direct action by the attorney general in state courts. present law authorizes only his intervention in private suits of this nature. the proposal also prohibits any discrimination on the basis of race. color. religion. sex. national origin. or ecoic status in the selection of jurors in state courts. the final title essentially. is the familiar proposal to grant the equal employment commission ceaseanddesist powers. the primary cosponsors of this bill have supported such a proposal since 1964 when the commission was created. indeed. we believe it is essential to an effective commission. during the 90th congress the labor and public welfare committee. of which i am the ranking republican member. considered more than one version of this proposal. while all were agreed on the cease and desist provisions. there was a difference of opinionamong supporters of the commissionabout other factors such as the right of aggrieved private individuals to sue. and pattern or practice suits. this is essentially a difference of opinion among lawyers over which type of legal actions would provide the most effective remedies in the circumstances. the title as we introduce it today will come to the labor and public welfare committee and will undoubtedly be the subject of hearings there. the administration will have a proposal. civil rights organizations will propose amendments. and i may very well offer a proposal of my own. i join in sponsoring this bill today because i am committed to its essential purpose and anxious to "get the ball rolling" on a ceaseanddesist proposal. i shall. however. feel free to offer amendments or to support other proposals which may be put forward which. in my judgment would strengthen the commissions hand in this vital work.
i think on this occasion it is the senators side. . to complete the point. the administration has come forward with a program which gives. in my judgment. on the record at least. a new start. a new direction. a new basis for going forward with manpower training by balancing out differently than it has before the job training slots. that is what it comes down to. i have been frank about the purport of the substitute itself. it is only to hold the administration to its promise. the fundamental point still remains that each member of the senate shall decide on his own that he does or does  wish to seek to inhibit the administration from out its proposed plan with respect to manpower training. i can hope to win to the substitute those who wish to say to the administration. "do  shut down any job corps training camps." but i am appealing to senators who want to give the administration. on this showing. an opportunity to carry out a program which looks promising with the insurance that. in carrying out that program. it will do justice by those who are in the camps and those who are released from the camps and that it will do overall justice to all job corps trainees. because it will afford more slots. with greater opportunity for individuals to get jobs at the end of the road. i. myself. supported the job corps. i voted for it withstanding hot arguments against it. but i am persuaded  that there is a more useful way to spend money than at $8.000 a head in the job corps. and that more youths can get an opportunity. than if we continued it at the present costbenefit ratio. with the plan of the administration. i think we are presented with a viable alternative. i do  necessarily take their word for it. let us see if they will administer the program differently and fairly. i heard the argument of the distinguished senator from california live boys and girls who are entitled to the very direct help given them. but i do feel that the situation ought  to be obscured by the mal confusions which surround an operation of this character. the fact is that one can get many individual cases. through telegrams. which show that this particular boy or girl. or half a dozen of them. have been badly used. as they feel. representations have been made to us as to precisely how the number will be handled. it looks legitimate and right on its face. the substitute commits the administration to that. that is its purpose. i think it is the best way in which to handle the situation.
 eisenhower in 1953. chief justice warren led the court in declaring once and for all that "separate but equal" treatment of different races is both untenable and unconstitutional. the case. brown against the board of education. has been a primary source of our greatest achievements in equal opportunity in education. places of public accommodation. housing and jobs ever since. and has become as important a statement of moral principle as lincolns emancipation proclamation and the 14th amendment. in criminal procedure. chief justice warren brought the court face to face with long overlooked injustices. and breathed new meaning into the fifth amendment privilege against selfincrimination. as he put it in the landmark miranda case. the privilege has come rightfully to be recognized in part as an individuals substantive right. that right is the hallmark of our democracy. political rights. like social and criminal ones. were restructured and strengthened by the warren court. as archibald cox stated: the warren court. more than any of its predecessors. has been influenced by an intensely conscious sense of judicial responsibility for the open and democratic operation of the political system. in reyds against sims. chief justice warren brought political democracythe oneman onevote principleto every level of government. from congress to the town hall. and laid a strengthened foundation for renewed confidence in representative democracy. it is interesting to e that earl warren said that the major decision made during his 16 years on the court was the oneman. onevote decision. withstanding the fact that the court had also broken historic ground in dealing with segregation and the first 10 amendments to the constitution. he considered the oneman. onevote principle to be the greatest decision of all. i think this is typical of the man because it demonstrates his deep belief in democracy and freedom. i think that the decisions on school desegregation. those dealing with the protection of the rights of accused persons. especially in protecting the right to counsel. also represented historic firsts. as a lawyer. my respect for chief justice warren finds aher touchstone in the 1963 gideon against wainwright decisionwhich the chief justice assigned to justice black for a unanimous courtgranting all defendants the right to counsel in any serious criminal case. that decision. more than any other. i think. in the procedural area. gave new meaning to all other constitutional right---rights which have everyday meaning to our fundamental ions of justice but which can never be enforced or made workable without the assistance of a lawyer at every stage of the judicial process. as justice warren commented many years before gideon: imagine a state in this day and age  giving a fellow a lawyer. and he added later: every lawyer appreciates the fact that man accused of a serious offense is capable of representing himself. doubtless chief justice warren also stirred great and continuing controversy in the aftermath of many of these decisions. but a courageous man. mindful of what is just. moral. and legally right. necessarily places justice before popularity. it has been a great pleasure and a great ho to have had a friend in earl warren throughout my own career in government. although he will longer direct the course of the supreme court. we can have confidence that his wise and thoughful commentary on american life will continue to be a blessing to us all. i believe that chief justice earl warren will rank with john marshall and other great chief justices of the united states and that the verdict of history will confirm this verdict.
. i was  able to be present on the floor when my colleague. senator cooper. made his statement concerning the report of the combat involvement of u.s. forces in laos. which was carried on the front page of the new york times. i wish to make it unmistakably clear that i share the deep concern expressed by senator cooper. i wish to support with all the force at my command his call for a full explanation and investigation of the events behind this gravely portentous report. as a cosponsor of the cooper amendmentwhich seeks specifically to forbid this type of combat involvement of u.s. troops in laos and thailandand as one senator who has repeatedly voiced his concern over the danger of u.s. involvement in vietnamtype wars in laos and thailand. i believe this matt6r requires the closest scrutiny of the senate.
two questions trouble me. one. it is  the judgment of the senator that. by adopting this amendment. we are beginning to erode the gun control act. people like myself. who strongly favored that legislation would be deeply concerned about that. this amendment. in and of itself. may  be a consequential matter. but it begins to erode by peripheral meansthrough an unrelated revenue billthe gun control acta bill. which was  any too strong to begin with
ial commissions and by hearings that you yourselves have participated in that the poor by and large have little confidence in our society. in its structure. in its institution. in lawyers. in the law. in the court system and as a result. when their own rights are  hoed it is  too surprising i think that they riot in the streets... he then goes on to say that the legal services are rendered under very serious pressure. the senator has been a senator and a lawyer for too long to believe for 1 minute that we can run a placid society. it is a difficult situation for this reason. every case involving legal services. even if it involves what is called law reformwhich is a kind of trade term applied to broad reform as contrasted to an individual case for goods sold and deliveredinvolves a case in controversy. it is a case. it may be a precedent making case. it may invalidate a law. but it is a case. it starts with a suing b. even if b happens to be the state. i understand the senators point of view. he does  want to pay the money of the united states to disrupt the united states. we must think about the matter. we thought about it very seriously. the senator from california is a very eloquent and effective advocate of this course. if we try to put it "in haec verba." we run into the difficulty of cutting too much or too little. everything is a case. we do  want to cut legal services where an injustice has been done by the government. i suppose that the senator has had occasion to run into that situation. i think that. in the administration of the legal services program particularly. the thrust might be to discourage the utilization of the legal services program as an instrument of social reform. that is really what the senator has in mind. i think he is right about the fact that we have to look at it on an operational basis. we are doing that. and i think we are satisfied with the result. the senator from wisconsin has expressed himself on the matter. the administration understands the matter and has a very clear concept of the perimeter within which they can operate without restricting individual liberty. one can guarantee 100 percent that there will  be confrontation. that would defeat the program. however. one can use his head in the administration of the program in a very effective way. i thought i would like to add my assurances to those of the distinguished senator from wisconsin and point out that we are sensitive to this matter. that we have looked into it and will continue to do so. we consider it a proper area of legislative oversight to check to see what is going to be done with the governments money in this very sensitive field. we thought about it. we tried to offer some restriction or phrase of statutory language. we run into the fundamental problem that it ceases to be the escape valve that the aba feels very strongly that it is. second. if it is a case in controversy. it might get into court. it is hard to draw a distinction except on a casebycase basis. that substantially is what the senator from wisconsin had in mind. i am the ranking miity member of the committee. and i want to join in explaining this matter to the senate.
let me just finish this thought. withstanding the opposite view expressed in many quarters. there is a long and consistent history of considering the views of supreme court inees and in fact of rejecting inees whose views were  acceptable to the senate
my opinion is that that is correct. but i am speaking of it in terms of quality. i think it has to be a really historic difference. i do  think i could have made this argument 10 years ago or that it would have been legitimate 10 years ago. but here we have an historic turn in the whole outlook of the nation. as depicted by what has happened in the field of segregation since 1954. and we have such a landmark of history that justices of such completely diverse opinions in all these years. in a continuous stream. are acting unanimously in the supreme court on a given question. and yet we have in this instance a consistent persistence in this error by an individual. withstanding this historic change which year by year has become more deeply imbedded in our system and accepted unanimously by the supreme court. etheless. here is an irreconcilable judicial voice constantly reiterating a doctrine of the past. it seems to me that i do  have to vote to make a new center on the supreme court which will seek to reverse history. if the president has the right to appoint whom he pleases. chosing whom he thinks he ought to choose. what does the right of advice and consent of the senate mean. you might just as well send out a credit reporting agency or the fbi and get the evaluation of a highly professional group of the american bar association that this man ks the law and that he has studied the law. and let it go at that. what do they need us for. we are a hundred highpowered men who are supposed to have some brains and judiciousness. we often vote for things and do things which we may  like. such as appropriations for the vietnam war. we do that all the time. but this is  limitless. there is a point. some question of degree is involved. that is an item which has been overlooked in the whole question of confirming the ination of judge haynsworth. i ed that. in the dissenting views. really only the senator from michigan
the senator is correct. the judge was really persisting in a judicial position a personal position. but a judicial positionwhich sought to reverse the supreme court. i could even accommodate that and still vote for a judge. when a question is still in the area of debate and discussion i could. but when it is so deeply rooted in the history of the country then. it seems to me. it becomes an article of faith. that is the impression i got from judge haynsworths opinionhe dissented and the circuit court was sustaining. and he wrote for the court and was reversed. it is an article of faith with him and i. as a senator. have to decide if i want to send a man to the supreme court who has an article of faith to take the court back to the days before 1954 and to reinstate the separate but equal doctrine which obtained from the latter part of the 19th century until 1954. it may be argued that there may have been other judges who had that kind of reservation in all those years. i would have a right to evaluate that if they came before us. just as we make an evaluation in this situation. i do  say i am denuded of any discretion except name. rank. and serial number. which is practically what the proponents of judge haynsworth are telling me. hence. i am trying to use my head on this issue. i have voted for judges of a conservative nature and i am sure i will do so again. but this seems more to me than conservatism and liberalism. there is involved an article of faith which he seems to have .clung to in all these 15 years. on the basis of that. i do  feel i can vote for the confirmation of the ination.
 tylers inee in 1844: finally. on march 13. 1844. tyler sent to the senate the name of reuben h. walworth. then chancellor of the state of new york. the new appointee. though unquestionably of the highest legal ability. was  only personally unpopular but politically disliked by the whigs . . . (warren. the supreme court in united states history. vol. 2. p. 389). in consequence. walworths confirmation was postponed on a rollcall vote. and ultimately withdrawn. as senator ris put it when he successfully opposed confirmation of judge parker in 1930 solely on the ground of judicial philosophy: so we are down to this one thing. when we are passing on a judge. therefore. we  only ought to k whether he is a good lawyer.  only whether he is honestand i admit that this inee possesses both these qualificationsbut we ought to k how he approaches these great questions of human liberty. (the full analysis appears in joseph p. harris. the advice and consent of the senate (1953)). i cite this example.  to compare the present inee with any other. but simply to show that the senate has generally gone beyond mere consideration of a supreme court inees legal ability and qualifications. the whole matter is reviewed in more current context by an extensive article in volume 78 of the yale law journal published this year. i will  recite the additional precedents . but i ask unanimous consent that a brief article published in the new york times on october 19 of this year. written by anthony lewis. a former nieman fellow at harvard law school who for years covered the supreme court for the new york times. be printed at this point in the record.
. i beg senators to think of this very seriously. i think this has been a very much underestimated argument in respect of this whole situation. i am the first to agree that i should  vote against a judge merely because he i. conservative in his views on social questions or on the timing with respect to which people should be required to conform to the constitutional law as found by the supreme court. we may differ. i differed. for example. with judge burger in many decisions in respect of civil liberties and other propositions which he decided as a circuit court judge.
i should like to complete my remarks. that did  mean that i voted against the judge. i voted for him. but i do distinguish the "conservative" or "liberal" cast of a judge. on the one hand. from a judge who persists in errorpersists. after years and years and years. in the view that the old was right and the new is wrong. particularly on this critical civil rights question. i do  feel that within my conscience i can. by my vote. send to the court that judge. with that kind of philosophy. he is sincerei do  denigrate or in any way deprecate the judgebut precisely because his philosophy is sincere. and i believe it is. i have to vote " on his confirmation
i thank the senator from indiana. . i have analyzed the cases where he spoke. which is the only way in which we can analyze cases. i realize that the argument is made there are many per curiam opinions which. for one reason or aher. a judge might decide he will go along with the majority. or. indeed. generally speaking. to make them unanimous where there is dissent. but where he spoke. where the case was  open and shut. in 13 out of 17 cases he made it crystal clear that the basic view he held of the constitution. insofar as it relates to the cases decided in the civil rights field. would be. in my judgment. an influence on the court which will carry great authorityone out of nine. and each individual justice has on that court had such great authority. in so many proceedings. for interim relief. i feel that the duty to confirm. our right and responsibility in respect of confirmation. requires us to k what the supreme court will look like after we put a judge on it. it is because i deeply feel that the supreme court. if judge haynsworth is on it. will have introduced into it an element which runs counter to the current of history on the issue of liberal or conservativei supported judge burger. and i would have supported a conservative. who would  have to decide my way. but to run against the current of history. 10 or 15 years after that current of history has been determined. decides definitely. for me. that i can vote to confirm such a judge for the highest court in the land for a life term. thus. i hope very much that senators will seriously ponder that proposition. those who may be in some doubt as to the conflict of interest. or on other questions
. early this month three more iraqis were executed and other iraqis have been sentenced to death. all for socalled political crimes. it is evident that despite protests from all corners of the civilized world the bloodletting in iraq directed against members of that nations jewish remnantand indeed of other religious faiths continues. midnight arrests. deprivation of personal liberties. torturing of prisoners. and public executions have shocked the conscience of civilized peoples. that the bloodletting has resumed. albeit quietly. impels the conclusion that public outcry must again be raised and strong protests lodged with iraq. earlier assurances that some of the jewish remnant would be allowed to leave have  been seemingly forgotten and those remaining live in a state of constant terror in that unhappy land. iraq seems  to have become a police state. in a letter from a onceprominent iraqi smuggled out of the country. it is poignantly written that "the days of injustice are very. very long." the writer goes on to say "i am afraid that the good days have gone for everyone and what remains is bad dreams." it is difficult to add to these words. a recent letter in the new york times by one of the several thousand americans of iraqi origin describes the fate of those left in iraq who. for some reason--or for reasonhave aroused the displeasure of the authorities. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a letter to the editor of the new york times written by r. r. horesh. of roslyn. long island. n.y.. dated october 15. 1969. and an article entitled "more jewish prisoners reported hanged in iraq." written by alfred friendly. and published in the washington post of ember 24. 1969.
. i send to the desk a bill which implements the administrations message delivered here today on family planning services. i introduce the bill for myself and the senator from colorado . who is the ranking miity member of the subcommittee on health. and the senator from vermont . the bill inauguratesi want very much to see it passeda program of family planning services throughout the united states. but without making it as a condition of the receipt of any welfare or other acceptance or in any coercive way requiring or compelling any person to have the benefit of these services. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
exactly. the executive department of the united states can be sued in court in most cases. and the decisions of the courts are binding. again. it must be remembered that even in that. we can nullify what the courts do if we do  appropriate the money to pay a judgment. so we still have the ultimate residual power as a coordinate branch.
he would . the attorney general has only the authority to advise the agencies of the federal government. but any agency is amenable to suit in the court of claims. many are amenable to suits in the district courts and various other ways. whereas. what we are doing here. i have pointed out. by the ambit of this provision. is to immunize a particular official for any kind of supervisory judgment except our own. if we withdraw it.
i do  want to detain the senator. but i can agree with him. the comptroller general has held time and again that he is  even bound by the court of claims. and we confer that authority in him by the clause the senator did  read. "which the comptroller general of the united states holds to be in contravention of any federal statute." i wish i could agree with the senator. but i can. i point out again. as a critically important item of evidence. that the comptroller general. himself. did  ask for any such authority. all he asked for was a pinpointed resolution about the philadelphia plan.
. let us bear in mind that the whole problem is a very new impression. it just really happened here. and everyone seems to agree that they do  want the comptroller general to be out from under the courts if he is going to function. this is  in the house bill. it will give all concerned an opportunity creatively to examine it to see that the right of judicial review is really preserved. my information isand i represent to the senate that it is solely information. resarch or anything else. because we can do it in the time availablethat  every action of the comptroller general can be reviewed. the parties are  eligible to sue. and there are certain problems. even before the court of claims. and i can represent to the senate what they are. but they do bear upon the fact that the amendment of the senator from west virginia proceeds on the assumption that there is jurisdiction . because he says that the exemption is  limited. he says there is jurisdiction. i do  k what it is. and i doubt that anyone will tell us within the time compass we have. i hope that for the purpose of a creative action here that he will take it to conference and that the senator might consider accepting the concept and principle that what we are after is that the comptroller generals word on this shall be subject to court review. i could be wrong. but i have tried to ask the senator to accept that principle. perhaps in a conference this thing can be articulated in a sensible way.
. in my judgment. there was a majority here yesterday for a measure of this type. some alleviation from the rigors of the strict 121/2 percent rule. unfortunately. those who manage the bill on the floor were bound by what the committee had said.  they have had an opportunity overnight to consider whether there was overriding justice in  sticking strictly to what the committee had said. some of the others did  quite appreciate how urgently the secretary felt that this was essential to his administration of the act. this is the first opportunity we will all have to make the decision strictly on the merits. and i hope very much that the senate will adopt this amendment.
 i believe the federal court can make new plans to deal with and undo a de jure segregated system. in that respect. they may conceivably assign pupils by the use of judicial machinery where a plan is submitted. but the essential gravamen of the matter is that a segregated system is sought to be perpetuated in some plan which has been devised. but the court should deal with it and undo it. in that respect. i think the courts have great latitude. however. when we turn it around the other way. that is. when an effort is made to say that a voluntary free choice is the answer to a segregated system. i say "" and the courts have said ""
i say. aside from the words which senator dominick picked up. which i think make as much of a difference in what we are going to accomplish as the reason for the senators voting against the pending amendment. to wit. the words "without regard to the origin or cause of such segregation"other than that. it includes hing. because we have already covered uniformity of enforcement. i just wanted to be sure the senator from connecticut was aware of that. . if i may also ask the senator aher question. as to aher point of fact. is the senator aware of the fact that in a recent appropriation bill. to wit the laborhew appropriation act of 1969. which we passed early in the year. we requiredi was then a member of the appropriations committee myselfthat an equal number of operatives be assigned th and south. in order to see that the law was enforced. and the secretary of hew has actually reported that he has assigned an equal number of operatives. and has accounted to congress for the number of cases he is investigating. which run into the hundreds in the th. in short. i happen to be acquainted with the finite details and. while i do  want to impose upon the senator. all i am trying to qualify for is that the senator more or less implied that there may be a lack of sympathy with the problems being faced. or some effort to apply a different kind of rule. as a matter of fact. i said a while ago. and i repeat. we are moving. obviously. slowly. but within the path that we take at least let us do it to the full. so far all we have done. really. is to prohibit de jure segregation. other than that. we have  done anything. everybody is afraid. in the south as well as the th. and i am ready to agree with the senator at once that we are apparently decades behind what we ought to be doing as far as our miities are concerned. i agree with that. but i do  want to let that confuse the issue. so that. when we try to lift some of these hands somewhere. we will get into such broad. highlevel applications that it disables us everywhere. i iced that most of the senators speech was taken up with covering problems in the suburbs. et cetera. i agree with the senator. but what has that to do with a provision in an amendment which could nullify hundreds of court proceedings which have a chance to advance our common goals. matter where they strike th or south.
it is 69.3 percent in florida. . . i am  arguing the morality or the justice of this situation. because i think we have explored that thoroughly. but i think it was fair to have an authoritative figure of record as to the size of the problem on how much progress has been made in de jure and de facto states.
. i invite attention to the excellent efforts of the select committee on small business. of which the distinguished senior senator from nevada is the chairman. to attempt to alleviate the serious impact of crime against the small businessman. the select committee. on which i serve as ranking miity member. last december filed with the senate two reports which detail its findings and provide specific recommendations to begin the development of preventive measures to cope with this growing problem  threatening the ecoic stability of many small businesses. one volume of this twopart report deals with the growing incidence of crime at u.s. airports. the wholesale theft and pilferage of goods in air commerce. an outstanding analysis of this problem and the efforts of the committee and its chairman to develop remedial measures to curb it was published in the los angeles times of december 14. 1969. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
.  i come to the argument of "monumental hypocrisy." naturally. this is a very serious charge to make against anyone without "monumental proof." what about the "monumental hypocrisy" charge. could it also be levied against those who have fought enforcement of the constitutional guarantees of equal opportunity every step of the way for the last 16 years in every court and legislative body and  appear as the champions of equal educational opportunity. asking only that it be vigorously enforced everywhere. i might e in that connection that the attorneys general of these three states which have attempted to forestall desegregation of education for years  come before a federal judge in california urging a faster pace of desegregation there. i ask unanimous consent that a report of this proceeding in the new york times of february 14. 1970. be printed in the record.
. further. in connection with the charge of monumental hypocrisy. what about the contemporaneous efforts to gain further delay. on the application of states themselves and  individuals. just at the same moment that better enforcement is sought. what about the monumental hypocrisy of trying to find some way to develop private schools. or to close the public schools. made by govers of states. somehow to avoid the constitutional mandate of equal educational opportunity. what about the unremitting attacks on the supreme court for its equal educational opportunity decisions. mostly unanimous decisions. what about the continuing efforts to evade the constitutional mandate with "freedom of choice." and similar plans. who is charging monumental hypocrisy to whom. we have a right to be saddened by these charges applying to anyone. anywhere. i reject any implication of insincerity to any responsible concerned american on either side of the issue.
. we have a complex problem. for which the senator from mississippi has proposed a solution which is subject to a number of conflicting interpretations. they are: are the guidelines in fact  applied equally. although to different conditions. should there be a distinction between de facto and de jure segregation. would the stennis amendment strengthen enforcement in the th or weaken it in the south. can the congress do anything about de facto segregation without repealing a number of- existing statutes. indeed. can the federal government constitutionally act against racial separation where there is hint of state action. will the stennis amendment. which applies only to the guidelines of the department of health. education. and welfare. have any adverse effect on justice department suits or private suits. finallyand perhaps most crucial of allhas congress been circumscribed by the green decision. which eliminated freedom of choice plans and mandated affirmative action in de jure situations. even if we wanted to return to freedom of choice in the south. can we constitutionally do so. it is obvious that  one of these questions can be answered easily or immediately. and that floor debate will  clarify the situation easily. the problem is critical.  only to ourselves. but to our children and grandchildren.  only in the south but throughout the country. i think the senator from minnesota wmr. mondale) has offered an opportunityin which effort i have joinedto give the problem the study and consideration which it deserves. and that we ought to accept that opportunity.
. first i would like to say that i join the senator from minnesota completely in the statement he made. i tried to make the same statement earlier in the day that there is hing in the stennis amendment which will forward the struggle against de facto segregation unless it repealed the provision in the bill which prohibits the thing he says he wants to accomplish--busing. i do  wish to repeat the arguments made by the senator from minnesota but i do wish to make this point. i am for the scott substitute. it is very meaningful. even on de facto segregation. for this reason. it uses the word "unconstitutional." that is the critical word in the amendment. otherwise it would mean hing. we have right to deal with anything that does  break a law. the stennis amendment and the scott substitute start with reference to the civil rights act of 1964 and the hew guidelines issued under it. this is the first time this has been said in this debate. but it should be said. the supreme court may very well de. cide that de facto segregation is unconstitutional and is reachable by law and. if it is. that standards should be rigorously and uniformly applied under the scott amendment. which covers it. then. heavy prosecutions will be seen in the th. that is fine. i am all for it. it is interesting because those who are for the stennis amendmentexcept the senator from connecticutare ardent advocates of states rights. i had to battle in my state in connection with de facto segregation. the argument to slow down what you can reach because you can reach everywhere is  valid. it is very much like the follow charged with robbery who says. "do  prosecute me but wait until you catch others. then. you can send me to jail." the senator from connecticut raises an important question. why is the country divided on this question. let us unite. how do we unite. do we do it by relaxing the law. what is the reason for this frustration if it is  that our young people feel that our government does  do justice or really bring peace. that we have fallen down. that is why they feel as they do. they feel that we have fallen down in the promise of america. are we going to redeem that promise by slowing up desegregation in a place where we can do something about it. that is  the answer. the answer is to be moral wherever we can and do our utmost to extend the area of morality. i think the scott amendment does something important. the supreme court may extend this doctrine. i hope it does. when it does. the scott amendment will see that it is uniformly applied throughout the united states.
. i am  finished. my time has  run out. if i may say so. in terms of governance. it is my deep conviction that if we go along as we have and at the same time try to increase our efforts. that is more calculated to bring about a government of justice and tranquillity than would be so if we stopped everything and allowed us to receive the full accumulation of the deep grievances of injustice which are so rank in this country.
i do  k that the senator is correct. because he has  cited cases. he said "cases." he cited a case in which the court rejected the idea of dealing with de facto segregation. but he has  cited a case for me-
i did  say that. i said the court starts out by accepting the presumption that where there had been de jure segregation. that de jure segregation continued. but i believe the stennis amendment. without this additional clause.  will require the courts. if they have  done soand in my judgment that was their practice up until to allow that presumption to be rebutted. unless the supreme court has allowed the reach of the constitution. which it has  yet. to go to de facto segregation. it will. because of the stennis amendment. which expressly says so. make the same regulations and laws apply in the th that it has in the south.
as i said to the senatorand this goes to the point ably made by the senator from rhode island -this presumption that the courts have indulged in we must assume hew will also indulge in. it seems to me that you get the full benefit. and you are entitled to it. of the stennis amendment insofar as it seeks to  make a new rule of equality or uniformity. and at the same time avoid an evil in the amendment. in reaching into de jure situations and very heavily complicating the proof in the way that the department of justice can make it. and that is why i felt this amendment was appropriate.
. i am surei say this without any questionthat there are cases in which judges have done things they should  have done in terms of an order or decree relating to the desegregation of schools in a given school district. i am sure of that. just as i am sure that there are cases in which justice has been denied in similar cases. these cases have gone through our courts. to the circuit court of appeals. to the supreme court. and some measure of justice has been done perfect. i am positive. but some measure of justice. as i understand it. the parameter of decrees in the individual cases of segregated school districts with which we are  dealing. let us be very clear. is de jure segregation. we are  dealing here with the thicket we got into in respect of the stennis amendment of racial imbalance or de facto segregation. this is de jure segregation. the question is. first. whether or  we can constitutionally and. second. whether we should control the courts in the decrees they make in given cases. i respectfully submit that if we get into this. i do  k whether it would be constitutional. i can say that. and i will tell the senate why. it is a fact that the jurisdiction of the courts is  contained in the constitution. except for the supreme court of the united states. the jurisdiction of all the other federal courts is conferred by the judiciary act of 1789. it may bei would have to do a great deal of legal research on itthat congress can take away the jurisdiction of a court and thereby effectively deprive that court of the authority of the act. of course. if that deprives an .individual of a remedy in respect of a constitutional right. the courts may hold that it can be done. that it is unconstitutional. that right having vested. but this is a very. very difficult question of law which we can hardly resolve here. it seems to me on the fundamental policy. we are  going to control the decrees of courts implementing the remedies for illegal acts. which is what is sought here. especially in this extremely difficult field of de jurei emphasize that de juresegregation. i should think it would be a most illadvised move.
this amendment which deals with segregation. admittedly unlawful and admittedly contrary to the constitution. seeks to deprive the courts of the ability to make decrees which relate to unlawful and unconstitutional action. it seems to me that it goes beyond any consideration that we could possibly import to adopting an amendment of this character. without understanding that we would be completely dismantling everything that has been done in this country since 1954 in this field. . i repeat. the critical aspect. the critical balance. and the delicacy with which we must legislate in this field. considering the high emotionalism involved. the supreme court has shown great ability to take account of the social situation in the country. it has. on the whole. been very respectful of that. if we begin to legislate in this way. to curtail and deprive the courts of the means with which to effectuate what. as i say. we must assume is unconstitutional and unlawful action. we would really be guilty of the height of folly. i really do  believe that this is an amendment which the senate should consider. i think it would destroy everything that has been done during the past 16 years. so much of which is admitted. even by its bitterest opponents. to have been required because of the injustices which have prevailed for so very long. i therefore hope very much that the amendment will be rejected.
. who is kidding whom about this situation. society does have that authority. the child can take care of itself. the child does  k if he is going to be stultified in his education because he is sent to a black school. we have to decide that. this measure would take away from the court the power to redress a wrong by limiting it and depriving it of the only remedy available. what is the justification. the justification is that some judges have done the unwise or unproper thing. that is what has been argued. e of these cases have gone to the supreme court. many other cases dealing with segregation and desegregation have gone to the supreme court but  here. the senator from th carolina says we must abort the process because a judge in a particular community has done what the senator from th carolina thinks is absolutely wrong. on occasion. and with great care and restraint. we have overruled a supreme court decision. it has never worked out very well. i might point out. here we are being asked to abort the decisions of district courts and circuit courts because there is dissatisfaction in a community with what a district court does. and under the guise of that we are going to make an effort to redress an unconstitutional and unlawful situation which we have been trying to redress since 1954. the charlotte order to which the senator referred was handed down 2 weeks ago. that is legislating in a hurry.
. i think the senate should k what this means. and it should judge whether it wishes to do it. but it should k what it does. from what i have heard. we have  heard yet what it does. we have heard what it does  doto wit. bind the court. what it does do is to prevent a situation where hew is withholding funds to a school district to segregatethat is dejure segregation. we are  talking about racial imbalance or de facto segregation. this is where hew is withholding funds. this amendment would prevent hew from demanding or requiring that there be busing in order to deal with that segregation. that they will have to eliminate it from their instructions. that is the title which the distinguished senator from rhode island handled so well on the floor. it has been charged that. although hew does  mandate it because it can. nevertheless. impliedly it mandates it because it says "this is a district. and we will  give you the money unless you do it." i do  k. yet. whether it will operate that way. but it may prevent the hew from making that kind of requirement. by omitting the word "court" in this amendment. we accept the fact of a de jure situation here. as it refers only to segregation and to some change in busing. i described a number of those situations before. and the hew says that very rarely by additional busing. but often by some change in the system is this accomplished. what this would mean would be that the hew would  be as responsive then to releasing the money as it could be. and it would have to wait until there is a court proceeding and a court decree. hew is involved. they would simply have to wait until a court decree is issued or perhaps hew would act. if  expressly. by implication.
all i can say is that we are  making the legislative record. the senator from th carolina is. but i think the courts could construe this and put a restraint on hew. the result would be adverse rather than favorable to those whom. i think the proponent of the amendment. is seeking to help. it would result in deferring the matter for a longer time until there is a court decree.
. this is a matter of first impression. but certainly it may result in a much longer delay than . it will be necessary to wait if we can correct the conditions in any other way. hews hands are tied. they would have to wait for a court to enter a decree as to busing. that is the way i see it.
. the words "racial balance" obviously imply a negative concept. to change something which is  illegal. there can be racial imbalance which is  illegal. but states may desire to change it. or they may consider it illegal for their states. under the constitution. there is requirement that there be an affirmative racial balance in a school. or in a class. or anything else. but the constitution does say that you may  segregate children because of their color. therefore. if it is necessary to deal with transportation in order to unscramble those eggsand it very often is--then you must deal with it. and then you do change the racial composition by busing or transportation. because you are doing something affirmative in order to implement the prohibition of the federal constitution. the senators who are arguing for this understand very well what they are doing. and i understand it. what they are trying to do is to say that under circumstances. even in the case of segregation. which is in violation of the civil rights act and the constitution. shall hew in any way be a party to endeavoring to bring about busing or any other means of transportation to change that racial composition. even though it is the result of unlawful segregation. i can be for that. they admit that is what they are trying to do. what they have tried to do--and i beg the senate to listen to meis to get the hew to agree with them on what they  interpret the words "racial balance" to beto wit. racial balance means that you can touch a school. if it is all black. it stays all black. if it is all white. it stays all white. the hew has  gone that far. it says: racial balance is a very different concept. that is a positive act in which. for one reason or aher. we want to mix a certain percentage of blacks with a certain percentage of whites or change that percentage. but that does  satisfy our friends. they come in with a new concept. because they want to accomplish aher concept. and i am  going to be a party to it. if i stand alone. that is just too bad. i am  at all confused about what is going on. the idea is to prohibit any other than a court from having anything to do with changing the racial composition. even if it is all black. even if it is unconstitutionally in violation of the law. of any school.
. we freeze it absolutely except as a court may rule. one other thing is. we have  made clear that we did straighten out the matter of the courts in the previous amendment.  we are going pretty fast. i would like the senate to realize that we have longer qualified with the words "executive branch." or the words "department. agency. officer or employee of the united states"  contained in line 20 of section 422. so that we are even including the courts here.
 for a moment. but this amendment to the appropriation bill could. even if a court ordered it. and that is the biggest objection to the whitten amendment. the fact is that we were very careful. even in the upsurge of feeling which existed in this chamber on the stennis and ervin amendments. to recognize the power of the court to enforce its decrees. but here we take that power away. because if money can be used for that purpose. there will be enforcement. even if there is a decree.
i would say that. in my judgment. it cripples the ability to implement a court decree. it does that. and probably more. because it can only do what will come within its purview. that will be the availability of money to implement a court decree. because the use of money otherwise is already provided for in the basic law. which provides it is  to be used for busing to correct racial imbalance. since that is already in the law. there is purpose for this special provision. unless we are really going to invade the power of the courts to deal with de jure segregation. that is the net effect. i am  going to deal with the question of motives. because one of the great virtues of this body is that we give every senator credit for his motives.
i am  so sure about that. because i think we are sovereign in two areas: one is the provision of funds. or limitation on the use of funds and the other is the legislation of the jurisdiction of the courts. that is why the ervin amendment. as presented. was so lethalit sought to deprive the courts of their jurisdiction. our southern friends are astute lawyers. these are areas in which i think we are quite sovereign. and i doubt very much that a court could mandate hew to use the money. i say that with all respect.
. the unions told us this morning. would have availed them hing. because. again. time was running. and the retroactivity would  have been hoed. it might take a year before they could finally get the thing adjudicated in the courts. so the unions felt there was hing they could do. having been put in the allorhing position by the court decision. except order the strike. really. they are all so powerless that the only power that can undo that situation created by fate is the u.s. government. and that is the purpose of this resolution. our chairman. the senator from texas
. which to me. always distinguished the voting rights act. as contrasted with the other civil rights laws which we have passed. was that i felt there was quite general agreement. even by those who strongly opposed other civil rights measures. that certainly the right to vote was a way in which a tremendous number of injustices could be redressed without running afoul of the feeling which many held sincerely. and very sincerely argued in this chamber. that other measures were unconstitutional in their viewthough the court has held them to be constitutionalor were inadvisable in terms of policy. or represented coercion. certainly the general feeling. as i always detected it. was that through the exercise of the power to vote. a whole people. to wit. the black people. could be lifted out of the slough of despond in. which so many found themselves. therefore. i believe that the voting rights act should be an object of special care for congress. i believe the fact that there have been a number of cases. still indicating an effort to interfere with voting rights. as well as the fact that in some few cases--in the case of two states. to be precise. the 50percent statute has  yet been attained. and that in at least three other states of those which would be affected. there have been efforts by the legislatures to pass voting laws objected to by the attorney general under the very protections of this actis proper evidence. especially since this also coincides with the findings of the u.s. civil rights commission with respect to a considerable number of counties22 to be exact--where specific incidents are reported as early as the 1968 report of that commission. of a very serious character. relating to efforts to deny the equal opportunity to votethat the factual case is made for extending the act without changing the triggering device. of course. the senator from michigan
had been overcome. but rather an anticipation that it would take at least that time. with the provision that if it took longer or if longer was required. it was then a question for congress whether the act should be extended and whether a longer time would be given. it is my judgment that a longer time is necessary. and that the builtin protections of the act. including the declaratory judgments provision. will give. as they have up to . ample opportunity. including the various other provisions for court review. so that state and county can claim that it is locked in without any expectation of being relieved of the inhibitions of the statute. until the statute again expires at the end of aher 5year period. for those reasons. . i think this is a key amendment. one of the really critically important amendments with respect to the effort to extend this law in accordance with the scotthart substitute. and really represents the focal point of factual finding as to experience with the act. and i hope very much that the senate will reject the amendment.
that is exactly right. except for this point: we have a history which has gone on. even during the time that the voting rights act has been in effect. of a public climate and a legislative climate which was geared toward denying this right if it could. under those circumstances. i think we are entitledand the supreme court has upheld us in making that kind of lawto take cognizance of that special situation and to try to erect protections against it which are positive rather than negative in their character. indeed. the senators argument would obtain for the whole attitude of the administration. which people like myself oppose. and so do senator hart and senator scottand we hope the majority of the senatein that they are seeking to drown this enforcement proposition in a countrywide approach which eliminates and overlooks the fact that you did have a history of discrimination against the voting rights for blacks which went on for years and years. which is hard to root out. and it is  yet rooted out. i do  expect the senator from alabama to agree with me in that. but it is my duty to make the affirmative point.
it does  convict them. it establishes a presumption. because the courts have sustained us in finding that. as a matter of reality. unless you did establish a presumption which had to be rebutted. it was practically impossible to prove these cases. so much was law in a conspiracy with the social order to perpetuate these discriminations. they are  convicted. it is a presumption. they can get out of it. and there are ample court proceedings for the purpose. but the presumption. i think. is a legitimate one. and the courts have sustained the law.
as i understand the amendment. it proceeds upon the fact that the senate has already acted with respect to a test used in a particular state in relating that test to the size of the voting and. therefore. to the implications which that has in respect of the voting rights act. i understand that the present amendment extends that situation to any change in the law of that particualr state or of the rules or regulations followed by that particular state. is there anything in the change which would take it out from under the provisions of law which enable a state or part of a state to be freed of those restrictions upon the determination of a court as provided by the voting rights act. in other words. if the socalled perfecting amendment were adopted. would the particular state or local area still be able. by a declaratory judgment proceeding in court. to be freed of the inhibitions. whatever they may be. of both sections 4 and 5 of the voting rights act.
. i would like to e for the information of the senate that the senior senator from massachusetts and i were hosts last night at a previewing of the great documentary motion picture about the reverend dr. martin luther king entitled "montgomery to memphis." it is one of the most moving documentaries i have ever seen. it will be shown at 8 p.m. on march 24 in 1.000 theaters in 300 cities throughout the nation. it is hoped that americans by the tens of thousands will turn out to see this extraordinary film. and will each pay $5 for the privilege so that the proceeds can go for the benefit of the southern christian leadership conference and the martin luther king foundation. i hope very much that every member of the senate will go to see this magnificent documentary testifying to the moral power of violence at a time when we certainly need to come to an understanding of what is happening in this possibly most violent time in our nations history. perhaps the most moving portion of the filmand one that has particular meaning in these times of deepening crisis of alienation. polarization. violence. and hatewas that moment of pure poetry and love on the steps of the lincoln memorial on a sunny august day in 1963 when the reverend dr. king told black and white america of his "dream." it is a dreamtragicallystill unrealized. but it is a dream that we as senators and we as americans must never forget. it is a dream that still lives in the memory of martin luther king. it is a dream that we must bring into all our deliberations as senators whether they concern the desegregation of our public schools. the guarantee of the right to vote to all americans. or the confirmation of justices to the supreme court of the united states. therefore. let me quote from that portion of the reverend dr. kings message pertaining to his dreama dream for all americansand i ask unanimous consent that ithis passage be inserted into the record as an extension of my remarks.
i would like to observe as to myself that i had a fairly good idea what i would do about this ination very early in the game. i generally say what i am going to do right away on a matter. if it is appropriate. however. i did  do so in this instance. i read the decisions because i was aware that i had turned down the president once with my vote. i did  want to do it again. however. i have arrived at my decision after careful consideration and thought and after reading the record. and i decided i could  vote for the inee. i hope very much the white house will understand this is  any ideological opinion arrived at because it is carswell. a southern judgerot at all. i would like to be able to vote for a southern judge as a member of the supreme court if i could in conscience. but i can in this case. yet i k there are judges for whom i could vote and i am sorry about the fact that one of those was  inated. i would rather have been for than against.
. i have little doubt if these facts had been kn the confirmation of judge carswell to be u.s. attorney in florida in 1953 would have been very sharply challenged at the time of confirmation in the senate by some senators. i was  a member of the senate then. however. there were plenty of other senators who were very sensitive to this issue. and i can conceive of that ination  having been challenged then and there by some senator if the 1948 speech had been revealed at that time. i think that is just as true also of the 1956 incident. when judge carswell was confirmed as a district judge a few years later and when he was confirmed very recently as a judge of the circuit court of appeals. so. i do  believe there is any sleeping on rights. or laches as we say in the law. on the part of members of the senate raising these issues  as fundamental reasons for inhibiting a negative vote on confirmation. i will  go into the details which are spelled out in the statement elaborately in terms of the explanation given by judge carswell for this golf course deal. they are spelled out in the record that has been debated time and time again by the very senators who participated in the debate and in the questioning. i refer to the senator from massachusetts . the senator from indiana
. this is exactly what senator bibles bill provides. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record copies of recent articles indicating the severity of the problem being faced by the shippers and carriers as a result of this growing problem of crime at the airports.
i do  beg the question at all. if the supreme court in any way extends its doctrine to new york or any other state. then the supreme court. or the local courts. can reach into that state and tell us how to do it better than we are doing it. and i would accept that. as a matter of fact. i would welcome it. but i say that is excuse for staying the hand of the supreme court in areas to which the law does apply and applying it uniformly. that is why i said what i did about the question of presumption. i think that has been the complaint. i think that is one of the big things which remains and which the stennis amendment has brought back.
may i comment on both points. the senator has put his finger on exactly the right spot when he says that i would welcome federal law. i welcome federal law. but the stennis amendment is  federal law. if the stennis amendment were federal law. then this argument could  be made because that would be the law. it may be declared unconstitutional. but it would be the law. but. it is . it is a policy. what the conferees have recognized is that we can extend the policy of government beyond the governments authority. and the governments authority is either law or decision. this was. i think. proper. that is why i think i can say proper. because we have carried out the only thing the stennis amendment could do. it is a statement of policy. it is  federal law. therefore. the policy can go beyond the law. the other part. as to my favoring state action. i favor and approve of state action. i favor it in this instance. in this area. there is federal law. i believe. personally. that the supreme court is going to move into this area. i really believe that. i think that perhaps this amendment. if the senate approves it and the house approves it. may very well be the incentive to do that. but it will be an incentive. it is  a statute. the senator from mississippi was at perfect liberty to bring a body of law to deal with de facto segregation. we could have fought it one way or the other. but it would have been in law. what was brought in in conference and approved. the point is. we can have it both ways. if we have a statement of policy it can go beyond law. if we want to make law. we have to face the hard realism of the right of law. which is enforceable and practical as a law which we must face frontally. the problem of busing faces it frontally. we can avoid that. if we want to write a law on the subject. that is why we have a statement of policy here and  a law. i hope very much that we all understand each other on that score. that this is  a law. that it is a statement of policy. the fundamental beliefmy belief as a confereeand others here who are interestedthey can correct me if i am wrongbut this policy represents a policy within the confines of policyto wit. within the confines of law or decision. but we can have a policy which itself makes the law. that is all we recognized as conferees in writing the compromise we did.
. what is puzzling me is that when chief justice burger said it was confusing. he had  seen this conference report. all he had before him was the stennis amendment and the cases. if we were supremely successfuland we can be. i can assure the senateand if the senate were to recommit. the most we could come back with would be the stennis amendment. if it was confusing then. it would be confusing . what are we accomplishing. the senator from mississippi would try. i am sure. to contribute anything that he could. but even if we were to bring back the stennis amendmentwhich i k we can do and which the senator from mississippi ks we can dowe would still have the same situation that chief justice burger complained about. we say we will do the best we can and let the supreme court begin to lay down guidelines. that is fine with us and. as i have said many times. matter how it affects my state or that region. we will plead for it. we are  trying to get out of this in any way.
we do have a slightly different theory about this and it is an intellectual difference but a very important one. i do  believe the senate can make a statement of policy except within the law. if it is on legislation. i do  see what else we can do. that is cxiv----60--part 8 why i think our compromise lies irretrievably before the senate. so i made the concession which was required. i suspect that the proponents of the stennis amendment. because it is a policy statement. think somehow we can make law. i do  think so. i think the most we can do is follow the law as it is on legislation because of justice burgers promiseand i think it is a great thingto extend the parameters of our situation. when they are extended that would be the policy of hew and the united states but i do  see how in a policy statement like this we can make law. that is really the essence of the difference of view which obtains between us.
the senator said the courts are confused. the president said in his statement that there are many conflicting lower court decisions and that he is going to wait for the supreme court. hing that we say affects that or changes it. we say that whatever the law is  will be applied uniformly. that whatever the law will be so far as the education bill remains the law will be applied uniformly. i do  see anything more we could do with the stennis amendment. it seems to me we brought back an excellent version of that amendment. more precise and exactly in accordance with our powers and specific on the question of uniformity. finally. i submit that a very marked amount of success has been attained by the proponents of the amendment. an amendment which i depreciate and deplore and which i do  think is good for the country. however. i had my duty as a conferee. which was to bring the entire matter back as it passed the senate. i can conceive the other body considering it. what else could the conferees do except run the risk that these balances. with all the time. money. and conditions in the bill dealing with education. a bill of vital interest to every community in the united states. might go down the drain because we have upset the balance. we are seeking the impossible in respect to the stennis amendment. i hope very much the majority of the senate will be so advised and that the motion to recommit will be rejected and the conference report approved.
 in his letter to the senator from ohio and by our miity leader who quite properly desired to make every argument that he thought was pertinent on his side of the case that what should be our responsibility under the constittuion and under the prerogative of the senate was being attacked. i think this is critically important to the future of our country. the fact is that we do have a right. in my judgment. to judge the capacity of judge carswell. at the very least. in my judgment. the defense does  try to tell us anything about the fact that he is a judge of unusual ability. they tell us that he may turn out to be a judge like justice black. however. i do  think we ought to be called upon to do this on the basis of a record supported so very completely by legal scholars and judges. by liberal as well as conservative members of the bar. to me. the most single impressive piece of evidence of this question of competence. quite apart from the other issue which has been raised. is the eloquent and moving statement of bruce bromley. samuel i. rosenman. francis plimpton. and bathuel webster. of the new york barfour of the most eminent lawyers in the countrybacked by 450 distinguished lawyers and the heads of law schools of the united states. they say in their statement: we believe that. in the exercise of that duty. the senate should confirm an appointment to the supreme court only if the inee is of outstanding competence and superior ability. judge carswell does . in our opinion. meet that test. that seems to me to be ample basis for any senator of the united states to vote against confirmation.
it does . as a matter of fact. it goes somewhat shorter than the agreement. let me explain why. i think the senator is absolutely right in wanting to k. i am sorry he was  here. but i often find myself in the same position. if the senator will look at the memorandum of understanding. on page 17 of the committee report. item 3d reads: effective as of the date of ification of ratification of the agreement. 7 per hour applicable to mechanics only. if all the four unions had agreed at the time this matter fell apart. it would have been the middle of december 1969 that such a ice was given to the carriers. that particular provision would then have taken effect the middle of december 1969. the three unions actually ified the carriers that they had ratified it. the fourth obviously did . hence. legally. that could  be effected. so when the matter finally went into court. which was shortly before february 19. 1970. that was the first time within which the issue. as it were. was taken out of the hands of the parties. and they were compelled  to strike. by court order or congressional mandate signed by the president. because when the court order expired. which was a 10day run. we passed a law for 37 days. also. i think it is relevant that february 19. 1970. is the date the three unions which had ratified the agreement offered to enter into it without the sheet metal workers. . in our proposal to the senate. we eliminated that retroactivity and had it take effect. but withstanding the words of the agreement. we had it take effect as of the time the president would sign the resolution  pending before the senate. or some similar resolution. that was seen. when the committee discussed the amendment yesterday. as unfair to a great many of these workers who stood ready. willing. and able to perform their part of the contract. and were prevented from doing so by the one union. that situation obtained from the middle of december to the middle of february. thereafter. everyone was prevented by the courts and congress. and naturally. in discussing the thing. as a matter of equity. though  as a matter of lawbecause as a matter of law they were unable to give the ification of ratification. and they would have been unable to do so until but as a matter of equity. we finally decided to split it down the middle. instead of just saying 50 percent. we tried to pick some logical basis for it. and the logical basis was the date of february 19. which turned out to be roughly 50 percent. i made some preliminary soundings with both unions and management. and though i am unable to represent that they agree. we do  believe we will have any trouble with it. and apparently it is preferable to leaving the matter in as a new item of bargaining. which we would be doing if we did  deal with it in this resolution in some way or arriving at such a drastic solution that we would again have to deal with wildcat strikes. and. even as it affected the sheet metal workers union. as the order of magnitude involved was something like $280.000. we decided to make this rough measure of justice.
 nixonand would again. withstanding the statementi rose to say that i hope. as on other occasions. that this statement. quickly delivered after what was obviously a great disappointment would  be his lasting feeling. because i did  think that was best for him or for the country. one other point: i do  thinkand again i speak for myselfthat there was any condemnation of judge carswell as a man. there were questions of ethics here. a man is the best he has got. and i am sure that judge carswell is giving the best he has and would have given the best he had if put on the u.s. supreme court. i am very glad to see that he will continue to serve on the circuit court of appeals. i hope very much. again. that impression will obtain in any quarter that this had anything to do with his standing or his dimensions as a man or that it was sectional. as i have said. i hope that every one of the 51 senators concerned will express himself personally on this score.
 felt he had to draw a sectional line on this ination. and i hope he will  do so again. there are many fine judges in the south who are qualified to sit on the nations highest court with distinction. as many already have.
. experience has established the value of programs of this kind. a field check of five prison programs operated under section 251. mdta conducted by the manpower and training division of the department of health. education. and welfare reveals the following comparative rates of recidivism for prison inmates with training and for those who did  undergo training: [in percent) recidivism recidivism rate for rate for ininmates with mates without state institution training training georgia 60 minnesota ------------------- 14 63 tennessee-- ----------------- 10 60 florida -------------------- s15 67 texas ----------------------- 12 65 a random check of participating institutions made by the manpower and training division indicates that those individuals who were trained and then returned. returned for less serious offenses such as parole violation. the potential of programs of this kind arises also from the fact that such a large percentage of the prison population is young. according to a study completed in april 1966. approximately 30 percent of all male prisoners are from 15 to 24 years old and almost 20 percent are between 20 and 24 years old. the crucial period when most young men are starting careers -and beginning family life. as i indicated. the program which this amendment would authorize would provide approximately 34.000 opportunities in fiscal year 1971 and an aggregate of 51.000 opportunities in fiscal year 1972. there are currently more than 400.000 individuals in correctional institutions. and an additional 800.000 in the correctional process generally. so that the proposed program may only be regarded as a beginning. however. it is a beginning that should be made. as chief justice warren e. burger ed on february 17. 1970. in remarks before the association of the bar of the city of new york: few prisons today have even a minimal education or vocational training program to condition the prisoner for his return to society as a useful selfsupporting human being. a distressing percentage of prisoners can read or write. the training programs in most state institutions are limited to a few skills. and there is almost effort to correlate training programs with the demand for particular skills. it is help to prisoners to learn to be pants pressers if pants pressers are a glut in the labor market or bricklayers or plurrbers if they will  be admitted into a union. i suggest these two simple illustrations to indicate the desperate need for comprehensive and coordinated planning and research at local and national levels. this requires a monumental effort with the best leadership and brains of labor unions. industry. the department of justice. of labor. and of health. education and welfare. to be successful these programs need local community support which must involve churches. ymcas. chambers of commerce and bar associations." i ask unanimous consent that the text of the amendment be referred and certain materials describing the projects implemented to date under section 251 be printed in the record.
. samuel r. pierce. jr.. is a very distinguished new york lawyer. who formerly served as a justice of the supreme court of new york state. i have kn mr. pierce literally since he went to law school. and have great admiration for him. the state of new york should be congratulated on having produced such a valuable lawyer and i am very much pleased and gratified that he is being confirmed by the senate for this high post in which i feel he will serve the nation magnificently.
 of the united states. who will receive this great grant of confidence. which i am sure the senate will give by an overwhelming vote. and from the foreign relations committee. which has direct charge of these matters in this body. as vigorous a diplomatic effort as we are authorizing in the other field. we have every right to believe that the nations in the seato treaty have interests in this region as great as ours. they may  be able to muster the military power we can. but they certainly can muster some help which will give them a sense of participation. we k they can muster great moral strength. there is a great population in that area. pakistan has a population of more than 100 million. india. though in dire trouble. is still the counterweight to communist china. she has a profound interest in what happens in that area. indonesia. malaysia. and thailand have considerable influence. all those strengths must be mustered. in a physical and moral sense. the same is true of france. great britain. and others. i thoroughly agree with the senator from oregon as to the moral strengthalthough i do  agree with him as to what we have to do in this situationthat must be mustered by the united states. constantly and continuously. to appeal to the conscience of the world. in order to give the world an opportunity to bring about a sense of justice and morality. and an opportunity to act in its own freedom. in fundamental aspect. the prize that the chinese communists are seeking is the possession of the great arsenal of production in asia. including japan. the aim of communist china in respect of japan is parallel to that which the soviet union. in its worst stalinist days. had toward germany. they seek a readymade arsenal in order to develop it quickly-
. the dis.. trict of columbia crime bill.  before the senatehouse conferees. has the le goal of reducing crime in the district of columbia. unfortunately. it uses means which should give all of us grave concern. all too often the problems of the district of columbia have been given little attention by the congress. and often the attention given did more harm than good. the housepassed bill. h.r. 16196. fits into that categoryit raises grave threats to constitutional liberties with little assurance that it will. in fact. reduce crime. certain of the provisions in h.r. 16196 dealing with court reorganization in the district. and expansion of the bail agency and the public defender system are valuable tools in the fight against crime and should be enacted into law. these provisions were in the series of bills that passed the senate last fall. however. many other provisions which were  in the senate bill but are in h.r. 16196 seriously infringe rights which should be guaranteed to all our citizensincluding the citizens of the district of columbia. i find the following provisions the most objectionable:
i think this involves rather strict legal questions. i do  think there is any question about the fundamental feeling that we all have. i. too. have relatively young children. the fundamental thrust of what the senator is trying to accomplish is certainly congenial to us all. including me. this is the first time i have had a chance to read this amendment. and i suppose that is true of many of us. particularly as we have had hearings on it. i wonder why the senator chose to define "sexually oriented advertisements" himself. instead of importing the definition of obscenity in the decisions of the supreme court. in view of the fact that we can get away from that. whatever we say in the statute. the supreme court having declared the issue on grounds of constitutionality. matter what law we pass. the danger is that if one does  use what they have said. essentially. or at least keep pace with their decision. the whole thing can fall. because it will be declared unconstitutional. and then it all goes out the window. i wonder what the senators thinking is on it.
i wonder whether the senator might consider this a constructive suggestion. it is possible to write a section in here saying that if the courts define "sexually oriented advertisement" differently from what the senator has defined it herethat is. within the limits that his definition permits--the statute shall apply that way. this is just a horseback opinion. but it seems to me that the danger the senator runsobviously. he is going to get a practically unanimous voteis that the whole thing may go down the drain. in the absence of some relationship to constitutionality in terms of court decision. i have  had a chance to research this recently. but. again. the question of "redeeming social value." according to the decisions of the supreme court. is one big item left out. i ask. again. whether the senator would be kind egh to give us his rationale.
this is a very broad definition. there is a criminal section here which ties into this definition. i do  think there is any question about adoption of the amendment. but i think it begins to raise some pretty sticky problems. especially in view of the fact that this definition probably covers a good many classic forms of art. going back centuries. and of course the first thing that will be thrown at the senate will be that argument.
. i have  addressed myself. except in a very preliminary way. to the district of columbia crime bill. the conference report of which is before the senate. because i wished to give myself adequate opportunity to study the bill very carefully as it emerged from the conference. i have  done that. i have decided to e " on the conference report. and i say to the senate that it is a very close decision and that i am influenced by the following facts. one. the fact that i do  consider that if we turn down this conference report. that is the end of the matter. i believe that others may controvert it. but it is my profound conviction that within a very short period of time we will get court reorganization. expansion of the bail agency. the public defender system. and certain other administrative and criminal law changes which are. i believe. essential tools in the fight against crime in the districteven if this conference report is rejected. we will find the way to do it. two. this is by means an open and shut case. it is a question of balance as to whether the concern.on issues of civil liberties and constitutional law preponderate over the fundamental thrust of a bill designed to deal with a very grave public emergency in the district of columbia. i have decided the issue on the ground that civil liberties and constitutional rights dictate that my vote should be against it. but i can understand perfectly that the judgment is a qualitative one and is by means open and shut. with those statementspreliminarily. i should like to submit for the recordand i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the recorda letter written by the district attorney.of queens county. the second most populous county in new york city. whose name is thomas j. mackell. to senator ervin. stating the grounds of his opposition to the preventive detention provisions in the bill.
i also ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a telegram to the same effect from the committee on federal legislation. of the association of the bar of the city of new york. by its chairman. sheldon h. elsen. also objecting to the bill. especially the preventive detention provisions.
. recently. whitney m. young. jr.. executive director of the national urban league. in his keye address to its 60th annual convention in new york entitled "a strategy for the 1970s: unity. coalition. negotiation." issued a stirring call for all americans to work together for the elimination of poverty. crime. and racism. in his address. mr. young stressed that blacks must unite and engage in a stratdgy of negotiation with white society to confront injustice. in addition. mr. young advocates a new coalition with other miities to eliminate the problems of poverty and crime which imprison americans of all colors and races. he outlines a vital leadership role for the prestigious urban league he has headed in such a distinguished way for so long. also. mr. youngs approach for. a "marshall plan" for the slums and ghettos of america--originally conceived by the harriman commission and by the philip randolph institute and supported by me and other senatorsis finally brought to the center stage by this speech. is one which is badly needed in this time of division and strife. moderating forces .on all sides must seize the initiative and work out solutions which will bring peace and prosperity to all americans. i commend mr. youngs address to my colleagues and ask unanimous donsent that it be printed in the record.
for practical purposes. we would  withdraw. it is like  paying the bill. we would still owe it. we would still have to withdraw formally and the indebtedness for dues would accumulate against us even if we gave ice. that is the advisory opinion of the international court of justice on this very issue.
i do  k that the president will withdraw. the president may feel this would be very unwise and that he would do better with the next congress. but our indebtedness would accumulate just the same. that is the opinion of the international court of justice. which we sought.
. i am the ranking miity member of the subcommittee which is so effectively headed by the distinguished senator from iowa. i would like to join the senator from mississippi in stating that i think the work of the senator has been splendid. the subcommittee has really been brought to a fine mission through his excellent leadership. which i have had the ho to join. the senator has made a unique province of this problem of narcotics addiction in the armed services and he has worked ly and promises to do a great deal more. i am deeply impressed with what i k about this effort of general tolson. i shall do my utmost to help him to see that the necessary funds and assistance are given the general. daily this problem becomes the largest single source of crime and the largest single source of urban decay in my city of new york. and. i believe. in many other cities in this country. when one considers what it takes to make massive and necessary changes in this field. even in a financial sense. it is our responsibility for  sooner having brought this matter to the attention of the country. i think the country will support what needs to be done. i hope the senator will be moved. and i shall work with him. as i already have. to present the measure. which we are considering in the subcommittee. at the earliest possible moment to the full committee and then to the floor of the senate. we have done that in connection with alcoholism. this is the next problem in line. i k it is a burden. but in addition to his work in connection with the armed services committee. which i laud unreservedly. i say to the senator i want us to be purposeful to bring about major legislation so urgently needed in the narcotics field. as it affects crime in the cities.
and i think this is a great tribute to the sense of decency and the sense of justice in our countrythat i see .a new attitude by those who on ideological or policy grounds or grounds of principle opposed all federal civil rights legislation. the effort. as i see it . is to do their ut-. most. in accordance with their rights. to shape the legislation according to .the way they -feel it ought to be shaped. but longer to go for the jugular. as it were. and to seek. to kill it by filibuster or otherwise. i think this is a much more creditable pattern than we faced at other times in the last two decades and that the country. should take great heart from it: i.should like to ipay my respects and credit to the men who were intelligent -egh and understood the national will .egh so that they could -adapt their own attitudes. which are deeply and sincerely held. to what is properly -the national pattern in respect of civil rights legislation today.
. i conclude as follows: because of the meaningfulness of this legislation. because of the fact that it strains credulity at this time to contend that you are going to get action through court litigation faster than you will through agency procedures. and because of the contradictory testimony of the former chairman as compared with the present chairman of the eeoc. i hope that the senate will reject the amendment.
. having spoken with the office of the senator from nebraska and just having spoken with the senator from mississippi . chairman of the committee on the judiciary. i ask unanimous consent that h.r. 18126. to amend title 28 of the united states code to provide for holding district court for the eastern district of new york at westbury. n.y.. which has been sent to us by the house. may be held at the desk. without being referred.
. i would like very much to ascertain the position of the chairman and the ranking miity member of the committee on this amendment. i realize that there is desire to get into any hotly controversial matters tonight. but i call the attention of the senate to this fact: there are provisions in the senate rules. as i understandand i am ready to be corrected if anyone has kledge to the contrarywith respect to rules of committees. i should like to say. in the presence of the senator from arkansas . that because the government operations committee. especially through investigation subcommittee. has handled so many highly contested matters. it has developed a very complete set of rules with respect to witnesses. et cetera. other committees also have rules. but this is by means universal. in the house of representatives. there is a general provision with respect to this matter which is interesting. or should be interesting. to us. which providesand this is contained in cans procedure in the house of representativesthat insofar as applicable. the rules of the house are the rules of the standing committees. and procedure in the committees. where  otherwise provided for. follows the procedure of the house. the question i would like to put to the managers of the bill and to the senate is. should we  require the adoption of rules by every standing. .elect or special committee of the senate. which will be made publicly available. i suggest publication in the congressional record  later than march 1 of each year. thus giving ice to all the world as to our procedures and ifying any witness who is subpenaed or otherwise called as to his rights. as i have pointed out. this raises problems. i happen to be on the government operations committee. so i k the situation for that committee. other committees also have rules. the committee on the judiciary. i believe. has a very complete set of rules. but it seems to me that when we are dealing in such difficult areas as we do. the time has come to require of all committees that they make and publish rules. and that those be open and available to all concerned. and that there be some uniformity of practice on that score. i do  endeavor by the amendment to in any way determine what those rules shall be. just so long as there are rules. and the world is apprised of them. the senator from montana informed me. as i discussed the matter with him. that this matter had been considered on a previous occasion and rejected. however. i believe that at that time it was within a frame of reference where any amendments to the legislative reorganization act were just swept away by the feeling that it would be confined to a committee project. and would go further. but i believe that our experience since that time. as i say. in many highly controversial proceedings before committees. makes it very desirable for the senate very seriously to consider the adoption of a provision which would  state the rules or fix the rules. or even tie the committees to the senate rules. as the house of representatives does. but rather just say that every committee. by at least a stated time. shall have rules. which shall be made public. so that anyone dealing with a given committee may be apprised of the procedures which he is required to follow before that committee. i should like very much to get the views of the manager of the bill on this issue.
. i wish to emphasize to the senate that under present conditions. in fairness to all who deal with the senate. all this amendment seeks is just there be open and published rules by every committee and that they be available to the general public as part of the procedures of the senate. just as the senate rules. what a committee puts into those rules will depend upon the will of that committee. which can always be dealt with by the will of the senate. if the committee should be unfair. which i think is quite inconceivable. but i do believe that in the present state of the administration of justiceand we are an independent part of the government. with an independent personality and independent powersthis is a very elementary provision which we ought to have. i should like to point out in that connection that my own committee. the committee on government operations. is defending very strongly against a procedure by which its subpenas would be tested in court. there has been a decision of the district court and the circuit court of appeals reversing the district court and a resolution  enacted by the senate which takes a very strong and decisive position regarding our own autoy as a legislative body in the separation of the powers which rules our government. it seems to me that with authority comes responsibility. and that is all i am pleading for. the public should k what the rules are of any committee which subpenas any member of the public. with which any member of the public desires to deal. or how he goes about his relations with that committee. i realize that the matter was dealt with before. but i think the climate and atmosphere in which we deal today are different. i point out that good practice on the part of the committee on government operations. which probably has some of the most hotly contested of these proceedings before it. has dictated that it have a very comprehensive set of rules. for that reason. i hope very muchand i am saying this so that senators who read the record overnight may be apprised of the viewsthat the senate will adopt this amendment. i wish to point out that in respect of the comity between the houses and the fact that the house is already covered by a provision that house rules shall apply to committee proceedings. if we adopt it. this is going to be it. so that the decision is an important one. really. what we are doing is dealing with our own rules. and that is very unlikely to be disturbed in conference. unless something happens to the whole bill. i hope very much that senators will seriously consider this matter overnight and that it may have their favorable consideration.
. that this issue is submitted to the senate. i believe that individual senators. from their own experience both in the committees and with their personal staffs. will endorse the position which the senator from illis . the senator from montana . the senator from delaware . and i have taken. based on their own experience with the volume of work. the kind of strain. and the hours put in by their staffs. and the volume of work which occurs in these great states with huge populations. i am sure that my case can be rested with the greatest confidence in this jury when the times comes.
. this amendment deals only with enforcement.  with standards. which are left in the hands of the secretary of labor. under the amendment an independent panel of three members. appointed for staggered 5year terms. with the advice and consent of the senate. would be established to hear and determine enforcement cases under the act. the members of the panel would be appointed solely on the basis of their professional qualifications. there are several reasons why enforcement through such a panel is to be preferred to enforcement by the secretary. as provided in the original bill: first. under the procedures established by the amendment. speed of enforcement would be greatly increased. in most contested cases. between 6 months and 2 years would be saved under the provisions which provide for true selfenforcing orders and discretionary review of trial examiner decisions. under the committee bill. enforceable order to correct a violation would issue until the completion of all administrative and judicial review proceedings. this would involve. at a minimum in a contested case: first.- hearings by a trial examiner. second. mandatory review of the decision by the secretary or his designee. and third. review by a court of appeals. it is doubtful that this process could be completed in..less than 18 months2 years would be a more realistic estimatein a seriously contested .case. under my amendment. an enforceable order would issue at the end of the id.ministrative review stage. rather than after judicial reviewunless the court of appeals issued a stay. furthermore. the months- in many cases by making the administrative review stage itself -would be shortened by 3 to 6 months in many cases by making review by the panel of trial examiners decisions discretionary. if review- were denied. the trial examiners decision would automatically become the final order of the panel and enforceable as such. second. hearing anddetermination of enforedment" cases by an independent panel more closely accords with traditional ions of due process than would hearing and determination by the secretary. in the latter case the secretary is essentially acting as prosecutor and judge. any finding by the secretary in favor of a respondent would be essentially a repudiation by the secretary of his own :departmefits employees. while this type of enforcement has been used in connection with other statutes. is contemplated by the administrative procedures act. and is  jurisdictionally defective on due process grounds. the awkward mechanics it imposes upon heads of departments who wish to exercise their adjudicatory power personally in order to preserve due process has  generally been appreciated. what happens is that one official of the departmentsuch as the deputy solicitorwill take the position of prosecutor and aher officialsuch as the solicitorwill take the position of a neutral in order to advise the secretary. more important. because of the awkwardness of this procedure and the heavy burden of personally reviewing hundreds of enforcement cases. it is highly likely that the secretary of labor will  even exercise his power under the committee bill personally. but will delegate it to a panel of officials within the department. that is precisely what the secretary of interior has done under. the coal mine health and safety act of 1969. the net result will be enforcement by a panel anyway. but  one which is independent. and without the benefit of the shortened procedures which my amendment would provide. these considerations. it seems to me. outweigh any possible benefits which might be gained from the better "coordination which would allegedly occur if the adjudicatory power. as well as the prosecutorial and standards setting powers were given to the secretary. such coordination as is necessary would seem just as readily attainable with a panel as with the secretary. it is the prosecutors upon whom this burden will primarily fall and under either approach they will be under the secretarys control. in short. the adjudicatory scheme of the committee bill can be made to work. and due process can be preserved under it. but the independent panel approach would do the same job faster. perserve due process more easily. and thereby instill much more confidence in the whole program in workers and businessmen alike.
amendments are as follows: on page 1 following line 6. insert the following: sec. 2. that the last sentence of section 104(b) (4) of title 28 of the united states code is amended to read as follows: "court for the southern division shall be held at biloxi and gulfport." sec. 3. that the last sentence of section 104(b) (3) of title 28. united states code. is amended to read as follows: "court for the western division shall be held at natchez and vicksburg: provided. that court shall be held at natchez if suitable quarters and accommodations are furnished at cost to the united states." sec. 4. that section 100 of title 28. united states code. is amended to read as follows: "1 100. maryland. "maryland constitutes one judicial district. "court shall be held at baltimore. cumberland. denton. and at a suitable site in prince georges county  more than five miles from the boundary of montgomery and prince georges counties."
should  be considered as witnesses or testimony. but should be considered as an informal presentation to certain members of the finance committee by certain people whom the committee had intended to call as witnesses in those sessions. my only reason for my reservation and the request i have made of senator long is to keep good the good faith of my objection. the senator ks that the senate could pass anything without hearings. if it chose. we are  in a court. where the matter is going to go up on appeal and then the appelate court will .weigh what was  objected to in the record and what was objected to. in order to keep the good faith of my objection. i have made these statements.
. the senator from new jersey. i think for lack of a better explanation. has erected a strawman and then proceeded to kk down that strawman. and that strawman is due process. there is need to kk down that strawman. i have  established him as an argument for this approach. certainly. there is due process in the secretary. and if there was . the courts would overturn it. the important thing is to inspire confidence in the community that we expect to obey this law. and that is the basis on which i approach the matter. there is question about the fact that the community will be considerably reassured in the difficult. and one might say dangerous situation. by the adoption of this amendment. the best argument against the argument made by the senator from new ijersey is the committee report itself which indicates the unbelievable ramifications of this law and the reach of this law into countless numbers of workplaces throughout the country. i invite senators to look at the background for this bill and the literally thousands of cases of occupation health and safety situations which would be reached by this bill. certainly there is due process in the secretary and certainly in many cases it is administered in this way. but in many cases it is . and i am referring to the secretary. the senator from new jersey himself was quick to raise the issue of the coal mine safety bill and the question of safety where there is a body similar to the one we are seeking to appoint here. there are just as many precedents for what we are recommending as leaving it in the secretary. so the issue is  a matter of due process or general tradition or general procedure. it is a matter of designing a particular remedy for a particularly difficult situation. this is a situation which can disturb very seriously and be very costly to the business community. i feel very strongly that a great element of confidence will be restored in how this very new and very widereaching piece of legislation will be administered if the power to adjudicate violations is in the hands of an autoous body. more than one man. and more than in the department of labor itself. it seems a small price to pay for the confidence that will be inspired by the adoption of this amendment. that is the basis on which i make my argument. yesterday i argued that there is due process in everything in this bill . i would  have supported it in committee if i felt otherwise. that is  the point. we have a difficult piece of legislation reaching the whole of american business. involving millions of employees and tens of thousands of employers. this will give them a greater measure of confidence. it seems logical that we do it this way. that argument is especially reinforced by the fact that it is a much more efficient procedure we are outlining here than the procedure solely in the hands of the secretary. for example. here is a record of what needs to be done if the secretary addressed violations himself. under the committee bill. enforceable order to correct a violation would issue until the completion of all administrative and judicial review proceedings. this would involve. at a minimum in a contested case: first. hearings by a trial examiner. second. mandatory review of the decision by the secretary or his designee. and. third. review by a court of appeals. it is doubtful that this process could be completed in less than 18 months2 years would be a more realistic estimatein a seriously contested case. contrast that with my amendment. under my amendment. an enforceable order would issue at the end of the administrative review stage. rather than after judicial reviewunless the court of appeals issued a stay. furthermore. the administrative review stage itself would be shortened by 3 to 6 months in many cases by making review by the panel of trial examiners decisions discretionary. if review were denied. the trial examiners decision would automatically become the final order of the panel and enforceable as such.
 for consumer affairs. a council allows for prestige and visibility in the executive branch greater than that of an office. and with the director of the agency a member of the council. policy decisions will be based on the most uptodate assessment of consumer needs. title iii. modeled after s. 861. a bill i introduced in february 1969. authorizes the federal government. for the first time. to make consumer protection grants to states and local governmentsand limitedly to private profit organizationsfor the planning and operation of consumer assistance programs. these grants are essential for a comprehensive protection of the consumer. for consumer protection should  be the responsibility of.  can it be handled by. the federal government alone. the local units of government are frequently in the best position to curtail fraud and deception in the marketplace. and by encouraging and supporting them we will offer the consumer the quickest and most direct assistance possible. thirtyeight states along with a number of cities have some type of consumer protection unit. these are. generally speaking. short of funds and are only able to be of limited usefulness to the consumer. the problems concerning the consumer. as shown by the better business organizations and organizations of that type throughout the country. are peculiarly indiges in many areas. accordingly. there is wide latitude in the type of grants the director may make. in addition to general "planning" grants. the director may make "action" grants. among others. to regulate household appliance repairmen. motor vehicle repairmen. and home improvement contractors. to require credit reporting agencies to adopt fair and equitable credit information procedures. to create and expand consumer education programs especially in urban areas of high concentration of unemployed or lowincome individualswhich incidentally mrs. knauer has just strongly urged be done. to establish or expand consumer complaint centers. and to provide for research. counseling. and education projects concerning the nutritional value of food. the conditions with which the applicant must comply serve primarily as guidelines. they insure that the applicant has coordinated his program with existing oeo or ftc consumer programsto encourage harmony and avoid duplicationand to insure that their programs will be as effective as possible. there is also provision to insure that local agencies which might show a need for consumer grants would be able to receive them. if the state is unable or finds it unnecessary to have statewide programs. it seems to me that these grant programs have emous capability for accelerating solutions. making infinitely more efficient and broad consumer protection activities throughout the country. as attorney general of new york. i had emous consumer protection activities in that office. my successor. attorney general lefkowitz. has expanded those materially. so i k how critically important it is and how much good can be done. with only the least feeling on the part of business that there is any danger of harassment. it is also very important to eand i am sure that the senator from connecticut made this clearthat this bill does  deprive the federal trade commission. the department of justice or any other agency or department of its jurisdiction. obviously those jurisdictions remain unimpaired. before i conclude. i would pay tribute to the commerce committee. to the senator from new hampshire . and to the senator from washington
. the white house conference on children will convene in washington this sunday. december 13 through december 18. bringing together individuals and organizations of all disciplines interested in child welfare to consider the means of advancing the development of all children regardless of environmental conditions or circumstances of birth. the purpose of my speaking this morning is to introduce a measure which i believe urgently deserves consideration  only by the congress but also by the white house conference. it is the comprehensive community child development act of 1971. i send the bill to the desk. for appropriate reference. together with a sectionbysection analysis. which i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the recoad at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i just wish to say that i introduced the administrations bill. which contained many of the provisions in the bill  before us to improve and expand the family planning services of the federal government. i think the senator from maryland has rendered a signal service to the country in the way he has worked so hard to get the concept of family planning accepted. i joined the senator from texas in working matters out in conference. i am very glad we were successful.
. if the senator will withhold just a moment. i. too. would like to speak to this item of the courts. which is. of course. critically important to new york. where we have a tremendous amount of court congestion and great difficulty with crime because of the court congestion. we had prison riots that affected  the federal courts. but the state courts. this was because of court congestion and the delay of trials. i join with the senator from michigan
i am  quite through. if the senator would let me complete my thought. there are two kinds of filibusters. there is a filibuster to death. then there is the filibusterif one wants to call it thatin an honest effort to deal with a very difficult and hard to understand situation in the interests of the nation. i consider that the debate on the trade bill will sever in a very damaging way to our country the policy of the country which we have pursued for 25 years. we might have 6 hours of debate. we k what those 6 hours mean. they mean very little interest on the part of the country. we did  put the trade bill. the social security bill. the medicare. the medicaid. the trade bill. and the family assistance plan all in one bill. it is an unheard "of situation. we would be suckers indeed if we fell for that. they deserve the mature consideration of the senate. we certainly will  be overwhelmed by the fact that they are to be considered together. the senator from connecticut ks that i would be the first to vote for social security. we want to pass a social security bill. even if we pass it in february. we would make it retroactive to january 1. the 20 millions of americans that are involved would lose hing. however. the country might lose something because of the fact that these measures were all lumped together. we ought to have an opportunity to look at this. this is a matter that is critically important to many of us. i would like to work out a unanimousconsent agreement if it can be done with justice to all. many senators want to deal with this matter with the highest interests of our country in mind. i will  be rushed into it on the excitement of the moment. because we might have to change some verybad work in the years to come and suffer very heavily because of it. i urge the senator from delaware  to make his request at this time. if he does. it will be objected to. i urge the senator to give us an opportunity to have a look at his handiwork and see if in some way we can contrive a unanimousconsent agreement on the part of those of us who have desire to talk any measure to death but want a reasonable opportunity to express our desires.
. of show trials. and effectively illustrate the antisemitism practiced in the soviet union. the harsh sentencesincluding two death sentencesimposed upon 11 citizens of the soviet union last week. nine of them of the jewish faith. on charges of planning an airplane hijacking have aroused a broad spectrum of world protest and concern. including a most important protest from the vatican and even from some european communist parties. the events of last weekand the prospect of a further trialone to have started tomorrow but postponed to january 6. of nine defendants who sought permission to emigrate to israel. are seen by world opinion as much more than a domestic criminal trial in the u.s.s.r. rather. these events are viewed as an intensification to a more active level of a soviet campaign of thinly veiled antisemitism that has been building over recent years. these events raise a specter of the pastthe widely publicized conspiracy charges. the detailed "confessions" and the subsequent harsh sentences. all part of the paly employed by the soviets to score propaganda points for either home or foreign consumption. they raise the shades of the purges of the 1930s and of the infamous "doctors plot" of the stalin era. suspicions that these are ordinary criminal trials are further aroused by the pattern of arrests and searches throughout the u.s.s.r. which came immediately after the arrest of the 11 on charges of hijacking as they were about to board a plane at leningrads smolny airport last june. unlike other criminal actions in the u.s.s.r. the arrests were given wide publicity throughout the nation. the pattern is all too familiar. only the victims of the tragedy are new. many in the soviet union and abroad have been encouraged by recent indications of some enjoyment of new personal freedoms by soviet citizens. however. this trial. the cruel sentences imposed and the prospect of more trials to follow. represent  only a time of judgment for the defendants. but also for the soviet union itself. is the present regime so unsure of itself that it must resurrect the terror of stalins time to intimidate and cow its people.
. to me the most significant aspect of the decisions of the supreme court today is that when you deal with desegregation you do  deal with that subject in isolation. but you have a right to make educational judgments as a part of it. the court will distinguish. it will  condemn a plan because it is  dedicated to desegregation. but it will be willing to accept a plan which contains problems of educational excellence as well as problems of desegregation. that is precisely the gifted contribution as a result of the collaboration between the senator from minnesota and the secretary of health. education. and welfare. and it is exactly the thing. although often we missed each others semantics. upon which we came to final agreement in the stennisribicoff amendment. section 2 of public law 91230.
there is one other point. the court  confirms our authority to proceed with both concepts. even hough they are intermingled. and holds hat we can at one and the same time. iy the exercise of our judgment and auhority respecting the use of federal unds. move to the achievement of a onstitutional objective where segregaion had been official policy.
when the senator says there is compulsion. one would be unable. at this stage of the law. to go into court and seek a mandatory injunction as one does in the case where official segregation has been practiced. but what the court is opening the door toand that is what we would be doingis that the court says this is a proper province for a local educational agency or a government agency to deal with a situation. given the inducement of money to deal with it as we do in this bill. where a restraint because of race and racial composition has placed upon the educational process the inability to obtain an equal education.
in the first place. the senator does  have to do that. in line with his argument. which was that the decisions could come  or hereafter. but it is a fact that even in my stateand my recollection does  extend to whether it was a state or a federal court decisionthe schools of mount ver. n.y.. were ordered to desegregate. i am told it was a state court. also. the schools of los angeles. calif.. in a very. very extensive decree. again by the state courts. were so ordered. it seems to me. with all respect. the state courts have the power to enforceand do enforcethe constitution of the united states. and therefore there should  be a distinction between the acts of compulsion as between a state court decree and a district court order.
first. my attention is called to aher case. the pasadena case. which is a federal court decree as is the pontiac. mich.. case and a state court decision in harrisburg. pa. as to the solicitude of hew. it is my understandingand our committee has legislative oversight in these mattersthat precisely in response to the climate which was created by the stennisribicoff amendment. hew has sent peopie into the field and is making a very real campaign with respect to finding any evidences of school situationsand is undoubtedly finding themwhere the intercession of law or the withholding of funds under the civil rights act is justified. i think. in the first place. we have taken account literally of the kind of concern expressed by the senator from th carolina. and. second. i believe that the practice is  catching up with the situation which he refers to.
yes. the senator has so stated. incidentally. i have argued it constantly on the law in this situation. but i have also stated that the supreme court has  yet gotten to cases which would pierce the veil of socalled de facto segregation because. in my judgment. many of those cases are also cases of de jure segregation. and will be decided by the courts if that ever becomes necessary. in drafting this bill we were giving consideration in a very real way to that possibility. either presently or in the future.
i always enjoy debating with my learned colleague from th carolina. who is a very accomplished lawyer and has great feeling for the law. with all respect. however. i have stated the way i feel this bill affects the situation of the law. my analysis of the supreme court decision just annced. as i say. after all has been very cursory. so far e of us have had the opportunity to study these measures. i hope the money provided in this bill may achieve its true purpose. which is a real. hoable effort to raise the level of education in order to get over those restraints and inefficiencies which have existed because of what we call racial isolation or segregation. whether official or actual. whatever may be the view of the supreme court on the socalled de facto issue. the fact is that this bill does  place any such limitation by section. by purpose. or by objective upon the use of these resources. but requires only that they should really and substantively be used to raise the educational level of all our children. where the leveland i think the supreme court certainly recognizes thishas been depressed by the incidence of undue numbers of black youth. particularly. though of other miities as well. in given concentrations in educational institutions.
. i should like to point out the meaning of the supreme court decision upon which he based his change of positionif it be a changealthough i assume even an affirmative vote for tabling would  have prevented the amendment bringing up something else. it is important to estimate what the supreme courts decision means. to me. it means precisely the opposite of what it means to the senator from kentucky. i think that all the court has done is to lay out what the federal government considers to be its province. it does  in any way forceclose educational agencies or states from the direction of education. which is their province. i think that is right. the court. in my judgment. has been on the liberal side in saying that busing is entirely permissible as a means for carrying out a constitutional mandate. one of the great problems with the approach of the senator from connecticut
. it will be remembered islated. that when the extension of the elemen- as i say. the stennis amendment was tary and secondary education act was designed.to provide enforcement of equal up for -consideration before the congress protection. the policy throughout the last year. the senate adopted an identical country was to combat such violations stennis amendment. when it came out with enforcement of the law. with so of conference with the house of repre- many districts in the south which were sentatives. it was in a form which took still in violation of the law. the authoraccount of the.existing state of law.. ities have sought to do that. since we the. socalled esea is a measure to passed this law in 1970. and as a matter which we devote roughly $2 billion a of fact slightly before that. there have .year. its extension passed and became been and are quite a few compliance aclaw on april 13. 1970. tions being taken in the th and in the senator from. mississippi (mr. the west. there are presently 64 districts stemnnis) has pointed out that we had under review on enforcement proceedpassed the stennis amendment in exactly ings by the department of hew. the form in which it was offered today. i ask unanimous consent that a list of however the key to the change which those districts that are still engaged in had been made in conference. reading such review. prepared by the department from the law. section 2(b) ofpublic law of hew. be printed in the record. 91z230. is: there being objection. the list was such uniformity refers to one policy ap- ordered to be printed in the record. as plied uniformly to de jure  segregation follows:  state and district name latest district visit internal report prepared review status arizona: tempe ------------------------------------------- march 1971 -------------------_---------- review in progress. tucson district  1 ------------------------------- february 197 1-------------------------------- do. clifton ---------------------- ------------------- january 1971 ----------- --_----------------- report being written. winslow ------------------------------------------------- do ------------------------------------- do. california: pomona .................... ........................ ember 1970.------------------------------- do. delajoint union high ---------------------------- october 1970 ----------------------------------- review in progress. delajoint union elementary ...------------------------ do -------.--------------.----------------- do. san francisco city unified --------------------------- july 1970 -------------------------------------- review in progress. report yet. sequoia union high (redwood city) ---------------- april 1969 ------------- july 1969 ------------- ocr negotiating with district. bakersfield city elementary ----.--------------- ---- october 1970 ---------- april 1969 -------------- do. frescity unified --------------------------------- september 1970 -------------------------------- report being written. pasadena ----------------------------------------- june 1968 ------------ september 1968 ----- justice department taking action. colorado: loveland ------------------------------------------ april 1971 ----_-------------.----------------- review in progress. pueblo city ---------------------------------------- september 1969 --------- january 1970 ---------- report being reviewed by ogc. colorado springs  11 ----------------------------- april 1971 -----------------.----------------- review in progress. connecticut: hartford ------------------------------------------- ember 1969 --------- july 1970 --------------- report being reviewed by ogc. stamford ------------------------------------------ june 1970 ------------ ember 1970 - do. waterbury ----------------.---------------------- april 1968 ------------ may 1968 ------------- justice department taking action. illis: springfield ---------------------------------------- september 1968 --------- february 1969 --------- recommended for further review. maywood ------------------------------------------ june 1969 ------------ december 1969 ----------do. cahokia community ---------.---------------------- october 1969 ---------- april 1970 -------------- report being reviewed in regional office. joliet --------------------.---------------------- april 1969 ------------ october 1969 --------- recommended for further review. kankakee -----------------------------.----------- january 1970 ----------- may 1970 ------------- plan approved. district ified july 17. 1970. rock island ----------------------------.----------- september 1970 -------------------------------- report being written. indiana: east chicago --------------------------------------- february 1971 --------------------------------- review in progress. hammond ---------.---------------------------- august 1968 ----------- october 1968 ---------- recommended for further review. evansvillevanderburgh ----------------------------- ember 1970 --------------.---------------- report being written. south bend ------------- ---------------------- october 1969 ---------- may 1970 ------------- report being reviewed. fort wayne -------------------------------------- - february 1971 --------------- ------ --------- review in progress. kansas: kansas city ---------------------------------------- september 1968 --------- september 1968 -------- recommended for further review. wichita ---------------------.-------------------- march 1970 ----------- march 1970 ----------- hearing found compliance. appeal pending. massachusetts: boston ---------------------------------- october 1970 ----------------------------------- review in progress. michian: westwood community (dearborn heights) ------------ april 1970 --------------------.................. report being written. pontiac --------------------------------------------- july 1968 ------------- september 1968 --------- review suspended because of court action. ecorse -------------------------------------------- february 1969 --------- july 1969 ------------- recommended for further review. river rouge -------------------------------------------- do --------------------- do ----------------- do. saginaw ------------------------------------------ may 1970 ------------- january 1971 ----------- do. rint --- . . . .. . . ..----------------------------------- september 1970 ------------- ----------------- report being written. ferndale ------------------------------------------ october 1968 ---------- ember 1968 --------- hearing found compliance. appeal pending. nebraska: omaha -------------.-------------------- may 1970 -.--- . - .- january 1971 --------- report being reviewed by ogc. new jersey: hoboken ------------------------------------------ february 1971 --------------------------------- review in progress. passaic ---------------------.------------------- april 1969 ------------------------- ----- report awaiting further information. pleasantville -------------------------------------- october 1969 --------- july 1970 ----------- more information requested by ogc. perth amboy -------------------- _--- ------------ june 1969 -------------- october 1969 ------------ recommended for further review. union township ------------- ----------- _ june 1968 ------------ july 1968 ------------- problems settled by negotiation. new york: buffalo ------------------------------------------- february 1971 --------------------------------- review in progress utica --------------------------------------------- october 1970 -----.---------------------------- do lackawanna --------------.-------------------- june 1970 ------------ january 1971 ---------- report being reviewed by ogc mount ver -- . ..----------.-------------------- february 1971 --------- march 1971 ----------- compliance letter sent to district march 24. 1971. monticello ----------------.-------------------- march 1970 ----------- october 1970 ---------- found to be in substantial compliance. poughkeepsie ------------------------------------ june 1970 ------------ july 1969 ------------ settled by negotiation. ohio: springfield city --------------------------- ------ may 1969 ------------december 1969 .......... report being reviewed by ogc. hamilton -----------------.-------------------- ember 1970 ----. . . ..----------------------- report being written. lima ----------------------------------------- july 1969 ------------- february 1970 --------- report being reviewed in washington office. warren city --------------- ---------------------- ember 1970 -------------------------------- report being written. toledo -------------------------------------------- october 1968 ---------- february 1969 --------- report under review by ogc. dayton ----------------------------------------- august 1970 ----------------------------------- student assignment under further review. teaching plan approved. canton city ---------------.-------------------- august 1968 ---------- october 1968 ---------- recommended for further review. middletown -------------------------------------- may 1968 -------_---- may 1968 -----------problems settled by negotiation. pennsylvania: mckeesport area -----------.---------------------- april 1968 ------------ june 1968 ------------ desegregation plan accepted by state officials. penn hilis (pittsburgh) ------.---------------------- may 1967 ------------- may 1967 ------------ problems settled by negotiation. utah: ogden ----------------------------------------- ember 1970 ......... january 1971 ---------- report being reviewed by ogc. wisconsin: shawa------------------------------------------ june 1969 ------------ december 1969 --------- recommended for further review. racine --------_----------.---------------------- july 1970 ------------ september 1970 --------- report being reviewed in regional office.
it is a fact. is it . that the amendment absolutely requires a finding..by the court that the litigation was necessary to bring about compliance with the listed legal standards. as a condition for granting attorneys fees.
i concur with the senator. i do  k if the proponents of the amendment intend this or . but itseems to me they are saying to the admiiistrator or the commissioner. "you may n6t make it a grant to a district which is under a court order unless you make it only in connection with a decree. you may  put in any other provision on how to use the money set forth in section 6." that isdthe only reason.i see the proponents 6would.want it. it seems to me that. _ ompletely negates the entire bill. the reason.we are doing what we are doing is to. improve -education in the districts swhich are under court order. if they mean something else. forthe protection of all of us senator pastores suggstion should be adopted.
i think we are getting the picture . it depends on what the sponsors wish.it is a fact that a district which is desegregated. is eligible. and that provision is made in section 5(a) (1) (a). it begins at the top of page 6 with lines 1 through 8. it would be ed that those words state: "which has been undertaken pursuant to a final order issued by acourt of the united states. or a court of any state. which requires the desegregation of miity group segregated children or faculty in the elementary and secondary schools of such agency. or otherwise requires the elimination or reduction of miity group isolation in such schools. or" in view of the word "or" they fulfill the initial requirement for qualification. what these gentlemen are trying to get at is in section 6 where we specify an entire group of things for which the commissioner can grant funds. they. say when a school district is under court order to desegregate he may  insist that the district should do any of the things specified in section 6. i say i can go along with that mandatorily. but if the proponents of the amendment take the pastore formula. and give the secretary power to waive that provision. i am for that. therefore. i would go for the pastore proposal. i think he. has put his finger on the problem being raised by the sponsors of the amendment. to wit. that the list of authorized activities enumerated in section 6(a) should  serve to limit the commissioner in funding other activities required by a court order to desegregate.
ial power. those of us who voted to support the philadelphia plan when the issue came before us in the 91st congress have thus been vindicated. the opinion of the court is eworthy  only because it sustains the philadelphia plan against the attacks made upon it. but also because it demonstrates quite well the distinct legal and functional bases underlying executive order 11246 on the one hand. and title 7 of the civil rights act of 1964. on the other. one of the points stressed in the opinion is that the affirmative action requirement of the executive order is  limited to situations in which actual discrimination has occurred and must be remedied. it also serves and may be justified as a means of assuring the "maximum availability of construction tradesmen for the projects in which the federal government has a cost and completion interest." thus. the court concluded thata finding as to the historical reason for exclusion of available tradesmen from the labor pool is  essential for federal contractual and remedial action. under this approach. gross underrepresentation of miity groups in specific types of employment is reason egh to justify the federal government in requiring its contractors to take affirmative action to insure that the manpower pool available for work on federal projects is broadened to include all groups within a given community. this is quite different from the approach under title 7. which deals only with actual discrimination. rather than underutilization. and is but one of the reasons why i believe the administration of the executive order should be left in the labor department. and  transferred to the equal employment opportunity commission. as some have suggested. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the decision of the third circuit court of appeals be printed in the record.
i wish to make a few observations upon the antiwar demonstrations going on in washington . it is vital that the antivietnam war demonstrations of the last several days be put in proper perspective in view of the many critical questions involving the conduct of the demonstrators and the practice of law enforcement. neither the frustrations in terms of ending the vietnam war of many of those who practiced civil disobedience here in the last few days.  my respect for their sincerity.  my feeling that their civil disobedience was  productive to the effort to end the vietnam war. should or do interfere with my support of the enforcement of law and my judgment as to whether it was well and fairly done. for. i believe that there are important civil liberties questions raised by the technique of mass arrests and the failure of the law enforcement officials to observe the appropriate arrest procedures which must be followed in order for proper cases to be presented at trial. these are questions which are vital to our people especially in these times. my office has received numerous complaints about the techniques of mass arrests of people  engaged in any unlawful activity throughout the day of may 3. similar evidence was presented before chief judge harold greene of the district of columbia superior court by the public defender service in arguing for release of prisoners held at the coliseum. numerous examples were cited of people who were going to work. going to school. or observing the demonstrations who were summarily arrested by the police and taken either to one of the jails or cellblocks around the city or to the practice field near kennedy stadium. these people were held from 12 to 24 hours with appropriate basis for bringing a proper criminal charge. they were denied the right to see lawyers or make telephone calls. the same was true of many arrested who were breaking the law. the reason that there was appropriate basis for the arrests of the bystanders and indeed for those who were arrested for alleged violations of the law was that the federal and city law enforcement authorities chose early on the morning of may 3 to abandon a procedure which was worked out after the 1968 riots to insure that there was a proper basis for arrest. this decision to abandon these procedures was  countermanded even after the rush hour had ended and the situation was fully under control. the procedure which was abandoned involved the use of field arrest forms requiring the arresting officer on the scene to fill out a short form giving the pertinent details regarding the arrestee. the nature of the offense. the place of arrest. and name of the arresting officer. it also required the photographing of arrestees on the scene. on may 3 the policy of making wholesale arrests and of making attempt to fill out field arrest forms or to photograph the arrestees on the scene became the subject of a habeas corpus application before judge greene in the superior court of the district of columbia. evidence brought out at the hearing before judge greene under oath from justice department attorneys who volunteered to process people held at the coliseum showed that arrest forms were filled out at the coliseum. people were photographed for the first time at the coliseum. and a list of seven officers was used to fill in the name of an "arresting officer" which was changed on one of the forms to read "court officer." this information was then used for later filling out the field arrest form. these procedures were clearly improper. they precluded the possibility of successful prosecutions. in fact. chief judge greene ruled last night that all those who were still held and did  have proper field arrest forms should be released immediately. this has been affirmed by the district of columbia court of appeals. however. in spite of the lack of basis for detaining a large group among those arrested on may 3. most arrestees were held a minimum of 12 hours and in most cases closer to 24 hours before the majority were released on $10 collateral. only a small numberapproximately 500were brought before the superior court for arraignment. this amounted to "de facto preventive detention" and a suspension of the civil liberties of the arrestee. albeit for a short time.
i thank the majority leader. the ion of dragnet arrestssweeping of the streets into police vans all people in a certain areais. in the absence of a clear. lawfully promulgated ban. inimical to the rights of all citizens in a free society. admittedly the situation on may 3 had great potential for violence and serious disruption. the police had a very difficult task and did etheless keep the city functioning at its mal level in spite of the difficulties. but. was it necessary to pay the price of bad precedent set in this situation. for mass arrests to take place indiscriminately without proper arrest forms being filled out. leaving basis for a proper criminal charge against any arrestee. there are those who will ask whether. if people can be detained on that basis for one day. why cant people be detained in this and future demonstrations of civil disobedience for several days or several weeks. i have confidence that the district of columbia police department could have adequately handled the situation using the proper procedures. i do  think there was adequate justification for abandonment of those procedures. it is most important that americans do  say. "we are for civil liberties. but  when it might be difficult to grant people those liberties." let us  in our thankfulness for violence relax our vigilance in the protection of such liberties. that is why i speak todayto be sure that we recognize and learn from our deficiencies. that we are  carried away by an emergency to jeopardize fundamental liberty. and that we give the people confidence that we are determined. even in times of turmoil. jealously to guard the freedom of the individual in every possible way. i ask unanimous consent that an order to show cause and a subsequent order by chief judge harold greene. together with an order from the district of columbia court of appeals. all discussed in my remarks. be placed in the record. i also ask unanimous consent that an article in the washington post describing an arrest be placed in the record.
. it has become commonplace for every nation to proclaim its dedication to the rule of law in international life. but the tragic persistence of armed conflict in so many parts of the world forces us to recognize that substituting the rule of law for the rule of force is an imperative that must be pursued  even -though the achievement of this goal will require a long and difficult struggle. in the meantime. the strengthening of the world court as an institution. can be. even in -the short run. effective in resolving some of the nettling disputes which arise between the united states and other nations. the secretary of state. mr. rogers. has indicated the desire of the present administration to utilize the world court in an expanded role in settling international disputes to which the united states is a party. each of the three previous administrations indicated a desire to see the connally reservation repealed. i hope that in considering my resolution and the one offered by the senator from minnesota. the senate will join in the effort to build a stronger system of international law.
. various views have been voiced today on the articles that have appeared in the new york times and washington post. i ask unanimous consent to include in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. the opinion of judge murray gurfein. of the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york on this case.
. i feel we should . at this time. press it upon this measure. as i read the colloquy which the senator from mississippi had with the senator from arkansas . it really does  exactly meet the point. as he phrased the question. i think it is important to see whether the legislative history could be made crystal clear that implication can or should be read into the passage of the selective service act which could represent an implied congressional authorization of the vietnam war. the colloquy had 2 parts. one was the view of the senator from mississippi thatbecause this is a manpower bill for all our forces. as the senator ks. we are  proceeding with anything except -the rendering of services particularly in this sudden transition unless we could pass the bill. that is one quote. the other is. in response to a question from the senator from arkansas is that the equivalent of the senators saying the court was wrong in the -way -it interpreted the matter.
. todays supreme court decision is an historic reaffirmation of freedom of the press. the court did  free the press of all restraint. rather. it placed the burden on the government of proving such grave danger to the national interest as to warrant prior restraint. which was  proved in this case. thus. this decision reaffirms the good judgment and high patriotic sense of the new. york times and the washington post in disclosing details of the pentagon study of the vietnam war. these disclosures are very much in the public interest because only a wellinformed people will keep our free institutions strong and hopefully will help us to avoid repetition of such tragic errors as vietnam. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record two editorials on the subject.
. as i indicated at the outset. inadequate job training programs are only one of the elements contributing to the crisis in our prisons. the legislation which i shall introduce will be the first in a number of proposals which i shall make. to deal comprehensively with prison reform.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to provide one additional district judge for the u.s. district court for the thern district of new york. the facts requiring this addition are set forth in detail in the following memorandum. which has been prepared for me and which i ask be printed in the record:
i am so troubled about it that i am inclined right  to vote against the resolution rather than for any misconception to be inferred from this vote about our fortitude in the basic policies of the nation. even though i recognize the risk. and even the possible injustice. lastly i feel if twothirds of the senateand yesterday showed thatand twothirds of the house feel the federal employees will be treated unfairly. the president will . or if he wanted to. could . stand in the way of justice being done.
. new york is having probably the biggest problem in the country in this area only that. but drug traffic is probably the greatest problem new york has ever hadi am very anxious to work at this end to try to damp the flow. there are three elements to damping the flow: first. the illegality of the crime in pushing and wholesaling drugs. second. rehabilitating drug addicts and trying to eliminate the problem. and third. keeping the addict from engaging in crime. i am glad the chairman of the committee has accepted the amendment. i think the senator has rendered us all a service in keeping the administrations feet to the fire in a proposition as critical as this one.
. i could say evey word the senator from kentucky has said about me about him. in terms of his being a lawyer. his character. and his honesty: and i do think that by an interchange between us. we might helpfully sharpen the issue for our colleagues. but i shall  endeavor to do anything. but emphasize the two points that i think are most important when laid side by side with what my beloved friend. the senator from kentucky. has said. i think the two important points are these: first. i have based my judgment  upon the individual instances. beginning in 1952. because i said myselfthe senator may  have heard me. but that is  materialthat surely i have said things myself that i would be very sorry about. and i would expect to be understood and forgiven within the context of my life. so i based my judgment on the total 19 years from the time he was a clerk up until the may day demonstrations. and his testimony before the committee as a whole. and i see. after considering it as a whole. rather a hardening. in his professional capacity as a lawyer. of opinions with which i could  agree. that is point one. my second point is that there may be a basic difference between my criteria in casting my vote and those of the senator from kentucy or other senators. i do  believe my criteria can be based solely on the fact that he is a man of integrity. ability. and professional standing. and a sincere man. because a man can be extremely wrong and yet extremely sincere. some of the most inveterate opponents of civil rights in this body. in all the years i have fought for it since i have been here. since 1957. have met fully every one of those qualificationsable. sincere. and good lawyers. but they were absolutely wrong. and the court said they were wrong time and time again. i believe that it is my duty to determine. in my best conscience. whether this is a nascent justice black or whether this would be an influence on the court which i think would be inimical to the future of our country. in this particular case. i came down on the latter side. i might have voted against black. i do  k what i would have done then. but then i would have been the first to throw myself at the feet of the senate and confess my error. but i believe i would have had to judge at that time.  just on my finding of the fact that he was a man of quality. integrity. and professional skill. but that his basic constitutional philosophy gave an assurance of an approach to constitutional questions which might be for me or against me. but which i thought was consonant with the fundamental thrust of the constitution itself.
. the important point is that when we look at the big industrial states. that is where we have the big delay. massachusetts has a delay of 19 months. rhode island has a delay of 18 months. new york has a delay of 20 months. indeed. in the southern district of new york. there is a delay of 35 monthsalmost 3 years. similarly. as we go down the list. we see that it is in the big circuits where the major problems occur. we see in the thern circuit of illis. which i believe includes chicago. that there is a delay of 20 months. so. we can see that the average of 10 months picks up the small states where there are major industrial problems. of course. where we have the big industrial problems. then we have a tremendous court delay. one less than chief justice burger in a recent address pointed this out and he said in his speech to the american bar association in july 1970: from time to time congress adds more judges. but the total judicial organization never quite keeps up with the caseload. two recent statutes alone added thousands of cases relating to commitment of narcotic addicts and the mentally ill. these additions came when civil rights cases. the voting cases and prisoner petitions were expanding by the thousands. so he himself sees this situation and that the desire here in a highly sensitive area. which deeply involves problems of the greatest tension in our country. to equip the agency with a remedy which would be the best and most useful in its field. if we do that and if it has complete range. up to and including a finding. then it is in the best position to conciliate and settle cases. otherwise it can be shrugged aside as the eeoc is  being shrugged aside. and indeed in the most impatient way. we should give the eeoc this power because it is being shrugged off. the chairman of that authority so testified. we have the administrative procedures act which controls administrative hearings leading up to ceaseanddesist orders . that power is possessed by a whole range of agencies. the names of which i have already read into the record. the courts are overloaded. all this amendment would do would be to overload them more. in an area of job opportunities for the miities. we ought to have the most complete action and complete remedy for an agency which has the greatest expertise and the most authority with the most delicate understanding. this is the modern way to deal with the problem. that is why many agencies have gone in that direction. we would be taking a retrograde step which would be damaging to ourselves and to our country if were to agree to this.
the senator is exactly correct. i was attorney general of my state. i did have general authority over court proceedings which rose from the actions of our local commission on fair employment. i pointed out in my speech that for years we have had this authority under a bill called the ivesquinn bill. that procedure has worked superbly well. we are merely recognizing the modern concept of administration in giving this urgently needed power. we will have infinitely more cases consolidated and a crispness in the decisions which will buttress the enforcement of the law. after all. we are here because we want the law to be enforced. the law has been passed. it is the law. and if it is the law. we want the law enforced. and the most effective way to enforce that type of law is through cease and desist authority. so. all we are doing is bringing the united states abreast of the best practice. what we would do if we were to agree to the pending amendment would be a very distinct step backward. which i hope we do  take. especially in such days when the grievances of the miities are very much in danger as far as our nation is concerned.
. the senator said something about these cease and desist orders being unfair because in 60 days they become final. what the senator did  say is that any respondent. by just filing a petition for review with the circuit court of appeals. makes them  become final. he has a perfect right to test out the order which has been issued against him. certain presumptions come from the substantial evidence rule. but there is finality by which the respondent is foreclosed. he has an absolute right to appeal to the circuit court of appeals. which has a very broad jurisdiction. as described in the bill before the senate. to review. indeed. the appeal can go either way. if the agency wants to have the power to seek contempt in the event of a violation. it. too. can move in the circuit court of appeals for a court order. but it is the very reason why we seek the cease and desist authority. and we say it has some teeth in it. at least. it gives finality within the agency. the respondent. himself. then has to take it to court. but there is inhibition in that. he can do so. and in many cases does do so. and the order is then reviewed. so i do  see that this adds anything but efficiency. i repeat what i said before. you can argue at one and the same time that there is a tremendous backlog of work and yet  give an opportunity for that work to be terminated by giving the necessary power through which it can be terminated. and that is the cease and desist authority.
. should the burden of work which is involved require it. and that also goes to facilitating and making it possible for the commission to do its work within the cease and desist context. so. in my judgment. if we are going to go the court routethe senate has  decided that yet. but it will. with respect to the amendment which is  again before the senatethat court route should at least be within the control of lawyers. at least until it gets to the supreme court. where there are problems of basic policy on the part of the solicitor general for all the courts of the united states. and certainly in the appellate courts it should continue to be within the control of the commissions own lawyers. so that some unity of approach.. some coordination of their efforts. in respect of all these cases may be effected. the interesting thing about those who argue against the cease and desist power is that i really believe it is going to be to their very serious detriment. i believe that by giving a power to the commission with alternative whatever to institute suits. they are going to make it much stiffer and much more expensive for themselves. with less certaintyand the businessman is always looking for certaintyin the way of decision. because of the great diversity of the views of judges. the very different constructions of the law which are received in various courts. with settlement of the law in a final way until it actually is in the u.s. supreme court for final determination. i can see how the path to efficiency. administrative decisiveness. or any of the other aspects of this matter will be easier if the recourse is to litigation instead of to the likelihoodbecause that has been the record of all these agenciesthat the overwhelming majority of cases will be settled. compromised. conciliated. or agreed upon by cease and desist orders entered. as is very frequently the case. for example. we have the nlrb which has shown an extraordinary basis for that. all of which is designed to bring the procedure within manageable bounds in time and in due course. i hope very much. therefore. that the senatei shall have quite a few of these amendments which will go both to this amendment and to parts of the bill which is sought to be stricken itselfwill look favorably on this amendment and at least-
may i point out that the reason we included "shall" is. in a sense. that it goes with the original bill. if the senator will be kind egh to refer to page 38 of the bill. subsection (f). which deals with this particular matter. he will see that it says: (f) if the commission determines after attempting to secure voluntary compliance under subsection (b) that it is unable to secure from the respondent a conciliation agreement acceptable to the commission. which determination shall  be reviewable in any court. the commission shall issue and cause to be served upon any respondent  a government. governmental agency. or political subdivision a complaint stating the facts upon which the allegation of the unlawful employment practice is based. together with a ice of hearing before the commission. or a member or agent thereof. at a place therein fixed  less than five days after the serving of such complaint. in the case of a respondent which is a government. governmental agency. or political subdivision. the commission shall take further action and shall refer the case to the attorney general who may bring a civil action against such respondent in the appropriate united states district court. in other words. having found reasonable cause. the commission. according to the original bill. is required to serve a complaint. and so forth.
. i shall be very brief. i think it is important to answer two arguments of the senator from colorado. first. as to star chamber proceedings. this is just  true. and it is ancient history that "star chamber" means secret. the administrative procedure act applies to this commission as it would apply to any other commission. and that act guarantees due process. if we did  have it. if we had a star chamber. the courts would  let a cease and desist order stand for 30 seconds. so that is completely irrelevant. and indeed somewhat misleading. there is star chamber involved. second. as to the backlog: history shows that if you want to correct such a backlog. you can only do it if you give the agency some power. if you do . everyone bedevils them. and the cases last forever. this agency is  completely inundated for that precise reason. as to the point of the time of the courts being involved. the senator from colorado does  e that in the districts where many of these cases will be brought. to wit. in massachusetts. the southern district of new york. the thern district of illis. and the thern district of california. the delays are  20 to 28 months. and in new york 35 months. it is the rural and agricultural areas. where we are  going to have too many of these cases. that bring down the averages. we are talking  about already clogged courts that can try cases. and it is proposed to load them here with thousands of cases that it is unnecessary to load them with. because the number of cases that go to the court of appeals from the commissions with ceaseanddesist authority is so small. for all those reasons. i hope the amendment will be defeated.
i am glad to get that construction. then the amendment says that once they have granted approval. it is approval forever and ever unless otherwise ordered by the courts. i could  approve it on that ground. second. . i asked the senator whether it is his intention. and i gather from the language that it is. that hing may be done about the contract whatever under such a planwhich is. incidentally. a "forever plan"-without an extended court proceeding. or a court proceeding. matter how long it takes. even if successful appeals to the u.s. supreme court may take yearslimitation whatever upon the time taken in respect to court adjudication and hearing. et cetera. is that  true.
. i think the prejudice is very strongly against the enforcement of the law. it gives any contractor an opportunity just to make the claim. he need prove hing else. then he goes into court. and just as long as he takes. he takes. and penalty whatever ensues. that is a pretty easy deal for anybody who wants to break his affirmative action plan. or has a disagreement about what it means. and there is penalty whateverto just take it to the courts and just keep it there. we certainly have a great deal of experience with long court cases. if that is the contruction of the amendment. i would feel. in conscience. that i would have to be very strongly against it. i would have reason to be against an amendment to give judicial review. to simply suspend any possibility of action of any kind during the conduct of legal proceedings--i can conceive of that as being conducive to fair enforcement of the law. and i shall oppose the amendment.
. i would like to state to the senate our reasons for this action. one ks better than i the feelings of senators with regard to a tabling motion. personally. i do  remember having made. perhaps. more than one or two. i have had a long career. and i am very respectful of senators opportunities to debate and consider questions at the greatest length they feel they should. i have myself been cut off far more often by tabling motions than i have ever cut off other senators. but in this particular case. i will explain why.  because i am an advocate of the bill. but because i think this is almost a classic example of the proper use of the tabling motion. we have been given ice that this is the beginning of a filibuster. and the ice has been given in unequivocal terms. i invite the attention of the senator from alabama to his words that i am about to read to the senate. i have the written record from the official reporter. the senator from alabama said as follows: the dominick amendment failed of adoption. the proponents of cease and desist by commission fiat won that battle. it may have been a most expensive victory. because if the junior senator from alabama correctly interprets the feeling and the determination of a large number of senators. this bill may and he says "may "-be forced to a vote in the senate. that would be a tragic happening. in many respects. that would be a reaching out for more than the senate is willing to give. going farther than public opinion would require. it seems to be obvious that the senator from alabama would  have said that if it did  represent his own feeling. and from the indications of the debate which we have already heard. coupled with this statement. i think we get the point. i do  think we need to have a finger put in our eyes to understand exactly what to expect. in addition. the move which has been made is clearly an unnecessary one. we have voted five times. when we take into consideration the first vote. the vote on the motion to table the first vote. the vote on the reconsideration of the first vote. then the second vote. then the motion to table reconsideration of that second vote. we have voted five times on the dominick amendment. it seems to me that that is a very adequate expression by the senate. the senator from alabama himself admitted. when he submitted the substitute. that it is open to any amendment to which the original bill is open. he also saidand the chair confirmed thisthat the original bill also is open to amendment in any respect. indeed. the chair ruled that it is open in two degrees. so hing whatever is accomplished by substitutes of any kind or character except an opportunity to reargue and revote on the dominick amendment. after all. i think we have a right to vote on a tabling motion because an unnecessary action is being asked of the senate. an action which does  represent any decision by the senate. which is a substantial requirement for a decision on a procedural ground. that is. conceivable opportunity to amend is cut off. or to table. or to move in any way that the opponents of the legislation desire. by tabling. and obviously. as they themselves were entirely receptive to any amendment that would substitute in the shape it ought to be in. they do  have to extend. as far as they are concerned. as it is very clear that the essential argument is that it is simply a "redo" of the dominick amendment. it is entirely the privilege of the opponents to talk as long as they can and as long as the rules will allow. if we wish to invoke cloture. we k exactly how to do it. that is fine and legitimate. but at least the senate ought to take a direct approach to that question: has it heard egh upon this measure. and does it  want to restrict amendments to those which are at the desk. second. does it wish to provide 1 hour for each of the 100 senators. or does it wish to hear more debate. those are legitimate questions. and we may be required to decide them. from what i see. we probably will. but why have the screen of this substitute as the subject for debate when its only purpose. obviously. is to reconsider the amendment. which. as i say. has already been voted on five times. for these reasons. i believe a tabling motion is perfectly proper. i speak of this in a sense of explanation. because i am  happy about such a motion. i do  like it. as i say. i have been the victim of a tabling motion far more often than i have been the beneficiary. i seek to justify the reason why. in this particular case. such a motion is proper. also. as a very necessary part of making this motion. i wish to spread upon the record the differences between the house bill. which is sought to be substituted. and the senate bill. the differences are significant and substantial. the most significant being the difference between cease and desist and court enforcement. in the second place. state and local people are covered by the senate bill. but are  covered by the house bill. third. the house bill does  extend coverage to more private enterprise employers. the senate bill does. to employers of eight or more persons. as distinguished from 25 in the house bill. and fourth. educational institutions are included in the senate bill. other amendments which relate to the importance of whether the senate bill should be the one that prevails include one which deals with the coverage of federal employees and the extent of coverage. they include one which deals with the transfer of pattern and practice suits from the department of justice to the commission after 2 years. aher deals with backpay limitations for 2 years from the date of complaint. which is in the house bill. rather than from the date of the chargethat is. the filing of the chargewith the commission. which is  in the senate bill. as it is amended. there are other differences. but i have given the basic and significant differences which. it seems to us. dictate that the senate has a superior instrument for working the senates will on the house bill. but in the final essence. the matter is very clear. this is simply an effort to reargue and revote on the dominick amendment. it results in giving us an issue that is  a substantive issue that ought to tie up further debate on the bill. if we are going to get cloture. let us get it directly on the fundamental issue involved. namely. does the senate wish to hear further debate on the bill. and how much. or does it wish to limit debate. remembering that every senator is limited in his right to speak.
. just to consummate and complete the argument i made against this amendment. pointing out that it would torpedo orders of courts seeking to correct a history of unjust discrimination in employment on racial or color grounds. because it would prevent the court from ordering specific measures which could assign specific percentages of miities that had to be hired. and that could apply to government as well as private employers. i have just had my attention called to two recent cases. both involving consent decrees negotiated by the justice department. one is a case in the u.s. district court in boston and aher in kansas. in one case. part of the decree required that 166 negroes and puerto ricans be given preferencein filling future vacancies for which they were qualified. in the othercase in kansas. the company agreed to make a goodfaith effort to hire from three miity groups for 20 percent of the clerical positions to be filled in the next 3 years. this amendment would make it impossible for the justice departament to obtain such decrees in the future. i ask unanimous consent that a news item in the daily labor report of december 22. 1971. concerning these two cases be printed in the record.
well. it is so simple it vould give trouble. in fact. i can state what it is. let me briefly state what both of these amendments would do. the amendment to the amendment of the senator from th carolina to which i refer would reduce the coverage to 15 rather than eight. that is an effort to meet the views of certain of our members. the senator from new hampshire . for example. who feel strongly on this subject. the other amendment which senator williams and i have prepared and will file today would preserve in the commission the authority to conduct hearings and to certify the record together with its recommendations to the court. but only the court will be able to enter a decree. it was the feeling on our part that we are dealing with substance.  form. and if senators have deep feelingsas the close votes have indicatedabout ceaseanddesist orders being issued by the commission. we are trying to walk the extra mile ourselves. these are two things which senator williams and i have agreed on. and as i understand the senator from colorado wishes to resubmit his amendment as a substitute for the latter of the two propositions i have referred to. so it is highly unlikely that we can do that this week. but certainly as to the number of employees involved. we can move. and if senator williams is willing. we are prepared.
it does. it is an open covenant. openly arrived at. we are up against two problems: first. the difficulty of the commission having power to conclude these cases. and the second is court congestion. we give up that power of the commission to issue cease and desist orders. which is important. but we retain the ability to get over the matter of court congestion because we give the commission the ability to hear the case and make its recommendation and findings to the court.
. i must make two comments with respect to the statement of the senator from colorado. it would be a remedy long deferred by very extended court calendars that are already heavily overloaded. the senator proposes by his amendmentwhich he thinks is an improvement--to make it a threejudge court. sitting on the nisi prius basis. which means taking evidence. considering the problems we have with court congestion already. i am appalled to think of what would happen if we provided for three judges on these trials. with a prolonged trial in a case of this character. involving discrimination. if we were going to go that route. i have very grave doubt that what the senator has  proposed is  a regressive step rather than a progressive one.
in a minute. if i might finish. i might say that what we have done is. we believe. a very marked effort to make the remedy meaningful. the way we propose to make it meaningful is by really supplying a separate court. a special master. or a referee. really. the procedure we have outlined is pretty much what special masters and referees in bankruptcy do. it serves to divert from the court a great body of hearings. evidence. and so on. which is terribly time consuming and would only be aggravated by the congestion on the calendar. in new york. where we have such a terrible narcotics problem we are establishing a narcotics court. we have established rent courts. in other jurisdictions.  only my own. efforts have been made to deal with the grave problem of court congestion in that way. by adapting the court system to the situation. for all those reasons i believe we are very materially effecting the remedy. one other thing i say to my friend in all fairness. he has always voted for civil rights measures. he is  an anticivilrights person. i meant him and others when i said there is a difference between us in method but certainly difference in the fact that the senator wants to get this bill passed. the senator joined in letting the bill be reported from the committee where he could have filibustered it. the senator voted for cloture and for civil rights. i have challenge of that in any way. as a matter of fact. i said some people we can reconcile. but one of those is  the senator from colorado. the other thing i ask the senator is this. he has spoken with great assurance about the fact that all we have to do is go his way. that. if we could. and i do  believe we can. the bill would be passed. cxviii- 214---part 3 does  the senator feel that he is 6ut there adventuring in tht wild blue yonder. too. after all. the senator does  control those who absolutely oppose it. there is a hard coreeven if we should get it through. i have done my utmost as has the senator from new jersey to walk the extra mile. we really. honestly. genuinely thought we were making a material compromise. a concession. in eliminating the ceaseanddesist power. remember. this is the legend on the package and it is what all the civil rights groups have been agitating for. what the unions have been agitating forand look at the publicity this morning. be fair to us. what did the publicity say this morning. it said we had given away a great deal. we did  write that. they did. i beg the senator to do that. in view of his devotion to the civil rights cause for so long. which i confirm. and the feeling he has that we have  tried to walk down the road toward it.
this executive agency is responsible to the courts and the court will issue a decree. i would feel that we were answering one big thing and that is the question of the power of the agency to brand a respondent as guilty. i do think that is a big thing. in terms of the procedural situation respecting the courts i believe hearing the case and certifying the record is an important power and it is a compromise. but i really feel their inability to issue an order against a respondent is a very big thing. and it is my beliefand  necessarily that of the senator from colorado. he rebutted that. but those who espouse the court position generally took that point of view. that is. they felt that the power which was granted by cease and desist was the power to brand the respondent as a person who had done wrong. had discriminated. that this was so potent a power they did  want the commission in zeal to exercise it. so i think in our way. by giving only the court power to issue such an orderi want the senator to understand that the power to contest it before the court issues an order is a very imporant point for the respondent. under a ceaseanddesist power he could have made his case. then the commission would issue a ceaseanddesist order. but under the way we have it  the commission would have made its recommendation before there was a condemnation. as it were. of the respondent. and the respondent still could have his day in court in opposition to that before a judge actually rules. i think that is a very important power. i can conceive of many cases in which it is important to get the reversal. if that is what one wishes to call it. before an order is issued. rather than after a ceaseanddesist order is issued. considering employee relations. trade union relations. and relations with the public in terms of sales. and so on. so i think it is very important.
if i may reply to that. because i think it points up the case. in the first place. there has been much argument by those taking the senators position that lord ks what rulings on the evidence. and so forth. would be made by the hearing examiners for the commission. that the commission could write a cease and desist order on that. but under this proposal the court is able to make interlocutory rulings on the controlling questions of law in the course of proceeding before the commission. so i think that is an important concession. the other important concession is one i mentioned before. the respondent is  branded. as it were. as a violator of the civil rights law. with all that implies in public relations. and so forth. by the commission. but the commissions recommendations have to be dealt with by the court. and it is only the court that makes the order. of course. if a respondent is going to default. if he is  going to appear. if he is  going to contest. then a court. even on the complaint. on default could enter an order. the court is  going to have a trial if there is defense or if there is answer. but if the respondent is going to answer and is going to contest. it seems to me we put him in a much more advantageous position to do so before the court. in addition. the court may determine that it requires more evidence. in which case it can send it back to the commission to get more evidence. if it desires to get more evidence.
if imay just finish. so i think the rights which are conferred in terms of the respondent are very real and that there is  an automatic progression. the steamroller which the opponents of this idea have so strongly argued. of a commission rolling over a respondent and coming down with a cease and desist order. i think the commission can be stopped by way of a court intervening in an interlocutory way while the proceedings are going on. and. second. that hing issues by way of determination until the court has  only considered the record but the opposition to the record interposed by the respondent. on those grounds. i think that there is a real difference
 i would  be in favor of that. because that is where the calendars are jammed. what i have tried to doand the senator has brought it upis to make the commission a special master or referee. which the court could appoint anyhow. that is all we are doing. we are enabling the commission to act in the same way that a referee or special master could act.
the court has that right. anyway. i do  k of any of these cases which have been referred to them. but i have doubt they can do it. as the senator ks. it is hard to decide these matters while one is standing on his feet debating the issue. but i believe the rules of civil procedure in the federal district courts permit the appointment of a master to take the evidence.
let me ask the senator. in return. just by way of speculationand e of us ks what this means. because we need to check back on itbut under his amendment. would he care to give the court the right to refer the issue to the commission as a special master.
. the whole provision is selfoperative in seeking to set a time when. if the parties can agree. something else should happen. whether it is litigation or a complaint leading to a ceaseanddesist order. i have never heard of a case in which a court could force anybody to make a settlement. the court might call them up to the bench and urge strongly that they settle and might imply that things go wrong if they do . but to provide that some court should review the determination that they can settle is almost unheard of. i can conceive of how a lawyer could advance such a proposal.
if the commission acts and the statute calls for a determination. the commission runs the risk that its decision may be upset if the court determines. on reviewand there is adequate judicial reviewthat the necessary procedures provided by law were  complied withto wit. that they did  try to conciliate and that they actually felt that they could  get a conciliation agreement. it seems to me that a pendente lite decision on that score would simply hold up the works forever and espouse the proposition that people can be made to settle. which just is  a judicial proposition.
in addition. i think the other critical point is that negotiations for settlement are traditionally without prejudice. the senators amendment would seek to make the negotiation of a settlement a judicial proceeding. again an absolutely unheard of provision. ones rights are cut off. the respondent can appeal in the event he is  satisfied and has gone through the necessary procedures. also. the party most affectedto wit. the basic party in interestthe claimant. as it wereis  cut off from a suit that he is  a party to the settlement of. this bill adequately provides for that. under those circumstances. it seems to me inconceivable that we would enter into a court proceeding test. whether the commission could or could  get a conciliation agreement. in terms of the fairness of such a conciliation agreement. which gets down to the point that we would substitute the court for the parties insofar as a settlement is concerned. if the court is going to get into that. to decide whether it will or will  restrain or permit the commission to make a settlement. i can see how. without running afoul of the basic principles of settlement in litigated cases. we can do it through the courts at this stage of the proceedings. the opponents of this bill have made many amendments to it which were arguable but. in the case of this amendment. i can see how it can stand the proposition among lawyers in respect of the problems of settlement of a case or of conciliating one.
the commission runs the danger. it runs the risk that the whole proceeding may be upset after the cease and desist stage or the litigation stage. i doubt very much that any commission would omit so simple a step as to certify for the record that they were unable to work out a conciliation agreement. under this amendment i do  k what the court would decide or how a court could probe into the minds of members of the commission. whether they did or did . in good faith. decide that they would or would  work out a conciliation agreement which the respondent might have wished. i can see how we could possibly encompass this kind of provision related to settlements. it certainly is completely outside the purview of the experience of every lawyer.  only myself. but i k of lawyer who would for a moment think that we could submit this to the courts as to whether the parties should settle. if they settle. they do. if . they do  and they go to court. this tries to introduce a totally different standard than anything encompassed by our laws of practice. for all these reasons. . i hope that the* amendment will be rejected.
we are  both right. because filing a proceeding with a court does  initiate a proceeding. ody is heard. it is true that the court is informed that such a proceeding is pending. so that. if an issue of law is involved. and the parties go before the court. it does  come from the moon. i agree with the senator that perhaps it is sui generis. it is  the pattern of mal proceedings.
 i have heard with great interest the arguments of the senator from colorado. but i really think that to engage in a discussion as to which will be more time consuming. though i think it is very important in terms of choosing between remedies. is really  relevant to the choice between the two methods of approach to the court system which are contained in the amendment of senator williams and myself and that of senator dominick. once you are over on the court system. the question is. how do you minimize an extended burden. rather than what we propose in the bill fundamentally. which is that the proceedings leading to a ceaseanddesist order take place in the commission. the issuance of a ceaseanddesist order by the commission is an important authority. and is a remedy of a really different order of magnitude. because it enables the commission to make a finding. which is incorporated in an order. which is then made public. and which brands a particular respondent as a discriminator. that is. its real importance. and it is substantially extremely important. because we are dealing here with business concerns. practically all of which are dependent upon public patronage for their future. therefore. the power to issue a ceaseanddesist order is a very substantive power and a very thorough power in bringing respondents to book. and hence an agency which has that power has much more chance of cutting down its workload than an agency which has . because there is a certain finality in what it deals with. and we feel very strongly that the reason for the backlog in the equal employment opportunity commission is precisely this lack of any finality. that the best we can do is say. "okay. we can conciliate this. we may complain to other government departments with whom you have contracts. but essentially you are on your own. go ahead and sue." but  we come to a situation in which we have been unable. withstanding the will of the majority of this body. to prevail in that view. everyone ks that. including the senator from colorado. so we have to consider what else we may do under the circumstances. because the will of the senate is going to be determined.  by a majority. as the constitution requires. but by twothirds. so the senator from new jersey and i have decided that we simply have to seek an accommodation with the miity. which is what it is. in order to go the court route. and we feel that in doing that.  we are going to a totally different type of enforcement. and we ought at least to try to deal with the question of congested court calendars. that is what it really comes out to. and the only way we see we can deal with the question of congested court calendars is. for all practical purposes. to make the commission an official referee. so that. as is the practice in bankruptcy or where a special master is appointed in a given case. the case is heard. the findings of fact and conclusions of law are offered to the court. and the record is closed. except if a court desires it added to. so we felt that that was a way. especially in the big industrial centers. to cut down the time delay. and that is all our amendment is about. for all practical purposes. we have gone over to the court method. but we have gone over to it in an effort and with a technique which can cut the timelag very materially. frankly. i will because i think it is footlessbe drawn into an argument with the senator from colorado about the niceties of the practice in both of these approaches. though he said that we file a copy of a complaint in court. i point out that that does  represent a proceeding. it represents ice to the court. and time delay whatever is involved in that. as to the other niceties of procedure. i do see a major difference in a dependence upon congested court calendars. whether it is a threejudge court or a onejudge court. and that is the step which we are trying to abbreviate. without in any way jeopardizing the rights of the parties who are protected before the hearing examiner by the administrative procedures act and the review of the court which is bound to ensue in our case. there is other way. because the court can issue the decree. again i point out that you are dealing with such long delays in the courts that justice deferred is justice denied. it is interesting to compare the time relationships to the statute itself. let us understand that we are dealing with a round period of approximately 150 days. that that is the allowable time for the commission to move into a given situation. the first 30 days represents an effort to conciliate. making a total of 6 months. so that is the commission operation. at the end of 6 months. it becomes plenary. looking down the list of these delays in all the court cases. we find that the average is 17 months. as you go down the circuits in the individual district courtsand that is where the overwhelming majority of these cases will lodgeit is simply appalling. because in the courts where you are going to have the major cases and the congestion in the great industrial states. the delays are in excess of 18 months. in my own state of new york. for examplei say this with tearsthere is a delay in the second circuit. in the southern district. which is the primary business district. of 35 months in civil cases. as you go down the list. what do you find. massachusetts. an industrial state. 19 months. new hampshire. which is  an industrial state. 14 months. rhode island. aher industrial state. 18 months. connecticut. aher industrial state. 27 months. the state of new york. practically all industrialized. less than 18 months. and that is in the western district. around buffalo. and 35 months in the southern district. which is the major district. new jersey. an industrial state. 29 months. in pennsylvania. a major industrial state. the least delay is in the middle district. 23 months.. the most delay is in the eastern district. * around philadelphia. 41 monthsprobably the longest in the country. and so on as you go down the line. as you tackle the industrial states. you find that that is where the congestion is the most severe. and that is where your problem is. it is even interesting that in alabama. a southern state. generally a rural state. the minute you get into an industrial areato wit. the southern district of alabama. which undoubtedly includes birminghamyou have a 20month delay. when you get into other industrial statesas. for example. f1listhe least delay is in the eastern district. 16 months. bqt in the thern district. which is chicago. 20 months. that is what the amendment of senator williams and myself seeks to cut down. and hing more than that. as a matter of fact. you could write our amendment very unelaborately by simply including a proviso that in all such cases there shall be a referee or special master and it shall be the commission. unless there is some good reason to the contrary. and you can eliminate the rest of it and get down to the nub of what we are trying to accomplish.
that is all. that is the big deficiency in the amendment. that we will cut the time. cut the delay by somewhere around 14 months. given the average of all the district courts which is in the area of 17 monthsthe average. aside from the big industrial places where it is very much greater. we have been frustrated. we can get cease and desist. we should get it. but we can. even though the majority says they want it. so we have got to go to court proceedings. at least. let us  break the backs of the courts. that is all we ask. therefore. we believe that the dominick amendment should be rejected and ours should be approved.
. i would say to the senator that it probably will  expedite it as much because of the fact that in most cases we do  even have the background of a referee in bankruptcy who deals with the subject all the time. as a commissioner would. with the opportunity to establish guidelines and the ground rules in a given place. in a given court. namely. the u.s. district court for the district of columbia. i do  believe it would be as expeditious. however. it would certainly be an improvement on the dominick scheme.
. even though the majority of the senate wants cease and desist. it can have it. the way the senate is organized today and the way rule xxii operates. so the question. then. is what kind of court proceeding should there be. the senator from new jersey and i have realistically understood that. and done our best to present to the senate a practice which differs from that of the dominick amendment in the essential point that we have the commission which is holding the hearing through its hearing examiner certify the record to the court and make recommendations respecting findings of fact and remedies. that is. a decree. then the court. and only the court. has the power to enter a decree. we believe that by vesting in the commission this authority to hear. we are in effect automatically providing a special master or referee in each case. and that thereby we would be able to cut down the tremendous court delay. we submitted our chart of the official record of the u.s. district court backlog. which showed that we ought to be able to cut that backlog time by more than half by the techniques we have suggested. i analyzed the objections of the department of justice. and showed that they were based upon illusion and  upon fact. because the department of justice tells us that the courts can resolve cases speedily. they can. but they will . because they have these tremendous backlogs. they say the courts can deal with critical and sensitive cases. again. that is precisely why we have commissions. to build up a body of expertise to deal with critical and sensitive cases. they tell us the courts are resolving critical and sensitive cases in other civil rights areas such as housing and education. and we point out that there is time to move around and have a proceeding. which differs from employment. second. we point out that in these particular areas you are dealing mainly with governmental entity. for all those reasons. we believe that the difference respecting the procedure which is involved in terms of cutting down the time lag attributable to the court delays because of the tremendously congested calendars can very much better be handled by the amendment of senator williams and myself. beyond anything else. i emphasize the narrowness of the difference. the fact is that this is going to court. the fact is that it is the court which will make a decree. under our amendment or his amendment. the fact is. as senator cooper properly pointed out. that the technique of special masters or referees is  unusual. it can be used. and we require it to be used. in addition. we get the benefit of the administration which has great expertise in a central procedure fully protected by the administrative procedure act. finally. i think this absolutely dispenses with the argument that you are putting the powers of investigation and of punishment in the hands of one body. in the first place. we do it with many other bodies. but that is ended. because both amendments vest the power to issue the decree ab initio. in the first instance. in the court. for all those reasons. i believe that our amendment is a distinct improvement. that it gives a great benefit. considering the nature of the discriminationto wit. in jobsover that of the senator from colorado. and that his amendment should be rejected and ours should be supported by the senate.
. in the area in which the department of justice will deal with government entity. we leave the right to sue with them. so. to inhibit the transfer of pattern and practice suits is simply to create two agencies to do the work of one. if we inhibit that. we risk complete confusion as both the commission and the attorney general can proceed in exactly the same kind of case. there is really reason for it in view of the legal staff and the other reasons which the commission itself would develop. there is one further point on which i draw again from my experience with respect to the civil rights act of 1964. i have said on a number of occasions in this debate that that was a compromise and that much was given up. especially in respect of the right of seeking a remedy against discrimination in employment. and one of the things that was given up was any enforcement authority or the right to sue by the eeoc that we are trying to repeal . that is why we felt we had to give the attorney general the power to sue in big cases. in class action cases. and in cases where there was a constant pattern of discrimination directed at individuals with limited resources whom we were relegating to the courts and who could hardly be expected to carry such a broad and deep case. we are  changing that and giving it back to the commission. it seems to me that the logical conclusion which follows from that is that the authority previously given to the justice department is longer necessary. for all of those reasons and with special emphasis upon the fact that we made the decision yesterday. which it seems to me is absolutely controlling on this amendment. i believe that the amendment should be rejected.
. i would like to point out for the record that we have said at page 11 of the report: a question was raised in the committee concerning the application of title vii in the case of a gover whose cabinet appointees and close personal aides are drawn from one political party. the committees intention is that hing in this bill should be interpreted to prohibit such appointments unless they are based on discrimination because of race. color. religion. sex or national origin. that intention is reflected in sections 703(h) and 706(w) of the law. incidentally. that should be 706(g) and  (w). when we turn to that section. we find that the prohibition in the law has to do with one who was refused employment. suspended. or discharged for any reason other than discrimination on account of race. color. religion. sex. or national origin. or in violation of section we think it would  be unlawful to refuse employment or to discharge or suspend anyone on grounds other than discrimination. we had in mind that that was a protective provision. however. if we look at the term "employee." which is found at the top of page 49 of the report. it says: the term "employee" means an individual employed by an employer. so i think we have covered the person elected to office.
i do  think we can mandate a court to do that. i did use the word "shall." but as a lawyer. i believe with such a provision in the law it would give a lawyer for either side the opportunity to apply to the court for such procedure in order to expedite the case. that is my thought in proposing it.
of course. the senator from th carolina. who is as good a lawyer as i am. ks that the overwhelming majority of cases in equity are tried without a jury. so i am  too inhibited by the fact that the senator would seek to provide for a jury trial. however. that is the senators right. as it is my right to seek some way of expediting this court procedure. which is what this amendment proposes.
having given the instance before. i give it again. in my own home state of new york we have had a job discrimination bill since 1946. the famous ivesquinn bill. the principal author of which was senator irving ives. who served in this body for two terms and with whom i had the great privilege of serving earlier in my incumbency here. our experience there has been that the cases are relatively few. that the overwhelming majority of cases are settled by conciliation procedures. that the fears which we expressed in 1945. when that bill was being considered. which were precisely those we hear here. of harassment and persecution of employers. were never realized. sure. it has worked inadequately. i am sure we still have some discrimination. we still have complaints and court cases. and so forth. but on the whole it has been a remarkably successful reform. as it will be when nationally carried through under this bill. so. . the best proof is experience. and experience contradicts the network of fears which have been argued here against this measure. finally. we all k that we face a great social problem in this country. and that is the problem of an integration of the black community into the society of the united states. uninhibited by the three centuries old tradition beginning with times of slavery. in which it first saw light in this country. this is a constant struggle which certainly can be dealt with according to the processes of law and the constitution. if we are ready to afford a remedy when there is a legitimate grievance. as there is in this case. as witness the thousands of complaints which the eeoc has received since 1964. so. in the interest of peace and tranquillity at home. this is an absolutely indispensable measure. for all those reasons. i hope that the senate. being  ready to vote. will commit itself to vote by voting cloture today.
. the pending amendment seeks to authorize 10 positions in the socalled higher grades 16. 17. and 18. for the purposes of buttressing the higher level staff of the. equal employment opportunity commission in connection with the new responsibilities which it would have under this bill. we are advised by the commission that this is the absolute rockbottomn minimum number with which it can even begin to hope to do the job which we are assigning it under this measure. that includes. of course. an enlarged jurisdiction relating to employers of small numbers of workers. down to 15 from the present 25. it includes the right to go into court and start suits. which the commission has  had before. and it includes. with respect to employees of other units of government. state. and local. the responsibility to look into situations and try to handle them by conciliation. the actual litigation being undertaken by the attorney general. the mere recital of those responsibilities indicates the size of the job. and it seems to me and to the senator from new jersey that the 10 additional positions sought is by means out of line or unreasonable. and is certainly credible on the basis of the new ambit of their responsibilities. so i hope very much that the senate. in the process of giving them the authority. will give them the means with which to discharge the responsibility.
 what is sought to be done here is to apply a particular provision of the civil rights act of 1964 to the executive order in order to make unlawful any affirmative action plan like the socalled philadelphia plan. and. by including the executive order in this title. that would effectively be done. so that the federal government. as an employer. would be inhibited from putting into effect such a plan. we have held that. because the federal governmentwe voted on that here. we debated it and we decided ithas an interest in maintaining constitutionall guarantees. it has discretion as to whom it will contract with and will  contract with. to affirmatively encourage discrimination and full utilization of miity group employees and women. so weand the courts have sustained uspermitted the federal government to put into effect an affirmativeaction plan. this amendment. for practical purposes. would simply nullify that action. for those reasons. i oppose the amendment and hope it will be rejected.
. the pending amendment really originated with the senator from kentucky . i begged him to offer the amendment. however. with traditional modesty. he asked me to do so and allowed me to join him as a cosponsor. it arose from the dominick amendment. on which the senator from kentucky based his position that the courts could proceed as they wished on the appointment of a master under rule 53 of the federal rules of civil procedure. the mal rule as to the ability of the court to appoint a master if it wishes under rule 53 is quite stringentthe case must be truly exceptional to qualify. all this amendment does is relax that stringency in the area of title 7 cases. where justice delayed is very often justice denied.
. when you take the swann case and the scottmansfield amendment. you are doing what those who are friendly to the enforcement of the constitution would agree needs to be done. but if you follow the griffin route. matter how you describe it. the fact is that it cancels out the practical probability of desegregating the schools of the countryth and south. east and west. i do  challenge for one minute the good faith of any senator who supports the griffin amendment. but the effect of it. i argueand that is why i said i would be addressing myself to the argumentif it can be done constitutionallyand that is a big questionit cuts off the de jure desegregation casesi am  talking about de facto of the public schools that remain still segregated. the reason for that is that the court itself has held. and all the testimony before the select committee which the senator from minnesota heads. and of which i am a member. has demonstrated. that some busing is an indispensable ingredient of the effort to bring into constitutional conformance schools which are   complying with the guarantees of the constitution. there is question about the effort which is made by the amendment to cut that off entirely. therefore. i sayand i say it advisedlythat adoption of this amendment. if it becomes law. would dismantle the effort to desegregate the public schools of the country in accordance with the requirements of the 14th amendment. granting and  withstanding the utmost good faith of those who support this position. second. and very important. i have grave doubts as to whether it is constitutionally possible to engage in this condign cutoff of a remedy. let us remember that effort is made by this amendment to deprive courts of jurisdiction over school desegregation cases under the 14th amendment. what is sought to be cut off is a remedy. however clear the cases are that jurisdiction can be taken away from the federal courts lower than the u.s. supreme courtwhich is the only court actually recognized by the constitutionit is  at all clear that if we do  take away the jurisdiction the congress has conferred. we can take away a remedy. one of the remedies which the court may wish to utilize in respect to exercising its jurisdiction. i think that is a very grave question. one which would bring us. i believe. into conflicts with the courts--conflicts which i do  believe we wish to incur.  on the issue of policy. i think we have a very profound social question before the congress. matter how one slices it or limits it. certainly the mansfieldscott amendment deals with the problem very effectively and substantively. the fact is if we do  have some residual rights with respect to busing clearly defined. clearly delimited. in the armory of means available to the courts to desegregate public schools. we are simply  going to desegregate them in a very important measure. it does. however its detractors may seek to describe it. have that result. as i believe that there is a miity here--i do  k how large or how small a miitywhich in effect does  wishwithstanding the need for some busing in that regardto desegregate the public schools. this is a perfectly legitimate exercise of their opportunity or right to seek to legislate in that way. i certainly oppose it. but i can allow the argument to stand that we are really  doing anything about the desegregation process by depriving the courts of this remedy. circumscribed as it is circumscribed in the scottmansfield amendment as it relates to the authority of federal officials by adopting the swann case definition and implementing it the way the amendment does. for all those reasons. i say those who favor enforcement of the 14th amendment in respect of schools should vote against the griffin amendment. this is the solid. basic line of division. as to the implementation of how we are to go about circumscribing. preventing excesses. heeding those who have made complaints about busing. we do that very adequately in respect of the scottmansfield amendment. and coupling that with the swann decision. for those reasons. i hope very much the griffin amendment will be rejected.
i have been here a long time. i argued civil rights acts. since 1957. there is always the argument that new york. chicago. and san francisco failed to measure up to any standard the court has set. we measure up to stronger standards because the court threw out an effort to inhibit the commissioner of education to bring about racial balance through legislation stronger than anything here. new york will stand up quite well when placed side by side with what is being perpetuated in other states. if the entire country were following the standards that new york is endeavoring to follow we would have fewer problems. we have tremendous difficulties. just as they have in other parts of the country. we would be a lot further advanced along this line than we are if we had the kind of federal government support contemplated by this bill. i am sorry. but i can accept the senators argument. suppose new york blatantly violated the law as mississippi did in 1956. 1957. or 1958. is that any excuse for mississippi. of course . is the fact that there are a lot of drug pushers around in new york. san francisco. or other places any reason why drug pushers should  be jailed in washington. d.c.. or peoria. ill.. of course . i can accept that argument. it has been used here time and time again. it does  stand up on the facts. and i do  think it can guide or prevail upon the judgment of any senator worthy of the name.
i think these abstractions relate to questions for the courtanswers will vary from case to caseand by subparagraph (b) we have introduced the criteria by which they may be judged. i think those criteria are essentially the criteria as set out in the swann case. with the qualification which we have made here which i think is a critically important aspect in this whole measure and which. unfortunately. is inadequately ed. that is that the congress. if this becomes the law. has  introduced the criteria that impinging upon the educational process of the children in the school to which the child is bused also becomes a pertinent element here and a criteria upon which the courts and government departments can judge. to me. that represents a critically important expansion of the idea which begins to be phrased in the swann case. i think that is a very significant. perhaps the most substantive. to mei speak as one senatoraspect of this amendment. . as to the question respecting the educational process which the senator has raised. i can only refer the senator to a very interesting case. the case of lee against nyquist. which is a case decided by a threejudge federal district court in my own state. and which subsequently was affirmed by the u.s. supreme court without opinion. that was a case respecting an effort to limit the power of the commissioner of education of the state of new york to correct racial imbalance where he felt there was educational deficiency. the legislature sought to restrict his authority in that regard. and that was stricken down as unconstitutional. i cite that opinion because i think it is critically important to our discussion here. because we have said it time and time again. and we say it in the matter before us. but it is very- interesting. i read from the opinion. on page 714. where it says: although there may be constitutional duty to undo de facto segregation. it is by  well documented and widely recognized by educational authorities that the elimination of racial isolation in the schools promotes the attainment of equal educational opportunity and is beneficial to all students. both black and white. i think that is an extremely pertinent conclusion come to by a federal court in respect of the substantive aspect of our argument.
i can tell the senator why that date was fixed. because the date is  the product of my mind. the reason that i voted for it. the only thing that i can answer for. is because it was a part of the package of compromise. and this was distinctly a compromise. and one which does  leave me very happy. but which etheless i felt in conscience represented a possibility for compromise in the senate. and it seemed to me. therefore. to be a way out of the ballpark. in view of the incidents .in the richmond case. to give the court an opportunity for limiting the maximum period within which that basic question as to transportation between the city and the suburbsin other words. the issue of metropolitanization. socalledshould be decided. i did  want to put any restraints upon it. but if it was a part of a compromise. i felt in conscience i had to support it. i did  consider the problem. in the final analysis. in providing for more than a year. to be an unreasonable ceiling upon the decision of that question. withstanding the feeling that this is a new. very important question. and that the courts should be given a chance. at the highest level. to decide it. that was the only rationale that i can find.
. i have had pending on the desk since last year s. 2962. a bill to amend the manpower development and training act of 1962 to provide financial assistance for a special manpower training and employment program for criminal offenders and for persons charged with crimes. and for other purposes. which is subject to referral. i should like to propound a parliamentary inquiry.
. i will  go over the ground so excellently trod by my friend. the senator from minnesota. i. too. have grave doubts as to the constitutionality of this provision. as i had grave doubts as to the constitutionality of that part of the scottmansfield amendment on which this is based. other than the question of inequity in appeals which the senator from minnesota has so very eloquently pictured. i am very troubled as to what this could do with respect to existing orders. it is said by the senator from tennesseeand i k that he means every word of it in the best of faiththat this applies to the cases in which the orders are  final. however. he does  deny that it relates to future cases which may arise between  and the expiration date. june 30. 1973. therefore. i see the distinct probability that those districts which are very unwilling participants in this process will go into court and seek reform of the equity orders applying to the entire desegregation matter. they will seek an affirmance of that order. if the court actually affirms it. there will be an automatic stay of 16 months. which could undo everything you -are doing . the district does  have to pay attention to the order. that is what the senator from tennessee is handing them on a silver platter. i do  believe we can build that kind of structure. which could invalidate everything we are doing. from the fact that in one caseto wit. richmond. in a particular set of circumstances. where they are dealing with new law. because  the court is requiring busing interdistrictwe are going to make that the basis for a dismantlement operation which this amendment would put into effect. i repeat again that i k the senator from tennessee means everything he says in the utmost good faith as to the finality of proceedings. and that it would  be terminated by.final order. but i see hing here to prevent any district from going to court and. if they can. get affirmative modification involving transportation. that is it. they are out of the whole thing for 16 months. i do  believe this could be our intention. therefore. i hope very much the senate rejects the amendment.
. if we really want to bollix up the works and confuse the united states and kk down the court system. this is an ideal way to do it. we could have 50 suits to enjoin the judge of a particular court under this particular section if it should become law. i would like to read from the amendment. it reads in part: a parent or guardian of a child. or parents or guardians of children similarly situated. transported to a public school in accordance with a court order. may seek to enjoin the further implementation of such court orderwe could  be any more specific than that.
. i state. as i began. that i see objection whatever to giving the parent or parents as a group the right to proceed in a court in respect of a court order in the court which issued the order. but the senator would  do that. he said they may seek to enjoin further implementation of such orders. so they collaterally attack it.  by suing judge cox. but the defendant in judge coxs court. so it could be collaterally attacked in 16 other courts. wherever they reside. i hardly think the senate would wish to proliferate that attitude. i repeat that i see hing wrong with an amendment that would give standing in court. we have these amendments time and time again. that is why we have conferences in the corridors and elsewhere. i am  unaware of the total body of law. i do  k whether aggrieved parties have the right to interplead today. but if they do have. i do  see any objection to that. they should have the right to come into court where a matter is being considered to interplead. to seek to vacate it. reform it. and to seek to do so as individuals or as a class. i am agreeable to that but this amendment does  do that. this amendment. as i read it. would authorize a collateral attack upon the court order by attacking the defendants in that court order in aher jurisdiction. or even in the same court. in a separate suit. which might be consolidated or might  be. for all those reasons i oppose the amendment. i suggest to the senator that he probably looked up the law which i have  had an opportunity to do. but if there is any question about the standing of a parent or guardian. or a group of parents or group of guardians in a class interpleader to have standing in court with respect to an order made or pending against a local educational agency. i would have objection to that. but this does  do that.
. i think it is most unfair to me to place me in the position of opposing the right of a party to intervene in order to get justice from a court order. i stland for it. i maintain it. i do  oppose it. and i do  say they have to sue the judge. you might. you could under this amendment. but you do  have to. you could sue the defendant. but it is a collateral attack. it is trying the same issue again. therefore. the way the amendment should read is that the parent or guardian of a child may intervene in respect of any further implementation of any court order involving busing: such intervention will also lie if the effect of a court order is to significantly impinge on the educational process. and the intervention may be by a class as well as by individuals. that is the way this amendment ought to read. i would like my colleague from kentucky. who is an excellent lawyer. to tell me what is wrong with that. is that denying the people a remedy or creating an effective remedy without creating anarchy in the courts.
 i think if the language conforms to the practice of the court. which the senator from kentucky and i contend for. that would be one thing. but what is being done here is giving a right to intervene to present the case. the amendment which i have drafted. standing on my feet. provides that the parent or guardian of a child. or parents or guardians of children similarly situated. transported to a public school in accordance with a court order. may seek to intervene in the further implementation of such court order. currently in effect. if the time or distance of travel is so great as to risk the health of the student. such intervention will also lie if the effect of a court order is to significantly impinge on the educational process. and the intervention may be by a class as well as by individuals--further. such parent or guardian shall have the right to intervene and to bring a class action to enjoin such a busing plan on behalf of such studefit and all other students similarly affected thereby. all that does is give them standing in court. it may  be the right or best way to couch this language. but it is an attempt  to throw the courts into anarchy. if it is satisfactory to the senator from georgia. i would be happy to have it adopted.
the senator is correct. the other thing that i can go along with is the item which is found on page 3 in subsection (e). the senator from georgia wants a statement of desegregation enforcement procedures either judicial or administrative contemplated by the department of justice and the department of hew with respect to each of the 100 school systems referred to. that is an effort to show they do  do as much to them as to us. is that to be revised every week or every month. are they committed to that so they can do anything else. even if court decisions dictate something else be done. it just seems to me to be completely impractical to make that kind of requirement for a government department or the department of justice. so i say to the senator from georgia publicly what i said to him privately: for me. i would be perfectly willing to call for a report from the department of hew and from the attorney general as to what they are doing about section 702. that the report would come.  in 4 months. as the senators amendment provides. right in the middle of a presidential campaign. but would come at the end of the year or next year. the senator ks the dates of the calendar as well as i do. for these three reasons. i am firmly opposed to this amendment. as is the senator from rhode island . and i hope the senate will reject it.
. i think the senator from rhode island is right. that the amendment should be explained. so that we get to the precise issue. the precise issue is: the senator from florida says that when we have a court order. whatever the court order says. we do. and then we qualify for the money. the senator from minnesota. . the senator from rhode island and i say that. in addition to complying with the court order. we have got to comply also with some of the elementary precautions. to prevent the trimming of the desegregation process which may be outside the jurisdiction of the court in that case. that is the real issue. we ran into the situation where property was being transferred to freedom academies. and so forth. so we took the precaution of giving the right to administer what will be done with the money to the governmental department in charge. rather than automatically saying that if we comply with a court order we get the money. personally. i like the latter. but the senator from florida is contending for the former. in my judgment. it is  going to make any difference except in a few cases. but there it may make a material difference in the good faith with which this whole program is being administered.
. on january 20. 1972. i introduced s. 3049. s. 3050. and s. 3051. bills which seek to give impetus to our national effort to reduce the level of crime in the nation and to reform our corrections system. ten senators are  cosponsors of one or more of these three bills. i am pleased to add the names of the senator from new jersey and the senator from maryland as cosponsors of all three bills. and the name of the senator from minnesota on s. 3051. i ask unanimous consent that their names be added as cosponsors at the next printing of the bills.
. one further point. we have constantly been running after a passing bus with respect to this matter. there have been occasions. in previous years. when appropriations came through as late as june or the end of june of a given year. obviously. that is bound to be placed less effectively and to court all the deficiencies which we associate with government programs which are the subject of the worst elements of bureaucracy. if we wait that long in order to meet a need. there is bound to be inefficiency. wastefulness. and even injustice. in the second supplemental we will have an opportunity to act in a timely way. certainly it would be great if we could act today but. obviously. for the reasons i have just describedand i understand them wellwe can do so. but we will be able to act the first 2 weeks of april. so that i hope very much the committee will see fit to go a long way toward meeting the recognized need for the slots that the mayors calculate they find essential at a minimum. i shall be glad if the appropriations committee feels it useful that i appear personally before it. i am sure that many other senators will appear personally to testify to the situation in their particular area.
. the handwriting on the wall ought to be plain for all to see. unless we begin to take the fact of correctional failure seriously. and act firmly upon that failure. the reality of crime in our society will continue to restrict our freedom and materially reduce the quality of life for us all.
. i have every confidence that the good will that generally animates us in this body will prevail. that we will publish the transcript. as indeed it should be published. i would like to remind members of something that happened to me when i first came to congress. joe martin. with whom i served in the house. came into the chamber. put his arm around my shoulderthis was in 1947looked around. and said. "jack. just remember. this is a hard place to get to." i think all of us feel that way and we feel that a problem like this can be worked out without particularly circumscribing a senator except in his own conscience and the right of a member to make whatever changes he should make. let us remember that even those changes will be made available to us all. so i do  think members will be wanting to play fast and loose in the transcript. it will all be there. it will  be destroyed. i am sure the deputy majority leader will assure us of that. but in the discussion so far we have rather missed the forest for the trees. we came here for a purpose. that was to find out whether we shall permit publication of a particular document. we were strangely uninformed the other day. i am supposed to do my homework. but i was uninformed. and a lot of us were. the fact is this is a very murky area. the fact is that there is doubt that the executive has any right to classify a paper. and if any person should violate the classification of a paper. that person could go to jail. unless it is in the law. the law affects cryptography and communications directly. it indirectly affects classified material. accepts and grants the fact that it is classified and treated of as if there were some law. it is a crime to give classified material to a foreign agent and a crime for that agent to receive it. if you read the legal justification the department has for classification. the laws ought to be much tighter rather than weaker. from the point of view of protecting the country. and that could be done. in my judgment. without in any way disadvantaging the congress whatsoever. listen to this. lawyers. and see what you think of this.
i think my answer to that would be "yes." if the committee wished. i might tell the senator that i had quite a difference with my own staff about using the word "committed." the word "committed." which i use in the resolution. i have used advisedly. because i did  wish to take cognizance of any other means of acquisition but a commitment. either to the senate or a member thereof. which would mean some lawful delivery or lawful possession. therefore. by using the word advisedly. it seems to me i also include the opposite of that word. and the committee could. if it wished. consider what ought to be done about documents that are  committed to the senate or any member thereof and yet they are in possession of a senator. because they also are called upon to deal with the laws and rules relating toand so forth. it seems to me that. one. i should  give acceptance. as it were. in terms of resolution. to any unlawful means of gaining possession. but that the committee should. etheless. be able to consider all laws and rules relating to any kind of possession. and that is what i tried to sum up in the last clause.
. i wish to enter in the record commendations of two new york journalists--reportersjohn machacek and richard cooper. both of the rochester times union. who recently were awarded the pulitzer prize for general local reportingfame gained for their complete and factual coverage of the attica prison riots. their task was at best arduous and their obstacles many. yet with dedication and perseverance they overcame these obstacles and brought to the american people the truth of this incident. their professionalism in the field of journalism well merits them this coveted ho. indeed. they are a credit to all journalists in the empire state. and serve as an example to the nations young and ambitious journalists.
. i say to the senator from tennessee that one of the things that is troubling me very deeply is that if one is a conferee. as i was. one really has some obligation in good faith to accept a version of what this means. and that is what is giving me the most trouble about this matter. i agree with the senator that if we took it the way its author construed it. though i think it defies its language and assumes a constitutionality which it does  have. then his answer is correct. but by my silence. i would  wish to mislead the senator respecting the imprecision of the language. which i think is  affected by the conference agreement. and the question of constitutionality. if we take the construction of the house of what it meant by its language. which is the language incorporated in this bill. and if the court rules that way. then senator pell is correct in his interpretation.
. that is it. there is choice about it. so we simply have to decide. each of us. it is  a matter of exhortation. this is a deep question of conscience for each of us. what weighs the heaviest in our consciences. let this  be a ice to millions upon millions of americans that some sentiment is sweeping the country which is inimical to their future and their progress. if. as i believe. this is an excellent education bill. we will find a way to make it into law if the senate stands its ground it seems to me this is the most conclusive argument against the griffin motionthat it will turn the clock back even further and give an even worse signal to millions of american people who look to us for a sense of responsibility and a sense of justice and a sense of restraint. whatever may be a prevailing public sentiment. for those reasons--and that is the immediate issue before usi hope the senate will reject the motion of the senator from michigan
. and very importantly. we are trying to deal with a heritage of injustice. let us remember that in the very same room of the old supreme court chamber in the capitol in which we came to the conclusion of this tremendous conference in terms of time and complexity. the case of plessy against ferguson was considered more than 75 years ago. which perpetuated into our law as late as the latter part of the 19th century-
i can confirm that. i am  sure history would  show that there were conferences that lasted even longer or that were tougher. but this ranks with the best of them. i can assure the senator. again. i repeat. because it is from a friend to a friend. my feeling of satisfaction of how well the senator from rhode island carried it off. to resume. the plessy against ferguson doctrine was that of "separate but equal"-that is. that facilities. including schools. could be separate for blacks and whites provided they were equalan anathema to our constitution. an anathema to the dignity of the black man. an anathema to justicefinally reversed by the same supreme court in 1954 in brown against board of education. 58 years later.  some 18 years after that we are still struggling with the concept. so. . i am  unmindful of the fact that there are black groups that themselves adopt a parochial and racist attitude with respect to desegregation of the schools and busing. people in my position have learned. through the years. that you can expect thanks or appreciation when you make very hard and difficult decisions of this nature. but i am deeply convinced that the future of our nation is very heavily tied up with some restoration of real equality between that 11 percent of our population which is black and the 89 percent which is white. and that so much of the difficulty which is being suffered today is due to the heritage of injustice and the result of deprivation practiced over so many years. when the issue is as deep and as moral as that. i do  consider it an issue of the left or the right.
. as i have maintained for 2 days of debate on the conference report. this is a magnificent education bill. however. it is terribly unfortunate that it is marred by unjust. oppressive. unconstitutional. as well as legally vague provisions construed by those who offered them in the other body. and by the managers. as "antibusing." i close with the feeling that i have expressed constantly that the vote is a matter of deep conviction by each individual as to which preponderates. the unjust provision to which i have referred or the benefit of a great education bill. i have chosen the first course. i shall vote " on the report. in addition. i would like to urge the highest priority in the litigation which will test this provision. the committee invites it and i am very pleased the managers do  construe the bloomfield amendment to be retrospective but prospective. the committee invites early judicial consideration. i do. too. i will face happier day than the day the supreme court settles this question and strikes down the amendment and leaves us all to enjoy the great benefits that inhere in this bill.
ial commissions and by hearings that you yourselves have participated in that the poor by and large have little confidence in our society. in its structure. in its institutions. in lawyers. in the law. in the court system. and as a result. when their own rights are  hoed it is  too surprising. i think. that they riot in the streets and that there is violence on our campuses. what we are trying to do in this program is to have a peaceful vehicle where these disputes can be taken from the strifetorn campuses. in the streets and the fire and burnings that are taking place and give these people a peaceful forum in which the grievances that they have against society can be aired. where their position can be set forth and where ody can interfere with that lawyers sole obligation to represent his client. mr. robb feels. and i agree with him. that this is one of the greatest incentives to stop the riots in ghettos and slums. the kinds of riots and unrest which have been such a deplorable feature of our society in recent few years. the american bar association continues to support the enactment of legislation establishing a national legal services corporation and urges that any amendments to s. 3010 seeking to strike the new title be resisted. the substantial support of these organized groups will become even more apparent as we debate this bill.
. the bill does allow clearing agencies to make rules restricting or conditioning participation on certain criteria. such as. for example. geographic location. and it allows agencies to require a deposit from participants. therefore. my question to the distinguished manager of the bill. the senator from new jersey. is this: does the bill also require clearing agencies to grant access to potential participants who are kn to be consorting with criminal elements.
. i gather. then. that the fundamental thrust of the senators measure. which is here presented. will be such as to give the clearing agencies the opportunity to see that they are  imposed upon by participants who are kn to be consorting with criminal elements.
. when there is added to that reference to the guidelines laid down by the supreme court in the mecklenburg decision it seems to me if ever there was a case for a motion to table this is it. so at the appropriate time i shall make that motion.
i wanted to make this point. that this will go to aher committee which gives a chance for aher look. i would commend to the manager of the bill and the ranking miity member the question of the appropriateness of the formula. the formula is different for a criminal punishment than for a civil punishment. i agree. it is a basic constitutional question which the senator from kentucky has brought up. it is most admirable that he raises it. i should like to point out. however. that in the statement on page 4 of the report where we speak of the criminal penalty and responsible persons who convey false information under circumstances in which it was entirely possible that the threat could have been carried out. i respectfully submit to the members of the committee that this is better language. better language for defining the purpose of the act than an apparent determination to carry the threat into execution. it seems to me from the point of view of proof. we are better off if we require proof of circumstances. that a person was entirely capable of carrying out the threat he was making. whereas an apparent determination is a strictly cerebral proposition. i personally. as a matter of legislative draftsmanship. like the language in the report better than the language in the statute.
then. when we move over to page 2. i would like again to point out the difference betweenand this is a civil penaltythe statute would read that whoever imparts or conveys or causes to be imparted or conveyed any false information. king the information be false. i think is a better statement than the statement which is in the report. which says: because of the inappropriateness of criminal action ... against reputable and otherwise responsible persons who convey false information in illadvised attempts at humor. the committee recommends a civil penalty for such situations. it seems to me that there. in a civil penalty. if we require willfulness. we at least compel the jury to consider the circumstances under which it was made and whether the person making it. ever if it was a hoax. was serious about the hoax. for example. i have had complaints about someone boarding a plane who made the flip remark to the stewardess who had asked him. "what have you got in that violin case." "oh. a machinegun." promptly he was collared by a federal agent and the u.s. attorney felt that perhaps under the law he was guilty. so that i think with a chance to look at this legal language again. i thoroughly agree with the committee on the need to deal with these matters. but we can deal with them and deal with them effectively with full regard for constitutional rights and civil liberties. so i simply commend these ideas to the committee.
. i agree with the senator. i feel there is a reason for the civil penalty. sometimes we prefer it to a criminal penalty. the criminal penalty remains respecting false statements under the amendment of senator cooper. i do  think it is a matter we should allow to impede the progress of the bill. therefore. i concur with the senator and i hope the senate accepts the amendment.
. i was shocked to read of the death of prof. wolfgang friedmann. distinguished professor of international law at columbia university. dr. friedmann was brutally murdered after being robbed several blocks from the columbia campus. his murder shows again why we must seek in every way to deal with the random lawlessness and brutality that exists in so many of our great cities today. it is indeed tragic that dr. friedmann. who worked so long and hard for international peace. could  find ultimate peace himself in the united states. his distinguished scholarship in the field of international law is a great landmark for the role of law in the world. i extend my deepest sympathy to mrs. friedmann sons. i ask unanimous consent that the front page story about dr. friedmann. published in the new york times today. be printed in the record.
. because of the importance of this legislation. i intend to vote for it in spite of my misgivings concerning the penalty provisionssection (n) (1) (a) of the amended federal aviation act of 1958. this new section would provide for a death penalty "if the verdict of the jury shall so recommend" or where the defendant has waived jury trial. "if the court. in its descretion shall so order." on june 29 of this year. the supreme court decided. in the case of furman against georgia. that the death penalty is void as an unconstitutional imposition of cruel and unusual punishment. the full scope of the opinion is unclear because justice white. one member of the 5to4 majority limited his decision to cases where the judge or jury had discretion in imposing the death penalty. it is possible then. that at some future time. the court may uphold statutes making the death penalty mandatory in certain situations. thus eliminating discretion and attendant possible discrimination. the furman case however. is crystal clear on the unconstitutionality of discretionary death penalty. such as this bill contemplates. since i believe the provision is therefore unconstitutional. and will be stricken by the court to which it may be appealed. i can vote for the otherwise desirable bill.
. we had originally thought that the word "determination" should be stricken and that the word "ability" should be included. after talking with the distinguished senator from nebraska we came to the conclusion that this might be too restrictive in terms of what we are seeking to reach in that sometimes a threat itself is blackmail and the word "ability" would carry it beyond the threat stage. so that the person would have to have the means to carry out the threat. i feel. therefore. that with the addition of the words "and will" where the threat itself is considered. premeditated willful act. that it would be proper to make that the crime in view of the damage it can doto make a person do something he would  otherwise do. where it is blackmail. an oppression in the sense of the criminal law. for those reasons. although i do  consider it a perfect solution. i am willing to accept it as the best that can be done. in view of the fact. as i said a while ago. that a threat itself. standing in and of itself. can be used as a criminal instrument. therefore. as i say. it is possible that the definition of the crime could be. under conceivable circumstances. the threat itself.
. much has been said about the need to control crime more effectively and to reform our criminal justice system. indeed since the safe streets act -was passed in 1968 thousands of persons have been at work at the state. local. and federal level confronting the issues which relate to the failures of that system. we have seen the beginning of a critically important commitment to devote energy. money and a more informed determination to get at the root of these problems. one of the questions that has been debated over the past several years is related to the impact of certain supreme court decisions upon the. crime problem generally..also of great concern has been the relati6nship of- narcotics addiction to street crime and the need for new approaches in this area. on june 4. 1972. the hoable samuel r. pierce. jr.. general counsel of the u.s. treasury department. discussed thee and other important questions relating to this subject in an address at the john jay college of criminal. justice in new york city. although i can agree with mr. pierces view concerning the utilization of a heroin maintenance program. and with some implied ciitfcism of the warren courta court which i rate very highlyit is necessary to hear all points of view in this area.. ...i ask unanimous consent that the text of. mr.. pierces: remarks. be printed in the record. :- " there being objectiofi. the remarks were orderedto bd printedii the rec6rd. as follows:
i thank the senator. . we have been trying to get this compact approved for several years . it is a remarkably fine initiative on the part of the states. and certainly our interplay with respect to this bill demonstrates its need. even this bill. which senator long has brought to us and has given us the opportunity to pass. leaves out an emous element of the air commerce of the new york metropolitan area. and the situation is the same elsewhere. the problems of cargo theft and organized crime at the airports are colossal. the committee on the judiciary has completed its hearings on our compact resolution. and i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. for the information of senators. the testimony of the attorney general of the state of new jersey and of the gover of the state of new york and my statement in support of the compact.
could the senator give us the benefit of some of his experience as gover of his state with respect to the state interest in "racial balance." just to give the senate an analogy. in answer to my question. in my own state of new york our education authorities are under a mandate. under our state educational laws. which requires them to seek to improve educational opportunities. subject to other considerations. by restraints in ameliorating circumstances. to bring about a better balance in given schools which are heavily attended by the children of one particular miity group. generally black or puerto rican. i wonder whether the senator from iowa has had experience with that and whether that is a concept in the law of iowa and how that bears upon the action of his state. and does it thereby differentiate very sharply. in terms of seeking racial balance. between the actions of the state and its educational authority in the interest of good education and the actions of the federal government in correcting unlawful segregation in the public schools.
. i have the ho to introduce to the senate a delegation of turkish parliamentarians. which is visiting us today.:consisting of orhan alp. justice party deputy for ankara. chairman of the foreign affairs committee. faruk sukan. democratic party deputy from konya. vefa tanir. national reliance party deputy from konya. and mustafa ustundag. republican peoples party deputy for konya.
 lincoln. in recent years congress has passed some important gun control legislation. but we have yet really to come to grips with this critical and complex problem. each year more than 20.000 citizens are killed and 200.000 are maimed or injured by guns. between 1964 and 1972. armed robberies increased 230 percent. with about 63 percent of these robberies committed with guns. 65 percent of all murders in this period were committed with guns. too often. the handgun is the instrument of deatheasily obtained and concealed. it was responsible for the murder of 94 policemen in 1971. accordingly i am again this year. as i have in the past. supporting legislation that would provide for the licensing of all handgun owners and for the registration of all handguns. are any of us ever safe from the gun obtained by means we ought to make unlawful. the answer. tragically. must be  it is time to stop the bloodshed caused by the criminal use of this weapon. it is time to eliminate. as far as we are able. the fear that handguns spread. i hope that this most recent occurrence will change the views in both the senate and house on guncontrol legislation. the lack of such legislation is responsible for a heavy quotient of these terrible occurrences.
. i ask unanimons consent that the text of the conclusions of the grand jury study. entitled "position paper on marihuana recommendation" and released on june 28. 1972. be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. it has become obvious that to look upon the people who use marihuana as all alike would be as unfounded as thinking of all those who use alcohol as being the same. marihuana is used for a wide variety of reasons. some people have tried it out of curiosity and quit. some continue to use it sporadically on the urging of friends or because of a wish to belong. some use it occasionally for relaxation. some for stimulation. and some for simple socializing. concern about any form of drug abuse can be used to justify the perpetuation of false information or the imposition of the criminal sanction. such deception is selfdefeating. if such deception is practiced when factual information is presented concerning the entire array of more dangerous drugs in our society which are used so widely by adultsalcohol. barbiturates. amphetamines. and tobaccothese warnings will fall on deaf ears. and the abuses of these other drugs must be our main concern. the legitimate complaint of american youth must be answered that those in our society who drink alcoholsome 80 milliondiscriminate against those 24 million americans who may engage in the casual use of marihuana in private. the legitimate complaint must be answered that respect for the law has been undermined and that thousands of young lives have been damagedand in some cases wreckedbecause of the present state of federal and local criminal laws on this subject. it is time to recognize that our attitudes on this drug have been uninformed and illadvised. and that the punitive approaches have aggravated rather than solved the marihuana problem. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record at this point.
. 2.500 years ago the children of israel were taken into the babylonian captivity. they lived and flourished in that land.  kn as iraq. and as recently as 1948 more than 150.000 dwelled there. living in relative security and enjoying the fruits of their labors in the land which they had inhabited generation after generation for 25 centuries. . 21/2 millenia later. only a handful of a few hundred remain. insecure. limited in their ability to work and to move about. harassed. and living under the threat of arrest and worse. recently reports were published indicating that 10 prominent members of the iraqi jewish community had been executed in recent weeks in the nihaya castle prison in baghdad. these unfortunates had been arrested in september and december of last year. had been held incommunicado. and up until the publication of their execution by newspapers abroad. neither their families. their friends. their fellow iraqi of all faiths.  concerned citizens abroad had any information as to their fate. even today the iraqi government has failed to reply to an inquiring world as to their fate. there is a fear that there may be a repetition of the dark period of 4 years ago. when in january of 1969. 14 persons. including nine jews. were accused of spying. executed in a public square before a large crowd. and their corpses hung there as a relic of some ancient barbarism. truly. if the iraqi government has any serious concern about a threat from its minute jewish miityless than one onehundredth of 1 percent of iraqs populationthen the quickest and easiest thing to do would be to let them emigrate. rather than continue to subject them to harassment. danger. and death. logic and humanity both commend this conclusion.
. much attention has been given recently to the serious problem confronting residents of those areas on our great lakes which are presently threatened by flooding. these high water levels. if combined with wind and storm conditions following the spring thaw. pose the threat of an imminent major disaster along these shorelines. the threat from the presently high water level is compounded by the critical erosion problems along these shorelinesa problem which the corps of engineers is prohibited from correcting where such erosion exists on private property. i propose to introduce legislation which would correct the existing law to permit private property owners affectedby erosion to qualify for federal assistance and make this assistance available through the corps of engineers in accordance with already established procedures for civil projects. in the rivers and harbors act of 1968. public law 90483. the congress gave to the chief of engineers special responsibilities for appraising. investigating. and studying the condition of the nations shorelines and for developing suitable means for protecting. restoring. and managing them so as to minimize erosioninduced damages. this national shoreline study found 20.500 miles of the ocean and great lakes shores of the united states undergoing significant erosion. the study further found that action to halt significant erosion appears justifed along 2.700 miles of such shores. the cost of constructing suitable protective works for these shores is estimated to be $1.8 billion. the study suggests that priority attention should be given to 190 miles of shores where continued erosion is most likely to endanger life and public safety within the next 5 years. the cost of constructing protective works along these shores is estimated to be $240 million. about twothirds of the areas where erosion is a serious problem are privately owned and  eligible for federal assistance under present law. this study concluded: yet the public interest in such private shores is considerable. the management of private lands often affects public beaches. navigation channels. and other facilities. ecological and environmental problems are  stopped by private fences.  are the problems associated with storm flooding and disasterrelated emergencies. of the total 2.680 miles of great lakes shoreline. this study found 220 miles is suffering critical erosion. the legislation i introduce is a companion measure to a bill already introduced by concerned great lakes states congressmen. i ask to have the text of this bill printed following these remarks with the text of the section of the united states code which the bill would amend. in addition. i would like to have printed in the record a statement which i issued today in rochester. n.y.
 and the congress to consider the plight of soviet jews prior to granting favored nation status to the soviet union. new york state has much to gain financially from increased u.s. trade with the u.s.s.r.. however. the state legislature. in adopting the resolution - which i ask unanimous consent to include in my remarks. has given first priority to what it terms "the interest of justice and humanity" in the consideration of any negotiation for most favored nation status for the soviets.
the situation in new york is exactly as the senator from florida has described it in his state. in new york. selffinancing has produced a worldfamous series of bridges. under the gifted direction of robert moses. they have been able to do extraordinary things. like putting a new deck on the george washington bridge. they also built a new bridge across the narrows. all because of the capabilities inherent in this system. there are adequate remedies in court and by statute if there is any overreaching with respect to tolls and the public interest. i hope very much that the committee may see fit to allow selfhelp to continue along this line. i support the amendment of the senator from florida and hope that it will be agreed to.
. all of us are undoubtedly aware of the unique dangers of criminal violence which daily confront the nations small businessmen. i the fbi has reported that 63 percent of all armed robberies are committed with firearms. as i have stated so often in the past. the arguments in favor of strong. federal guncontrol legislation requiring a national system of licensing and registration are overwhelming. a brief. thoughtful statement on the need for remedial gun control legislation has been published by the national small business association. i ask unanimous consent that its text be printed in the record.
. on march 13. the senior senator from th carolina. mr. ervin spoke at length on the geide convention. because his statement has raised questions about the wisdom of ratification. i felt it should be answered at length. at my request. the department of state has prepared an analysis and rebuttal of these obligations to the convention. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. i hope it will be useful to other senators in answering constituent mail since there appears to be an organized and widespread effort to circulate misinformation about the agreement. also i ask unanimous consent that an article in the american bar association journal of february 1972 by arthur goldberg and richard n. gardner entitled "time to act on the geide convention." be printed at the conclusion of my remarks. this article by the former supreme court justice and u.n. ambassador and the columbia law professor is a comprehensive refutation of arguments against the convention and should be read by every senator.
. i have looked over this amendment. although it is one i have  had very much chance to look over. the question of mandatory sentences. especially mandatory life sentences. is a very difficult one. i am especially concerned about that part of the amendment. it provides for concurrent sentencing. which locks in the sentence rather tightly. am i correct in my understanding that after 30 years parole is possiblewhen 30 years have been served under one or both of these sentences. or does the provision apply only to one. .
. i e with great regret the passing of john lord obrian. one of our most distinguished lawyers and one who rendered great service to the state of new york and the united states. new yorkers would. i k. wish me to speak of his career. mr. obrian was a partner in the washington law firm of covington & burling for the past 28 years and was the dean of the supreme court bar. he distinguished himself as a lawyer and humanitarian during the entire 20th century. mr. obrian was born in buffalo. n.y.. and obtained his law degree from the university of buffalo. he served as a state assemblyman from buffalo. and was also u.s. attorney for the western district of new york. he served the federal government in a number of important posts including assistant attorney general. john lord obrians passing ends one of the most fabulous careers in the legal profession of this country. as chief justice burger has said. his death at age 98 "marks the end of an era." i ask unanimous consent that the obituary appearing in todays new york times be printed in the record.
s excellent proposal to create a unified command for drug enforcement is  being considered by the executive reorganization subcommittee. in connection with that inquiry. the subcommittee has had the opportunity to examine carefully the outstanding investigative work of a great new york newspaperthe long island daily newsdayon the subject of international narcotics trafficking. the production and distribution of opiate narcotics at the international level are complex and too little understood. the trail from the opium fields of the middle and far east to the united states heroin market is indeed an extraordinarily difficult and dangerous one. it is this trail that newsday undertook to follow. a 100.000 word series of articles climaxed a 9month investigation by 13 reporters that ranged over 13 countries on 3 continents. tracing the movement of heroin in detail from the poppy fields to the streets of long island. n.y. the investigation was conducted by newsdays pulitzer prizewinning investigative team headed by senior editor robert w. greene. washington correspondent anthony marro headed up a domestic team of newsday reporters investigating the heroin business in the united states. both mr. greene and mr. marro appeared before our subcommittee last thursday. mr. greenes prepared statement sets forth the conclusions of their extensive investigation. it is an important and incisive statement. and i ask unanimous consent that it be included in the record. i commend these reporters. their editors and publisher for a superb contribution in the public interest to our understanding of this devastating problem.
. the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia issued a sweeping order on april 16. 1973 setting the stage for possible recovery of bail and expungement of police records for thousands of demonstrators and others who were caught in dragnet arrests during the 1971 mayday demonstration in washington. this order expands on an order issued october 1. 1971 which directed the district court to look into ways of removing arrest records and recovering bail or collateral of persons arrested without field arrest forms. on may 5. 1971. i spoke on the senate floor expressing concern for the violations of civil liberties taking place by the sweeping arrests of thousands of demonstrators and others without use of proper arrests forms which would allow for a case to be made in court. i feel the court of appeals has vindicated my view then and . that dragnet arrests without use of proper police procedures are inimical to the rights of all citizens. i ask unanimous consent that an article from the washington post of april 17. 1973. discussing this situation be placed in the record.
. a joint meeting of the new york state legislature was held on march 13 to commemorate the passage 25 years ago of the legislation creating the state university of new york. new york was the last of the states to found a state university. that was in 1948. today. this university is the largest in the nation. with a total of 364.000 fulltime and parttime students presently enrolled at 72 campuses within the state of new york. by this spring. or just 25 years after its creation. state university of new york will have graduated more than a halfmillion students. the university is observing its silver anniversary with a series of special events which began with the march 13 joint meeting of the legislature. other observances will be held on university campuses and at other locations through october. the historic legislation creating the university was passed by the state senate on march 10. 1948. and by the assembly on march 13. it was signed into law by then gov. thomas e. dewey on march 30 of that year. the joint legislative meeting marked this commitment of new yorks state government to expand educational opportunities in new york. it was attended by gov. nelson a. rockefeller. who personally has made the enlargement of and enhancement in quality of the state university of new york a prime objective of his administration. and by other representatives of the executive department. the state universitys board of trustees and its distinguished chancellor. ernest l. boyer. and more than 400 guests. including educators and university students and alumni. in addition to the members of both houses of the 1973 legislature. on this occasion. the university presented distinguished service awards to four individuals and to the executive and legislative branches of state government. posthumous awards were made to gover dewey. to assemblyman irwin steingut. and to state senator benjamin f. feinberg. assemblyman steingut of brooklyn. and senator feinberg of plattsburgh were the principal sponsors of the 1948 legislation in their respective houses. these awards were received at the ceremony by the sons of each of the three men. thomas r. dewey jr.. stanley steingut.  assembly democratic miity leader. and robert j. feinberg. county judge and family court judge in clinton county. n.y. the fourth person who was hoed at the ceremony is frank c. moore. a former lieutenant gover and state comptroller of new york who served on the universitys board of trustees from its inception in 1948 until 1965. he was board chairman for 11 years. from 1954 until 1965. these awards were presented by four university students and four university alumni. the distinguished service awards to the executive and legislative branches were presented by  perry b. duryea. and senate majority leader warren m. anderson. replicas of the seven awards were presented to each assemblyman and senator  serving in the legislature. i ask unanimous consent that the remarks of gover rockefeller and chancellor boyer be printed in the record.
finally. . what i have recommended does  necessarily mean the expenditure of more money. what it does mean is the reorganization of our federal expenditures for education in the direction where they will do the most good and promote the most justice and equal opportunity for the children of the united states. by mr. sparkman (for himself.
i thank my colleague. . just for the information of the senate on the matter of exhaustion of benefits. the amendment as accepted last ember or december by the senator from louisiana did  contain that provision. but the promise we had was that the matter would be given consideration if we continued to have serious unemployment. the senator from california and i introduced a bill containing the exhaustion provision and asked for hearings both from the senator from louisiana and congressman mills way back in january 1973. and action was taken upon those requests. i think again that bears out my statement that congressman mills statement on the house floor was in way designed to be extremely technical. he was going to give consideration to this problem. i would repeat that it would be most unfair. and i am the last who would wish to do that. to base this amendment on. some theory of commitment. in my judgment. the inequities here are so strong and justice has been left deferred for so long that this should  be done.
. when the safe streets act was initially passed. congress provided for a wide range of programs designed to improve training and education opportunities for professionals working in criminal justice agencies. the national commission on correctional manpower and training issued its report in 1969 and called for major reform and federal legislative action in this area. in view of the projected expansion of criminal justice employees and the lack of quality curricula or training institutions. the need was determined to be quite urgent. the safe streets act authorized leaa "to carry out programs of academic educational assistance to improve and strengthen law enforcement." specifically. the program. kn as the law enforcement education programleepprovides for loan and grant programs to cover the tuition and fees--coverage of books was added in 1970of law enforcement personnel enrolled in approved undergraduate or graduate programs. in 1970. the act was amended to expand leaas educational development and training responsibilities. the amendments provide for an internship program to give undergraduates work experience in criminal justice agencies. a training program in organized crime for prosecutors and a regional program of training workshops. the leep program accounts for roughly 95 percent of the budget of the manpower division of leaa. in 1972. it was funded at $29 million. up from $6.5 million in 1969. it operates through grants made directly to participating institutions for financial assistance to qualified students. in fiscal year 1971. 894 institutions participated in the program. i enthusiastically support this program. one criticism of the leep program has been its neglect of criminal justice agencies other than the police. in fiscal year 1971. of the 60.516 persons who pa:ticipated in the leep program. almost 50.000 were police. i would hope that a more equitable participation for other professionals could be developed. " also. leaa has  developed manpower projections for the criminal justice agencies or attempted to measure the extent or quality of existing training resources in relationship to the demand for such training. priorities which aim at improvement of institutional capabilities for reform at the local level have been developed. the purpose of my third amendment is to redress this failing. it would require the institute for criminal justice to undertake a detailed national survey of criminal justice personnel needs and to relate the leaa programs to those actual manpower and training requirements. it would further require leaa to issue guidelines which would establish priorities for the leep and other criminal justice manpower programs.
 as usual. on such an important issue we argue to empty seats. i hope. however. that members of the senate will have read the details of the bill. and will at least have assistants around to report to them on what was said. out of deference and respect to the senate of the united states and the people of our country. the argument against the bill should be made. stripped naked. what the bill proposes to do is to repeal an important and effective limitation on the possession by individuals of black powder. which is an explosive. an extremely dangerous explosive. it would longer retain the 5pound limitation in present law. argument has been made as to why 5 pounds is  egh. five pounds can be pretty lethal.  can i follow the argument of the proponent of the bill. who stands us on our heads with the following argument: he dences the use of black powder in pipe and other types of bomb devices. but. says he. make more black powder available. how that is going to abate the menace. even if it is  to end it. is beyond me. we have heard a great deal in this chamber about guns. criminal violence. and the need to back up our local police. we have heard much about the death and injury resulting to inent victims whose lives are shattered by the gunfire and bombs of criminals and terrorists. who has become the  1 target of such people. in urban america. it is the policeman walking the beat. this is but a part of a struggle which has been going on in the congress and in the country for a long time. that struggle relates to whether we are to have rational and sane national policy dealing with explosive materials. guns and other implements of violence. it relates to the fact that we are unique from practically every other industrial country in the world. in the use and regulation of firearms. those policies have presented a lethal reality to the people of the united states. we have thousands and thousands of homicides in this country every year. we have the worst homicide rate of any country of remotely comparable advance in terms of industry in the world. yet we are soon to proliferate and add to this reality on the ground that we must once again help sportsmen. one day the patience of the american people will snap. i have predicted this for a long time. the congress has been good to sportsmen. we have responded to their legitimate needs. what has a sportsman to be afraid of. matter what regulation we put on guns. if he is a sportsman and comports himself with reasonable care. he is going to have a gun. and he is going to be able to shoot. one has ever advocated taking it away. nevertheless. the idea persists that to be a man in the united states of america. one has to lend himself to these lethal practices. this bill is just a piece of that same psychology. after working out a compromise in 1970 to try to accommodate the legitimate users of black powder. congress wrote into the law a 5pould limit on black powder. we have  been told today why the 5pound limit is  egh for any sportsman.  because some sportsman thinks he ought to have more. it is proposed to take the roof off altogether. what will be the result. the hearings that the senator from indiana referred to lasted only 1 day. who appeared at that hearing. the national rifle association. a longtime advocate of restrictions at all. the indiana sportsmen council. the national muzzleloading rifle association. which i doubt represents an appreciable part of the people of the united states. and the thsouth skirmish association. which i also doubt represents any appreciable part of the people of the united states. they testified. and the federal law enforcement officials from the treasury and justice departments testified. they testified against the bill. as it was their duty. indeed. to do. so. in the absence of a record. of any record. from my local or state law enforcement official. i took it up with two of the most distinguished law enforcement officials in the country. frank hogan. the longtime district attorney of new york county. and i do  think there is any other individual better kn in that field. and donald f. cawley. the new commissioner of police of the city of new york. i should like to read their letters into the record as the best answer to this bill. first i read from the letter of mr. frank hogan. dated july 11. 1973:
. s. 1861 is justice and decency long overdue. it is high time that we set this as the standard. we are at least a year late. let us  be any later. i hope that the substitute will be rejected. if the senator from colorado is willing
 these amendments. as i understand. were drawn by the justice department and deal with the matter of discl3sure in the filing with the court of necessary documentation in respect of consent decrees. the purpose of the amendment is to exclude improper material insofar as disclosure is concerned because of prejudice. confidential information. trade secrets. inter- and intraoffice memoranda. et cetera. but it is designed to afford to the public access to the material which is relevant to a fair consideration and desirability under the criteria set forth in the bill for a consent decree. these are amendments which the senator from california has reviewed. and as he said before. i hope they are acceptable to him.
. when that is done. which i hope will be tomorrow. we have one advantage. in respect of s. 5. for the first time. and that is that it will become an instrument for a single purpose. to wit. the council of social advisers. and i think that is only fair to senator mondale. in respect to his very gifted initiative. i shall support it for the reasons i have stated. and i hope to contribute to that concept by allowing the recognition of events which have actually occurred and are occurring to remove from the bill what represents aher although related concept. so. s. 5 would go forward as a single instrument for a single highly desirable purpose. at this point i should like. first. to pay my respects to the senator from minnesota for his long struggle and endeavor to bring this idea into law. second. to express my appreciation for his having accommodated my idea up to  as an element of his bill. and. third. to assure him. withstanding the divorce of the two for very good reasons. which i have stated as a matter of legislative efficiency. of my continued indefatigable and convicted support of s. 5 as it is  represented by title i.
i k there are many in this chamber who disagree with me and are deeply offended by an editorial appearing in the new york times concerning the conference report which is headed "highway lobby triumphs." . there is a great deal of truth in that editorial. but i was sent here to represent. to the best of my ability. the hopes and interests of the people of my state for progress in the future. i believe that under those circumstances. having thought it through. i should join in approving this report. but at the same time express profound disappointment and protest. and pledge myself to engage in the continuation of this fight until reality and justice are realized in respect to city problems and. indeed. the national problem of urban transportation. by way of showing the appreciation which i think we owe. withstanding our disappointment. to the efforts of the conferees on the senate side. who stood by us. i will support the conference report.
 yet.  i will answer all the senators questions. finally. the senator raised a question about a youth -who would be fired just before his 30th birthday. the senator from new jersey and i have included an express amendment on that score which would provide a remedy for any person fired such as is provided for a person discriminated against because of race or sex. for example. that is section 699a. which states: it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge. fine. suspend. expel. discipline. or discriminate against a participant or beneficiary for exercising any right to which he is entitled under the provisions of the plan. and so on. so it seems to me we have made extraordinary reforms in precisely the areas to which the senator refers.
yes. but heretofore he had remedy at all. i k the senator was one of the most forceful advocates of this right to go to court on the basis of race or sex discrimination. this gives the employee the same right.
. on october 5. oregon will become the first state to remove completely criminal penalties for the private possession and use of marihuana. the new law reclassifies possession of up to one ounce as a "violation" with a maximum penalty of $100 fine. violators will receive criminal record. although this approach does  go as far as what is advocated in our bill. it is nevertheless an important step in the direction of an enlightened and commonsense policy on marihuana possession. i urge the senate and the congress as a whole to heed these developments and give serious consideration to this important issue. i believe that our bill will eliminate the potential for grave injustice while reinforcing national government policy aimed at discouraging the use of any drug or psychotropic substance for recreation rather than medical purposes.
. other distinguished lawyers who served on the criminal law section symposium at abidjan were: marut bunnag. thailand. wheaton s. thompson. esq.. liberia. fouad b. atalla. jordan. amelito r. mutuc. esq.. philippines. john ton moore. esq.. united states. prof. yoram dinstein. university of tel aviv. israel. avv. carlo fornario. italy. they also deserve the thanks of all for their important work on this question.
. i am for this amendment. if confined to what the authors have in mind. in order to make that clear and get action on it. we must understand what the author of section 15 had in mind. i realize he was here. a short time ago. but let me be his lawyer for a minute. what he had in mind. as i understand it. and i was ardent for it in the committee. was the kind of involvement which we ran into in brazil and elsewhere. where we had to give aid to police forces and where it was charged there as police persecution and torture. and so forth. and that there could be a colorable link between the aid we gave and what all these policemen may have kn or learned about the despicable methods which are antihuman as well as antilegal in the united states. so i think that what we are all trying to do. i might say to my colleaguesand i am with themi want to be sure that we understand each other. to be sure that. under any guise. that link should  be established. that is what the purpose of this is about. because it was such a horrendous thing that we all faced. this was made blanket in its application. i agree that the two sentences involved are broader than they really needed to be.  a question. are we doing both jobs which we all have in mind to do if we put a limitation on it. because section 515. which the assistant to senator hruska was kind egh to show me. dealing with technical assistance in relation to the enforcement of criminal law and therefore in an effort. as it were. to insure us against excesses and if it is unrefined. it can be properly refined in conference. so that it occurred to me that if we limit technical assistance to the kind of acts or attempts to act by what is unlawful under the laws of the united states. we would be omitting this whole area with political conations because obviously torture. barbarism. denial of confrontation. and so forth. are all unlawful under the laws of the united states. i just submit that to my colleagues. as i say. i have desire to stand in their way. but simply submit it as a way out of what seems to be a little dilemma of definition.
if the senator will allow me to proceed on my own time. as i am a conferee. i have such confidence in the views of the conferees that i would be prepared to say that if the senator who proposed the proposition is willing that the amendment should be taken to conference. with the understanding that if. on further study. it needs the kind of refinement which i have suggested. it will be made. as our purpose is crystal clear. that we are confining it to acts criminal under the laws and the morality of the united states in terms of technical assistance and  other things.
the purpose of the amendment is to deal with a procedural question in the law respecting children in foster care. one of the provisions of existing law relates to a requirement for a court order before the child placed in foster care can qualify for support. apparently in new york they have worked out less formal procedures than court proceedings or court orders. therefore. in order to accommodate that kind of a procedureand i understand that the department has objectionthis amendment provides that other procedures authorized under state law and approved by the secretary would be just as satisfactory as the court proposition. the amendment would modify section 408(a) of the social security act which  requires that in order for a state to obtain federal financial participation in the care of children in foster homes. placement must have been the result of a court order. it has been the experience of social service officials in new york city that such a requirement for a judicial determination is  only unwarranted but in many cases prevents placement which would be beneficial to the child. because of a familys reluctance to participate in court proceedings. while it is clear that the government has a responsibility to insure that tax funds are  used to support foster care placement unless absolutely necessary for the welfare of the child. i believe that the department of health. education. and welfare should have some flexibility in making such arrangements. thus. my amendment provides that federal financial participation be continued in cases where there are court orders or where other appropriate procedure approved by the secretary has been complied with. we contemplate. for example. a situation where there has been a voluntary surrender by the parent and a certification by the appropriate state official that the child would be best cared for outside the home. it is my understanding that the chairman and the ranking member of the finance committee have given consideration to this amendment and i urge its prompt adoption.
the present law requiresand it is very narrow in its statementa court order. i will read to the senate the exact provision which concerns this matter. the present law says that the placement must have been as the result of a court order. i wrote the chairman of the committee and the ranking miity member of the committee a letter on ember 13. i ask unanimous consent that this letter be printed at this point in the record.
. i state in the letter as follows: under existing law. in order for a state to obtain federal financial participation in the cost of maintaining children in foster care. such children must have been placed in foster care as a result of a judicial determination that continuation in their own home would be contrary to the welfare of the child. the experience of the city of new york has been that this requirement of a courts order is  only burdensome but indeed often hinders placements which would otherwise be justified because of the parents reluctance to go through court proceedings. therefore. in spite of the loss of federal reimbursement city authorities have continued to place children in foster care with the concurrence of the parents but without a court order where this was necessary. on september 1. 1973 the state of new york passed legislation to conform state law to the federal requirements. this means that in judicial placements the city loses  only the federal contribution but the state contribution as well thereby making such voluntary placements impossible for all practical purposes. the situation in the city is such that it has had to continue to place children in foster homes with the concurrence of the parents. but without a court order. the way in which i have sought to protect the united states is to require that approval be given by the secretary if the procedure used is other than a court order. this is what this amendment provides.
it would be done if we had a family which. for example. because of poverty or other conditions might have a mother who is in difficulty. perhaps -mental difficulties or other such difficulties. there may be a number of children. maybe older children. that often happens. to bring such a person to court and have court proceedings would be so traumatic that our authorities with her consent and with that of the father and after a determination by appropriate state officials that placement is necessary for the childs welfare. would place that child in a foster home with foster parents without a court proceeding which would be so traumatic for the mother. that would be highly desirable in those cases. and under the procedure in my amendment. that would have to be approved by the secretary of hew. i really substitute the approval of the secretary of hew for the approval of a court. and the federal law  does  permit that. it says that it should be strictly a court order. which is very narrow under these circumstances. mr. "curtis. the persons who would have to meet the income and property tests are thefoster parents and  the natural parents.
 as i understand it everyone has to meet whatever test the law provides. my amendment does  in any way obviate that. it obviates only the proceedings before a court. it provides that instead of having a court proceeding. it allows any such other procedure as is satisfactory to the secretary.
there should be e whatever unless one considers the approval of the secretary to be an additional cost. indeed there would be considerable savings in terms of paper work and court costs in a jurisdiction like new york city where there are currently more than 28.000 children in foster care.
. we are approaching the end of the session. the leadership is planning adjournment. there has been on the calendar since march 6. 1973. an item entitled "international convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of geide." it will take a twothirds vote to ratify that convention. and a twothirds vote. should there be an effort to do so. to bring about cloture. i would like to ask the majority leader whether he has any plan in mind for that particular item of business.
. i rise to call specific attention to the scheme of the treaty. so that members who read the record tomorrow as we deliberate upon this matter may see clearly what is at stake.  let us. as i say. try to simplify it. the fact is that if the crime of geide is committed here. then the treaty itself provides. in article vi. thatpersons charged with geide or any of the other acts enumerated in article i shall be tried by a competent tribunal of the state in the territory of which the act was committed.... that is what the opponents contend for. and that is what will happen if the act takes place here. if the act takes place elsewhere. the perpetrators can only be sent elsewhere by extradition. and we have locked in the issue of extradition so that there shall be extradition if the united states is ready. willing. and able to try the person charged. it is further locked in by the fact that the treaty itself calls for implementing legislation. article v states: the contracting parties undertake to enact. in accordance with their respective constitutions. the necessary legislation to give effect to the provisions of the present convention and. in particular. to provide effective penalties for persons guilty of geide or of any of the other acts enumerated in article ini. the state department has already sent us and we have a draft of a statute for that purpose. it is attached to the committee report. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
this statute deals precisely with this particular question which we are discussing . in addition. the senate foreign relations committee. in sending the resolution of ratification to the senate. makes that special provision. it saysand this is found at page 19 of the senate report: that the united states government understands and construes article vi of the convention in accordance with the agreed language of the report of the legal committee of the united nations general assembly that hing in article vi shall affect the right of any state to bring to trial before its own tribunals any of its nationals for acti committed outside the state. that is clear. if a person is outside the state. as senator proxmire so very properly pointed out. and is in some other state. there is hing we can do about the exercise of jurisdiction by the other state anyway. except through diplomatic measures. indeed. the provisions of this treaty may then act as a certain protection for the person who is charged elsewhere. rather than as an additional burden. third. there is the possibility of trial before an international tribunal. that is .covered also by article vi. which says: persons charged with geide or any of the other acts enumerated in article iii shall be tried . . . or by such international penal tribunal as may have jurisdiction with respect to those contracting parties which shall have accepted its jurisdiction. . it seems to me that that is locked in absolutely. especially with the provision. the fact that we have extradition treaty which  involves geide. so we are  bound . and i think that we will  do so. where it means that we give up anyone for trial in aher jurisdiction. unless by authority of the united states it is found that we wish to do so. otherwise we have every right to try the person here. the resolution which we have presented. plus the text of the treaty. plus the implementing legislation. locks us in with respect to every concern and every care. some statements have been made. and senator proxmire has already dealt with them. that because a treaty supersedes laws both federal and state. in some way the ratification of this treaty will take away criminal jurisdiction from the states or from the federal government. or will cause criminal jurisdiction to be transferred from the states to the federal government. i can for the life of me see how that can occur. in view of the fact that the terms of the treaty are irrelevant to crimes on our books. it is going to take implementing legislation to create the crime of geide. and the crime of geide. if that is what the socalled superseding jurisdiction is going to apply to. the crime of geide has the fundamental thrust of. "with the intent to destroy the entire group concerned." in the case of homicides. and so forth. which unhappily are much too frequent in this country. where we define them by state and federal laws. depending on their nature and where they occur. they have hing to do "with the intent to destroy the entire group concerned." on any of the details of the crime of geide. a crime by this treaty. i can see where the fears are warranted as they relate to this country. we are  vulnerable as they relate to the capability of any other jurisdiction to try an american who may be wanted for the crime of geide. we have made all these things doubly sure by the understandings and the declarations which are incorporated in the resolution of ratification to which i have referred.
. i would aot wish to duplicate anything the senator from wisconsin has said. i have great respect for the senator from louisiana . having heard before and am acquainted  with argument which he makes for this provision. but i rise only to point out that it is the genius of our law to remember that we have had a tradeoff on that---that the sovereign does  wish the individual to be solely subject to the power of the sovereign. he wishes the individual to have the tension between himself and the sovereignto wit. the united states. which. in our concept. produces the greatest justice. that tradeoff is quite nettling at times. look at what it has done to us in the energy situation. the senator from louisiana has made that argument most eloquently as to how irritating and delaying this can be in the future in respect to the particular laws for the good of the people. which senator longs committee turns out and we pass and make into law. but that is the tradeoff situation in our system. that is my experience as a lawyer. as one who has tried many casesthat we have to establish an agency to assert this authority for the individual. i have pointed out that we ourselvesin a number of billshave established the means for the court to carry this out. because the plaintiffs had status. we have also established the means for giving the plaintiff status in order for him to test out the constitutionality of the various actions we ourselves have taken. it is because we are animated by this principle i have described. as lawyers. judges. individuals. and as americans that we have made the tradeoff. which is nettling. difficult. and delaying. sometimes it is an unbelievable. contrary aspect of the public interest but this is our system. this is what we have opted for. thus. our bill does  try to make any radical change. it is conservative. it will be in the hands of the lawyers. essentially. but it does continue to give the individual that right. which is the thrust of our system. that it. this tension between the allpowerful state and the individual whom we have equipped with rights and the means to assert them.
i thank my colleague. he has had a great deal of experience with american indians. as the senator has properly said. considering the fact that the essential element is the intent to eliminate a whole group. it is inconceivable that there is anything to that . as to what people can charge. they often charge simple murder very quickly. many times a day. so there is reason why they can include geide. but that should  discredit such a great act of conscience on the part of the american people. because in that case. we would certainly be very simplistic if anybody could dissuade us from something we ought to do simply by making a charge.
as far as the finger is concerned. i am pointing it at ourselves. as far as implementation is concerned. this treaty does  requ~xe implementation by an international court. that is an extra added matter which may or may  occur. it is selfimplementing which we must do before this treaty affects our country. by implementing legislation we would be making geide a crime. the fact that the law may  be enforced in many nations is something which unfortunately in this rather lawless world you can control. but at least you have a beginning. egh nations. including the united states. will have defined. denced. and made an international crime of geide. then. we have our implementing statutes. other nations will have theirs. maybe there will be an international court. maybe there will  be. but we do  undertake to make one or join in one which does  give full protection. which i feel the treaty does. and which the reservation works toward. to any individual american. which i always understood was the argument of those who oppose the treaty. i think the senator from idaho. in offering this reservation. has reiterated in unmistakable language. so one can have doubts that individual american is in jeopardy unless this country puts him in jeopardy. we can extradite anybody. anywhere if according to the laws of the country that can happen and today that can happen with an individual american we wish to try the minute we pass this implementating legislation. again. i would like to repeat to the senator from alabama. and the senator and the senate k me wellthose on the other side are just as sincere as we are. 1 do  challenge that. but really i think that here is a call to decency by mankind. implementation fully locks in. especially with the reservation. any individual americans right to be tried here. there is international tribunalif there is one. we will see about itwhich may deal with this subject. it may deal with other subjects. but in such a lawless world. it seems to me that at least this is a declaration we can make.
in the case of hitlers germany it was governmental action. but against it was the rulers who were held responsible in nurembergthat is. the individuals who carried out that actbut there is hing in the treaty which would make a crime of geide some action by some government that practiced geide. the definition in article iv includes "responsible rulers. public officials. or private individuals." it seeks to cover the crimethat is the standard here who perpetrated it. the thrust of the treaty. as i say. is  to indict or arraign governments. because that just can be done.
if it were an international court. if we were to agree by treaty that it would be. but we are  going to be so quick to give this jurisdiction to an international court which we do  k front and back. without this. we still have complete volition. whether there is or is  an international court. as to whether we will participate or extradite. we retain that jurisdictional authority whether or  there is an international court. that is the thrust of this treaty. but certainly it is made crystal clear. with which i think the senator from idaho will agree. that we have preserved that.
that is absolutely right. i would like to stateand i hope the senator from idaho will agreethat there is hing whatever in this treaty. its ratification. the reservation. or anything else. that we contemplate by way of intent or argument at all. which will make this ratification a precedent -or an initiation of a process by which we will then claim. "well. we have got to ratify the treaty for an internatlonal tribunal."  at all. this stands strictly on its own. by itself. with a strict reservation for the senate to cut it off. and to say we are  going to an international court even if one is proposed.
i have ion on that. i am in favor of a world court which deals with civilian matters and does retain jurisdiction. but i can say here whether i would be for this kind of international court. i can define at this time what such a court of penal jurisdiction is going to be when it is submitted.
i do  k that it will or will . i do  k what the court would do to enforce its decrees. but i believe that such a declaration. such a definition. is better than  having itmuch better--egh better so that we should ratify this treaty. indeed. all the arguments about it. all the arguments that it is hing but a declaration. even when we add the word "pious." are all the more reason why we should ratify it.
. the senator from th carolina raises the question of what is meant by the word "complicity" in article iii(e) of the treaty. we take the position that the term "complicity" is a wellunderstood word. it is clearly aimed at being an accessory in the crime of geide as described in the treaty. and  the other geidal acts listed in article iii. when congress enacts implementing legislation for the geide convention. it will  be necessary to enact a special provision implementing article iii(e) because accessoryship in federal crimes is already outlawed by the united states code. the senator from th carolina argues that article vi imposes upon congress an implied commitment to support the creation of an international penal tribunal. we reject that and state that congress is given complete freedom of action in that regard. the senator from th carolina expresses the fear that article i of the convention would require the united states to go to war to prevent the crime of geide. this is contrary to our view. article i confirms the principle that geide is a crime under international law in time of peace or in time of war. the senator from th carolina argues that the geide convention would make american soldiers fighting abroad triable in the courts of our enemies for killing or seriously wounding members of the enemies military forces. we reject that completely and point out that it does  qualify in the definition of the treaty with regard to the intent to destroy in whole or in part a national. racial. or religious group. as such. we point out there is hing to stop charges. and so forth. or prosecutions. which are really persecutions. of prisoners of war today. we have had emous trouble with regard to that in respect to th vietnam.
yes. the punishment for the crime of geide would be determined by individual countries until there was some international tribunal. which we would have an absolute right to have or  to have. if the senate ratifies such a convention. in the implementing statute. which senator scott and i have introduced and which is a condition precedent to this ratification. we provide for a fine of  more than $20.000 and imprisonment of  more than 20 years. and. if death results. subjection to life imprisonment. for inciting to commit geide. we propose  more than $10.000 fine. or 5 years in prison. or both. of course. the senate will be able to work its will before this is ratified. and i assume implementing legislation in other countries will go to the same point. bear in mind. as i wish to reiterate and still leave a minute for the senator. that there is crime established in this country unless congress legislates one. but the framework within which it would legislate one is the framework of this convention. which stamps geide as an international and a national crime.
that depends on whether it is performed abroad or . and one of the examples here. the national alienation of children from their parents or the change of the mental processes of a whole group may  qualifyindeed. may  qualify even as a crime unless defined in this way by our implementing statutes which would fall within the framework.
. because the quest for justice is always an arduous one. that we must undertake a vigorous defense egh to inform the members of the senate who. i am sure. in the main. are  at all informed on this piece of legislationas to what it is all about. i would like to tell my friends and colleagues and especially the senator from texas who has taken up the cudgels for this matter actively. that so far as i am concerned. i will do my utmost to see that we do  vote today because i have seen this business of coming in the door with what seems to be a routine bill and simply voting with the committee. at the very least. members should have the opportunity to read the record overnight. or to have their assistants read the record. to see what is really at stake and adjudge their own consciences. so they should today in a matter of this kind.
. here is the thrust of the cases and the basic facts upon which each of them is based. in texas against new jersey. to which i have referred. the original jurisdiction under the constitution was raised in an action by one state against aher. in an endeavor to settle certain controversies as to which state had the jurisdiction to take title to certain abandoned intangible personal property through escheat. the property consisted. as i mentioned before. of various small debts which a given company. for periods of 7 to 40 years before the action was brought. owed to small creditors who never appeared to collect them. most of the claims resulted from the failure of creditors to claim or cash checks. and most of the moneys were evidenced on the books of the debtor corporation as being located in the texas offices or owing to persons whose last kn address was in texas. texas at that time insisted that this intangible property should be treated as situated in texas. so as to permit the state to escheat it. new jersey claimed the right to escheat because the corporation owing the debt was incorporated in new jersey. as an intervening claim to the other two. pennsylvania claimed the power to escheat part or all of the same property. on the ground that the principal business office of the debtor corporation was in that state. the debtor corporation disclaimed any interest in the property and asked only to be protected from the possibility of double liability. the court went on to say that it had held in a previous case. western union against pennsylvania. that the due process laws of the 14th amendment prevents more than one state from escheating a given item of property. so it took jurisdiction in this action brought by texas and referred the case to a special master. intervention was permitted on the part of aher stateto wit. floridain that particular case. the report was filed. and this decision in texas against new jersey represented the disposition by the court of the special masters -report. the court found that it had always been the unquestioned rule in all jurisdictions that only the state in which property is located could escheat that property according to its laws. but the court made a distinction between that kind of situation of tangible property and intangible property such as a debt. which the court said a person is entitled to collect. and it said that this is  a physical matter which can be located on any map. for example. it pointed out that the creditor may live in one state. the debtor in aher. and matters may be further complicated if. as in the case before the court. the debtor was a corporation with connections in many states. and each creditor may have had some connection with other creditors or other states where their present addressthat is. the address of the creditorwas unkn. the court then went on to make the finding that. as the states separately are without constitutional power to provide a rule to settle this interstate controversy. and since there is applicable federal statute. it became the responsibility of the state. in the exercise of its original jurisdiction. to adopt a rule which would settle the question of which state will be allowed to escheat this intangible property. that bears rather importantly upon this particular bill. because it raises the very clear question: one. as to the applicability of the federal statute. and two. as to the constitutionality of that federal statute. i call that especially to the attention of the senate because of the unlikelihood that this matter is ever going to be decided finally except in courts. in the argument before the court in that particular case. four different possible rules were urged upon the court by the respective states which were parties to the case. texas. for example. urged upon the court the rules in its own state courts and said that the state with the most significant contacts with the debt should be allowed exclusive jurisdiction to escheat it. that by that claim. texas had the best right. as these debts were on the books in the texas subsidiaries of this particular corporation. the court. however. rejected that position. because it said that the rule that texas proposes would serve only to leave in permanent turmoil a question which should be settled once and for all by a clear rule to govern all types of intangible obligations. the issue. therefore. the court felt. is  whether a defendant had had sufficient contact with the state to make the defendant or his property rights subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of the state. and the court pointed out that such a jurisdiction need  be exclusive. citing quite a few cases. the court said that as this courtthat is. the supreme court--had held in western union against pennsylvania that the same property can constitutionally be escheated by more than one state. the court felt that it had to decide which states claim to escheat is superior to all others. and it rejected the socalled contacts approach as put forward by texas. the court then said that the contacts test which it rejected was  really workable. as it is simply a suggestion that this court--that is. the supreme court--examine the circumstances surrounding each particular item of property on its own particular facts and then make what the court called a difficult and often quite a subjective decision as to which states claims seem stronger than ahers. the court rejected that kind of idea. under such a doctrine. said the court. any state would easily convince itself that its claims should be given priority. this is shown. the court felt. by the texas argument that it had a superior claim to all the assets because either the last kn address of the creditor was in texas or these debts were on the texas books. the court said that the uncertainty of any test which would require the court. in effect. either to decide escheat cases on the basis of their particular facts as if each were a separate case or to devise new rules of law to apply to new categories of facts which are always developing might in the end create so much uncertainty and threaten so much expensive litigation that the states might find cxx 287part 4 that they would lose more in litigation expense than they might gain out of these escheats. that was one posture suggested to the court and which the court accepted. that is. the contacts with escheats. as urged by the state of texas. the state of new jersey asked the court to hold that the state with power to escheat is the domicile of the debtor and in that case it was new jersey which was the state of incorporation of the debtor company. that plan. the court felt. had great virtues of clarity and ease of application. but it is  the only one which does. and. the court said: it seems to us that in deciding a question upon which be determined primarily on principles of fairness. it would be to greatly exalt a mi factor to permit escheat of obligations incurred all over the country by the state in which the debtor happened to incorporate itself. so the court referred to the other alternatives suggested to it. it referred to the claim of pennsylvania where the principal office of the debtor company was located. since. it said the state is probably foremost in giving the benefits of its ecoy and laws to the company whose business activities made the intangible property come into existence. on the other hand. the court said. these debts owed by the particular corporation are  property to it but rather a liability. and it would be strange to convert a liability into an asset when the state decides to escheat. also. the court felt the application of the rule pennsylvania suggested would raise in every case the sometimes difficult question of where a companys "main office" or "principal place of business" or whatever it might be designated is located. similar uncertainties would result if they attempted in each case to determine the state in which the debt was created and allow it to escheat. they said that any rule leaving so much for decision on a casebycase basis should  be adopted unless e is available which is more certain and yet still fair. they said that the rule proposed by the master. based on the one suggested by florida. is. the rule suggested by florida was that since a debt is the property of the creditor and  the debtor. fairness among the states requires that the right empowered to escheat the debts should be accorded to the state of the creditors last kn address as shown by the debtors books and records. that assumes that the creditor could  be found. the court felt that kind of solution would be in line with one group of cases dealing with intangible property. the foote tells us that this related to garnishment procedures in various cases were cited to support that thesis. the court felt adoption of the rules made by florida involved only a simple factual issue and  a legal issue. the court said it takes account of the fact that if a creditor instead of perhaps leaving behind an uncashed check had negotiated the check and left behind the cash. the state would have been the sole possible escheat claimant. in other words. the rule recognizes that the debt was an asset of the creditor.
. i was engaged in analyzing the decision in texas versus new jersey. to which i have referred in my argument in chief with respect to this matter. i shall continue with my analysis. the court in that particular case adopted the concept. which was the socalled florida concept. that where there was an address on the debtors books and records. the escheat would go to the estate which had been the last kn address as shown by the debtors books and records. the court pointed out that that was in accord with aher line of decisions which it had adopted with respect to intangible property. and makes the issue of fact easy to resolve. it recognizes that a debt is the estate of the creditor. in this case the person whose name and address is recorded. rather than the debtor. the rule recommended by the special master for the court also. the court felt. would tend to distribute the benefit of escheats among the states to the extent that addresses were ascertained in the proportion in which their residents carried on commercial activity. instead of carrying on a technical legal concept of residence and domicile. which always had been highly controversial in the law for the administration of the escheat laws. and that their application would be greatly simplified. the court. of course. understood that creditors might  necessarily be in the state to which their addresses attributed them. but the court generally felt that to a large extent otherwise would cancel them out. on the whole. this is a more reliable guide than that proposed by the other states. the court. therefore. held that where there is a last kn address of the creditor on the books of the debtor. that would be the state that would be entitled to the escheat. the question then arose as to what is to be done with property owed personsthat is. creditorsto whom there was record of any address at all. or whose last kn address was of a state which did  provide for escheat of the property which was owed to them. so the findings of the court were. first. as to the situation where there was last kn address: that the property was subject to escheat by the state of corporate domicile. provided that aher state could escheat upon proof that the last kn address of a creditor was within its borders. although  mentioned by the master for the courts. the court felt that the same rule could apply to the second situationthat is where the state of the last kn address does  provide for escheat of the property. in such a case. said the court. the state of corporate domicile could escheat the property. subject to the right of the state of last kn address to recover it if at any time it had a law relating to escheating. so. on both situations the state of corporate domicile should be allowed to cut off a claim of private persons only. retaining the property for itself only if some other state comes forward with proof that it has a superior right to escheat. such a solution for these problems. likely to arise with comparative infrequency. seems to us conducive to needed certainty. and we therefore adopt it. the court then went on to say that they realized that the resolution made of the case is  only controlled by statute or by constitutional provisions or by past decisions or one entirely of logic. but fundamentally it is one of ease of administration and of equity. they felt the rule to adopt was the fairest and the easiest to apply. and in the long run generally acceptable to all of the states. and they issued an order of the court accordingly. the only dissenter to that decision in that particular case was justice stewart. he said that he thought that the power to escheat intangible property should be traditionally lodged in the domiciliary state of one of the parties in the obligation. they said the domicile state of the debtor would control and that therefore the state of the debtor is entitled to the prime escheatment in terms of intangible property. he felt that the previous cases on that score should  be overruled. . for practical purposes. the position which judge stewart is referring to is a very interesting one because it goes even more strongly against the position which is  taken by the committee. however. the main decision of the court is certainly an adequate exposition of the courts point of view on that score and sufficient to cover the contentions which we are making here. the other major decisionand i wish again to emphasize before i leave the decision in the texas case that that relates to a claim against a corporation. it did  relate to travelers checks or money orders. and therefore. it is  exactly relevant to the situation which exists at this time. and the stronger case for my retroactivity. if any was to be made. was a decision in the case of pennsylvania against new york. where retroactivity was inherent in the state of facts decided in which practically all of the retroactivity would apply. namely in the field of money orders. and that was  decided until june 17. 1972. so again i point out the artificiality which is inherent in the 10year retroactivity which is developed out of the committee bill and which i simply can follow in terms of any justification. and for which i do  believe any justification has been given.
. i thank my colleague for his intercession. i certainly do have faith in this country. i would  say the things i say if i did . but i feel that. like every other person or institution in which we have faith. it constantly needs to be reminded of its duties and its origin. and while there are a few members heresenator tower and i have been speaking pretty much to empty wallsi would like to take just a minute to state what this bill is about and what the argument is all about. it comes down to simply this: for 10 years. since the supreme court decided that case in 1965. there has been a rule on the books that where a travelers check or a money order was issued to an individual after being bought from a particular entity like american express or western union. and somehow or other the recipient of that particular money order or travelers check failed to get the money. failed to cash it or to receive it when it was delivered at the other end of the line. and record was available of his name or address. the state of incorporation of the issuing company was entitled. after the necessary statutory period. to escheat the money as abandoned property from the issuing company. that was the law for 10 years. up until .  this bill proposes to change that law by making the state where the money order or travelers check was bought the state which will escheat or take over the abandoned property. and we are  objecting to that. but an effort is made in his bill to antedate it by 10 years. in other words. to take it back to the time when the supreme court made its decision. and that is the iniquity. that is what i am crying out against. and that is the reason i made the speech i did. because that is just the application of naked power to change a juridical finding upon logic and law. in my judgment. therefore. what i said was valid from that point of view. and that is the whole case. since these are open secrets openly arrived at. i will talk with the attorney general of my state. and if he feels as i do. that this is about the end of the road. permit it to be voted up or down. and that will be the end of it. but i hope very much that senators will at least do themselves the justice of taking a look at the facts.
. i should like to reply to the senator from alabama in the following way: if we are going to go by miity decisions of the supreme court. that will really send american justice and american legislation into a tailspin. the case to which the senator referred. pennsylvania against new york. which was decided 6 to 3and justice powell was one of the three dissentersbut six deciding. that the proper juridical rule was to escheat to the state where the debtor was domiciledto wit. in that case. the american express co. so i really do  think in any way that counts as my point that we are vacating and annulling the decision of the supreme court made on an express juridical principle. we can hope for unanimity if we say that law is  what the majority says but what the miity says. as i say. that would be the end of the supreme court and the end of government. but even beyond that. senator. i have complaints about congress adopting the powell theory. i may  agree with it. i may  like it. i think there are very good arguments against it. especially those made by the supreme court. but if that is the way congress wants to go. we will go that way. what i was objecting to was the retroactivity. the annulling. which i think is a dangerous ideain cold blood. as it were. annulling the supreme court judgments based on straight juridical reasoning. the interpretation of the statute or anything else called for the supreme court evaluation as to what was an equitable way to dispose of the controversy. to annul that for 10 years back seemed to me to be an extremely dangerous idea.
 it does . because there is still money outstanding. in other words. many of these escheats and abandonments have  been paid. a number of claims have  been filed by the various states. i gave a list. some little while ago. of the various states which had filed claims with two companieswestern union and american express. payment had  actually been made. it is  moot. it remains a burning question egh to have brought the case to the supreme court as between new york and pennsylvania.
. throughout the extensive debates on gun control in this chamber over the years. we have heard the claim again and again that the new york city gun control laws are  effective. as i have previously stated. former mayor lindsay and our police officials in new york have made a major effort to rebut this argument before leaving office. the mayor prepared an important report entitled. "the case for federal firearms control." it provides the most accurate information available regarding firearms production and availability. firearms thefts. firearms and police murders. and the correlation between the strength of firearms regulations and the rate of violent crime. although it is a somewhat lengthy document. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i would like to call to the attention of the senator somethihg that has just been called t0 my attention. on page 13 of the amendmeht. lines 13 through 22 inclusive. the statement is made: such exemptions may take into consideration  only the needs of police offlicers and security guards. sportsmen. target shooters. and handgun collectors . . there is wide discretion here. i think it is fair to say that the thrnust of the amendment is designed to reach the guns that are operable which can be identified through some reasonable process.
. i wish to annce to the senate the passing of frank s. hogan. a man who served for three decades as a district attorney of new york county. there can be greater tribute to a man than that he carried out his duties in the service of the law and its equal application to all with a singleminded devotion to the tradition and purity of that law unmatched in his time. the death of frank s. hogan today marks the end of a legendary career which for more than 30 years stood for integrity. competence. and fairness in the administration of justice. from his earliest days as an assistant to the late thomas e. dewey.  of the board of twa. and many state supreme court justices. members of the state legislature and law professors. especially in times like this when the integrity of the administration of justice and of the legal profession are constantly an issue before us frank hogans career stands as a model inspiration. for mrs. javits and myself i extend our most profound condolences to mary hogan.
 martin van buren protested to the mighty ottoman empire concerning the persecution of jews in damascus.  the capital of syria but then under turkish rule. van burens secretary of state. john forsyth. referred to the american concern as a subject "which appeals so strongly to the universal sentiments of justice and humanity." this enunciation of american concern is still applicable today. more than 130 years later. as the syrian government obliges its jewish citizens to live in an oppressive darkness. restricted in their movements and their ability to earn even a livelihood and subject to the terror of midnight arrests and violence against their homes and families. once again. the american conscience is aroused to the plight of the centuriesold syrian jewish community and the dire necessity to relieve their pitiable condition. the new york times of april 14 featured a news article detailing the status of syrian jewry. a situation which has deteriorated with the passage of time. i ask unanimous consent that this article be printed in the record.
. this coordinated effort. the first of its kind in the city. is in response to the need for more sensitive treatment of rape victims and efficient handling of rape cases. in addition. the police department  has a special sex crimes unit with divisions in each of the boroughs aid recently. rape coordinators have been established at the municipal hospitals. i commend mayor beame for the establishment of these important programs which reflect a long overdue sensitivity in handling the delicate emotional problems that so often affect rape victims.
a point was raised in the course of the debate on the mansfielddirksen substitute that there might be some invasion of the right of due process to which a defendant is entitled in any case. even without a jury. i should like to ask the senator. since he is the author of the amendment. to state for the record his understanding of the fact that the rules of criminal procedure. particularly rule 42(b). would apply in any proceeding. even without a jury. so that the charges made would be kn to the defendant. the defendant would have a right to counsel. and to be confronted by the witnesses against him and for him. and all of the procedures which our law guarantees to prevent tyranny and imposition other than the fact that the jury would actually determine the case.
. i should like to make one point about the debate. senators who are opposing the morton amendment and the talmadge amendment are being referred to as illiberal. and charged with wanting to deny people the right of jury trial. i have made the point time and time again that congress has looked after the matter very fairly by permitting the court to make its own mandate in contempt cases. aside from the 1957 civil rights act. which is essential to the preservation of the courts. and the maximum penalty which the court may impose without a jury is  fixed. by the supreme court decision in the barnett case. at what is adjudged the penalty for a petty offense. therefore we have an automatic system. of law which is fair and just. for that reason i should like to quote from the colloquy between the senator from alabama . who is in the chamber. and the senator from mississippi . who is also in the chamber. as shown in the record of april 30. the senator from alabama read to the senator from mississippi with great approval from the miity opinion of justice black in the case of green against united states on the question of whether in criminal contempt cases there should be a trial by jury. the senator from mississippi. who is very much for the talmadge amendment. said with respect to this. in very fine support of justice black. as appears on page 9653 of the record:
if the senator will withhold that request. i should like to reply. even if we adopt the senators amendment. there is reason why a union can try to harass an employer with respect to those employees who are paying into some charity and  dues. the thing is just as broad as it is long. second. in my citing cases. i must say it is rather amusing to hear classic cases referred to as out of date. they still are the law. i also mentioned a decision annced last week of the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit. in a case involving bill buckley. in which the same doctrine was upheld. i ask unanimous consent that the decision of the second circuit court of appeals to which i have referred be printed in the record
after 4 years of experience. the k provisions which we debate today are  necessary to the rigorous enforcement of federal drug laws or district of columbia criminal laws. in an interview on june 7. for example. chief of police jerry v. wilson stated flatly that he would  object to repeal of the k provisions and that repeal of such provisions "wont affect (the d.c. metropolitan police department) one way or aher." (washington post. june 8. 1974.) although the federal government once used the k authority regularly. more recent statistics indicate that the authority is invoked only rarely today. on the other hand. the marginal utility of the k provisions is far outweighed by the grave dangers which they pose to the fundamental and constitutionally guaranteed right to privacy. it is far outweighed by the fact that government agents have abused the k authority to break into the homes of and terrorize unsuspecting and even inent individuals. it is outweighed by the fact that the mere existence of the k authority breeds an official attitude which sometimes places government agents above the law. my opposition to these provisions therefore goes far beyond the constitutional principles which they violate. particularly the gross invasion of the right of privacy which these laws authorize. the most forceful argument for eliminating k is that commonsense and actual experience indicate that its exercise may actually increase the chances of injury and death both to law enforcement officers and citizens whose homes are broken into. i urge the senate to adopt this amendment.
. may i ask senator allen to confirm that his motion will seek to cause the senate to recede and accept the house language on the following points: purpose. findings. reopening proceedings. intervention in court cases authorized. limitation on court orders. and prohibition against use of appropriated fundsthe descriptions of each item appearing on pages 154. 155. and 156 of the conference report.
well. i thank my colleague very much. i think he clarified the situation. all i say is that i pledge myself to continue indefatigably with this until some justice is done in the matter. and the senator has indicated clearly how he feels intellectually and i understand the practical situation.
. the bill i am introducing today would do those two things. first. the authorization figure would be increased by $10 million. the national park service has estimated that it would require at least $7.150.000 to complete acquisitions and condemnations in the seashore. this is just an estimate which the park service itself indicates could go up depending on future condemnations. second. the legislation gives the secretary the power to go to the appropriate u.s. district court for injunctive relief against any action covered by the act which is inconsistent with the purposes of the act or which is considered adverse to the protection and development of the national seashore. on september 11. 1964. the fire island national seashore was authorized by public law 88587 with the stated purpose to preserve the section of barrier beach off the south shore of long island and to provide recreation and natural open space for the enjoyment of all. the act provided $16 million for acquisition of property within the seashore and as of this time all but $276.561 has been spent for seashore property with the remaining amount reserved for pending condemnation suits. there has been new money provided for fire island since the original act was passed by the congress. since its establishment the fire island national seashore has been a very popular resort area for the people of long island and metropolitan new yorkan estimated population of 10 to 12 million. it contains excellent beaches with imposing sand dunes and interesting vegetation. the sunken forest in the western half of the island is a tremendous natural resource which remains in a wholly natural state. in the calendar year 1972. according to the interior department. 578.702 visitors used the seashore. it is clearly one of our most important natural resources. unfortunately. since the passage of the fire island legislation there have been numerous complaints over the years regarding improper development of private property and insufficient regulation 6f vehicular traffic on the "fragile" island. over the years. my office in response to complaints from george biderman. the first chairman of the seashore advisory commission. and charles lowry. his successor. intervened with the interior department to try and stop improper development of private property. unfortunately the statute provides for only one remedythat of condemnation of private property which has been zoned in a manner  satisfactory to the secretary of interior or which has been subject to a variance. exception or use that failed to conform to the regulations of the secretary. because of lack of funds and the inevitable court battles. the interior department never used its power of condemnation to stop improper development on fire island. on the other hand. the interior department never came to the congress to request additional funds for acquisition of property on fire island. in fact. a completed master plan has never been approved by the national park service for the island despite the fact that it has been worked on in stages since 1965. the latest estimate by the park service is that the master plan is  expected to be completed before january 1975. on august 9. 1972. after frustration with the actions of the interior department. george biderman. charles lowry. and 12 other property owners on fire island commenced an action against the secretary of interior and various officlals of the towns and villages which have jurisdiction over fire island. the complaint sought relief by requiring the secretary of interior to prepare an environmental impact statement and also sought to enjoin the municipalities involved from issuing building permits or granting zoning variances until the environmental impact statement was prepared and any changes in the secretarys regulations governing local zoning ordinances were promulgated. on august 22. 1973. the federal district court in the eastern district of new york denied relief to the plaintiffs concluding that the court was powerless to enjoin municipalities from implementing their zoning ordinance. this decision was affirmed by the court of appeals on may 30. 1974. see george biderman et al. v. rogers c. b. morton et al. (doc.  732842). chief judge kaufman writing for the court stated that absent funds for condemnation. the statutory scheme devised by congress leaves the secretary powerless to arrest the allegedly destructive development of fire island. in an eloquent statement at the end the opinion. the chief judge stated as follows: on the basis of the affidavits and interrogatories in the record before us. there is little doubt in our minds that environmentalistsand indeed courtshave been and will continue to be frustrated in their commendable efforts to safeguard the natural beauty of fire island. in their justifiable frustration. plaintiffs have sought relief from the courts. but it is clear that only congress can provide the remedy. denial of the preliminary injunctive relief sought by plaintiffs must. therefore. be affirmed and the case remanded fbr further proceedings  inconsistent with this opinion. nevertheless. precatory though our words must necessarily be. we can help but urge those with the power and authority to preserve this gem of an island to halt their procrastination and get on with the urgent business of saving this charming and fragile outpost of nature before the encroachment of haphazard development irreyocably despoil it. i think the congress should take up the challenge presented by the court of appeals decision and should move ahead by enacting legislation to increase the authorization for acquisitions on fire island and to provide the secretary of interior with the authority to enjoin development which is inconsistent with the purposes of the act. the courts are given appropriate jurisdiction to consider such injunction suits. this new authority will give the secretary of interior the ability to restrain development which is  in accordance with the purposes of the act. that is. to conserve and preserve for the use of future generations certain relatively unspoiled and undeveloped beaches. dunes and other natural features on fire island. in most instances the threat of an injunction should deter private landowners from making improper use of their property. this should also enable the interior department to minimize the expense involved. because it will require fewer condemnations. when private landowners were given examptions in the original fire island legislation. that action was predicated upon use of property consistent with the objectives of the act. that is the reason the secretary of interior was given the power to condemn property used in a manner inconsistent with the act. i believe the legislation i am introducing will give the secretary the tools that are necessary to protect this irreplaceable resource. we must  let development destroy one of our greatest natural treasures. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of an interior department memo containing pertinent information on fire island and its administration be placed in the record at this point and that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
. the real issue of this debate and the vote will be whether or  any residual power shall exist in the department of health. education. and welfare with respect to the enforcement of the civil rights act of 1964. because all the amendment does is say that only the courts may. when they find unlawful segregation. order facts and figures. et cetera. to be produced. which would be inhibited by the holt amendment. that defeats the scheme of enforcement devised by congress in 1964. and cxx2453part 29 also introduces elements of social instability. because you can have tremendous reactions. social unrest. demonstrations. and even riots if they have to wait 2. 3. 4. or 5 years until the court eventually decides before getting any facts and figures on which to base any action under the civil rights act of 1964. so. while i k the senator offering the amendment meant it to be an olive branch of a sort. all it does is lock in the very purpose of the holt amendment. and this is somethingwhich we must. in all good conscience. be against. as it destroys the whole fabric of the legislation which we constructed in 1964. with all the attendant dangers and difficulties which we sought to deal with when we enacted the civil rights act of 1964.
first of all. an agency has a number of ways to assure the expeditious completion of its hearings under its powers to regulate hearing procedures. because of this fact. aca threats to delay proceedings would  have much effect on the agency. second. a number of agencies are empowered to take immediate action on a temporary basis. pending completion of the administrative process. for example. if the federal power commission does  complete its review of a proposed new rate schedule within 5 months. the rate schedule goes into effect anyway and remains in effect until agency review of the matter is completed (16 u.s.c. 824(d) ). if the aca seeks to challenge a proposed hike in the price of natural gas it would  be able to block the price rise simply by delaying final agency action on the matter. third. where speed is of the utmost importance. a court reviewing an agencys proceedings can take steps to resolve the matter as quickly as possible. under the circumstances. the threat of a possible appeal by aca unduly delaying proposed action the agency must take quickly should  be a matter of great concern to the agency involved. finally. the only way the aca would be able to block immediate agency actions in other cases where an agency feels immediate action is necessary is by obtaining a court order staying the proposed action. it is  the intent of the sponsors of s. 707 that the aca could. regardless of the circumstances. obtain a stay of the agency action pending a review of the matter on its merits. it will be up to the court to decide whether a preliminary injunction should be issued pending review of the agency action. the law is clear that unless there is a specific statutory provision to the contrary. such stays may  be granted if issuance of the stay would cause such serious or irreparable injury to others as to be contrary to the interests of justice. the aca would be entitled to obtain such a stay only if it made a strong showing that it would ultimately win its case and that it is more in the public interest to have the stay granted than if it were  granted. a number of cases. including abbott laboratories v. gardner. 387 u.s. 136. eastern air lines v. cab. 261 f. 2d 830 (2d cir. 1958). and associated securities corporation v. sec. 283 f. 2d 773 (10th cir. 1960) have made it clear that such requests for stays should be refused under a variety of circumstances. a provision of the administrative procedure act (5 u.s.c. 705) is a statutory recognition of this case law. it would be as fully applicable to aca as any other party that seeks to stay agency actions. in the abbott case. the supreme court stated: the institution of this type of action does  by itself stay the effectiveness of the challenged regulation. there is hing in the record to indicate that petitioners have sought to stay enforcement of the . . . regulation pending judicial review. . . . if the agency believes that a suit of this type will significantly impede enforcement or will harm the public interest. it need  postpone enforcement of the regulation and may oppose any motion for a judicial stay on the part of those challenging the regulation ... it is scarcely to be doubted that a court would refuse to postpone the effective date of an agency action if the government could show. as it made effort to do here. that delay would be detrimental to the public health or safety.
there is way this could happen. a court could  grant a stay if it would result in farmers seeing their crops jeopardized. this is just the kind of irreparable injury which would require the court  to grant a stay.
this is certainly the case. it was never the intent of the sponsors of s. 707 to permit the aca to disrupt mal agency or court procedures. i wish to commend the senior senator from vermont for introducing his proposed amendment. it is a very useful and important amendment which should make the legislative intent on this matter absolutely clear. speaking for myself and senator percy. senator ribicoff. senator dole. and senator magnuson. i can say we wholeheartedly support the amendment and hope it will be adopted by the senate. your amendment makes it clear that the aca may  act in a way designed simply to delay agency or court proceedings. quite to the contrary. the administrator will be charged with the affirmative duty of trying to expedite procedures in which it is involved in every reasonable way possible. furthermore. section 6(a) (2) of the dole substitute specifies that when aca intervenes in an informal agency proceeding. it must do so "in an orderly manner and without causing undue delay."
 yet. it was he who stipulated that at a given point the tapes could be destroyed. despite the emity of all that has happened and the fact that important criminal cases are jeopardized by this agreement. . i think again it is denigrating all of us that any of this should be construed or endeavored to be painted as being vindictive or mean to a former president. i have myself said. although i thoroughly disagree with president ford about the precipitate nature of a pardon. that all of us k that at some given point. there would be concurrence between congress. the president and the american people that our former president be accorded clemency. i have said that myself when i objected. and i think that was the general opinion of congress. so i hope that we will  feel embarrassed about discussing this in a legitimate and objective way. but let us also remember what is at stake here. one can fairly deny that there is a burning and thoroughly defensible public interest in preserving this particular expresidents papers. theyhave been so hotly controverted that he himself has agreed to compromise what he considers his ownership interest in those papers. itis.  unqualified. it is  absolute i am a. lawyer and i am the first to say so. it is my conviction and. i gather. that of our whole committee which reported our bill unanimously that under the present circumstances it would simply be a travesty net to have the united states in unqualified and complete control and custody of these papers. personally i would say to my colleagues that i think it is rather unfortunate that we should be driven to these kinds of speeches on this matter. i really do.
. we have done the very minimum measure of social justice and constitutional recognition after the most deliberate debate. the most thorough consideration. in settling the matters as we did. as recently as august 1974. i could  think of a worse mistake in the policy of our country. especially under existing conditions. than reversing that whole procedure in an hours debate under a supplemental appropriations bill.
 of the drug abuse councilmade it clear that the deterrent effect of the marihuana laws on small private use are virtually existentwe are  here talking about pushers. sellers. or dealersthat such efforts result in overburdening the courts. and diverting our police capabilities from vital serious responsibilities for the public safety. and. that the most significant deterrents to the private use of marihuana. were the result of changing lifestyles. responsibility for student roles and new patterns of personal relationships the criminal penalties we  impose. during the course of todays hearings. one of the witnesses was richard j. bonnie. one of the worlds leading expertsa law professor and practitioner of criminal and constitutional law. and former associate director of the national commission on marihuana and drug abuseon the question of such laws in the united states. i believe his thoughtful testimony on the need for congressional action to decriminalize the possession of small amounts of marihuana for personal use and for casual. profit distribution of small amountsthe objective of the bill introduced by senator hughes. chairman of this subcommittee. and myselfshould be shared with all our colleagues. i commend to my colleagues his indepth analyses of how the criminalization of private marihuana consumption has hurt the legal system. tended to erode public confidence in criminal justice and to encourage disrespect for law enforcement. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the testimony be printed in the record.
. these three bills or any other legislation are  the whole answer. the issue of crime in our society is the outgrowth of dramatic change in our society which must be confronted. in a larger sense. by the congress. the states. our local communities. and the people themselves. but so long as the misguided maiming of human beings remains institutionalized in our criminal justice system. so will the cycle of crime and punishment. and more crime. accelerate and trap us all. the roots of the chaos in our penal system are in a misconception of what that system and our society zhould and must do for those who are consigned to exist with it. while the requirements of both human dignity and order within our prisons must be met. the lesson of the prison tragedies must be that human dignity and mutual respect can become the casualties of our emotions. for those on both sides of the issue who would use terror. fear. accusations. and polarizations we must deny them their opportunity to dictate our policy. we need. instead. to be a people who will sustain a strong effort to insure a system of justice which will respect and encourage the full humanity of each man and woman within the prison walls. while recognizing the frustration and difficulties of those who are charged with the responsibility of true rehabilitation. by mr. williams:
. hundreds of hours of painstaking labor have been spent by many persons in the development of title ii. i would particularly like to commend mike francis of senator staffords staff. lisa walker. judy heumann and nik edes of senator williams staff. pat forsythe. ann hocutt. and bob humphreys of senator randolphs staff. and jon steinberg of senator cranstons staff. for their ideas. effort. enthusiasm. skill. and persistence in readying this measure for passage by the senate and for conference with the house. this "bill of rights" represents a reaffirmation of the basic human and civil rights of all citizens. it offers the direction to provide a valid and realistic framework for improving the overall situation of this countrys mentally retarded and other developmentally disabled individuals progress toward recognition of the basic human and civil rights of the mentally retarded and other developmentally disabled persons has been slow. the federal government has largely abrogated its responsibility in this regard and recently the greatest initiatives have come from our courts. for example. a 1972 decision of a u.s. district court in the case of wyatt against stickney set forth constitutionally required minimum standards for the care and treatment of mentally retarded patients. before the supreme court at this time. is ocon against donaldson in which the u.s. court of appeals of the fifth circuit held that a mental patient in a public institution has a constitutional right to treatment. congress must reaffirm its belief in equal rights for all citizensincluding the mentally retarded. congress must provide the leadership to change the tragic warehousing of human beings that has been the product of blind federal support of facilities providing inhumane care and treatment of the mentally retarded. s. 462 represents this new direction. and begins this reaffirmation.
for all these reasons. . this bill commends itself very highly to us in new york and. as i say. will be sponsored by the local members of the house in the other body. s. 867 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that section 10 of the act entitled "an act to establish the fire island national seashore. and for other purposes". approved september 11. 1964 (78 stat. 928). is amended by deleting "$16.000.000" and inserting in lieu thereof "$26.000.000". (b) section 7(c) of such act is amended by adding immediately after the first sentence thereof the following new sentence: "in addition to any other statutory authority available to him under this act or any other law. the secretary. in carrying out his duties under this act to administer. protect. and develop fire island national seashore. is authorized to petition an appropriate united states district court for injunctive relief concerning any action covered by the provisions of this act which the secretary determines is inconsistent with the purposes of this act. or which he considers adverse to the protection and development. in accordance with the purposes of this act. of the area comprising the national seashore. and the united states district courts shall have jurisdiction to receive. consider. and act upon any such petition.".
. the laws we seek to change are indefensible. logic. commonsense. and honesty have had very little to do with the evolution of national drug policy in the last 40 years. and these failings are rooted in the current law. i think we have iged for far too long the consequences of that failure for our society. i urgently request the senate judiciary committee to act on this bill at the earliest possible time. there are several articles and editorials which have appeared in the media in recent months on the subject of decriminalization and i ask unanimous consent that the following be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks: "harsh penalties for pot." an editorial in the new york times. december 28. 1974. "legal hostility to pot fades." an article by al parachini in the new york times. december 8. 1974. "the limits of the criminal sanction." an editorial in the washington post. ember 18. 1974. "shifting emphasis on pot." an editorial in the buffalo evening news. ember 30. 1974. "end the pot penalties." an article by william f. buckley. ember 10. 1974. "reefer." a volumn by ann landers. "thoughts on marihuana." a column by james j. kilpatrick. washington star news. december 4. 1974. "pot: long smouldering issue may end in decriminalization." an article by william hines. chicago suntimes. december 1. 1974. a column by richard c. cowan. "about marihuana". ember 6. 1974. an article by susan fogg. newhouse news service concerning the therapeutic uses of marihuana. "a change in policy on pot." an article by william j. laette. the national observer. ember 30. 1974. "carey considers dropping harsh marihuana penalty." an article in the new york times. january 29. 1975.
bayh. and burdicx. relates to the voting rights of former offenders and simply gives a person the right to vote in federal elections once he has completed his sentence. and is longer under the custody of a court or the attorney general. . i ask unanimous consent that the text of this bill as well as a summary of it be printed at this point in the record.
and that i quoted justice frankfurter as saying that often the people or institutions we deal with to do justice under the constitution are very unpleasant. but that. etheless. we have to do it. i thank my colleague very much for his observation. and i shall follow through on this matter.
. since 1969. in spite of drastic increases in the cost of living. federal judicial salaries have been frozen. this has resulted in hardships for many judges in high cost areas of the country and has resulted in resignations in the southern district of new york and elsewhere. despite the efforts of chief justice burger and others. congress has  taken action on this important problem. i believe we must face up to this problem and  sacrifice the quality of the judiciary. traditionally federal district judges salaries have been related to congressional salaries but while i favor an increase in congressional salaries which is long overdue it need  be tied in law to federal judges salaries. i ask unanimous consent that a study prepared for the judicial conference committee on judicial compensation. making the case for a judicial pay increase. a compilation. prepared by the judicial conference. of press reports in support of a pay increase and the full text of selected editorials supporting the pay increase. be published in the record.
. i and my colleagues are most concerned that the severe criminal penalties which are possible under current federal law be eliminated as counterproductive and illadvised. a change in federal law will motivate the states to change their laws. the value of the criminal sanction in a society rests on a foundation of fairness. possession of one ounce of marihuanaequal to one pack of cigarettes--as covered by this amendment does  meet that test.
i am constrained to disagree with the senator for this reason: the crtification of  of the committee on privileges and elections. senator earnst. of kentucky. stated that the committee was its own judge and it does  have to follow the law of iowa and has  done so and has  attempted to do so. even senators such as george. of georgia. who voted to seat steck. were critical of that proposition. thus steck stands for the proposition that the committee and indeed the senate can ige state law if it so -desires but that has  been the usual case. i do  believe that anyof us would want to rely on the steck case as a precedent for a fair way of conducting a review of an election. therefore. i believe that the rule the senate should follow in judging the wymandurkin election is that state law should be given great weight and authority and should be used to determine the intent of the voters of new hampshire. it is necessary to take a close look at the law of new hampshire to try and arrive at a final determination on the important question of the skipcandidate ballot. the new hampshire law in the revised statutes 59:58 provides for straight party voting by marking an x in the circle above the party slate. if the voter wants to vote for a candidate whose name is  under the circle which he has marked he should erase or cancel the name of the candidate in the column and may write in the name of aher candidate in a separate column or mark an x in the name of the opposition candidate. i believe it is important to look at the cases which review this provision of new hampshire law. the first is the case of barr v. stevens. 79 new hampshire 192 (1919). in that case there were three candidates running for county commissioner on the republican and democratic ticket. the ballot in question had an x in the democratic party circle and xs in each individual candidate box except for candidates gingras and gould running for county commissioner. in the writein slot were the names of gingras and barr who was a republican with xs beside their name. the ballot was  counted for barr even though his name had been written in because of the fact that the straight party ticket mark at the top of the ticket was deemed to be a constructive vote for gould whose individual box was skipped and whose name was  written in. thus the vote for gould and the vote for barr canceled each other out. the court felt that the statutory rule as to the weight of the evidence which counted the vote for gould must be applied in this case. this case stands for the proposition that an x in the party circle is a constructive x in all the boxes of the party candidates. the case of murchie v. clifford. 76 new hampshire 99 (1911) and stearns v. odowd. 78 new hampshire 358 (1917). also dealt with the question of straight party voting. in murchie ballots were marked with an x in the party circle but also with an x opposite the name of the candidate for a particular office in aher column. the court stated that the issue is for whom did the voter cast his ballot. this was determined to be a judicial question and  one which should be determined by a mechanical rule laid down by the legislature. the court determined that the judgment on ballots was a judicial one and that the intent of the voter should be determined. thus the court determined that looking at the ballots as a whole the voter has attempted to express a choice of two persons for one office and. therefore. the ballot was  counted for either. it is very important to e that the court did  disregard the straight party designation but in effect considered it a constructive party for all names in that column but found that a specific x for a candidate in a different column negated that intent. the stearns case is similar and i believe stands for the proposition that the straight party vote method is one method of expressing intent but can be negated by an affirmative act in aher direction. it should be ed that case has held that the straight party mark is to be iged in a skip ballot situation where there is  affirmative act such as crossing out a name. writing in aher name in aher column or making an x in aher column. in fact the barr case stands for just the opposite point. thus the skip ballots in the wymandurkin situation must be viewed as straight party votes under the law of new hampshire since there is affirmative action that was taken by the voter showing an intent to vote for someone else that would cancel out the straight party vote.
. may i ask the senator this question: is it  precisely because the law gives us such power that in a case in which fraud is  charged. where it is strictly a matter of vote counting. we should determine to have our own restraint on the unbridled use of that power by any majority. as this majority may be reasonable. we could have a majority that is tyrannical and could deprive many of us of our seats and millions of people of the fruits of their votes in respect to the u.s. senate.
. maine has given final approval to a new marihuana decriminalization law and becomes the third stateand the second state this yearto remove criminal penalties and jail sentences for possessing small amounts of marihuana. the maine law was passed last week exactly 1 month after alaska voted to enact similar legislation. oregon was the first state to adopt the concept of a civil fine for marihuana use in 1973. as the senate ks. i and senators cranston. brooke. and nelson have introduced s. 1450.  pending before the senate subcommittee on juvenile delinquency to substitute the civil fine approach for federal criminal penalties for possession of up to one ounce of marihuana. gov. james b. longley signed the bill on wednesday morning. june 18. 2 days after the maine legislature gave overwhelming approval to the measure. the new law. which becomes effective on march 1. 1976. calls for a maximum civil fine or  more than $200 for possession of up to one and a half ounces of marihuana. enforcement is like a traffic violation. with a citation instead of an arrest. misdemea penalties apply to possessing or transferring amounts in excess of one and a half ounces. maines new marihuana law is part of an exhaustive legislative package that completely revamps the states criminal code. the package is the result of nearly 3 years of work by a special criminal law revision commission headed by former maine attorney general jon a. lund.
i thank the senator very much for his contribution. the senator from new york has also tried to show a way out to senators who have serious and deserving amendments. and i hope that the friends of the bill will have that very much in mind as we act upon individual amendments. because that is the way in which to do justice. and also to do the even greater justice of getting this bill through in time. . i thank the senator from florida for allowing me to speak while he had the floor. the time is charged to me. with loss to him. and i reserve the remainder of my time.
i believe that the amendment. because there is basic cause. even historic cause. for bringing about this kind of regulation. the voting procedures in the states. raises questions of very doubtful constitutionality. i believe those questions are made even stronger against the amendment by the fact that. if we pass it as i have just demonstrated. it will be a law without date. it will be in perpetuity. therefore. i believe there are very serious questions. and it is very doubtful this amendment. if enacted. would stand up. on the basic issue of national applicability. i will read just one paragraph which answers the question in the katzenbach case. i think the senators own assistant had it. at least. it was just here in front of me a minute ago. the katzenbach case answers the question of the national character of this bill by saying. and i quote from page 334 to 335 of the opinion. speaking of this act: the act suspends new voting regulations pending scrutiny by federal authorities to determine whether their use would violate the fifteenth amendment. this may have been an uncommon exercise of congressional power. as south carolina contends. but the court has recognized that exceptional conditions can justify legislative measures  otherwise appropriate. it cites a case: congress knew that some of the states covered by  4(b) of the act had resorted to the extraordinary stratagem of contriving new rules of various kinds for the sole purpose of perpetuating voting discrimination in the face of adverse federal court decrees. congress had reason to suppose that these states might try similar maneuvers in the future in order to evade the remedies for voting discrimination contained in the act itself. under -the compulsion of these unique circumstances. congress responded in a permissibly decisive manner. the court. therefore. sustained the constitutionality of that section. the rest of the national coverage is completed by the fact that section 3 gives the attorney general the power to sue in situations which are  covered by the trigger. so that in terms of liability for voter discrimination lbased upon. first. the trigger. which has been sustained. or discrimination. otherwise. the act gives complete coverage to every person and every state in the united states.
. it is easy to carry things away forensically in a debate of this kind. on a very delicate question of constitutionality. but the point is that the whole structure of the law is dismantled by this amendment. the structure of the law depends for its constitutionality on the fact that there has been a history in given areas based upon the triggering device of patterns or practices of the denial of voting. so the court has sustained constitutionality. based upon the fact that there is an antecedent state of facts. but the proponents of this amendment are sweeping away that state of facts. therefore. all they are doing is saying that the attorney general of the united states is given authority. with criteria. to review everything that relates to voting. that is all he is told.
as a practical matter. my answer to senator johnston is yes. i shall say why. i have heard the senators arguments a thousand times in these matters. and he may as well tell me that small businessman can be expected to understand all the criminal laws of the united states and. therefore. he should be exempt from them. yes. we have a big body of law. we have state law. local law. and federal law. but every small businessman ks when he is running a pretty clean shop. there are exceptions and we are ombudsmen and we protest about them. but when he is running a pretty clean shop. he generally has difficulty with anybodylabor or anybody else. surely he does  swallow all the laws. that is a big volume. ody does. he does  sleep with them under his pillow. but he has a good idea when he is running a clean operation and that seems to be sufficient in our country. i can accept that argument.
. i have served  only in respect of this matter. but in respect of education generally for many years. the thing that strikes me very deeply about this argument is senator bidens statement that something respecting busing ordered by anybody. courts or the department. something he ks that is  working. . what is the indicia of that. the indicia of that is assaults in louisville and boston. but judges. under these very criteria which senator brooke spelled out and is spelled out in the education law that this is the last of our remedies. judges continue to order busing after full evidence before them. and they must make it under present law. and they come out finding that this is the only efficacious remedy. for what. for discrimination.  for quality education. the idea of diverting this to quality. education is a red herring. we are  doing anything about that. only with the constitutional right to equal opportunity and an express favoring by a court that equal opportunity under the constitution demands in that particular use. for those particular reasons. busing. . we are protecting a miity. that is the whole genius of the constitution. the overwhelming majority fights. are we going to quail before the fact that the overwhelming majority uses illegal force to fight against our constitutional right. yet that is what the gentlemen are saying. are we afraid to contend with that. are we afraid to contend with that when hoodlums in the state and the city of new york. or any other city. are hitting citizens over the head in violation of their constitutional rights. quality education is a totally different question for which we have got to put up the money and the skill and the necessary laws. and we have  done that. all we are doing is excusing ourselves and begging the question by this argument. so if we do  have the validity to say that what the courts can do. the hew can do. also subject to court review and court stay. then we have moral validity at all. is it morally right for the courts and  hew. or is the united states a unitary government enforcing rights of miities under the constitution. if it is. the senate has a good doctrine in the higher education bill. in my faith. they say: behold. i have given you a good doctrine. forsake it . i thank the senator.
. the september 1975 edition of the fbi law enforcement bulletin contains a comprehensive and informative article on women in police work. written by assistant chief anthony v. bouza of the new york city police department. this article deserves the attention of my colleagues since it highlights aher area where women are increasingly active and effective. i ask unanimous consent that this article be printed in the record.
. who is that man. that man is the one who objects to the consideration of this amendment. senator brookes motion has to be voted on by the senate. and we will have to prevail by a majority. the senate will speak in full conscience of everything that the eloquent senator long. senator talmadge. senator helms. and senator allen have said. we have heard them all. and then the senate will vote. but it is one man who" arrogates it to himself. if that is the way you want to put it on the other side. i do  put it that way. he is perfectly right to object. but we are perfectly right to try to undo a manifest wrong which we are asked by the majority and miity leaders to correct. a strictly formal procedural matter. it seems to me that the weight of equityand that is what was referred to here in the british courts of equitythe weight of equity is to make that change in common justice when it is so testified to. that does  mean we will do it every month or every day or every year. it is 18 years we are talking about. but when you get yourself into this snarl. with the majority and miity leaders saying it should have been done and was  done through inadvertence. i believe the senate. in the best conscience. has the right to do what is right.
i would  say that. i say to the senator. for this reason: succeeding presidents could be bound to do what this particular president says he will do and impliedly says presidents that follow him will do. but i see obligation in the law to that effect. in other words. as i said before. i do  k what court he could be sued in or what international forum in which he could be arraigned. but our country is a le country. i should believe that unless there were some very. very strong and persuasive reasons to the contrary. a successor to president ford would feel that he should do what president ford said he would do. that. i am arguing. does  constitute a treaty or the law of the united states. if the senator will recall our argument in the committee which paralleled this one. if the president of the united states has a rightand i believe he doesto say he will consult. he will recommend. he will study. he will use his best efforts with other countries. many of the things. most of the things which are contained in this memorandumthat is fine. we can have complaint about that. the reason for the case commitment resolution. and i was very much a party to it. was that senator case believed that executive agreements had been entered into. and we had a lot of evidence on that. which said the president would do x. y. or z. and we never knew about it. that was the thing. i come to the last point. which is a credible one. suppose a president enters into an executive agreement which we think is ultra viresin other words. what we think he can do himself. we have a perfect right  only to complain about it publicly. but to pass a sense of the senate resolution. serving ice on the president that we believe he has such authority as he says he is going to assert in his executive agreement. that. i think. is a perfectly permissible thing. also. we may take a substantive position against something we think the president should  do. for example. the president. in this memorandum. says. "i am going to do certain things about oil and i base my authority upon this law." we can repeal that law. we can amend that law. and just sweep the ground out from under his feet. it does  have to remain there. so there is a serious purpose about our kledgeability about the executive agreement.
i would like to support senator buckley in this debate and the points which he has made. which are .absolutely essential. i am here to express my strong support for h.r. 12 which amends the legislation establishing the executive protective service. in 1970. public law 92217 was enacted which established the executive protective service. changing the name of the white house police and adding the responsibilities of protecting foreign diplomatic missions in the washington. d.c. area and in other areas as the president directs on a case by case basis. protection in other areas would only be authorized when local -authorities are  capable of providing it at the desired level. the executive protective service has served:its purpose well in washington. d.c. and has lessened the burden on the local police force concerning protection of foreign missions.. however. since 1970 it is become apparent tlhat adequate protectibn of foreign missions should be extended to areas other than washington. d.c. over the last several years because of the continuing crisis in the middle east. executive protection service officers have been assigned to protect the missions of various arab countries and of israel in new york city. this situation is certain to continue for the foreseeable future. protection of a large number of foreign diplomatic missions often involves large numbers of local police and high expenditures of local money. this is especially true in the case of new york city in which is located approximately 84 different diplomatic missions. in 1947. mayor beame of new york indicated that the city was incurring a cost of $3.1 million to protect diplomatic missions including $700.000 spent during the visit of yasir arafat to the united nations. these types of expenses are clearly national in character and should  be left to cities such as new york to pay on its own. h.r. 12 would authorize an increased level of executive protective service personnel up to 1.200 officers. this would be an increase of 350 over the present level. in addition the bill provides the secretary of the treasury with authority in cases of extraordinary need to provide protection for foreign diplomatic missions located in metropolitan areas. other than washington. d.c.. where there are 20 or more such diplomatic missions headed by full time career officers. presently this would cover missions in new york city. chicago. los angeles. houston. new orleans. and san francisco. a request would be required from the particular metropolitan area for executive protective service personnel or as an alternative reimbursement would be provided for use of local or state personnel. equipment and facilities. i believe that h.r. 12 is a responsible solution to an evergrowing problem. it is .important that foreign diplomatic missions be protected particularly when international terrorism has become commonplace. at the same time it is unfair to have local governments shoulder the entire burden of protection of these missions. i urge the senate to approve this bill.
. i ask unanimous consent that the two letters to which i referred. from associate professor arthur pfeffer or the john jay college of criminal justice in new york city. and from mr. raymond j. keyes. released with their permission as well as a copy of the nra letter and questionnaire be published in the record.
. i understand that thereal reason for section 13 in the bill is the fact that if a matter is to go to the circuit court of appeals. there should  only be a public hearing. but there should also be a reviewable record. and this seems legally quite sound. the senator from michigan is deeply interested and asked me to look into it and to espouse the amendment i submit if i thought it deserving. i do. i hope the manager may see fit to take it.
i shall do it on the opposition time. so he does  lose any part of his 5 minutes. is it the intention of this amendment to retain the law of the national woodwork case. in other words. as we are dealing with situs picketing. there is. under present law. lawful picketing. quite apart from the situs bill. therefore. it is understood that by adopting this amendment. we do  cancel out existing law respecting picketing generally. this amendment is. therefore. directed to what the supreme court has defined as secondary boycott. as they did in the denver building trades case.
. the committees common situs picketing bill contains an important provision that requires at least 10 days advance ice of intent to engage in common situs picketing and. in addition. prior authorization by the international union with which the local union is affiliated. this provision is designed to enhance the possibility of settling the dispute without a work stoppage. the requirement for authorization by the unions parent organization is designed to involve the mediating influence of the international union and to prevent strike activity entirely if it disapproves. related to this is a provision which limits the civil or criminal liability of the international unions which might be imputed to them for authorizing. or refusing to authorize. such activity. this. in the committees judgment. is necessary and desirable to make sure that this role required of the international unions by the bill is  used to make them liable for unlawful actions of local unions unless. under established agency principles. the international union has made itself responsible for such actions. the amendment which senator williams and i have offered does  change these basic provisions of the bill. they are simply intended to make it clear that the national unions immunity is lost if it should authorize common situs picketing with actual kledge that it is to be willfully used to achieve an unlawful purpose. such as forcing an employer to discharge an employee because of his membership in the union. or because of his race. religion. or sex. if it does. the international would be liable along with the local for its unlawful actions. i believe that this amendment is sound and accordingly. i urge its adoption.
. i shall  detain the senate but a moment. we have all received copies of the remarks of the miity leader of the senate which he was to make at 6 oclock tonight or thereabouts. the key statement therein is his statement that "i will  be a candidate for reelection to a fourth senate term in 1976." as a very old friend of senator scott. and one who has worked very closely with him during. i guess. just about all of his years here in the senate. i would simply like to express my own satisfaction that a friend has worked so effectively in the interest of our nation and of peace and justice in the world for so long. and that he attained. by sheer merit. intellectual power. and probity of character. so exalted a position in this chamber. whatever people may say about hugh scott in terms of agreement or disagreement. he is a very gifted debater. a man with as keen an ear for turning a phrase which is both humorous and poignant as any i have ever met. he has had a very clear view of the basis of our country. what we stood for. and what we represented. and a very exalted view of it. he has had a very understanding grasp of his duty to his state. to the nation. and to the world. and on a thousand battlefields has distinguished himself with these talents. as a personal friend i am very sorry to see him go. his fine mind and excellent leadership qualities have made a very distinguished record here. he has won many friends. and  only the support of his own constituency. but the millions of people throughout america as well. i hate to see him go. but that is his decision. and he has a right to it. and to whatever remaining years the lord allows him. i simply wish him and his wife marion. on behalf of my wife and myself. a glowing future in whatever way he chooses to spend it. whether it is in his favorite field of acquiring oriental beauty in various works of artof which he has one of the great collections. as a matter of fact. in this country. for a poor man to acquire that is  easy. he has done so by sheer dint of selection and electicism. i hope that he will  relinquish his interest in the affairs of our country and of the world. but that. on the contrary. he will. if possible. become even more active in them. if in different capacities. and that the lord will grant him and his lovely wife long years of happiness together.
i think that the senators finally straightened it out in the last few sentences. i was disturbed at the trend of the debate. because it omitted any attention to the words of "aid or abet." "aid or abet." to a criminal. whether he is a local criminal or an international criminal. is a very wellkn term. it requires some intent. it requires some concealment or coverup. in other words. it does  matter whether they give him up or . that is only a question of whether they are aiding or abetting him after the commission of his crime. the crime is what is the essential point. the crime is the crime of an individual or a group. that is what i thought about when senator stone proposed his amendment. he is quite right about the fact that that reserves the issues of when. as perhaps my colleague would say when he offers an amendment. when a government commits a crime. the words "aid or abet" would  be in order there. because a government is. sui -generis. a sovereign personality. and we have a different problem of law involved. as i told the senator when he came to me with the idea of doing this and sought my assistance in drafting it. we can only reach an individual or a group with this kind of amendment. whether the senate adopts it or  is a matter of judgment. but it seeks only to reach an individual or group guilty of a welldefined and wellunderstood crimethe crime of aiding and abetting. when a government does that for individuals who are guilty of murder or whatever they are guilty of. wherever they perform this act. then the penalty is that the president can. if he does  feel national security decides otherwise. and shall shut off aid. that is the scheme of this particular amendment. it is limited. we said. a little while ago. if we want to reach governments. we have to do it by some form of international action. because governments are beyond the purview of an amendment of this kind.
. just as the nation is hoing formation 200 years ago. the legal aid society of new york is celebrating its centennial. an article by tom goldstein appeared in the new york times on march 6. 1976. which calls attention to the society and its history. the role that the legal aid society played in the history of new york city mirrored the evolvement of our approach to legal problems and concerns in this country. whereas the original purpose and intent of the society was to provide legal counsel to the poor to handle civil matters. the emphasis has  shifted to the criminal field. this is reflected in the increased size of the staff. and the concentration in criminal law. at the trial and appellate level. the legal aid society has done an outstanding job. in the face of most trying circumstances. budget priorities cause an even greater strain on a system that has been hard pressed to meet even present considerations. once again. those most in need find themselves caught in a fiscal squeeze. our efforts to provide greater access and representation to the courts have made a significant impact in recent years. still. there is much that can be done to make "equal justice under law" a reality. the legal aid society deserves great recognition for the outstanding role it has and continues to play in the legal justice system in new york. i ask unanimous consent that the article by tom goldstein be printed in the record.
 justice frankfurter once said that always the objects of these kinds of cases or civil rights cases are  necessarily the nicest people in the world. but that doctrine must be extended to include also what are popularly considered "the nicest people in the world." they. too. are entitled to justice. i thank my colleague.
i wish to make clear. . that i have voted in the affirmative on senator mcgoverns motion to table senator allens amendment to eliminate the purchase requirement because i desire to preserve the integrity of the substitute which i cosponsor. in a spirit of compromise. i was willing to endorse what i believe to be a good substitute package. on the whole. the talmadgedolemcgovernhumphreyjavltspercyh. scott substitute is a viable one. it does  contain everything i set forth in my bill--s. 2840but is. nevertheless. a measure that provides a nutritionally adequate diet for truly needy american households. had i voted against the mcgovern motion to table. the entire package we had labored so diligently to build would have fallen apart. we would then have run the risk of a retrogressive bill. much like the original s. 3136. so to preserve this package. i voted in favor of senator mcgoverns motion. it continues to be my opnion that the purchase price requirement is cumbersome and invites fraud and abuse. it adds unnecessarily to administrative costs of the program because of the need to handle large amounts of money used by eligible households to purchase food stamps. furthermore. i believe that the purchase requirement is the reason why only half of the eligible households actually participate in the program. but my support of the substitute is far more important to the poor and working poor and must have the priority.
. the senator has quite correctly assessed. that is senator beall and senator kennedy have quite accurately assessed. the moral reprehensibility involved which should be the determinant of penalty respecting crime and. i believe. the amendment is entirely appropriate. and i hope the senate supports it.
. the reason that the parties who worked out this language used the words "technical fraud" was the use of those same words to characterize completely both citations i have read in the walker processing decisions. therefore. to k what we mean by "technical fraud" any court or any person has but to refer to the two excerpts that i have read. it being the intent of the parties that those words "technical fraud" shall encompass the assertions made in those two excerpts from walker processing.
. organizations can lobby for anything they please. within the - constitution and the laws. whether it is i conservative or liberal. and the same rules go for everybody. liberals do  - have to feel that conservative lobbying is iniquitous. therefore. it has to be more - carefully scrutinized. and vice versa. that. i think. is the greatest strength of this measure. this very delicate balance has been struck in respect of this act by the way * it has been drafted. and both my colleagues are entitled to emous credit for the way in which they have carried it through. in addition. we are very deeply concerned about paperwork. and a great effort has been made to cut down the amount of paperwork and unnecessary detail. and it is streamlined. so that we get the information which has a direct bearing upon the issue to be decided in terms of the weight of the effort. in a lobbying sense. which has gone into the persuasion which is exerted upon all of us. we do  k all that much about every particular issue. and. like judges. we need the bestinformed and most passionately made case on both sides. pro and con. as i say. i believe that the bill strikes that very delicate balance. i shall have probably one amendment. and that is to give the power to the comptroller general to go into court. he is going to have the responsibility to receive these documents. these reports. and monitor them and to enforce the law which has been long lacking. without any faultfinding with the clerk of the house and the secretary of the senate. the fact is that this is hardly in their linethe monitoring of activities of this character.  the gao will do it. and the comptroller general should have the authority to go into court if need bethat is. if the department of justice will  act reasonably. i believe we can have egh confidence in the comptroller general so that if he makes a judgment that court action is necessary. at least a prima facie case will have been made. so that if the attorney general does  act. the comptroller general should be in a position to act. we will have a large number of amendments. we will consider them objectively and with the skill we all have acquired in the course of considering this measure. but i believe that the measure is sound. properly balanced. and i commend it to the senate.
i also say to the senator that we do  want to do what the senator suggests as a purpose of this. and we could . our interest  is to see whether the investigation of charges of widespread derelictions on the part of this fund is or is  affected. so that we can do a better job in supervising the investigation.
. i hope senator abourezk may stand by for a few minutes. we are doing our utmost to dispose of the primary amendment to this bill. time pressures upon me are such that it represents an accommodation essentially to me. i have a teamsters investigation hearing that goes on this morning and i simply have to be there. i ask the senator if he would be good egh to have his amendment laid aside so that senator beall can offer his amendment and then resume the consideration of the abourezk amendment immediately thereafter.
. a critically important byproduct of these programs is greatly improved channels of communication between the police and the community. scores of persons participating in these activities have testified as to the renewed sense of community which accompanies concerted action on behalf of the public interest.
. very much the same ideas are contained in the house bill. and i commend congressman john conyers and his colleagues on the house judiciary subcommittee on crime for their excellent work in this field
. the amendment i intend to offer would allow epa to represent itself in all civil litigation cases except for enforcement cases where the justice department would still represent epa unless justice gives indication that it will handle the case after a reasonable time period. present law does  allow epa to represent itself in cases under the clean air act and this has caused significant problems in the administration of the act. first. the issues that are litigated are quite complex and technical and the epa lawyers who deal with the problem on a regular basis are usually better equipped to participate in such cases dealing with epas regulations. in a number of instances there have been conflicts between justice department lawyers and epa lawyers over the handling of issues which have made it more difficult to successfully prosecute cases under the clean air act. apparently the problems between the epa attorneys and justice department attorneys have  been resolved despite formal complaints from epa and discussions on the subject. additionally. there is a duplication of effort in having the epa attorneys and the justice department attorneys both working on the same case when it is always necessary for the epa attorneys to be working on that case from its initial stages. finally there is extensive precedent for an agency such as epa representing itself in civil litigation as similar grants of authority have been given to the federal trade commission. national labor relations board. securities and exchange commission. federal communications commission. federal maritime commission. nuclear regulatory commission. interstate commerce commission. the secretary of agriculture. and the secretary of labor. this is only a partial list of the various agencies and departments which are able to represent themselves in some type of litigation. the house was very concerned about this problem and put a provision in this bill which would allow epa to represent itself in all types of civil litigation. the justice department could intervene with the permission of the court in any case in which the administrator was a party. the concern of the house committee on this subject was expressed in the committee report on pages 272277. i ask unanimous consent that these pages from the house committee report be placed in the record at this point.
. in katzenbach against morganwe will give the date of that decision very shortly. it is 1975where the court was dealing with a provision of the voting rights act. the court said: contrary to the suggestion of the dissent ... section 5 (of the 14th amendment) does  grant congress power to exercise discretion in the other direction and to enact "statutes so as in effect to dilute equal protection and due process decisions of this court." we emphasize that congress power under section 5 is limited to adopting measures to enforce the guarantees of the amendment. section 5 grants congress power to restrict. abrogate. or dilute these guarantees. that is exactly what the circuit court of appeals said in the case which our colleagues depend upon to sustain their position. brinkman against gilligan. it said: we construe the 1974 at. read as a whole. as  limiting either the nature or the scope of the remedy for constitutional violations in the instant case. as a matter of fact. the court in this gilligan case actually followed the orders of precedence which are contained in section 214. because the plan approved by the district court in that case actually was inadequate in terms of the constitutional requirement. and the court sent it back to make it adequate. so the court did  take exception. except on one specific kind of a school which is  relevant to this discussion. to the order of the remedies which the lower court had described. but what the court said was. "that does  limit us. and we send it back to the district court to approve the desegregation plan. bearing in mind that we are  confined  limited to the remedies prescribed in the education act. because it is a constitutional right that is being enforced.  a contractual or other legal right which is developed by statute. and therefore may  come under the particular constitutional provision."
 i am . what that bears on is the fact that the court held that measures which implement the gbarantees are perfectly proper for congress. but that they can adopt measures which reduce the guarantees. because that is changing the constitution.
i suggest only that that is what the supreme court held. and that this court. the appellate court. did differently. the theory of this amendment was. as i understood itand that is the broadside attack that you gentlemen madethat the courts had held that section 214 was  applicable. therefore. they need  pay any attention to it. however. you wanted them to pay attention to it so you were going to strike certain language in the scottmansfield compromise. i am pointing out the court held such thing. indeed it did  pass on the question of priorities. it just heldand i am going to go back to the statute  and prove thatthat you can limit the guarantees which the constitution provides and that the courts-
. i have three requests of senator percy. one. strike criminal penalty for unlawful payment on the ground that it is already covered in law. two. change (c) to include kingly and willfully. and three. strike the felony penalty and insert the misdemea penalty in the last item "segregation of funds."
under the existing law today. dealing with the low incomed. aged. the blind. and the disabled. a single individual in puerto rico gets $18.91 a month. let me repeat that: $18.91 a month. under the amendment which i have proposed. the single individual would get $91.12 a month.  said the other day that justice long deferred is justice denied. they are americans. i repeat. as any other americans. and it is absolutely inhuman to expect them who are eligible under the ssi to subsist at the rate of $18 a month. and the answer is the unbelievable poverty which exists for those people in those islands. especially in puerto rico.
. the sentencing system demonstrated every day in u.s. courts is characterized by gross disparities and often is totally jacking in overall rationale and fundamental fairness. equal treatment should be the rule and it is . these disparities have threatened the credibility of our judicial system. the entire criminal justice process is undermined when significant numbers of offenders randomly escape punishment. while others convicted of similar acts are handled discriminatorily. congress must act to right this imbalance by enacting our legislation promptly.
senator case originally sponsored this resolution with senator humphrey in the committee. and subsequently i joined with him. we had some objections from the -french government which resulted in a press interview by the premier and a statement by the president of the french republic. i believe it is critically important to understand the way in which the resolution matured before its principal author. senator case. speaks to the matter. there was desire. as i understood it. on the part of the committee to engage in confrontation with the government of france. but we did feel very deeply that this had been a very wrongful action and a very harmful action to the cause of trying to deal with international terrorism and. hence. our protest was naturally very strong. what was controverted was the fact that we had alleged in earlier drafts. and in one which actually came up here to the floor. which we subsequently withdrew. that the french government had failed to wait until the german government and the israeli government had an opportunity to request extradition of this man abu daoud by what was apparently required. which was diplomatic as well as criminal justice means. i might say that. personally. i think the french were completely wrong on that. but be that as it may that was their contention. in order  to have extraneous problems. and in order to avoid the feeling on the part of the president of france and the people of france that there was some confrontation involved. we eliminated from the resolution that question of law and fact which related to whether they should have given and did  give an opportunity for the necessary request for extradition to be completed. but rather dealt with the substantive point. which was that we felt this action was highly prejudicial. as we say. to the efforts of the community of nations to stamp out international terrorism. then to show that we desired confrontation with france. we urged our government to consult promptly with france and other friendly nations. which included france. of course. as one of our great friends that it is. the point. while i am on my feet. and i shall  speak again. i should like to emphasize is that this is  a dispute which relates to our feeling of france being our enemy or hostile or anything like that. we think it was a very grave mistake. in the interest of the common cause of the whole world. to relieve itself of this incubus of international terrorism as it relates to the arabisraeli struggle. this was a grave disservice to that effort. and we want to call it very sharply to the attention of france. but in an atmosphere in which she will listen rather than be offended. and that was the reason why this resolution was drafted as it was.
it is my understanding that the president has also expressed the view that marihuana policy should be handled at the state level. i agree with this objective. certainly the federal government should  dictate marihuana policy to the states. but many states will  change their own laws so long as the federal marihuana law remains as a model. while less than 1 percent of the more than 400.000 marihuana arrests last year occurred under federal law. it is an obvious reminder that congress still officially considers marihuana users as criminals. the current federal law provides penalties up to 1 year in jail and/or a $5.000 fine for simple marihuana use (2 u.s.c. 801 et seq.). . our bill makes sense for the following four reasons: first. it recognizes that criminal penalties for marihuana use and possession in private are so disproportionate to the degree of mental and physical risk involved that there can longer be any justification for their imposition in view of the commissions findings. to equate the risk of using marihuanawhich the commission found to be a relatively benign drugwith the risk inherent in the use of hard narcotics is in my view totally indefensible. yet in many jurisdictions throughout the country. this equation is written into the criminal law. second. it recognizes that casual marihuana usage is so common that fair and impartial enforcement and prosecution are impossible. as i ed. surveys indicate that these totals have increased to 35 million and 13 million respectively. in some states. a first offender can be jailed for 10 or 20 years. in others. he may be placed on probation. yet. in most. he will  enter the criminal justice system at all. third. it recognizes that use of the drug has reached such proportions that the present law is clearly ineffective as a deterrent. fourth. it recognizes that the "rhetoric and emotion" generated by the use of the criminal sanction in cases of oersonal marihuana use is severely impairing- the fight against more dangerous drug abuse. the marihuana control act of 1977. would change existing federal law in that it would longer be a criminal offense for a nerson to possess within a private dwelling up to 1 ounce of marihuana for his own use. or for the use of others. so long as it is  possessed with the intent to sell it for profit. it would also longer be a criminal offense to possess in public an amount  to exceed 1 ounce of niarihuana. if such possession is incident to a private use and is  with the intent to sell it for profit. in the prosecution of any person charged with a violation of federal law. the fact that such verson was under the influence of marihuana would  be a defense to that charge. most importantly. our bill would implement the civil fine approach which has met with demonstrated success in the state of oregon. in that jurisdiction marihuana offenders are given citations that are processed like traffic tickets. if the approach followed in oregon and in the bill we introduce today were adopted throughout the nation. 90 percent of all marihuana arrests would be eliminated and nearly half a billion dollars  being spent on those arrests would be saved. more imoortantly. the indiscriminate wrecking of peoples lives and careers brought about by these unjust laws would end. following 1 years experience with the oregon law. a statewide survey by the drug abuse council. a research organization funded by the ford foundation. revealed several interesting findings: forty percent of the respondents who said they had used marihuana said they had decreased their consumption. fiftytwo percent reported change and only 5 percent increased use. fiftyeight percent favored the new law or a more lenient one. only 39 percent thought the law was too lenient. an update of that survey released by the drug abuse council this week confirms these general findings and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
 and former police commissioner of the city of new york. and prof. franklin l. zimring of the university of chicago law school. the study represents the first sustained effort to examine the problem of firearm abuse by using police records. its findings and suggestions are extremely well developed and constitute an important contribution to this ongoing but nevertheless crucial debate. for example. a significant finding emerges from an examination of samples of firearms confiscated in 10 cities. the data show the frequency with which higher priced. wellkn brands of handguns appear in the samples of firearms believed to be involved in murder. robbery. assault. and other felonies. this evidence clearly indicates that the belief that socalled saturday night specialsinexpensive handgunsare used to commit the great majority of these felonies is misleading and counterproductive. the study examines carefully the efforts and capability of the treasury departments bureau of alcohol. tobacco. and firearms in carrying out its regulatory functions under the 1968 federal gun control act and raises serious questions about the effectiveness and aggressiveness of that agency. with the level of handgun violence in every american city and suburban area such as it is atf could be the most significant law enforcement agency in the country. the fact is it is . the four aspects of the firearm abuse problem which the report deals with. and which are dealt with in my legislation are: first. the possibility of improving the data local police departments and federal law enforcement agencies  collect on the role of firearms in crime and how people who commit crimes obtain firearms. second. the role of firearms in crime generally and of specific types of firearmsexpensive handguns. inexpensive handguns. conventional shotguns. rifles. et ceterain specific categories of crime. third. the commerce in firearms. including interstate traffic. the problem of firearm thefts. and the. age of firearms used in crime. and fourth. an assessment of federal and local police efforts to enforce current firearm laws. including the performance of the u.s. treasury departments bureau of alcohol. tobacco and firearmsatf. the agency responsible for enforcing federal firearm law and for regulating the firearm industry. the foundation study conducted a detailed survey of firearms confiscations in a 10city sample. including atlanta. baltimore. boston. chicago. detroit. houston. new york. philadelphia. san francisco. and washington. d.c.-61.988 firearms were confiscated in 1974 in the 1 sample cities. the issue of which type of handguns criminals use and where they get them has been a major question in the handgun control debate in congress for several years. the report found that small cheap handguns costing less than $50 are used less often in crime than more expensive guns made by the largest american manufacturers. i have long argued that a ban on importation and manufacture of saturday night specials would  bring about a satisfactory reduction in handgun violence. analysis of data in nine of the above cities found that only in atlanta could more than half of the confiscated guns be classified as saturday night specials. the results in other cities were: baltimore. 15.4 percent. boston. e. chicago. 29.4 percent. detroit. 13 percent. new york. 46.4 percent. philadelphia. 12.3 percent. san francisco. 17.6 percent. and washington. d.c.. 23.4 percent. figure 1 below puts the confiscations reported in each city in comparative perspective. it measures the reported or estimated number of 1974 confiscations on a per capita basis and presents a "confiscation rate"-reported confiscations per 1.000 populationfor each of the sample cities. figure 1 indicates a wide disparity in the rates at which police confiscated firearms in the sample cities. for example. chicago police confiscated almost three times as many firearms per 1.000 population5.7. in 1974 as the new york police2.0. and twice as many as the san francisco--2.6. and boston police2.8. figure 1.-firearm confiscations per 1.000 population. sample cities. 1974 estimates chicago ------------------------57 atlanta ----------------------------- 5.5 washington. d.c / 4.2 baltimore -----------------------3.9 detroit -------------------------3.5 philadelphia ------------------------ 3.2 houston ---------------------------- 3.1 boston -------------------------2.8 san francisco -------------------- 2.6 new york ----------------------- 2.0 source: individual city original data sample. uniform crime reports. federal bureau of. investigation. 1974. table 6 below attempts to isolate the first possible factor. it compares each citys ranking in firearm confiscation rates to its ranking in the firearm abuse ratesthe number of reported murders. robberies. and assaults committed with firearms per 1.000 persons and in the choiceavailability measurepercentage of murders. robberies. and aggravated assaults committed with firearms. the firearm problem in each city. as measured by the abuse rate. seems to have some relationship to the confiscation rate. the cities with the five highest and five lowest abbse rates were also the cities with the five highest and five lowest confiscation rates. four cities had the same rankings. and in three the rank moved up or declined by only one or two. this finding suggests that a city may have a lower confiscation rate in part because there are fewer firearms being abused in that city. chicago. philadelphia. and detroit. however. show major changes in confiscation rate ranking as compared with rankings of abuse rates. suggesting that other factors including those having to do with police effort and performance. may have more impactpositively in chicago and philadelphia and negatively in detroitthan in the other cities.
on the federal level alone there must be a greatly strengthened and more consolidated effort in handgun trafficking enforcement. and more federalstatecity cooperative enforcement activities to reduce the dimensions of the problem. examining and proposing solutions to largescale intergovernmental problems has always been a main concern of the governmental affairs committee. representatives of several cities and states have said that while their jurisdictions have independently enacted handgun control lawswith some success in curbing gun deathsthey are nearly impossible to enforce because of the lack of intergovernmental cooperation and regional uniformity. only eight states require licenses for buying handguns. they are hawaii. illis. massachusetts. michigan. missouri. new jersey. new york. and th carolina. and most of these do  require licenses to own handguns. in only 1 29 states must a.permit be obtained t. - carry a handgun. t other laws prohibit gun sales to thos i "under the heat of passion"-texaso: . outlaw the carrying of guns for thos. a who have the intent of "assaulting r someoneminnesota and vermont some states enforce a "coolingoff t period between the buying and deliver. of the gun. new york city has the strongest gui - law in the land. an applicant for a hand. gun must show a legitimate need for it his background is thoroughly investigated and he must be photographed ant * fingerprinted. there is a waiting perioc of several weeks between the request foi - the issuance and the license. philadelphia enacted a stringent lan in 1965 which requires a permit for the purchase and transfer of all firearms ant all applicants must have their finger. prints and photographs taken. sat francisco and miami beach require the registration of firearms of all kinds toledo enacted a law in 1968 which requires everyone who wants to buy v handgun to have a special id that is  given out to certain undesirables. prior statistical studies confirm that state and local laws have somewhat controlled homicide and accident rates. new york city has the second lowest murder rate of americas 10 largest cities. but. unquestionably the worst problem confronting states and municipal laws is the easy access to outofstate or area guns. by far. the majority of outofstate guns coming into a strict state are illegally bought or stolen. and often illegally owned. second. law enforcement agencies at the state and local level have stated that they  have intergovernmental system for developing regional and national statistics on handguns which have been used in the commission of crimes. and that tracing such weapons is  extremely difficult. if  impossible. third. in the 42 states where license is required to purchase a handgun. the only restriction on buying handguns is a provision in the federal gun control act of 1968 which requires that the purchaser fill out a form giving his name and declaring that he is  a mi. and has history of alcoholism. mental disorder. or felony conviction. but this requirement is almost worthless since it mandates verificationsuch as a police checkto substantiate the purchasers identity and his assertions. in addition. anyone under age or with a criminal record can easily buy or accept a gun from a dealer. the federal law does  prevent private individuals from transferring their own guns at will within their own states. and does  specify what credentials the receiver must have. last year. the principal criticism of the attorney generals suggestion and the disadvantage of a regional approach is one which has plagued attempts at localized gun control. it does  limit handguns in the uncontrolled surrounding areas from which the weapons may continue to flow. the criminal use of handguns is a national problem which exists to some degree or aher in every city and suburban area in the country. o the programs that propose to deal with the problem on the -local level or in isoe lated situations must if they are to have r any real effect. confront and overcome e the basic fact of handgun mobility. our second billwhich amends the intergovernmental cooperations actadopts the basic levi idea of banning y possession of handguns in urban areas where the violent crime rate is 20 percent i above the national. 10 percent above the - previous years local average. we then address the second side of the problem- illegal gunrunning into urban areas like i new york city in violation of the 1968 1 actby proposing several new laws as i have already indicated which are designed to develop the wherewithal for intergovernmental law enforcement au) thorities to do their job. the standard metropolitan statistical - area is established in our bill as the geographic areas for potential handgun control. its ready availability and its use by * the fbi in compiling violent crime statistics make it a useful classification. of more importance is the fact that these areas all include a core city of 50.000 or more and therefore fall into the urban category. moreover. they have been pre- cisely defined in terms of their political boundaries. and the statistical bases developed for these areas provided a way to estimate the impact of the program proposed. under our proposal. once triggered. the controls would remain in force for a minimum period of 5 years. and would  be removed until the attorney general published a finding based upon positive evidence that the high rates of crime have come down to the national or local levels. or that the pattern of illegal gun violationsfor example. interstate gunrunninghad ceased. for 60 days following the triggering on of controls persons delivering handguns to depository agencies would be paid the market value of their weapons. although this could involve a considerable expense it is worth it. handguns could be surrendered voluntarily at any time thereafter without penalty. i k that this is a comolex approach to this problem. but i believe that it must be given the most careful consideration in congress. in an effort to further pinpoint ways in which we might improve federal. state. and local capacity to deal with illicit handgun traffic. our proposal would authorize the advisory commission on intergovernmental relations to undertake a comprehensive study of the 1968 act. focusing on the adequacy of the federal licensing system.  and this congress to begin a process so long overdue. i ask unanimous consent that an article published in the new york times. entitled "role of cheap guns in crime questioned." by nancy hicks on february 28 be printed in the record. i also request unanimous consent that the text of the bills be printed in the record.
. let us  allow that to stick in our throats in the matter of doing justice where misfortune and lack of recovery. as senator moynihan so brilliantly and so eloquently pointedout. has hit. so i hope the senate does in this case the right thing and follows the purpose of this bill and supports this amendment.
. in the last few years. public attitudes toward marihuana have shifted significantly so that favoring its decriminalization has become even a politically viable position. we  have an opportunity to eliminate harsh and unfair criminal penalties whichas long as they remain on the bookshave the potential to ruin thousands of lives arbitrarily and without substantive justification. i hope that the senate will begin serious consideration of s. 601 as soon as possible. exnm i [from the washington star. may 20. 19771
obviously. therefore. this penalty is  adapted to this serious crime. in other words. the penalty is just extrapolated for the purpose of including this in the neutrality act. it does  measure up to the crime. after all. this crime may involve murder. it speaks of killing. we are  going to fine them $10.000 and send them to jail for 2 years for premeditated murder. so. obviously. this penalty is  apposite to the crime. second. i would like to ask. has this been submitted to or in any way conisidered by the attorney general of the united states. my reason for asking that question is that this. obviously. must tie in with some network ol- law. it is  a matter we can just pluck out of the air.
. i am looking at it  as a lawyer. i asked my staff to dig up some cases which demonstrate what could happen with this set of specifications of an impact statement. we do  have at hand cases which are affirmative in assessing what an impact statement would mean in a positive way. however. we do have two cases which show the negative side of the situation. one of these is industrial union department. aflcio. against the secretary of laborthen hodgson. that is a 1974 case. the other is a second circuit case. 1975. society of the plastics industry against osa. these cases deal with a situation in which you do  have an impact statement but a feasibility standard. which is what we have in this case. i refer in that respect to line 1. page 86. which makes the test the feasibility of the standards. there. the courts have a kind of rule of reason. i will read it to the senator. to give him an idea of how they look at it. this is from the industrial union department decision. at page 479: [91 the secretary must establish those standards that most adequately insure that employee will suffer material impairment of health. we can say. on the basis of the conflicting testimony in the record. that the secretary erred in his prediction of the health effect of the four year delay.2s but neither can we say that employees are  exposed to some additional risk of disease because of greater exposure. in view of the acts express allowance for problems of feasibility. i call the senators attention to these wordsthe secretarys decision to allow a four year delay is  irrational with regard to those industries that require that long to meet the standard. it is appropriate to allow sufficient time to permit an orderly industrywide transition since. in those cases. the indeterminate degree of risk involved is counterbalanced by considerations of feasibility. it is . however. a risk to which employees should be needlessly exposed. in the other case. former supreme court justice clark. in commenting on the case i have just read. said: as in the iud [asbestos] case. the ultimate facts here in dispute are on the frontiers of scientific kledge. and though the factual finger points. it does  conclude. the reason i read from those cases is to point this out: where you have a feasibility standard. the courts speak of irrationality and a factual finding which is in accord with common experience. where you have an impact statement. therefore. such as this. with the specificity which each of these items includes. it seems to me. arguing from these cases. that an intelligent lawyer could argue that each of these items is subject to proof and is the basis for collateral attack upon a standard. that is why i think my colleague is correct in maintaining that you would have an interminable delay problem. it is really saying to a court. "look. is a rough measure of justice being done. or is every one of these items. when tested. found to have substantial egh evidence to sustain the finding of the secretaryto wit. the cost impact. the benefit to consumers. wage earners. businesses. markets. federal. state. and local governments. productivity. competition. and so on." so i would oppose this proposal on that ground. the court is being given review. the court will redress cases which obviously are irrational or have substantial basis in fact. but it will  test out every one of these criteria as a basis for collateral attack on the standard. obviously. in dealing here with life and death and personal harm. the latter would be an intolerable burden. that would be the basis for my opposition.
. i had hoped that the senator might take out the last sentence. the sentence reads: the decision of the secretary  to request a recommendation from the advisory committee under the preceding sentence shall be final unless such decision is found to be arbitrary and capricious. this is hornbook law. and i think it would be a much better drafted amendment if we could say--and i hope the senator is listening to mein line 3 if the rule to be promulgated is. in the discretion of the secretary. which shall be final. new in effect or application and has significant impact. it seems to me that would be a much better amendment because if it is arbitrary and capricious it is subject to court review anyhow. if the senator is willing. i am willing to accept it that way.
for good cause shown does  require that the cause be extraordinary. there is a lesser order of proof. but i think it is justified. considering that the present language bars an objection which might otherwise be made and found by the court to be valid. so i will go with it.
. is this: the supreme court has decided. in the roe case. that abortion is a womans private right. the supreme court has decided in the maher case that the federal government may place restrictions upon the medical aid which it gives. even though that aid is supportive of that private right of the woman. i do  agree with the court. but that question of constitutionality is immaterial. because if we act we are constitutional. which is all we have to worry about. we are talking about policy.  the constitutionality of either a state or a federal statute. i believe that as a matter of policy we can deny to the poor woman what we grant very clearly to the person who can afford it. as has been properly said. if you can afford to have children you can afford an abortion. if you can afford to have children. you may  need an abortion. or may  want one. so the proposition in policy contradicts itself. and i believe the law should  inhibit this exercise of this private right by those who can least afford it. and therefore need government assistance
. it seems to me that we certainly ought to review the bidding at the end of 5 years in respect to any new claims which are then to be filed. i hope very much that we will  defy reason in this matter and that we at least will continue the policy we. ourselves. inaugurated. of  creating a permanent program. we have had a cap. a termination date. let us continue to have a date. that. it seems to me. is the only fair way in which to proceed in this matter. i have recommended to the senate by this amendment that december 31. 1983. is a more than adequate time to see what ought to be done about this program. should we continue it. work it out by state workmens compensation reform. or take some other direction. but to just build in the united states a permanent program for one occupational disease can be justified by any standard of justice or reason to the consumers or the taxpayers of the united states. i hope very much that we will act decisively at least on this. the final amendment which will tell the whole story as to whether we intend to be provident about this matter. this black lung legislation was originally estimated to cost. at the most. $300 million. it  costs $1 billion a year. members may raise their eyebrows at me arguing about ecoy. but i am  arguing about ecoy. i am arguing about justice and prudence. justice to others who are subject to occupational disease and prudence in terms of the personal responsibility for dealing with the peoples money. i had hoped very much that senator randolph would accept this amendment. but i hope that the senate will sustain at least this amendment. for reasons of justice and prudence if other.
. i support this amendment. i am a lawyer. and i do sit on the other side so. with respect. sir. i will speak. i think due process is the essence of the american system. and whether you deny it in one little thing or you deny it in a big thing. a denial of due process runs contrary to the american system. these people are going to go to court anyhow. and there are plenty of other procedural things that can be raised. any able lawyer will find you 50  just this 1. but i feel very uncomfortable in the presence of an effort to cut around the due process of law to which every american. whether it is a corporation or whether it be an individual. is entitled. always there is that adage "there but for the grace of god go i." it sounds right to those who advocate this position in this matter. tomorrow it may prove very. very wrong. indeed. because it puts us on a path of cutting around what is the process of proof. and probative proof. which. in my judgment. is very unwise. the nation will  collanse if this is legislated into this bill. but let us remember it was put into this bill in order to produce claims. that is why it is here. it is  here for any other reason but to produce more claims. to make it easier to approve claims. and i do  think that is the purpose of this statute. the purpose of this statute is to do justice to people who are hurt.  just to produce claims and. therefore. i believe the amendment should be adopted.
s proposal of today makes that crystal clear. the consumer protection agency will be a small. effective organization designed for advocacy meddling. it will genuinely open up our governmental process to allow the interests of consumers to be articulated and heard on an institutionalized basis for the first time. it is long overdo. the enactment of this legislation will increase public confidence in government and materially improve the administrative process by facilitating agency and court consideration of major consumer interests.
i thank my colleague. i point out that the most urgent need for this is by the police themselves. who feel that there is an emous amount of money and resource which is being diverted for the purpose of catching small users or possessors of tiny amounts of marihuana to purpose whatever. it is a great diversion of the criminal enforcement activity in federal. state. and local establishments.
just to clarify the legal situation. senator kennedy pointed out that the specific issues to be defined as national issuesi used the generic termare spelled out in the specific sections which are referred to here under (b) (1) of his amendment. the only point i added to that. because. as i say. i used the generic term. was that every court has the right to determine whether it does or does  have jurisdiction. i thank my colleague.
. the supreme court has provided us with an opportunity within our constitutional authority to amend title vii to make clear that sex discrimination includes classifications based on pregnancy. i urge my colleagues to support s. 995 and by so doing. to demonstrate once again our commitment to the achievement of genuinely equal opportunity for women.
. i think we are faced with a situation where we are asked to install discrimination in a bill which seeks to eliminate discrimination. that is exactly the situation. as i see it. often. the important thing in lawand this we hope will become a lawis to find out what it does  do. what this bill does  do is to prevent any employer from establishing discriminatory conditions respecting any disability conducive to honest administration of a disability provisionto wit. that there shall be malingering. that the time shall  be extended beyond what is required. that medical examinations may be required of the employee as a qualification. and that the employee may be required to return to work. these conditions may lawfully relate to the employee who may be pregnant and to other employees as well. so long as these are evenhanded classifications and qualifications. but to single out pregnancy as the one area in which there will be an arbitrary limitation to protect against what senator hatch argues may be imposition is simply installing a discrimination where we are seeking to exclude discrimination. the basis for our bill and the reason why it is in the civil rights statute is that it is a negative thing. we do  want pregnancy discriminated against. as contrasted with a broken leg or a strep throat or appendicitis or some other basis for disability. that was the basis of the decision of the u.s. supreme court in the gilbert caseto wit. that we in the congress had  covered that point with respect to pregnancy. so  we are covering it. we are making it crystal clear to the court that this is what the civil rights act includes. the committee report commits the whole committee. insofar as the majority which reported this bill is concerned. as to the congressional intent. the relevant discussion is contained under the heading "disability benefits." from page 4 to the end of that section. on page 5. inasmuch as it is directly relevant to this debate. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
that is fine. we are  going to contest that. but we are  going to set them here. that is our point. our point is that the employer has the problem of demonstrated comparability and good faith. what the senator wishes us to do is to substitute us for individual employers who are subject to that test. on one particular itemto wit. pregnancy. i can see that. i think senator williams is right. that would encourage much more litigation. what we are doing is leaving the situation the way it was before the supreme court decided the gilbert case last year. that is all we are doing.
 at the lowest end of the scale. i can hardly see how members. in conscience. could completely frustrate justice for the poorest element of our population that works. that has the will and the desire to earn its way. we are always talking about that. i could  think of anything which would be more discouraging or depressing than if the senate voted this kind of an amendment. i hope very much the senate rejects it.
. before the senator does that. would the senator from wisconsin outline what we did to senator hayakawa. which relates to this very proposition. so that the senate will k that the amicus curiae question is settled. that. is the friend of the court brief.
the law permits. and i would like to read it to the senator. because i think it is very important: it shall  be unlawful for an employer . . . to take any action otherwise prohibited under (the act) . . . including the establishment of a mandatory retirement age less than the maximum age specified in section 12 of this act. where age is a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the mal operation of the particular business. or where the differentiation is based on reasonable factors other than age. ... so it is simply a question of whether the employer can carry his burden of proving entitlement to the exception. i can substitute my judgment for that proof.
. the legislation before the senate today has reached the floor after an extraordinary process of study. commentary. hearings. reports. controversy and compromise involving a large segment of the public media. the law schools. the organized bar. organized labor. organizations concerned with the protection of first amendment and other constitutional guarantees. and other groups. that processculminating in intensive legislative and lobbying activity in the 93d and 94th congressesbegan in 1966 when congress established the national commission on the reform of the federal criminal lawsthereafter popularly kn as the "brown commission." in 1973 and 1974 the first bills to implement the commissions recommendations were introduced. and in january 1975. the version of the code embodied in s. 1 precipitated a national controversy centered on provisions regarding punishment for disclosure of classified information. the availability of certain defenses against prosecution such as insanity and public duty. and the applicability of the death penalty. i believe that the decision of the judiciary committee to sever from the bill these and other controversial provisions. and its willingness to compromise on others has resulted in a fundamentally sound bill to which i am pleased to give my support. i salute the long and persistent efforts particularly of senator kennedy and senator thurmond and of the late senator mcclellan and of former senator hruska on this bill. i wish also in this regard to recall the extraordinary effort of the late senator philip hart who devoted so many hours to eliminate the serious constitutional challenges which s. 1 raised. as the distinguished manager of the bill ks. i have been particularly concerned with two areas in the bill: sentencing reform and marihuana decriminalization. i testified before the judiciary committee on sentencing when the committee considered the hartjavits bill. s. 204. and on marihuana when the committee considered s. 601. my legislation to provide a civil fine  exceeding $100 for personal possession and use of up to one ounce of marihuana. this bill. cosponsored by senators cranston. brooke and nelson and endorsed by the carter administration would reconcile federal law with the reality of federal policy that such cases are longer prosecuted. it would stand for the proposition that laws on this subject should longer define millions of otherwise lawabiding citizens as criminals. i am deeply disappointed that the committee abandoned this approach in favor of a provision which continues that designation. i appreciate the fact that the committees action in making possession of up to 30 grams of marihuana an infraction with a maximum fine of $100 constitutes a welcome further deescalation of the marihuana issue and an important step toward decriminalization. i. nevertheless. regret that we are missing this opportunity to move the federal government within the everwidening circle of states that have passed clear decriminalization statutes. i am mindful of the repeated request of the managers of the bill to all members of the senate  to raise amendments on certain delicately compromised areas in the bill. and i have therefore determined  to address this issue with an amendment. i shall. however. continue to press for enactment of my legislationas i have since 1972 when i and senator harold hughes introduced the first marihuana decriminalization legislation at the federal levelever mindful also of the fact that criminal sanctions for this conduct continue to have the potential to jeopardize lives and careers. tragically and without reason. on the subject of sentencing reform. i believe this bill makes very substantial strides toward reducing the irrationality and arbitrariness of our current system of deciding who shall be incarcerated. for what offenses. and for what period. without these and continued improvements in the sentencing area. efforts to improve conditions in correctional facilities themselves will do little to alleviate the sense of injustice. bitterness. and frustration which offenders and criminal justice professionals alike feel about the current system. s. 1437 addresses effectively the fundamental vice of correctional decisionmakingwhat u.s. district court judge marvin frankel called "lawlessness." in requiring the adoption of sentencing guidelines. the bill aims squarely at the emous problem of disparities in the dispositions of offenders having similar backgrounds and charged with the same or similar offenses. i am deeply grateful for the excellent work undertaken by my colleague senator hart of colorado on this issue. i have been pleased to join with him in his efforts on this bill and in our own joint legislation during the past year. his leadership joined with that of the members of the committee has brought about a genuine. long overdue reform in a pivotal area of federal criminal justice. the amendments i have. which i will call up in a series. begin with printed amendment  1673. i send an amended version of it to the desk and ask that it be reported. i will explain the amendment to the version that is printed.
. that it was our purpose to inhibit or discourage the freedom of expression which would exist between immediate family members. parents. brothers. and sisters. and the lawyers or the clergymen. indeed. it seems to me that that freedom will help criminal justice. it might in many cases bring about a result totally in conformity with the policy objectives of the underlying statute whereas. if we leave it as a threat and as a danger to these inent third parties. who should be protected. or what we morally consider appropriate in terms of privilege. we would only be embarrassing the criminal law. i hope very much again that my colleagues may see fit to look with favor on this amendment.
. i would like to express a concern that i have with section 1525 of this bill. that section would provide for criminal penalties for the release by government employees of certain information where confidential treatment of that information is mandated by aher statute. regulation. rule. or order. the area of confidential treatment of information in government files is currently a complex and confusing one. there already is a statute on the books18 u.s.c. 1905that prohibits the release of confidential information by government employees on pain of criminal penalties. and this bill preserves that section. a large number of other statutes also prohibit individual agencies from releasing certain types of confidential data in their files. further. it has been held by some courts that the exemptions from mandatory disclosure contained in the freedom of information act also prohibit the release of certain information. both 18 u.s.c. 1905 and the freedom of information act exemptions have been cited by those who. for one reason or aher. wish to restrict the release of information in government files. and the court decisions interpreting those sections have been contradictory. i believe that congress should carefully review the whole subject of government information policy on information received by the government as confidential with a view toward clearing up present ambiguities. and making available to the public as much information as possible. while protecting from disclosure information that is legitimately entitled to confidential treatment. i am concerned that the addition of yet aher confidentiality statute proposed by section 1525 of the bill to the current law. without an adequate analysis of the relationship between that section. section 1905. the freedom of information act. and prohibitions on individual agencies. may further confuse an already confusing area. although i do  propose to offer an amendment to strike section 1525. i would hope that the conferees will consider carefullv whether or  there is a need for this additional section. and will spell out in detail how this section relates to existing law. i believe that the public interest will best be served if the law enables all interested parties to k with greater certainty what information is public. and what information is properly confidential and  to be released. in the event that neither the house committee in their deliberations on this bill  the conferees address the question that i have raised here. i would consider reouesting the governmental affairs committee to look into this matter in detail.
. the domestic violence prevention and services act has been developed after thorough hearings by the subcommittee on child and human development of the human resources committee. of which i am the ranking miity member. this legislation is a careful expansion and reorganization of the issues addressed in an earlier bill. s. 1728. the domestic violence prevention and treatment act of 1977. introduced by my colleague from minnesota. senator anderson. which i was pleased also to cosponsor. domestic violence is  restricted to any one sector of our society. but affects the whole spectrum of american social and ecoic life. previous efforts to combat this pervasive problem have been minimal or largely inadequate in relation to its vast dimension. state social service programs provide funds for shelters and supportive services to victims of domestic violence through titles ivb and xx of the social security act. yet these efforts are sporadic and underdeveloped. in my own state of new york. private profit organizations such as the coalition for abused women. and the victims information bureau of suffolk. have begun inative programs for comprehensive crisis intervention. advocacy and counseling for victims of domestic violence. the new york state department of social services has established a task force to develop programs for victims of domestic violence. these local and state efforts can and must be encouraged. expanded and improved by appropriate federal help. the time is at hand for a concerted program of federal assistance to encourage and support such state and local prevention and treatment services. this bill. introduced by senator cranston. will establish a first. yet etheless comprehensive. federal effort to assist states and localities to help thousands of people affected directly or indirectly by the tragic consequences of domestic violence. the bill establishes within the department of hew a national center on domestic violence to coordinate federal prevention and research efforts. and to act as a clearinghouse for information and technical assistance for domestic violence prevention and treatment programs throughout the united states. building upon the concepts and experience of the child abuse prevention and treatment act. public law 93247. this bill will assist the states to direct protection and treatment services toward both actual and potential victims of domestic violence. regardless of age. perhaps most importantly. the structure of this bills state and private grant mechanism enables support to be targeted primarily to local public and private profit programs which most closely serve the needs of domestic violence victims in local communities.*
madam president. i am pleased to join senator danforth and many of my colleagues in introducing today this resolution to proclaim the weekend of april 29 to be "days of remembrance of victims of the holocaust." april 29 was the day that allied soldiers liberated the survivors of dachau. exposing to the world the shameful geide perpetrated against the jews of europe by hitlers third reich. it is most appropriate that the legislative body of our democratic country considers this resolution. for it commemorates the liberation and memorializes the millions who died in this most heis crime against mankind. in remembering the past. we must rededicate ourselves to the resistance against tyranny and geide. the legacy of these martyrs is our commitment to remain ever vigilant in the defense of liberty and human rights throughout the world. certainly it sharpens our focus on the need for senate action on the geide convention which has been languishing without u.s. ratification since 1948. it is shocking. indeed. that the united states has  approved this crucial international convention punishing the barbaric act of geide. the crime for which there is equal. i urge my colleagues to act favorably on the holocaust resolution and on the geide convention thereafter.o
as to the consumer price index. i have dealt with many figures in my life. and i k the superficial attitude. a hotel may cost a lot. a meal may cost a lot. and a pair of pants may . when i cited these figures. they are  my figures. they are the consumer price index. that is aher way of figuring it. it is a way of dealing with it which is in the law. senator nelson pointed out the imperfections in the standard of the senator from alaska. we say that within the -next 30 days we will look into this matter carefully and see if we can work out something which will do justice in this matter. and that if we do. it will be on whatever bill comes out of the committee on human resources. that is the way i feel about it. i have desire to be mean to alaska or hawaii. it is the furthest from my mind if the senator wishes to speak further
. for concerted assistance to encourage and support state and lo_al services to prevent domestic violence and care for its victims. this bill will enable us to begin a comprehensive and coordinated effort to help thousands of people affected directly or indirectly by the tragic consequences of domestic violence. i urge my colleagues to give s. 2759 their support.
. senator moynihan and i have learned that a new regulation of the law enforcement assistance administration could seriously endanger the continued operation of the juvenile justice programs in our state and elsewhere in the nation. the regulation relates to the definition of juvenile correctional and detention facilities. it would allow the commingling of delinquents and persons in need of supervision in communitybased facilities with a capacity of up to 40 beds. there are many public and private facilities in new york state and we believe in other states that have larger capacities. if these facilities are disqualified under the regulation. new york state alone would stand to lose $5 million in funding under the juvenile justice and delinquency prevention act. it is my view and senator moynihans that in promulgating this regulation. leaa has  followed the intent of congress as expressed in the act authorizing the regulation. we have set forth our concerns in a detailed letter to john rector. administrator of the office of juvenile and delinquency prevention in the department of justice. and expect to be meeting with him in the near future to find a solution to this problem. i ask that the text of our letter be printed in the record. the letter follows:
. i will tell the senator what interests me. what interests me is whether the funds would be used for the purpose of complying with a court order. or whether they would be used for bilingual programs in a program which relates to the responsibilities imposed by the court but would still remain a bilingual program.
