the wagner act. clearly empowers the national labor relations board to prevent any person from engaging in an unfair labor practice. that part of the law was reenacted in the tafthartley law. and i quote from section 10(a) of that act: the board is empowered. as hereinafter provided. to prevent any person from engaging in any unfair labor practice affecting commerce. there is question that it is the board that has that authority.  any agency of the board.  any hearing examiner or trial examiner. who. by the way. does  even have to be an attorney under the civil service regulations. . we are with the adoption of reorganization plan  5 impairing a substantive right created by fundamental law. this we should  do through the reorganization device. it may well be that this congress in its wisdom will choose to amend the fundamental law. at this time i will  argue that because it is  relevant. but i do urge each of you to remember that this is  the proper procedure whereby you amend the fundamental law. the original reorganization act of 1949 lists five specific purposes for which a reorganization plan may be adopted. one of these specifically. and it  appears in title 5. united states code. section 133(z) 1. refers to the authorization of any officer to delegate any of his functions. the then committee on expenditures in the executive departments. in reporting this legislation to the floor. stated in its report that that particular authorization meant one thingthat the main purpose of this particular provision is to make it possible. and i quote from the committee report. "for top officials to delegate routine functions." perhaps the majority regards the adjudication of the rights of american citizens as a routine matter. i do . i urge that this congress heed the sound advice given it by the distinguished gentleman from illis when he urged that we do  deprive american citizens of their rights by the reorganization device. that we stick to the explicit. narrow purposes of the reorganization plan. and that we vote to adopt the disapproving resolution. if the times require that the fundamental law affecting managementlabor relations be modified. let us amend it in an orderly fashion. let us  reduce this body to a pliable rubberstamp.
. in the light of the dissertation which has just occurred. i should observe that. as i recall. the question under discussion was quite extensively discussed in committee. even though the particular amendment  pending was  before it at the time. as i understand the amendment offered by the distinguished junior senator from arizona. it would. if enacted. grant concurrent jurisdiction to the several states with the federal government over labor disputes after the states had enacted legislation guaranteeing the rights of employees set forth in section 7 of title i of the labormanagement relations act of 1947. including implementing provisions to assure such rights consistent with the provisions contained in sections 8 and 9 of that act. in other words. a state would be required to adopt labormanagement relations statutes which are  inconsistent with the basic provisions of title i of the labormanagement relations act of 1947 as a condition precedent to the exercise of jurisdiction over labor disputes. i would like to point out that the national labor relations board presently has the authority to cede jurisdiction to state or territorial agencies over labor disputes when the provisions of such statutes. applicable to the determination of the particular problem. are  inconsistent with the corresponding provisions of the federal act. it is interesting to e that. since the enactment of such provisions in 1947. the national labor relations board has  ceded jurisdiction to any state or territorial agency pursuant to that provision. this fact might be construed as indicating a certain reluctance on the part of the states to enact socalled little tafthartley acts. i am certain that some states. for various reasons. have felt that certain provisions of title i of the labormanagement relations act of 1947 would be undesirable if enacted under state law. and. as the amendment offered by the junior senator from arizona would apparently require the adoption of the provisions of section 8 and 9 as well as section 7 of the federal act. it is quite possible that few. if any. states would or could take advantage of this provision of his proposed amendment. it would seem to me that. if it is the will of the congress to return to the states general jurisdiction in the field of labormanagement relations. the states should be allowed to enact whatever legislation they determine appropriate to protect the public welfare of their citizens and to guarantee the rights of employees to selforganization and collective bargaining. which have become an inherent part of our american way of life. it should be remembered that the wagner labor relations act was adopted primarily to assure employees of such rights which are also guaranteed by the tafthartley act. most of us will agree that. at the time of the adoption of the wagner labor relations act. federal legislation in the field of labormanagement relations was necessary to protect the right of employees to selforganization and collective bargaining. moreover. experience under the wagner labor relations act clearly showed the need for amendment to protect employers. as well as employees. in labormanagement relations. and the tafthartley act was enacted for the purpose of equalizing the positions of the parties in interest on a uniform basis throughout the united states and its territories. if we have reached a condition of maturity in the field of labormanagement relations when it is longer necessary to regulate this relationship at the federal level in order to preserve such rights guaranteed to employees. as well as to protect employers against the abuse of such rights by employee representatives. then we should suspend or repeal such federal legislation. by such action the congress would clearly indicate that it was surrendering its jurisdiction over labormanagement relations. and the several states and territories could then enact whatever legislation they might determine to be necessary in this field. the amendment offered by our distinguished colleague appears to be a bonanza for the legal profession. by granting concurrent jurisdiction to the federal government and to the states. which would enact legislation in accordance with the amendments broad standards. the parties to a labor dispute would have a choice between a state or federal forum. this would create  only a choice of tribunal but also a choice of law. state or federal. which would be applicable to a particular labor dispute. needless to state. the results might be most conflicting and inconsistent as to uniformity. moreover. the complaining party would be encouraged to shop around and to seek the forum most favorable to his position. second. it is probable that the def ending parties to a labor dispute would challenge the choice of forum selected by the complaining parties on the ground that the applicable state law did  meet the standard set forth in the amendment. i assume that such litigation would ultimately be determined in the federal courts because the standards set forth in the amendment incorporate by reference provisions of the labormanagement relations act of 1947. such litigation could occur wherever a state labormanagement relations act was involved. such litigation. moreover. could only further confuse and dumfound the primary parties in interest in a labor dispute. namely. the employees and employers involved and the general public affected by such disputes. with respect to the subject of the statefederal relationship in labormanagement relations. i have long felt that certain industries which are essentially local in nature should be exempt from the coverage of the federal act. and that states should be free to regulate labor disputes occurring in such industries through legislation which they deem necessary to protect the general public. however. i do  feel that the time has come when we can cast aside uniform federal legislation guaranteeing to employees and employers. subject to its jurisdiction. basic rights in their relationship. i reiterate. however. that. if the senate and house of representatives feel otherwise. then we should suspend the existing federal legislation for a limited period of time and should leave the states free to regulate labormanagement relations in order to determine whether the absence of federal regulation has an adverse effect on any or all segments of our society.
. it is again important to stress that many of our senior citizens are. in fact. younger in spirit and in capacity than others who are years younger in chroogical age. some of our citizens most important contributions to business. to the community. and in volunteer service clearly lie ahead. further. we should recognize that social security benefits should be liberalized and that the limitations on earnings should be substantially increased and. perhaps. ultimately eliminated. second. widows benefits should be increased from 82 percent to a full 100 percent of the late husbands pension. third. vesting rights should be strengthened and a worker should  forfeit his pension rights by moving from one job to aher. fourth. state and federal laws should recognize that chroogical age should  necessarily be the gage of employment potential. however. in some cases optional retirement age should be set at an earlier age. finally. if we are to meet our obligations to senior citizens. we must do much more to meet their needs for adequate housing located close to shopping. medical. cultural. job. and transportation facilities.
 thieu. certainly. it is more advantageous for a vietnamese child to be reared in his own cultural environment. however. as elsie weaver of the world vision child care agency in vietnam es: the question is  whether a child will be better off raised in his own culture. the choice is  available ... there are so many babies in the orphanages who will die unless someone rescues them. as of late. there has been considerable discussion in the congress. in the press. in the nation as a whole. on the appropriate forms of american postwar reconstruction aid. i have already publicly stated my belief that our aid should focus on humanitarian relief for refugees and other victims of the war. clearly. the question of aiding amerasian children is of a more personalmore morally compellingnature than simply the requests of foreign nations for our financial assistance. these children are half american. without our help and concern. many will  survive. their wellbeing deserves our immediate attention. for. if we choose  to help them. it ap. pears one else will. the present process by which amerasians and vietnamese orphans are admitted into the united states is long and complicated--even for an american father desirous of bringing his offspring back to the united states. an "illegitimate" child born here in america naturally acquires the full rights of citizenship. in contrast. a child born overseas must be "legitimate." otherwise he must meet a difficult. if  impossible set of legal requirements to be granted entry into the united states. yet. the demand for adoptable children exceeds the number available in america. thus. should we  modify our immigration regulations to permit easier entry and adoption of the abandoned amerasian children by suitable american families. let us make every effort to give these children an opportunity to live and grow in a family atmosphere. away from the destruction of war.
yes. in addition to that. we have the question of the machinery which is provided for the enforcement and the implementation of these procedures. it was the action of congress which created the national labor relations board. and its branches throughout the country. and the office of the general counsel. which. in a way. made it unnecessary to go to court. and there were prescribed the standards and rights and obligations under which the act should be enforced. i think that is the reason. although i was  here during its development. why the act itself requires that the cession of jurisdiction be made in certain cases by agreements with state agencies. it is in order to preserve  only the standards and rules of law. but also to preserve effective and adequate comparable governmental machinery. i do  think we should lightly take action here which would abolish that principle. i would be inclined at the moment to support a resolution on this issue. along the lines which i understand the senator from new york is  considering. to make it clearer that the board must take jurisdiction in all cases affecting commerce. unless. as i understand. the board is able to make agreements with state agencies which will provide comparable relief in all respects. both to employers and employees.
i thank the senator from minnesota. . as the senator from minnesota has already pointed out. the leadership amendment would cover. under title vii. only 8 percent of the employers of the country. and the cotton amendment would reduce the percentage to 2. similarly. the dirksen leadership amendment would withhold guarantees from more than 60 percent of the labor force. and the cotton amendment would increase that to 70 percentthus still further reducing the effective coverage of this measure. i believe all of us agree. and i think the senator from new hampshire takes the same view. that such discrimination is wrong. so there is division of opinion among us on that point. the concern of the senator from new hampshire is in regard to the possible harassment of small businessmen. i believe we have already made proper provision in regard to possible areas of harassment by federal bureaucracy. we have done that by means of the carefully drafted provisions of the bill which require that if there is possible reason to believe that a state agency will deal with the matter. it will have 60 days in which to deal with it. before the federal agency can be called in. and. even then. the federal agency can only investigate and attempt to persuade. but will  have any power of enforcement. we have also narrowly restricted the requirements in regard to recordkeeping by employers and their vulnerability in connection with federal inspection and examination. in short. we believe we have done the most careful job that conscientious legislators concerned with states rights and the maintenance of state control wherever possible could possibly do. therefore. i believe this is a complete answer to the concerns and worries of the senator from new hampshire.
. i take this occasion to call the attention of the conferees to the importance of the mans land provision and to working out some compromise on that which will  make this law repressive and at the same time will  throw each law in every state into such a diversity of action as to result in confusion and great injustice. for that purpose. l ask unanimous consent that there may be made a part of my remarks a digest of labor relations laws of the 12 states which have such laws. as well as a compilation which i have gotten from one of the standard services of the primary features of the law in the 38 other states.
. there  seems to be a growing consensus that this sort of amendment is appropriate and will  interfere with the legitimate rights of labor. and i would urge. once again. that the national labor relations act be amended along the lines i have suggested.
 of the council. and his own powers of persuasion. in efforts to bring members of miity groups. by color and ethnic group. blacks. puerto ricans. and other members of miity ethnic groups. into the construction trades. through such projects as the brooklyn model cities plan. the buffalo "build" program. and the new york plan. just 2 weeks ago the new york regional administrator of the u.s. labor department annced that during the past 14 months. over 3.000 members of such miity groups in the new york area have participated in training programs in the construction industry. and 795 have achieved journeyman status. there was some argument about what had been accomplished by something called the new york plan. with very small figures cited as the number of people who had actually broken through to become fulltime workers or even journeymen. but the report of the department of labor points out that the true picture depends on considering all types of activities.  just the new york plan. hence. it seems to me that these are the figures which should be considered as we judge mr. brennans activities and other actions which were taken in new york. rather than limiting the analysis stlictly to the new york plan. without any question. there was testimony about discriminatory employment practices by the building trades in new york. and deep complaint and feeling on that score. in an effort to lay it at mr. brennans door.
 yet. it was logical. therefore. that those who were very strongly for this rule would be cognizant of the rules and. as a matter of discretionand that is what it wasa member does  have to request an order to apply them. i would employ this rule of thumb myself. as a matter of decency and fairness: if a proposition had  been voted on i would be entirely willingi can speak for any other member to interpose an objection if this was the case in respect to one section of the voting rights act. and that was section 6 which deals with examiners and registrars. and so forth. everything else had been discussed. discussed. and discussed. and fully voted on. the reason i sat still when senator towers proposition came up is because. as i understand it. that was a matter of first impression. i may be wrong. but that is the way i understood it. so it was perfectly fine with me for a member to have a vote. . we have kind of a generic question. there are 4 amendments. but 1 of them can be divided maybei do  k what senator nunn will submitinto 12 parts. therefore. i suggest the following: i suggest we have a quorum. which i will call for as soon as we are through . that we take a look at these amendments. all of us who are deeply interested in the bill. we see what they are. and we see what time arrangements can be made with respect to them. and then we decidei and others just with the full authority and the same rights that i havewhether we will or will  object. i have given the senator my own personal ground rules which seem to me to be fair. if any member thinks they are  fair. please tell me. that is the only way.
ial executive order  11491. i can find sufficient rationale to deprive civilian employees of the quite limited representation rights under exexcutive order 11491 simply because they happen to be employed on military installations or happen also to be members of the reserves or the national guard at other times. it should be understood that the organizational and bargaining rights granted under the executive order to civilians in the federal service do  begin to approach those afforded private employees under the national labor relations act. the right to strike. the touchstone of union bargaining power. is completely prohibited. moreover. decisions over unresolved issues and acceptable subjects of bargaining are decided by the federal government itself through the federal labor relations council which is composed of the director of management and budget. the secretary of labor. and the chairman of the civil service commission. if we have learned anything about labor relations in the more than 40year history of the national labor relations act. it is that it is essential to provide an established means of communication and dispute settlement in order to protect the rights of individual employees and to prevent ecoic disruption. i can understand the committees action and probably i shall vote with the committee. though i do have some grave doubts on the constitutional questions. i have read griswolds opinion and rather feel because i do k something about military discipline. as my colleague from mississippi ks. and respect it highly. it may be a necessary precaution. but i really think. i say to senator stennis. that we really are stretching matters in this situation. i could  say that the technicians who are here involved are strictly and purely employees like steamfitters or people who clean the armories. or anything like that. but i do think the fact is the military services have chosen  to do this with military personnel. these technicians. of whom there are some 61.000but i gather something in the area of 20 odd thousand would be affectedour records show 36.000 are in some kind of union or some kind of association which is tantamount to a union. are the technicians affected by section 3(f). and senator stennis own estimate was that about 14.000 would have to make the choice between their jobs and their union representation. the things that worries me about it is: the armed forces have seen fit to keep these as technicians. civilian technicians during the week. and have them do their military turn on weekends. even if they perform the same duties. that is often true. a man may enlist who may be a steamfitter and he may be a steamfitter in the armed forces. but the question is what hat is he wearing at a given time. i am really deeply concerned that we are overreaching.  just outreaching. but overreaching. and i can find a good reason for it. therefore. i believe the military authorities have to make their choice. if they feel. i say to senator stennis. that these people should have this single purpose and single loyalty to the armed forces. then do everything with uniformed personnel. maybe all these fellows will enlist for the duration. or whatever else it takes to qualify. but so long as the armed forces themselves choose to treat them as civilian employeesthey can strike anyhow under civil service laws. and collective bargaining rights are very restrictive anyhowwhy should we change it with the outreach in this bill. we also have the dangerous precedent of dictatorships that when you really want to put the stranglehold on people you induct them into the military. we have had that here in this country when harry truman tried to put the railroad workers into the military. and it was declared unconstitutional. that is the reason for my concern and i have sense of confrontation with him whatever. but i do feel that this does appeal to reason and to our basic sense of american principles. so i simply wish to summarize that if they really feel these people should  engage in union activity. put them into the military and eliminate this civilian technician business. but so long as they remain as they are. i am deeply concerned about that degree of outreach which would deprive them of the rights of any other civil service employee. and i hope very much. therefore. that the senate may look favorably on senator abourezks amendment to which i am a cosponsor. as is senator williams. the chairman of our committee. and we handle labor as far as the senate is concerned. i thank the senator.
