. congress has over the past decade enacted a host of creative programs designed to solve our public. social. and ecoic problems. we have made important strides forward in education. health care. pollution control and urban development. but the dimensions of our remaining problems are staggering: 10.000 of our nations communities will face serious problems of air pollution. the demand for water consumption may exceed the available supply before the end of this century. there are 9 million substandard housing units in the united states. most of them in urban areas. traffic jams cost the nation over $5 billion each year. and scientific and technical information is doubling every 15 years. it is clear that problems of this magnitude are  susceptible to the traditional solutions. we must reach beyond our history for new ways to manage the public business effectively and ecoically. we have available to us already a wealth of kledge and techogy in private industry. we have seen how new techniques of management analysisthe socalled "systems approach"have streamlined our defense establishment and brought the universe within mans reach. we must  determine whether these techniques can help clean our water. educate our children and improve the quality of life in our cities. we are today introducing legislation to establish a national commission on public management. this commission would bring to bear on the management of public business the very best minds in private industry. government. labor. and education. its mandate is to answer two fundamental questions: how can new management techogy aid us in solving problems that lie in the defense sector. what is the best way to take advantage of the opportunities these new techniques provide.
. congress has over the past decade enacted a host of creative programs designed to solve our public. sdcial. and ecoic problems. we have made important strides forward in education. health care. pollution control and urban development. but the dimensions of our remaining problems are staggering: 10.000 of our nations communities will face serious problems of air pollution. the demand for water consumption may exceed the available supply before the end of this century. there are 9 million substandard housing units in the united states. most of them in urban areas. traffic jams cost the nation over $5 billion each year. and scientific and technical information is doubling every 15 years. it is clear that problems of this magnitude are  susceptible to the traditional solutions. we must reach beyond our history for new ways to manage the public business effectively and ecoically. we have available to us already a wealth of kledge and techogy in private industry. we have seen how new techniques of management analysisthe socalled "systems approach"-have streamlined our defense establishment and brought the universe within mans reach. we must  determine whether these techniques can help clean our water. educate our children and improve the quality of life in our cities. we are today introducing legislation to establish a national commission on public management. this commission would bring to bear on the management of public business the very best minds in private industry. government. labor. and education. its mandate is to answer two fundamental questions: how can new management techogy aid us in solving problems that lie in the defense sector. what is the best way to take advantage of the opportunities these new techniques provide.
. coinmunity health centers have been a centerpiece in our efforts to provide health care services to the homeless. i had intended to offer an amendment to this appropriations bill to restore $31 million to the health care for the homeless program to bring it back up to its fiscal year 1987 funding level of $46 million. after talking with some of my colleagues on the labor. hhs. education appropriations subcommittee. i have decided against offering that amendment. i understand that the 302(b) allocation received by the subcommittee was $600 million below what the budget resolution called for in these programs. looking through the other programs under this appropriations bill. i was unable to find a fair and appropriate offset to restore funding to this program. etheless. the proposed funding level of $15 million for providing health care for the homeless would lead to a substantial reduction in this critical program unless it is changed. the health care for the homeless program was established in the 1987 as part of the stewart b. mckinney homeless assistance act. it is a grant program to provide primary health care. substance abuse services and mental health assistance to homeless people. using fiscal year 1987 funds. 109 projects were funded in 43 states in 1988. it is my hope that the chairman and ranking member of the laborhhs appropriations subcommittee will work to ensure that this critical program receives the funding it needs to continue its work.
s invocation of executive privilege and second. the countermanding of acting. director grays offer to the senate of producing fbi files. it is clear that the senate of the united states will have to create its own investigative capability. the issue of integrity in government is as important as any matter before this chamber. i will therefore make available to the select committee additional investigative and legal personnel to assist in this endeavor. in conclusion. let me say this. agony over the failure of this congress to pass a housing program. agony over the failure of congress to vote in a veterans benefit. agony over the failure of congress to initiate a health plan or any of these other great issues of national importance will be as great as the agony of a nation living with and operating under a political system that it does  trust. thatand  the separation of powersis the problem that confronts us all.
. i rise today to make e of an event of great importance that will occur this morning. friday. july 29. on the campus of the national institutes of health. today. construction will begin on the childrens inn at niti which will provide housing for as many as 36 families whose children are involved in researchrelated treatment of cancer and other diseases at nihs clinical center. the clinical center is a hospital clinical care facility for patients participating in biomedical research projects. children come to the clinical center in search of cures for cancer. heart disease. genetic problems. and rare. difficult to diage or difficult to treat illnesses. their stays may be as short as one evening and as long as 6 months. the childrens inn will serve as a temporary home for these seriously ill children who arrive in bethesda. seeking care under a research protocol because they are unable to find success. ful treatment in their own communities. it is simply humane to provide housing to these children and their families instead of forcing them to be separated from one aher and to find lodging in local hotels. the childrens inn is a result of a joint effort between industry. government. and private citizens. merck & co. has donated $2.3 million for the construction of the facility. nih has donated 2 acres of its campus as a site for the facility. and the funds to operate and furnish the inn are being raised by a private sector board. i want to commend the nih. the hoary cochairmen of that private boardthe speaker of the house. jim wriaht. and his wife. betty. and congressmen peter rodiand slvio conte. and merck & co.. for making the groundbreaking that will occur this coming friday a possibility. it is an example of the best that a joint effort between private citizens. government. and industry can bring aboutpeace of mind and comfort for seriously ill children and their families.e
mr. chairmafi. the purpose of my* amendment is very simple. we are all concerned that the whole problem be solved. one very important and necessary aspect of the problem of poor housing is to get the best possible enforcement of existing health and other regulations by the lo:calities concerned. my amendment would require the mayor or chief executive officer of any locality. before a housing project is initiated there. to certify .that. to the maximum extent practicable. local codes and regulations relating to health and other matters are being effectively enforced.
i shall stop as soon as the senator from tennessee arrives. as long as he is  here. i thought i would deal with a couple of matters i intend to deal with anyway. i hope the senate aids will let me k as soon as the senator from tennessee arrives. a very interesting survey has been made in the state of new york with respect to our public schools there. which shows that a very large proportion of our schools in upstate new york and in downstate new york show the presence of racial patterns of housing in terms of whether there is a predominantly white or negro utilization of schools by children. i ask unanimous consent that the survey. out of the new york herald tribune. may be a part of my remarks.
the senator has made the classic argument. which i repeated. but he failed to e that the amendment is  designed so that it is a rifle shot solely at the segregated institution. it would longer affect a housing development which happened to be occupied largely by negroes. the amendment provides that it must be segregation contrary to the policy or laws of the united states. and the u.s. policy and laws are  against sectarian institutions. indian reservations. and so forth. the second point is that the amendment is one of degree. certainly a doctor would  stand outside a segregated institution and refuse to go in and help a patient. we all understand that he must act pursuant to his hippocratic oath. we are talking about a national service corps. an elite corps of new people dedicated to the finest concepts of freedom. all we say is that we will  permit the corpsmento aid establishments--and we have made it a rifle shotwhich are following a segregated policy contrary to the laws and. policies of the united states.
. i wish to add my name as a cosponsor of s. 3451. which would authorize the federal housing administration to insure loans in areas where rioting or other civil disorders have occurred or are threatened using a less restrictive "acceptable risk" standard. it would further allow fnma to purchase mortgages insured by fha under the above standards. i am informed that there is a definite lack of adequate financing for the purchasing of homes by residents in many areas of the country. in these days of tight money. the problem has become even more acute for many residents. we must encourage the local ownership of homes which will add to the residents pride in his own home and neighborhood and at the same time gradually build up a stable community leadership. i would. however. suggest an amendment to the bill as introduced by my colleague. senator kuchel. i recommend that we  include areas which "are threatened" by rioting or other civil disorder in the less restrictive "acceptable risk" standard. i am concerned that if the secretary should determine that a certain area is "threatened" by civil disorder. this may just be the catalyst for such disorders to actually begin. thus. i would limit the bills applicability to areas where disorders have actually occurred.
if anything. it will help the marketregulated ecoy. just as the intelligence of the bank lending officers helps the regulation of the ecoy. because it takes theautomatic adjusting operation of our ecoy in the free enterprise system and does  drive it to its ultimate conclusion. which is destruction. because our ecoy and our society will  accept that in situations of the size that would impact so adversely the national interest. i suggest that because the most authoritative regulatory officials. to wit. the very high government regulating board. rather than some bank board in the chase bank or the first national city bank. do it. will. if anything. improve rather than denigrate that situation. it seems to me that is one of the strongest arguments why this is  a bad precedent. but a good precedent. indeed. it is very interesting to me that american business is learning that you simply can operate today without partnership with government. this is a partnership. after all. there is a condition against squeezing the water out of the stock. indeed. there is an inhibition in this bill against payment of dividends on stock. if a condition of the loan can be an inhibition upon management. if a condition of the loan can be prudent. if the setter of the condition is the united states. it seems to me we are getting to a point which is much higher in the scale of regulation in the government in terms of major enterprises. rather than less. i think it is very important that this concept of loan guarantee is operating throughout our governmental structure as it relates to our private enterprise. where it has been very useful. in the first place. our experience is that our government never loses money on guarantees. but makes money. this is because while there may be guarantees of very risky operations. because of the actuarial level. when many guarantees are provided and a few do  pan out. when all of them are taken into consideration. they do. as the senator from texas ks so well. when we do it in the housing field. it has proved that they are making so much money that their premium rates are higher than actuarial experience justifies. but i can see. on the ground of precedent. that it is anything but a continuance of precedent widespread through government and business already. and a desirable precedent in terms of a more sophisticated way of articulating the extent of the control mechanism over the private enterprise system. which. in the modern day. is essential in government. i would like to point out that this guarantee concept is certainly used  only in the field that we are discussing . but in the housing field. which we also have been discussing. and it is brilliantly employed. for example. in so interesting a field as hospital modernization. where. faced with the problem of a need of $1 billion for hospital modernization. we find that. by combination of the guaranteed loan plus a slight interest in venture money. we materially reduce the budgetary impact and yet carry out the responsibilities which are required in the situation. indeed. there is almost a theological concern. i may say to my colleagues. over the precedentsetting nature of the lockheed case. this belongs. in my judgment. to an era long past. because the changes that are being proposed do  threaten our national freedom. in fact. they strengthen it. because if an enterprise of that character essential to the national interest that we are discussing should collapse. there is only one other alternative. and that is either to build up some other company. making it even bigger than it is. so that there would be a general motors in the airplane business as there is in the automobile business. or have the government do it itself. which puts government in business more actively than ever. for all those reasons for small business. and for the welfare of the peoplei deeply believe this measure to be of a very liberal character rather than of a conservative character. which deserves the widespread support of all. and one on which we should stand. if we are going to have an ecoy which will be developed in accordance with the times and still remain a private ecoy. it needs precisely this kind of governmental assistance in order to remain private. rather than. by sheer stress of circumstance. have business driven more and more and more either into the public sector or into the sector of gigantic corporate capital. because we have simply shown our inability to make our system work through the willingness to make adjustments and to make provisions of this character.
