. it is with great pleasure that i join with my colleague from the environment and public works committee. senator mitchell. to introduce the marine research act of 1988. the distinguished senator from maine has been a champion of clean water.  only in our lakes and streams. but also in our bays. estuaries and near coastal waters. this legislation is a reflection of his continuing commitment to protecting our aquatic resources. our oceans are beginning to show signs of stress. agricultural ruf. ocean dumping of sludge. and municipal effluent are invading our marine environment on a daily basis. we may be experiencing a rise in the global sea level. which could have potentially significant effects. too many fishermen trying to harvest too few fish could be exacerbating the problem of declining fish populations. each of these problems raises a multitude of questionsquestions which need to be answered with reliable. accurate scientific information. the purpose of the marine research act is to establish an independent marine research board. which will coordinate and amplify the ability of existing research institutions to provide scientific data of the highest quality to address these questions. it is  possible to address the deterioration of the nations bays and estuaries. and the decline in quality of our near coastal waters. on a piecemeal or statebystate basis. in order to effectively confront problems in the marine environment. it is necessary to respond to the urgent need for expanded. regionally directed marine research. pollution problems are  confined by state boundaries. the office of techogy assessment recently issued a report which emphasizes the need for sustained. focused scientific research on a total ecosystem basis. the marine research act will accomplish this. the legislation will establish a marine research program which takes a broad. national view of trends in the marine environment. but will be directed and managed by research scientists within each region. the argument for organizing a marine research program along these lines. rather than simply for the federal government to conduct research. is compelling: ocearaphers. such as those located at university of rhode islands graduate school of ocearaphy. are most familiar with the ocean environment in a given region. the marine research program created by this legislation. instead of duplicating ongoing efforts at these institutions. will play a coordinating role. specifically. the legislation will create 10 coastal regions based on geographic conditions. including one which extends from cape cod. ma. to cape may. nj. the bill establishes regional councils charged with coordinating and planning marine research in each region. a primary responsibility of the councils will be to conduct baseline monitoring and assessment of marine environmental quality within each region. the legislation authorizes $3 million annually for each region to conduct research and assessment activities. these funds will be used to establish marine research centers in each region. which will report regularly to state govers. federal policymakers such as the environmental protection agency and the national oceanic and atmospheric administration. and the public on marine trends in the region. the invaluable information which will be provided to policymakers as a result of this legislation will encourage the making of informed. intelligent decisions about our marine environment. this legislation will enable us to answer crucial questions which must be addressed if we are to adequately protect the ocean and its resources. i hope that my colleagues will join with me in supporting this necessary and forwardlooking legislation.*
. it is with great pleasure that i join with my colleague from the environment and public works committee. senator mitchell. to introduce the marine research act of 1989. the distinguished majority leader has been a champion of clean water.  only in our lakes and streams. but also in our bays. estuaries and near coastal waters. our oceans are beginning to show signs of stress. agricultural ruf. ocean dumping of sludge. and municipal effluent are invading our marine environment on a daily basis. we may be experiencing a rise in the global sea level. which could have potentially significant effects. too many fishermen trying to harvest too few fish could be exacerbating the problem of declining fish populations. each of these problems raises a multitude of questionsquestions which need to be answered with reliable. accurate scientific information. the purpose of the marine research act is to establish an independent marine research board. which will coordinate pd amplify the ability of existing research institutions to provide scientific data of the highest quality to address these questions. it is  possible to address the deterioration of the nations bays and estuaries. and the decline in quality of our near coastal waters. on a piecemeal or statebystate basis. in order to effectively confront problems in the marine environment. it is necessary to respond to the urgent need for expanded. regionally directed marine research. pollution problems are  confined by state boundaries. the office of techogy assessment recently issued a report which emphasizes the need for sustained. focused scientific research on a total ecosystem basis. the marine research act will accomplish this. the legislation will establish a marine research program which takes a broad. national view of trends in the marine environment. but will be directed and managed by research scientists within each region. the argument for organizing a marine research program along these lines. rather than simply for the federal government to conduct research. is compelling: ocearaphers. such as those located at university of rhode islands graduate school of ocearaphy. are most familiar with the ocean environment in a given region. the marine research program created by this legislation. instead of duplicating ongoing efforts at these institutions. will play a coordinating role. specifically. the legislation will create 10 coastal regions based on geographic conditions. including one which extends from cape cod. ma. to cape may. nj. the bill establishes regional councils charged with coordinating and planning marine research in each region. a primary responsibility of the councils will be to conduct baseline monitoring and assessment of marine environmental quality within each region. the legislation authorizes $3 million annually for each region to conduct research and assessment activities. these funds will be used to establish marine research centers in each region. which will report regularly to state govers. federal policymakers such as the environmental protection agency and the national oceanic and atmospheric administration. and the public on marine trends in the region. the invaluable information which will be provided to policymakers as a result of this legislation will encourage the making of informed. intelligent decisions about our marine environment. this legislation will enable us to answer crucial questions which must be addressed if we are to adequately protect the ocean and its resources. i hope that my colleagues will join with me in supporting this necessary and forwfhrdlooking legislation.* by mr. biden (for himself and mr. goae. mr. kerry. mr. metzenbauk. and mr. pryor):
