. i wish to join my colleague from new york in welcoming the canadian parliamentarians. and to express on this rare occasion my appreciation for the many longstanding favors conferred upon my state through my person. when i was attorney general i had the opportunity to cooperate with your authorities in finding and punishing rascals in the security field. i received emous cooperation from your officials. during the war. as an army officer. i worked with your minister of munitions. in more recent days i had the ho of dining with prime minister diefenbaker and his cabinet. including the late departed and lamented mr. smith. a very dear friend of mine. and a wonderful man. i have also visited and participated in the inauguration of power projects connected with the seaway. and in the niagara frontier area. where we are working together. as my tribute. as a senator from the state of new york. to the great dominion of canada. a great. stanch. and true friend. as has been so eloquently stated by my colleague. the distinguished junior senator from new york . i may say that we have demonstrated that free peoples can work together in a discipline. withstanding the fact that selfinterest may often dictate our pulling apart. in the final analysis. matter how frank you may be with us--and even critical at timeswe all k that. like a couple who are married. this has all got to be lived with until there is a better day or a sunnier side to our relations. because we are indissolubly linked together. i think it is this deep conviction which we all carry. and which is so particularly true in the states which border on canada. that represents one of the emous strengths of freedom throughout the world. i do  think any nation in the world. even behind the iron curtain. doubts that canada and the united states will always stand together. and that any hopes of separating them in any way are bound to be dashed. this is one of the most emous strengths which freedom has. i am delighted to welcome you and to speak to you in that spirit.
