. i think we all understand what we are doing. in 1969. congress passed an amendment to the impacted aid program providing for.  $5 million.  $10 million.  $60 million. but $300 million a year. to be allocated under the impacted aid program on the basis of public housing in the several school districts of this country. i call attention to the figure of $300 million. i do  understand any argument that we are going to run into any trouble by attempting to add onefifth of the amount of the authorized program to this bill. it is ironic in the history of this programit is ironic. indeed. that up until this year. the house appropriations committee. which has always violently opposed this program in its entirety. kked out any provision for it in the appropriation bill. i think it is fair to say that the budget never requested any appropriation for it. either. so. the house appropriations committee and the administration both. it seems to me. have taken the same position. a number of us on the committee in the senate have been interested in trying to get some funding here. the senator from new york is a cosponsor of this amendment with me. as well as the senator from missouri . the senator from illis
programed. authorized. and available. are all different words. perhaps we can agree on the facts. as i understand the facts. they are that there was an authorization up to the time the participation sales act was passed of $300 million for fiscal year 1967. but that in the participation sales actand we have it here. and that is what it saysthe 1967 authorization was canceled. it was canceled for a good reason. it was canceled because they believed that they would sell participations and raise the $300 million. and perhaps more. the fact is they are  selling. they do  propose to sell them because the gap in interest is too great for the government to absorb. for practical purposes. there is money. i am  arguing that they might  get it or that they might get it. for practical purposes. there is money for college housing. that is the legal basis on which it is presented to the senate. if we are wrong about the facts. we should k it. i agree with the senator that this is a question of priority and that that is the issue before the senate. i am only submitting from the committee on education this morning that the priority question deserves as much attention as the urban renewal program or seasonal housing program. or a number of other things. that is all. i do  think that we should differ on the facts.
. section 111 of h.r. 7819 directs the secretary of health. education. and welfare to study the burden imposed on a local educational agency by the presence of lowrent public housing within the school district boundaries. we are amending this provision to stipulate that the study report must be submitted to the congress by as part 5 of the hearings reveals. the subcommittee received extensive testimony from representatives of school boards throughout the nation favoring an amendment to the impacted school aid program which would provide an annual payment to eligible local school districts having public housing units. the education subcommittee postponed detailed consideration of this proposal and elected to retain in the bill the housepassed provision calling for a study. the may 15 reporting date will enable us to take action next year early in the session should we deem it advisable. in most of the cities and communities where public housing projects are primarily concentrated. nearly all of the local tax revenue is derived from the property tax. the crux of the problem confronting local school boards is that public housing units do  pay any local taxes. while the federal public housing statute provides for a inal payment to the community in which the public housing units are located. which is equivalent to 10 percent of the shelter rent. this small token payment is mally paid directly to the city government as general revenue without any stipulation that it be used for education. however. in most areas. local education is financed from a designated education tax and  from the general revenues for local government. thus. the local costs of educating more than 1.5 million public housing children are for the most part borne by the rest of the property taxpayers in the community who pay. the education tax levies. illustraitive of the difficulty experienced is the case of new york city where the 10percent payment in lieu of taxes in the amount of $3.6 million is paid directly into the general fund of the city of new york. allocation of these funds is made directly to the education budget which must expend about $76.1 million in providing the instructional program for approximately 63.400 children residing in public housing projects. the cost of educating these public housing children in new york city is borne by their local property taxpaying neighbors. the continued financial burden of bearing the total local cost of educating the concentrations of public housing children. many of whom require special educational services. is a major factor for the financial crisis which is rapidly developing in the central city school systems. the reasons advanced by the school board proponents for computing the entitlement by public housing unit instead of by eligible child are several: first. this method is more convenient for measuring exact costs and for estimating future costs. and. second. it has been the experiencein new york city. philadelphia. chicago. and detroit. for examplethat some parents. especially among the poor. are reluctant to fill out the necessary forms which would qualify the local school district for public law 874 assistance and therefore the school district is unable to receive funds for children for which it is entitled. this method of computation would obviate this difficulty. about onefourth of the public housing units are located within the 14 largest cities. the remainder are located within the boundaries of smaller cities and rural communities. the problem therefore. is by means confined to the large cities of the country.
i thank my colleague very much. . . we can make it. but house agrees to the report of the comwhat has happened has torn very seri- mittee of conference on the disagreeing ously at the social and ecoic fabric votes of the two houses on the amendofouy aty. tments of the senate to the bill (h.r. of our city. we could go down. too. we could go 14233) making appropriations for the either way. which way we go. mr. presi- department of housing and urban dedent. is going to depend very heavily. in velopment. and for sundry independent my judgment decisively. upon what is executive agencies. boards. bureaus. comdone right here in washington. missions. corporations. and offces for the i hope very much that we will  have fiscal year ending september 30. 1977. wasted the lesson of 8 million new york- and for other purposes. that the house ers who have seen so much of their recedes from its disagreement to the dreams go up in smoke. but we will amendments of the senate numbered 7. learn from them. 28. 29. 31. and 32 and concurs therein. i thank the chair. and that the house recedes from its dis-
