 did  include these provisions in the civil rights legislation that he has recommended to the congress this year. . we can afford to wait for further unrest and disorder during the coming months before we enact this longoverdue measure which will clearly protect the rights of those who. acting fully within the law. attempt to secure for all americans the equality of opportunity which they have been so long denied.
this tells about the. plight of a young turkish woman who shares a threeroom hut with an outdoor toilet with her husband and two children. the young woman did  want to have any more children because she and her husband could neither feed  house them. unfortunately. the young woman became pregnant once again. she went to a. counselor at a family planning clinic. in her village and asked what she could do. because . she felt she could  afford any more children. the counselor suggested she go to a state hospital that they could  help her in the clinic. this young women was from a ruralvillage and never had been to a hospital and was frightened of- it. and because. she believed she had . other. options but the option to go to the hospital and have a baby. she attempted a selfinduced abortion and nearly bled to death. . this is  the only incidence of this. there are countless stories similar to this. why did it happen. because the counselor from whom this young turkish woman sought help works in a family planning clinic. and it is financed by the americanbased pathfinder fund and a turkish foundation.  all the money comes from the united states.just a portion of it. the pathfinder fund receives money from the u.s. government. without the u.s. government fund. the services by the clinic would be significantly reduced. because the clinic receives some funds from the u.s. government. the clinic is forced to abide by the mexico city policy. counselors. therefore. are forbidden from mentioning abortion to their patients. due to the high rate of illiteracy in turkey. many people like this young woman do  k that abortion has been legal and free in turkey since 1983. because the counselor at the clinic could  provide the young woman with that information. neutral informationshe asked what were her options and could  be toldthe woman nearly killed herself. i that is the result of the mexico city policy. it harms the very people we are attempting to help through the earmarking of u.s. funds for international planning assistance. most of this assistance is going to underdeveloped third world countries to help the poorest of the poor. madam president. the president has spoken. on this issue. we have had votes. we have said that poor women in the united states. who must rely on governmentfunded health. care. should . receive .less adequate health information than women who can afford to pay for it at private consultations. through private physicians. ody really wants that. to have two classes in our societythe poor. who are denied information. and the wealthy. who can obtain it. why. then. do we want to export abroad this inequitable policy to poor people overses. as i say. the senate has spoken on this. issue.  once. but twice. in the recent past. a majority of. us are opposed to limiting access to proper health care. this is a health issue. madam president. as we all k. we do  want to limit access to proper health information for poor women. so i hope we will be able to vote on this and to move ahead and adopt the policy fostered by the wirth amendment. and get on with this legislation
. i would like to say that i k that some of my friends and colleagues in this body oppose a womans right to have an abortion. while i disagree with them. i certainly respect their views. the fact remains. however. that abortion is a safe medical procedure and is legal in every state and the district of columbia. it is wrong for federally sponsored programs to censor vital information about a legal medical health care option simply because some people disagree with the availability of the option. i urge my colleagues to view this legislation.  from the abortion rights perspective. but from the health care perspective. i urge them to take into consideration the right of every woman to complete information about her hearth care. and the obligation of a family planning provider to provide such informatlon.* by mr. dole (for himself. mr. gorton. mr. mccain. and mr. damato):
. i would like to take a few moments. if i might. to speak in favor of the committee amendment which would continue to allow the federal employee health benefits program [fehbp] to offer coverage for abortion services. if this committee amendment is rejected. we will be responsible for creating a lower standard of health insurance coverage for our female employees than they could otherwise obtain in the private sector. we are creating. if this amendment is rejected. a lower standard for our female dependents than they would receive if they worked in the private sector. this seems to me to be terribly unfair. in the united states. women have a constitutional right to choose an abortion. but that right is meaningless if women do  have access to abortions or can pay for the service. many who are opposed to abortion rights k that. so they come up with ways to make it more and more difficult for women to obtain a safe. affordable abortion. those attacking the coverage of abortion services. in my judgment. are engaging in that attempt. some federal employees might  want to participate in a plan that provides for abortion coverage. and that is their right. the amendment before us does  require plans to offer abortions. it simply allows plans to include that service. in fact. of the 345 plans that are  offered under the federal employee health benefits program. out of 345. 178about halfoffer some form of abortion coverage. so an employee who is opposed to abortion. he or she can choose one of the other plans. choose out of the 167 that do  offer abortion services. there are approximately 1.2 million women of reproductive age who rely on the federal employee health benefits program for their medical care. 1.2 million women. who are these women. they are our colleagues here in the senate and in the house of representatives. they are here with us  on the senate floor. they are our staff members. they are our daughters and our wives. right . all of those women or their families pay for a portion of their health insurance. as happens in the private sector. the employer. in this case the federal government. shares part of that cost. the employee pays part. the federal government pays part. this is  any gift from the federal government. what the employee is receiving is part of his or her compensation in the form of these health benefits. i disagree that this is federal money being used to pay for abortions. the federal health benefits are part of a federal employees earnings. if we follow the opponents argument. it follows the federal employee could  use his or her earnings from the federal government to pay to purchase an abortion. since that would be. if you follow the logic they are applying here. a federal subsidy. . why could they  use their own money. because the federal government pays their salary. opponents to the committee amendment contend that women can simply use their own money to purchase abortion services. this is  an inexpensive procedure. the average cost of an early abortion is $250 if performed in a clinic. in many places there are such clinics. there is travel and there is the need to go into a hospital. and this can cost as much as $1.760. i would also point out that onequarter of all federal employees earn less than $25.000. and nearly 18.000 federal employees have incomes below or just slightly above the poverty level. so the cost for an abortion. for those women in particular. causes a definite hardship. for 10 years. those working women could  buy health insurance that included abortion coverage. at the same time. in the private sector twothirds of the feeforservice plans and 70 percent of the health maintenance organizations provided abortion coverageand still do. two years ago we were able to get equal treatment for our colleagues. our staff members and family members by overturning the ban on abortion coverage. today we are being asked to return to a twotiered. unfair system which would deny abortion coverage to federal employees and their families. even if they are raped or are victim of incest. we are talking about a legal medical procedure. a right upheld by the supreme court on more than one occasion. it is time. in my judgment. we stop trying to find ways to get around this right by making the procedure shameful or inaccessible or too dangerous for a doctor to perform. i urge my colleagues to support the committee amendment and oppose the effort by senator nickles. i thank the chair.
. during an era which has placed increasing emphasis on the value of committees. consensus. and public opinion polls. senator ris cotton has made a career which instead focused on the rights of the individual and respect for individual experience. during his 20 years in the senate. ris cotton has been consistently direct and straightforward. e of us has ever had to speculate about his position on any issue. he has firm ideas about what is right. but has always listened sympathetically to the views of others. ris worked faithfully for the people of new hampshire. but his efforts provided leadership for the nation. he was a source of strength to us all. like his neighbor from vermont. senator aiken. ris was a link between the accomplishments of our past and the promise of our future. he is a man who will  compromise his principles. but neither will he close himself to exploring new ideas. i join the entire membership of the senate in wishing him many years of health and happiness. may his distinguished record be a constant source of personal satisfaction and pride.
. i should like. once again. to repeat what i think is the important language. one is to say that we can establish policies visavis the treatment and care of our citizens. that is our function. but the law of the landthe law of the landis so very clear on the point of abortion. (a) for the stage prior to approximately the end of the first trimester. the abortion decision and its effectuation must be left to the medical judgment of the pregnant womans attending physician. there is hing there that is loose at all. it is very specific. hing we do here is going to change that. anyone can go out under those circumstancesunder those circumstancesand have an abortion. (b) for the stage subsequent to approximately the end of the first trimester. the state. in promoting its interest in the health of the mother. may. if it chooses. regulate the abortion procedure in ways that are reasonably related to maternal health. aher key phrase. "maternal health." even there. the state can rush out and do whatever it wants to. it has to relate to maternal health. (c) for the stage subsequent to viability the state. in promoting its interest in the potentiality of human life. may. if it chooses. regulate and even proscribe. for the first time. without qualification. may proscribeabortion except wlere it is necessary. in appropriate medical judgment. for the preservation of the life or health of the mother. i think what bothers me about the debate on the senate floor is to give even the impression that what we do is going to change the law of the land insofar as abortion is concerned. it is . that law has been established. has been clearly defined. all we are saying  is that as a matter of policy. we are going to withdraw medicaid from those who choose to avail themselves of the law. all the rich people can go out and get an abortion. but the poor can. tell me. what kind of policy is that. when have we ever in the history of this nation. applied the laws of the land in such a sense. we have never done that. indeed. if anything. it has been the exact reverse. but to differentiate public policy on the basis of income. which is all we are doing right here. where is the equity in that. where is the commonsense in that. i think i am well aware. as everybody else is. what it is that is trying to be achieved here. it is an end run. it is an end run around the decision of the supreme court. to try to accomplish de facto what the opponents of abortion can do de jure. earlier during the day. the distinguished senator from oregon made what to me is a crucial point in this debate. that is the definition of the word. "murder." in this country. it is  my definition. it is  that of the senator from oregon or the senator from th carolina. it is  defined by this particular group of doctors or this particular group of ministers. it is very carefully defined by the full constitutional process. and we should  go ahead and. ad hoc. each come up with his own version. it does  make any difference what is right. it makes difference what is wrong. these are matters of personal judgment. it is what is legal. it is what is legal. abortion is legallegal. carefully defined and carried out in the sense of that definition. it is legal. so let us leave the legality of abortion off the floor. . how do we want the policy of this country to be defined relative to the medical care of its citizens. that is a proper matter for debate. what other procedures would be obious to members of this body or to the citizenry as a whole that should be withdrawn from the medicaid program. maybe somebody has it in their faith that they do  want the federal government to finance somebodys broken leg or dialysis or vaccination. i would so much more admire the opponents of abortion if they came onto this floor and moved to eliminate medicaid. that puts the issue where it belongs. but i do  think they want that. what they seek to do via the legislative route is to end run the law of the land. far more the issue here this aftern is  the murder of the unborn as it is the murder of the constitution of the united states and. more particularly. the concept of separation of church and state. that is the issue. cloak it in any other garb. that is the issue.
. i rise in support of s. 887. the 5year reauthorization of the older americans act. this legislation will continue to build upon the established partnership among federal. state and local governments to further the independence and selfsufficiency -of our nations senior citizens. since 1965. the older americans act has guided the nations efforts to respond to the changing needs and increasing diversity of a growing elderly population. and reflects our commitment to meeting the unique needs of our nations elderly citizens by providing quality social service programs in transportation. health care. employment.. counseling. adult day care. ini s 11422 formation and referral and nutritional services. i am particularly pleased that this legislation incorporates several provisions to address the needs of an increasing population of elderly individuals with disabilities. currently. of the 9 million elderly individuals in this country. approximately 4 percent. or between 200.000 and 500.000. are developmentally disabled. the initiatives that have been included will ensure that the needs of elderly persons with disabilities will  fall through the cracks of a system that fails to recognize the unique problems of this population. in many respects. elderly individuals with disabilities are like any other elderly individual. needing adequate and appropriate housing. activities to occupy their day. a range of support services. available and accessible health care. transportation and nutritional assistance. however. older individuals with disabilities additionally face a number of difficult problems. some of these individuals. particularly those with severe disabilities receive services from the network of developmental disability service providers. however. for the majority who are less impaired. the stateoftheart has changed so that their needs can. and should. be met by the same service network that provides services for older persons. therefore several amendments have been included to the act to begin to address the needs of the elderly disabled. first. in order to foster greater interaction between professionals in both the developmental disabilities system and the aging network. authority was added to permit one of the multidisciplinary gerontology centers to engage in research and training regarding the needs of elderly individuals with disabilities. increasingly. gerontological educators are beginning to work with service providers to develop crossdisciplinary curricula for those in the aging network who are serving developmentally disabled persons. and those in the developmental disability service agencies whose clientele are aging. second. the act has been amended to establish a collaborative working relationship between two existing programs designed to assist individuals in residential facilities: the ombudsman program under the older americans act. and the protection and advocacy program for disabled individuals. recognizing that clients residing in longterm care facilities comprise a diverse population of frail elderly. elderly who are mentally ill. persons who are developmentally disabled and persons with severe physical disabilities. an authorization of $1 million has been added to demonstrate and evaluate cooperative projects between state longterm care ombudsman programs and state protection and advocacy agencies in meeting the needs of this diverse population residing in longterm care facilities. under current law. elderly individuals who are mentally ill and persons with developmental disabilities are entitled to advocacy services under the protection and advocacy systems for these individuals. the nursing home ombudsman program provides advocacy services for the entire population residing in longterm care facilities. however. the lack of adequate resources limits the ability of all three programs to provide comprehensive. coordinated advocacy services. the ombudsman program. created to facilitate the resolution of complaints made by or on behalf of residents of such facilities. and the protection and advocacy agencies which exist to advocate for clients rights and to investigate -incidents of abuse and neglect. will  begin to work together to ensure that quality services are provided to those residing in longterm care facilities. in addition. several new requirements for state and area agencies on aging to coordinate planning and activities with agencies and organizations providing services to persons with disabilities has been incorporated in order to expand coordination of activities of the aging network and the disability community. the reauthorization of the older americans act reflects the nations commitment to enhancing the quality of life for our elderly citizens. i believe we have a responsibility to the elderly of this country to ensure that they are  deprived of their dignity and independence by unnecessaryand costlyreliance on institutional care. by expanding the availability of needed health. social and nutritional services. and creating a new emphasis on the needs of the disabled elderly. i believe the reauthorization before the senate today will enhance the ability of elderly americans to continue to live independently. finally. i commend senator matsunaga and senator cochran for their leadership on this legislation. and i would also like to thank senator harkin for his work on the provisions addressing the needs of the disabled elderly.
in response to the distinguished senator " from th carolina concerning the attitude of this organization. i have seen examples of attitude as it relates to "straight sex." and it is material that e of us would want to see or have our children see. yet. what we do  do is associate that with something else or some other individual or some other effort. i k exactly the material that the senator from th carolina is referring to. i have seen it. i think it is demeaning in every way. as i think that some materials that are out there on the newsstands are demeaning in every way. but what i do  do is to establish an association of guilt here in order to demean an entire class of persons. indeed. in this particular instance. a nation very much at risk. let me present a few remarks. if i might. on what confronts us here. i k of one who is standing up here and advocating any particular course of personal activity. and i suppose that it would be very easy to get drawn off into an argument as to what is appropriate and what is  appropriate sexual activity. neither i  the nation has the time to do that. we are confronted with an epidemic. the likes of which this world has never seen. and we do  have time to get into philosophical. academic. or moralistic debates. we better do exactly what we have been told to do by those of science and medicine. which is.  1. put our money into research and.  2. put our money into education. this is what we have done traditionally. whatever the ailment or the hurt was. we did  ask how you got it. if you hurt. if you are down. if you are sick. this nation traditionally has gone to your side without asking any questions. if we are going to get into the business of moral judgments. then maybe we should ask why we spend money on research insofar as it would help those who have cirrhosis of the liver. which comes from drinking. or what about the billions of dollars which have been spent on other sexually transmitted diseasesgorhea. syphilis. i can go down a whole list. of federal health research activities. costing in the billions of dollars. when did we ask any one or when did we try to pass moral judgment on those who acquired one of these particular diseases. maybe we should ask the question of those who smoke. why should we put our money into cancer research. i am  equipped to pass moral judgments on my neighbors. i go by a very simple criterion: if somebody is ill. then they deserve the help of their government. period. over and out. i am  here trying to protect a particular segment of our population. that is  the issue before this body. the issue before the body is how do we protect the united states of american and. indeed. the world. that is the issue. either you do it or you do . certainly. one of the great highrisk populations is the homosexual population. there is point in driving them underground again. there is point in iging what goes on within that community because ultimately it affects all of us. it is  easy to stand up in the face of language such as this and oppose it. but i do. let me go to the language of the amendment itself in order to dramatize what is at issue. first of all. is there anybody who believes the centers for disease control. one of the great medical bodies in the world. that has saved countless lives both within our nation and throughout the worldis advocating homosexual practices or intraves drug use. forget the homosexual practices. what this amendment says is: withstanding the matter under the heading "centers for disease control". e of the funds made available under this act to the centers for disease control shall be used to provide aids education. information. or prevention materials and activities that promote. encourage. or condone sexual activity outside a sexually moamous marriage (including homosexual sexual activities) or the use of illegal intraves drugs. well. forgetting the homosexual aspect of it. does anybody believe. in other words. that the centers for disease control are out there advocating the use of intraves drugs. it is demeaning to a great body. a great institution. one that this nation should take emous pride in. the centers for disease control. they are  out there to advocateany particular form of sexual behavior or advocate intraves drug use. what they are there to do is to be part of a team to get on top of this epidemic and to rid our nation and the world of it. this education process has been monkeyed around with long egh by this administration. this subcommittee over 6 months ago allocated $20 million requested by the centers for disease control for an educational mailer to be mailed to every household in the united states. they wanted the money reprogrammed. we did  do that. we gave them $20 million to send an aids mailer to every household in the united states. that is yet to be done. it is yet to be done  because of anybody in the centers for disease control. or  anybody in secretary bowens office. but because the philosophers in the white house decided they did  want a mailer to go to every household in the united states. so the education effort is set back. do  worry about them advocating any sort of activities as listed in this amendment. we can even get the most basic education out. yes. i want my children to k exactly what causes aids. we will all be sorry later on. if we do  tell them  and they contract the virus because they will die. so every single fact should be out there on the table . and education. indeed. is the most effective weapon we have against the spread of this virus. we do  yet have the chemotherapy. we do  yet have the vaccine. these are years off. all we have at hand is education. we k a great deal about the virus. we k about how it is transmitted. and every piece of information within the purview of the centers for disease control. -the national institutes of health or any other medical body ought to be made available to the american people. ody is asking for any moral judgment. the fact is the homosexual population is a highrisk population both as to itself and as to others. and they had best educate their own population. and indeed. they have because the incidence of aids among the homosexual population is going down while the incidence of aids within the intraves drug users is going up. the main problem. as alluded to by the senator from florida. is the intraves drug user at this stage of the game.  the homosexual. i have stated time and time again on the floor the importance of our responsibility in this matter. i wish i could say that leadership emanated from the executive branch of government. it has . indeed. i am free to say on the floor of this body that the specific recommendations and advice of those of scientific and medical background within the administration has been overruled time and time and time again. whether that advice has emanated from the secretary of health and human services. whether from the cdc. whether from the nih. whether from the surgeon general. the best medicalscientific advice is  being followed by the executive branch. but congress to its credit. this body to its credit has in effect assumed the mantle of leadership in the fight against aids. that is terribly important.  1. in terms of eradicating the disease. but it is also important that the people of this nation understand there is a leadership that leads us toward our best ideals. toward our best instincts. and that we  wallow in fear and that we do  moralize. we do  point our finger at our neighbor when he or she is hurting. that is the leadership that has come off this floor. long before azt was declared effective we voted the funds to get it out there. to prolong life among those who were afflicted with aids. long before there was any request for adequate funding for research into aids. this body for 3 years straight has doubled the appropriation for aids research. it is this body in its budget that is  on the floor that has given meaning to preventive education by providing adequate funding for education of all our people. particularly our children. on the matter of aids. the leadership has come from the congress during a time when the amounts requested and the direction given by the executive branch has  been there. indeed. the latest problem is the two men of medicine. dr. mayberry. of the mayo clinic. and dr. myers. the public health service director of indiana. that were heading the aids commission. resigned at their inability to have science overcome philosophy within the commission. i k the temptation of an amendment such as this. the temptation is for us to go ahead and duck. we do  want to be accused of supporting materials that are referred to in this comic book. even though they were  paid for with federal funds. as testified to by the senator from th carolina. to lay that at the doorstep of the cdc is like me laying every one of the porraphic magazines out there on some other agencys doorstep. the comic book has hing to do with the issue at hand. ody is defending that material and yet that can be the implication when a year from  people see a dry voting record with hing associated with it: "aw. you were for going ahead and using federal funds to advocate intraves drug use and homosexual activity." the reason i am standing here is because i do  want this nation to take its eye off the ball so far as what needs to be done. that is a very simple. direct course of action: education and research. what kind of a nation have we become where neighbors burn down somebodys home because the family has three hemophiliac children with aids. what kind of a nation is it that does that. and this has happened in several other places in the nation. fortunately. the good citizens of the state of florida and the city of sarasota have shown what this nation is all about in welcoming those kids with open arms and taking care of them. we have had similar problems in the state of connecticut. but what have we become. what have we become as a nation where even our children hurt and instead of doing anything about that hurt we try to hurt them more. i do  understand that. and .1 am  going to be part of anational leadership that understands that. i am certainly  going to compound the fear by passage of these types of amendments. americans can be proud of the center for disease control and we can be proud of ourselves as long as we go ahead and direct our money. our resources. our energies. and our thought process toward ridding ourselves of aids in the only ways it can be done. any sort of an education process that excludes a part of the population. in particular a highrisk population. is  the educational effort that the crisis deserves. any educational effort that does  reach every individual at home and tell all. is  the type of response the crisis deserves. again. i repeat. for the problems that have been caused in this nation by -particular types of activity. whether it is drug use or homosexual activity. never before have we rationed our commitment to the cure based -on a particular set of values or a particular lecture in morals. i heard the term "gods punishment." i -do  k about "gods punishment." but i k what the american response ought .to be to a disease. doctors will tell you this is by far and away the most complex organism that has ever confronted medical sciehice. it is without question the most deadly. and the statistics continue to climb. those statistics. i might add. are clearly departing from the homosexual and going into the intraves drug user area.those statistics  -are encompassing the heterosexual. hopefully for the hemophiliac. those statistics are going down as we perfect ways to i recall some weeks ago on this floor make sure our blood supply is safe. .4.i was excoriated -to a certain extent bei oppose the amendment. i am per- cause iwiaggested it was time -to begin fectly satisfied to sit down. and work broad testing for aids. i -still believe with the chairman of the committee that. and the senator from th carolina the senator mentioned for examon finding alternative language that is plei believe it was the senator from acceptable to all members. florida in this instancethe case of a but i want the record to show. be- wife who was infected unkingly by cause my colleagues are going to be her husband. if i ever heard an arguput to a vote on this matter. if hing ment for aids testing. that example changes. that those who vote against is it. this amendment are  deficient mor- but the point is. . that ally. indeed. the greater morality on this senator sees way that the situthis occasion is love of ones neighbor. ation. is going to -be improved as long to vote against this amendment is to asgroups which advocate homosexualvote against fear. to vote against this ity. which as- chuck coison and -the amendment is to vote against words. various others have pointed out. is the and for the deeds of education and re- original source of the aids virus. and search in which we have our only in every kn case insofar as the inhope. formation available to me. unless we we have seen. over the past several come to grips with that. we can talk years. the fear on the faces of those about how sympathetic we are. how dying from aids. we have seen it in compassionate we are. and how much our children. and that probably is the we want to solve the problem. but we most heartrending. are running down a blind alley. i have seen it personally with a good for example. a study in -theastfriend. congressman stewart mckin- ern ohio. which i have in my file. inney. who died of aids a short while volved 303 homosexual men. and it back. i have seen it in the faces of stated: those that i broke bread with just a we have concluded that educational effew nights ago in this city. yes. i have forts on safe sex education in our areas have seen it in the face of those who are -resulted in clinically meaningful behavior dying and perhaps in their petitioning modification in only asmall segment of the to their government. although they -socially and sexually active homosexual imay do so in ways that many of us -community. might deem objectionable. they have the study found that only 28 perthe right to petition their government -cent practiced totally safe sexwhatjust like anybody else. reflecting on -ever that isamong homosexuals. sevthe forces of death among old. young. entyone percent persisted in some acand those that were the genius of this tivities that have been clearly denation. i just do  understand how scribed as unsafe. we can respond but in a way that at then there was a study made in least :gives -hope to the .future. that is -pittsburgh -about the use of condoms what i look upon as my job on the by 503 homosexual and bisexual men. floor of the u.s. senate. i do - have showing that kledge of safe sex -the answers to what anybody did did  stop the practice of rsky bewrong. but i k that i can have a havior and what the report called unpart of the answer to the hope that derutilization. the report further said .something is going to be done right. it is probably  related to a lack of this amendment is  hope. it is kledge. the researchers. in any trash. case business of safe sexwhatever that
. i hope that our votes would continue to be predicated on the best medical and scientific advice rather than the uninformed lay opinions of those within and without this chamber. as a demonstration of what happens when mischievious amendments such as this are proposed and accepted in a political sense. i want to read from testimony that was taken in the appropriations committee just last week when dr. james mason of the centers for disease control appeared before the committee. i turned to dr. mason and said: dr. mason. last year the senate tacked on an amendment to the appropriations bill that related to the cdcs communications with the homosexual community in terms of the education procem.-. how restrictive has the effect of that amendment been on the performance of that aspect of your agencys work. to my colleagues. this was the amendment that passed 94 to 2 on the senate floor regarding communication between the centers for disease control and the homosexual community.
. i oppose the bartlett amendment. because i believe that it is unconstitutional and because i believe that it fosters an unwise national public policy. two years. ago. the supreme court ruled that a woman has the qualified right to terminate her pregnancy during the first trimester of that pregnancy. her right to do so is based on the constitutionally protected right of privacy. since that landmark decision. the lower federal courts have consistently ruled against states policies which would curtail that right. in particular. they have ruled that under the 14th amendment once a state makes medical services available to pregnant women. it can discriminate against those women who choose to terminate their pregnancy during the first trimester. public programs by paying for childbirth. but  elective abortions. deprive indigent women of their right of privacy to decide whether or  to bear children and force them to carry their children to term of ecoic reasons. in judicial decisions interest of the state has been compelling egh to override a womans right to privacy in the matter of whether or  to choose an obortion during the first 3 months of pregnancy. i believe that the same judicial reasoning which the courts have applied to states actions under the 14th amendment would also be applied to federal actions under the fifth amendment. i. therefore. believe the bartlett amendment to be unconstitutional. the federal government as well as the states can provide funds and services for those women who choose to end their pregnancy through birth while denying funds and services to those who choose to end their pregnancy during the first trimester. in addition to misgivings because of its dubious constitutionality. i also oppose the bartlett amendment. because it would have far reaching effects on the whole range of federal services and programs. i would call to your attention a few of the programs which might be affected. hospitals and other health facilities could  perform abortions under any hew supported programs. medical schools receiving hew fundsand virtually all dowould be severely constrained in instructing students about abortion or in demonstrating proper techniques. hew sponsored mental health centers could  counsel clients that one of their options in dealing with pregnancy was abortion. women who have had rubella during the early stages of pregnancy. where the possibilities of an abmal child are great. could  obtain abortions through hewsupported programs. state public welfare programs supported by federal funds could be in violation if a caseworker responded to a clients request for a referral to an abortion agency. rape victims could  be provided abortions by hew funded programs. in particular. the bartlett amendment would have an immediate and pernicious effect upon the medicaid program. without medicaid many women would probably  be able to afford a legal and safe abortion. unwanted children would thus be born into those homes least financially able to provide for them. or poor women would be driven once more to dangerous back alley abortionists. i would emphasize that the bartlett amendment does  outlaw abortion. it only denies legal abortions to those women who are too poor to pay for them. women who are financially able to pay for an abortion themselves would be completely unaffected. in summary. i oppose the bartlett amendment. because it is of questionable constitutionality and because it ends the present neutrality of the government in an area which more than almost any other is one where privacy should be respected and protected.
i think the difference is much stronger than what the senator is saying. he is saying that the amendment is  in the form he would like to see it. it goes far beyond that. this provision does  permit the abortion even when the mothers life is in jeopardy. that is a medical decision. the senator has always supported. that. i can see how the senator can support this language. legally or morally.
the senate has already acted on that. that was the helms amendment. which is the life of the mother was  in danger. this would go beyond that. it would  go as far as the packwood amendment. it would mean that if it is medically necessary. then the abortion could be performed. but it would be a determination by a medical doctor.
. the health subcommittee of the committee on labor and public welfareof which i am ranking miity memberhas conducted 6 days of hearings on human experimentation in biomedical research. on the hearings legislative agenda were two bills which i authored: s. 878 which. to protect the rights and welfare of human subjects in all research activities. would set in place the nih ethical research guidelines as a condition for federal funding support. and s. 974 which would authorize special project grants to medical schools to establish programs on the ethical. social. legal. and moral implication of advances in biomedical research and techogy. as a result of these hearings. senator kennedy and i introduced a bill incorporating in substantial measure. the provisions of s. 878 and s. 974. and in addition. establishing a commission to develop the basic ethical principles which should underlie the conduct of research. an article in the february 1973 hastings center report focuses our attention on one facet of biomedical researchthe urgent need to understand and to act as informed citizens regarding the genetic manipulation of our population. the article discusses amniocentesisa medical procedure. which by inserting a hollow needle through the abdominal and uterine walls into the amniotic sac and withdrawing fluid and cells of the fetus. permits us to diage certain genetic abmalities of the fetusand its implications for mankind the article concludesand i agreewe must recognize that we are morally bound to continue in the effort to find cures for those who have genetic diseases whom we currently detect and abort in the womb. the greatest danger of the institutionalization of prenatal diagis is that it will so blunt our moral consciousness. that we may forget that a "selective" abortion is only a temporary expedient reflecting our utter helplessness  to deal with the burden of genetic disease. i commend the article entitled "how much do we want to k about the unborn." to the attention of my colleagues and ask unanimous consent that the full text be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. the reason why i had urged the senate to take a little time to consider this amendmentas opposed to when it was first introducedis that it is a matter of very great social and political importa.nce in t.le country. both within the states and within the nation. as to what we shall do with respect to abortion for a class of women who must look to the federal and state governments for their health care. i believe the amendment is an assault on the rights of millions of americans and a backdoor effort to nullify the supreme court decision respecting abortion. certainly abortion is a delicate and trying issue. and one should be compelled to have an abortion. congress has. as i have previously indicated. consistently reaffirmed that principlethe right of individuals  to engage in medical procedures or receive medical services which are incompatible with their moral or religious beliefs (public law 9345 and 348). i have supported and will continue to support. such individual protections which are fully consistent with the constitutionally protected right for every person to act. in accordance with the dictates of his or her personal conscience. without fear of reprisal or discrimination. however. that is  the issue before us pursuant to the blartlett amenldment. i have chosen to again point that up so that we may be clear that w& are hbt bngaged ih a debate respecting thb philosophy. religiouts belief or moral conviltibn df any 1btsoii flgaged in providing or receivifig htalth bpre. iistad. the amenidfient dould eilthihate abortion as one of the medical servitts that inay be tehderbd indigent womerl uftder thb medicaid brografn. while gt thlb sane hime bontinuing to ali* all other medical sericbs ftir such vt"eghhilt wbmeh. thlis. the anlendfibfit would create an invidious ciassifibation which restricts thd fuhdalnehtal right of wotrln if. that class to dbidd whdther tb have ab(rtions. it would. conflict with the supiemb courts decisiotfs ii roe hd doe and ibwbr coi1t fulifig. initerpr~tihg those bses. and 5thbr subreme t6udt rulihgs in atialodbits 6dnt:xts. dind buld therefore violate the 6qual protiction standatds of the fifth ariiendineht. congress hhs deveif6ied ahd expanded the medicaid prdorimih as thd ptiiiiay means of assuring that thbpoor df this coilntty haie dccess to medical care. it is apparbnt from the millidris df people who paiticipate in the prograinin fiscal year 1972. 22 million pebple were eligible for assistance under the progiam and over 18 million actually received benefits---that this program is vital to the health and wellbeing of ecoically disadvantaged individuals and their families. i believe there is benefit to individuals and families in senator bartlefts amenlhnent. access to inedically supervised bortion tinder tlie rules laid down by th u.s. supreme cobdrt- iu  considered to bring about significant health advantages in many cases to individuals and their families. hew has estimated that if reimbursement for abortion under medicaid were longer legal. up to 250 deaths would occur yearly from women who would attempt to abort themselves. and up to 25.000 cases of serious medical complications from selfinduced abortions. at a potential6ost to the government for these medicaid recipients of between $375 and $2.000 per patient for hospital costs alone. this is further illustrated by the statistics in new york state. where the maternal death rate has been cut in half and infant mortality rates have declined to a new low since enactment of a liberalized statute. i ask unanimous consent that an article in the medical tribune. entitled "legalized abortion credited with some health advances." be printed in the record at this point.
. i thank senator mcclellan and the committee for the very constructive action taken on education respecting alcohol and drug abuse. by providing $4 million for this program. its importance is emphasized in such an excellent way. i k of senator mcclellans interest. inasmuch as i served with him on the committee on the judiciary for some years. and i just wanted to express my great appreciation. i wish to call attention to two other points in the report. one is of a parochial character. relating to lake champlain. one of our very beautiful lakes in new york. for which i express my appreciation to the committee. also. i applaud the fact that the committee included the money. which the house did . for emergency food and medical service. the committee recognized with fine perception exactly where this is needed for americans who were lost in the shuffle. the $30 million the committee recommended. with its development of unique and special mechanisms to counteract conditions of starvation and malnutrition among the poor. will go a long way toward aiding these americans cut off from the mainstream. they are native americans in many cases. who. because of language. ethnic background. and other difficulties. are lost in the shuffle. this was meant to reach them. finally. i raise a point to which i k the answer. but i think it will be useful to have it in the record. the $700 million for maintenance of way. for which we passed the authorization bill the other day. it was eliminated in conference on the emergency job appropriations act. it is  included in this bill. do i correctly understand that there really is basic difference with the house. except that they did  wish to appropriate in the previous bill when we had authorization as yet.
 makes such appointment recommendations for senate advice and consent. the existing public members continue to serve on commission. 4. broaden scope of commission activities re experimentation issues to include all federally funded biomedical and behavioral research programs. 5. authorize appointed membersas provided in "2" aboveto serve as a select committee within the commission. it would obtain commission requested data respecting federally funded biomedical and behavioral research programs. which is alleged to be classified. and necessary for the commission to carry out its duties under the act. then the select committee would determineby majority votewhether such information should be made available to the commission. the standard they would apply is whether the failure to provide such information could have an adverse impact upon the protection of human subjects at risk in research without regard to the alleged sensitive nature of the classified information. 6. transfer all present commission authority to the newly established commission and modify. as appropriate. to whom commission recommendations respecting research apply. although medical experimentation on human beings is as old as recorded historythe ancient persians experimented on condemned criminalsthe increase in human subject research. coupled with the desire to apply new kledge quickly. make it prudent for th congress to act  to provide additional statutory protection for the rights of individuals who participate in research. it may be necessary for reasons of national security to authorize special consideration for research involving military personneland this bill provides for that contingency. however. civilized society can tolerate callous disregard of human rights for any purposeand the bill achieves that goal. by mr. dole (for himself. mr.
 makes such appointment recommendations for senate advice and consent. the existing public members continue to serve on commission. fourth. broaden scope of commission activities re experimentation issues to include all federally funded biomedical and behavioral research programs. fifth. authorize appointed membersas provided in "second" aboveto serve as a select committee within the commission. it would obtain commission requested data respecting federally funded biomedical and behavioral research programs. which is alleged to be classified. and necessary for the commission to carry out its duties under the act. then the select committee would determineby majority votewhether such information should be made available to the commission. the standard they would apply is whether the failure to provide such information could have an adverse impact upon the protection of human subjects at risk in research without regard to the alleged sensitive nature of the classified information. sixth. transfer all present commission authority to the newly established commission and modify. as appropriate. to whom commission recommendations respecting research apply. although medical experimentation on human beings is as old as recorded historythe ancient persians experimented on condemned criminalsthe increase in human subject research. coupled with the desire to apply new kledge quickly. make it prudent for the congress to act  to provide additional statutory protection for the rights of individuals who participate in research. it may be necessary for reasons of national security to authorize special consideration for research involving military personneland this bill provides for that contingency. however. civilized society can tolerate callous disregard of human rights for any purposeand the bill achieves that goal.
