i appreciate what the senator from new york has said. he is completely right. sometimes those of us who feel as strongly as do those who have spoken here. and others. become disheartened because from time to time we bare our souls to some degree and then. on the next morning. we read that as a result of partisan efforts by those who wanted to make some political trouble for some of their colleagues. the fight was lost. that is  the issue at all. some day it will be clear that what we are talking about here is correct. there is a seething undercurrent of frustration among the colored peoples of the world against the prejudice and discrimination they have suffered from for centuries. and it is making itself felt in this country of ours. and all countries of the world where people of color exist. it is the most important moral problem of our time at home. and i think in the world. i think it might be a little bit helpful if. once in a while. perhaps more often than has been done. such a e were struck here in the senate and in the house. and also in the communications media of the country.
is it  true that the gentleman is building his whole argument on sand. because one has asked for troops from anybody. and when someone asks for troops i assure the gentleman this is my country. too. and i will be just as exercised. just as solicitous. and just as vigilant of the rights and interest and security of the united states as he is. when the time comes to worry about it. one has asked yet. the gentleman says he has it from radio commentators.
the time has  come. it seems to me. to find out whether this is or is  administration policy that the vice president is speaking. it is the uncertainty as at the position of the president which has stirred such deep uneasiness. if. in fact. it is the emous power and prestige of the office of the president of the united states that stands behind the vice presidents recent speechesspeeches that tend to intimidate those who evoke the traditions and rights guaranteed by the bill of rightsthen we are in for a grave crisis. i am troubled. first. by the timing of the vice presidents several statements. the reasons for that timing. the implied threat to freedom of speech which is involved. the diversionary nature of the vice presidents speeches and whether they tend to inhibit future criticism. by the press or media. of the administrations vietnam or other policies. second. i am troubled by the attitude of the administration. rumor and circumstantial evidence allege that the vice president is uttering administration policy. we k the president could end it. the president himself has urged that we "lower our voices." and we have a right to k whether it is the vice president or the administration speaking . frankly. attacks on the press and media have  been unusual in our history. jack kennedy barred copies of the new york herald tribune from the white house. harry truman called the press very harsh names. and f.d.r. said the newspapers were against him. and so forth. the issues of concentration of ownership in the media. and the editorial objectivity of the media. are. of course. "hardy perennials." the questions of both "equal time" and of the application of the antitrust laws have been the subject of federal government inquiry and. on occasion. of litigation. for over a generation. but after the media had some critical words to say about the presidents ember 3 vietnam speech. the vice presidents attack on the media inevitably has the implication of some threat to muzzle the press and to refuse licenses to tv or radio critics. in such cases. a disclaimer by the vice president of any desire for "government control" is standard operating procedure and reassures one. such implications are particularly distressing at this time because the entire matter can become an unfortunate diversion taking the emphasis off intelligent discussion of the most fundamental issues facing our nationvietnam and inflation. the conversion of that kind of intelligent discussion into a divisive and embittered conflict over personalities and media will inevitably hamper rather than foster a proper sharing of responsibility between the executive and the congress and a proper understanding by the public. i am also concerned that the timing of the vice presidents recent speeches may engender a fear as to whether this administration recognizes the dangers inherent in such an attack upon the media and press and upon those who honestly disagree with administration policy on such major matters as the administrations handling of vietnam and inflation. this. i think. is the most important question of all. because i think that to polarize the country any further in some divisive and embittered conflict over personalities and media will inevitably tend to hamper rather than foster a proper sharing of responsibility between the executive and the congress and a proper understanding by the public. the great strength of our society can be found in the fact that we can dissent without dissent being considered unpatriotic. or that it is patriotic only to assent. it is just as patriotic to advise our country against a course which is  in its best interest. the deep ant. sincere views of men and womenjust as patriotic as the vice presidentcan be expressed. and it is just as patriotic as it is to close ranks behind a decision that the president made. we do  want that done blindly. but we do  want any sanctions for it either. it is in that sense i speak today. i also express the hope that the vice president will  be taken in by what may be a superficial reaction of the polls. this country is fundamentally dedicated to civil liberties and the right to speak out. i believe the polls could be turned around sharply if people thought that the vice presidents words posed an implied threat to freedom to dissent. beside that question. which is fundamental. the other question is: whose policy is this. is it the policy of the administration or a colorful vice president. i think that needs to be annced at the earliest possible time and i hope very much that it will be. exaibit 1
the specific measures an agency is empowered to take to prevent aca from delaying procedures are numerous. for example. an agency can require aca and other participants to introduce any testimony they have in written form rather than in oral form. among the provisions to which the aca will be subject which provides for such procedures are the administrative procedure act (5 usc 556(d) ) and the rules of the federal power commission (18 cfr sec. 1.22(b)) and the interstate commerce commission (49 cfr sec. 1100. 77). the agency can prevent hearings from taking timeconsuming recesses. and it can establish accelerated schedules for briefing or for oral argument where necessary. it can make sure that in order to avoid unnecessary delay the evidence the aca introduces. and the questions it asks on crossexamination. are relevant and material and neither repetitive  merely cumulative of what has already been said. see for example 5 u.s.c. 556(d) and the food and drug administration rules (21 cfr sec. 2.81). it can limit the number of witnesses that may be heard on a particular issue. see for example the fpc rule (18 cfr see. 1.20(i)) and the interstate commerce commission rule (49 cfr sec. 1100.76). where the parties are especially numerous. the agency can require parties with common interests to select one attorney among them to conduct the crossexamination. the agency can rigidly control the length and extent of pretrial discovery permitted the aca and other parties before the agency proceedings actually start. it can force the aca and other parties to the proceeding to agree before the start of hearings what issues are in dispute. what issues are  in dispute. what facts can be stipulated. and what facts are in dispute. see. for example. the administrative procedure act (5 u.s.c. 556(c) (6) and the rules governing stipulations and prehearing conferences in federal power commission hearings (18 cfr sec. 1.18. 1.25). under the procedures already followed by some agencies. such as the federal trade commission. summary judgments may be issued without a timeconsuming hearing where there is material dispute about the facts of the case (16 cfr sec. 3.24). interlocutory appeals can at the same time be carefully limited to prevent unnecessary delay in the proceedings. see for example. the federal trade commission and the federal communications commission rules (16 cfr 3.23(b) and 47 cfr 1.301(b)). many agencies permit a hearing examiner to bar a person from the proceedings if he repeatedly adopts dilatory tactics. the food and drug administration provides for this. for example. see 21 cfr 2.62. the aca would be just as subject as any party to the terms of this regulation. agencies are authorized to take these and other similar measures to control acas participation by provisions in s. 707. as well as other laws which will apply. section 6(a) of the dole substitute states that when the administrator participates in agency proceedings it must comply with all agency statutes and rules of procedure of general applicability governing the conduct of such proceedings. and the participation of parties in such proceedings. further. section 6(i) directs each federal agency to issue whatever additional procedural rules are necessary to assure that aca participates in agency activities in an orderly manner. finally section 6(a) imposes on an agency the responsibility for assuring that the acas participation in a proceeding shall  deny other parties procedural fairness. general agency regulations would also endorse wide use of such measures as i have already mentioned as a way to expedite proceedings in which aca is involved. the aca will be subject. for example. to the regulation governing federal trade commission proceedings (16 cfr 3.42(c)) which requires the administrative law judge "to take all necessary action to avoid delay in the disposition of proceeding." the regulations grant the judge all powers necessary to achieve that end. the interstate commerce commission regulations specify that the rules of evidence shall be applied in such a way as to assure "that needful and proper evidence shall be conveniently. inexpensively. and speedily produced. while preserving the substantial rights of parties" (49 cfr sec. 1100.75). agencies and courts have long been aware of the need to regulate public participation in its proceedings so that agency activities are  unduly delayed. the courts have pointed out that when additional. interested persons intervene in agency proceedings. the agency can avoid undue delays by adopting procedural rules of the type i have just described. see. for example. virginia petroleum jobbers association v. fpc. 265 f.2d 364. 3688. (d. c. cir. 1959). because s. 707. other statutes and agency rules permit an agency to take the necessary steps to expedite its proceedings. i am confident aca involvement will  hinder an agencys effectiveness through delay or other means.
