it seems to the senator from new york that ultimately the only possible saving that could be made would result from the fact that the amount which might be owed would be paid in currency. the currency may have depreciated under its present value. heaven forbid that that shall ever happen. and heaven forbid that that is the process by which we effect savings.
. stephen davis hopkins. my constituent. is a financial analyst. my colleagues will be interested in the fact that as of ember 17. 1966. he predicted that the last remaining bond between intrinsic value coins and bullionbacked paper currency would be broken by the treasury department. this prediction was covered by coin world. the weekly newspaper for the numismatic field. mr. hopkins views on the silver question are set forth in the commercial and financial chronicle of thursday. may 11. and i bring this to the attention of my colleagues:
. it is a matter of grave concern to me that the military procurement authorization bill contains a section which would have the effect of requiring this country to import chrome from southern rhodesia. when this proposal was considered by the foreign relations committee earlier this year. i testified before the committee against the bill on the grounds that it would seriously jeopardize our relations with other nations of the world. and would. in fact. pose a clear threat to the continued existence of the united nations. i shall have more to say on this subject at a later date. at this point. however. i ask unanimous consent that my testimony before the committee be printed in the record.
currency convertibility will help but currency alone will  do it. you have got to have markets. and that means the development of the underdeveloped areas. and the opening up of new markets which would need to be supplied.
 i will move to restore what the agency sought to have restored and which the committee did  restore. with the exception of two items. the foreign currency item of $1.800.000. which the committee took care of. and also the item with respect to psychiatric examinations. on which i agree with the committee. i should like to ask the senator. as a basis for that ultimate motion. which will come. as i understand. according to the preference of the majority leader. after the civil rights matter has been disposed of. what was the reason for giving the agency $1.700.000 over and above the amount the house allowed. under the item "salaries and expenses". i do  recall the senator dealing with that in his general statement.
the senator from new york did  say any such thing. all of these things are what we lawyers call de minimis. we never k whether a buyer or a holder of currency in the world will consider 241/2 percent as good as 25 percent. we make the best judgment we can. i point out that there is hing holy about the 25 percent figure. we created it. if we change it. world credit will stand just as effectively. if we have reduced it. we can increase it. i maintain that it is a figure which is completely within our control. dependent on world judgment as to the acceptability of our currency.
subsequently said: i wish to point out that the state. justice. and commerce. the judiciary and related agencies appropriation bill was passed this morning very quickly. without advance ice. i had very serious objections to the lack of new funds for the informational media guarantee fund administered by the u.s. information agency. i am hopeful that the matter may be appropriately resolved in conference. i make a strong plea for new funds for the program as being a critically important one to american foreign policy. i am most deeply concerned over the failure of the appropriations committee to recommend new funds for the informational media guarantee program. this important program enables foreign countries with serious dollar exchange problems to import u.s. books. periodicals. films. and other informational media. the u.s. materials are exported through mal commercial channels and are sold in the participating countries with the result that members of foreign countries have an opportunity to be exposed to important sources of information concerning the united states. exports under the program are controlled by the issuance of guarantee contracts entered into between the u.s. information agency and american exporters of u.s. informational material. under the program. foreign importers make payments in their own currency to american exporters. who then exchange the foreign currency for u.s. dollars through application to the u.s. information agency. most of the foreign currencies acquired under the program are sold to u.s. government agencies which use them to meet local operating expenses. dollars paid for such currencies are credited to the img revolving fund. the 1965 budget estimate for the informational media guarantee fund was $1 million. including $330.000 for additional program financing and $670.000 for the payment of interest to the treasury. the house passed this appropriation bill on may 6 and included a total appropriation of $750.000 for this program. the senate appropriations committee recommended that new funds be appropriated for this program. last year the congress appropriated $750.000 of which $650.000 was for interest repayment on the revolving fund. during the debate on the departments of state. justice. and commerce appropriation bill for fiscal year 1964 on december 12. 1963. a number of senators indicated their support of the continuation of this important program. concern was reflected that a reduction of funds for this program would adversely affect the distribution of educational and worthwhile materials. materials generally eligible for img support include books. periodicals. and publications in the fields of pure and applied science. engineering and techogy. social sciences and education. law and public administration. business. ecoics. and finance. american history and geography. philosophy. biographies of americans. american architecture and applied art. general reference works. and materials for teaching english as a foreign language. according to the testimony of the usia officials before the house appropriations committee. the program is operated under criteria which requires that all materials sold under the program make a positive contribution in support of u.s. policy objectives and reflect favorably on the united states. it should be ed that last year the conference committee on this bill in appropriating $750.000 allowed $100.000 more than the senate appropriation which in itself appears to be an indication of congressional intent that the informational media guarantee program should continue. the need for a full exchange of information has become particularly urgent in view of the propaganda competition between communistbloc and the free world nations. the u.s.s.r. has made a particular effort in dissemination of cultural information. i estimate that the communistbloc countries spend as much as $100 million a year in these activities. and this is roughly 40 times more than the u.s. government is spending for comparable activities. it is absolutely essential that american books. magazines. and other information material be available to people in other countries especially in those countries whose currency is  truly convertible.
we are the authors of the law. unless we change the federal reserve system. that is the way it will go. that is the purpose of the guarantee of the soundness of the dollar. which is premier currency in the world. the currency of france is reasonably stable. the currency of germany is reasonably stable. the currency of italy is also reasonably stable. all the currencies in those countries are stable. and  one has a legal gold reserve requirement. as a matter of fact. less than onehalf of the central banks in the world have legal reserve requirements against their e and deposit liabilities.
it states. in part: the time is approaching when the gold reserve requirement will have to be reconsidered on domestic grounds also. there is the paradox that a reserve requirement to back domestic currency makes reserves unavailable for the intended purpose of settling international balances. since the dollar is longer convertible into gold except in transactions with foreign governments and central banks. the need for a specific domestic cover is outdated * * . it seems to me that we are consistent in our views. i am for some sort of a reserve. i am  for saying to ourselves that the reserve is  usable.
. i submit an amendment. intended to be proposed by me to the bill to provide for the strengthening of american educational resources for international studies and research. this amendment to amend the national education act of 1956. would authorize the u.s. government to accept foreign currencies from qualified students and teachers in the less developed nations with currency conversion problems. in order to help their students study in this country. currency expenses would apply only to the less developed friendly countries where the united states does  hold a surplus of local currencies. this would be for the foreign student an adaptation of what we call the fulbright plan for fulbright scholars. and the facts and figures point out that we have a great opportunity to help foreign students. very few of them study here without any help from the u.s. government. this is a field in which we compete so ardently with the soviet union and communist china. the plan i propose would be an effective way to encourage this kind of study without costing the united states any material amount of money. i hope very much that senators will consider this plan. which i call an "education for peace" plan. and that it may -have widespread support in the senate. this proposal would supplement the educational exchange program under the mutual educational and cultural exchange act of 1961the fulbrighthays actwhich presently brings between 5.000 and 6.000 students into the united states annually on a scholarship basis at a cost of some $18 million a year. under my amendment. u.s. funds would  be used to finance the education of these foreign students but rather would be employed to enable them to exchange their foreign currency for dollars in order that they might be able to finance their own education or use local scholarship money for study in this country. thus. my amendment will enable u.s. colleges and universities to increase their export of kledge. an exchange limit of $3.000 annually is set for each student. which is generally in line with the estimated average cost of $2.600 for a school year in a public u.s. college or university. for the first year of the programs operation. $10 million of u.s. currency would be made available. $15 million is authorized the second year. thus. an estimated 3.300 students could benefit from the program the first year and 5.000 the second year. last year. 82.045 students from 159 countries and territories attended more than 1.000 colleges and universities throughout the united states. of this number. 37 percent were studying on their own resources and only 7.2 percent received their tuition from the u.s. government. the remainder received aid from their own governments or from private sources. including u.s. colleges and universities themselves. since many nations still retain various forms of currency exchange control. this is a remarkable record. but the numbers of such studentsmany of whom are destined for leadership in their home countriescould be appreciably increased if the united states made a policy commitment to accept foreign students whose homelands have currency conversion difficulties. we do much the same thing in sales of food abroad under our foodforpeace program. this is. in effect. an educationforpeace program. exporting the kledge of our colleges and universities rather than the harvests of our fields and farms. the united states should be encouraged in its own efforts to attract foreign students by the serious problems the communist nations are having with their programs. many africans studying in both the soviet union and communist china have complained of racial discrimination. restrictions on academic freedom. politically oriented rather than professionally oriented courses and heavyhanded attempts at proselytizing. we have a chance to do much better by providing an increased number of foreign students with an opportunity to observe and absorb within the united states the meaning of freedom in thought and in the practice of daily american life as well as providing a thorough grounding in the skills which are so needed for advancement abroad.
while we are taking a little "ease" here. let me tell the senator from arkansas that i am trying aher idea for size. somewhat on the reverse order of the fulbright scholarships. that is to make available funds from hard currency in return for soft currency for students to study in this country from countries which have soft currency which would be useful to us. we could start that as a kind of modest program in the hope that it would encourage more foreign student activity of a desirable kind in the united states.
. there is a $70 billion overhang in the world of dollars. socalled eurodollars. they need to be consolidated. that means they need to be dealt with on the basis of liquidation so that we may get to the point of restoring convertibility to the dollar through the negotiation of an international agreement which will deal with both questions of convertibility and consolidation. it is my hope that these questions can be resolved in time for nairori. these measures would help the pendulum to swing back. and the dollar again will be recognized for what it isthe strongest and best currency on earth.
