. my colleagues have dramatically articulated the intimate relationship between our concern with human rights here at home and in those nations which are subject to communist domination and the effectiveness of our longrange efforts in the international community. they have demonstrated the essential truth of adlai stevensons statement that "what we say has little impact compared to what we do." i was particularly impressed by congressman dominicks reference to jeffersons magnificent language in the declaration: "we hold these truths to be selfevident". for it seems to me that these words set forth simply and majestically both our national purpose and our international objectives. these words proclaim the deep concern of the united states with the basic rights of all people. they assert the le reason for our being as a nation: to create an environment in which men may live in liberty with an opportunity to pursue and achieve their highest spiritual. social. cultural. ecoic. and political aspirations. we are faced with a historically unprecedented challenge in the problems of the emerging nations of the world. it is fundamental that the united states of america hopes that these nations. as they mature. extend to their citizens the basic human rights of which jefferson spoke. but it is pertinent that we ask ourselves as to whether the policies which the administration has pursued in recent months will in fact help achieve this end. if human rights are to be fostered in the emerging nations. we must work toward the establishment of viable and independent states which can ultimately compete in the ecoy of the free world and which can contribute to the security of the free nations. we must work to avoid circumstances which may lead to violent upheavals which provide opportunities for communist advances such as that we witnessed in cuba. traditional 19thcentury diplomacy dictated that one nation accept aher as it was constituted. today our policy must be concerned with factors internal to other nations. the danger. however. is that we may become too involved in too many internal situations. how can we best help create that measure of stability in the emerging nations of the world which will permit the extension of the human rights we respect to the peoples of those nations. two facts must never be overlooked: first. the development and advancement of the rights of the citizens of the developing nations is basically the responsibility of those nations. and. second. but for the united states. the communist cancer would ravage the world. destroying the sovereignty of all nations. making it impossible for the developing nations to discharge their responsibility to promote the individual rights of their citizens. in our dealings with the emerging nations of the world. they properly are treated as "equals." sovereign state deals with sovereign state. this equality of sovereignty. however. veils massive inequalities in trained manpower. experience. and resources. while we must treat these nations as equals psychologically and diplomatically. it is imperative. at the same time. that we ackledge the tremendous differences in strength. stability. and immediate objectives. it is  fashionable today to speak in terms of selfinterest. quite to the contrary. the administration has time and again made every effort to persuade the emerging nations that the united states is guided only by a sense of moralistic altruism. we have sought to obscure our legitimate objectives: we have evidenced embarrassment at our own needs. the administration has treated the emerging nations like children. it has acted as though we do  want them to discover the facts of life. the administration has defined our foreign policy in terms of maudlin sentimentality. it has advertised our criteria for foreign aid in sweeping generalities. thus sacrificing the opportunity to make discriminative decisions and provide selective assistance. it seems to me that this fact accounts in part for our being perpetually on the defensive. it is time that we understood that the peoples of the emerging nations abhor gratuitousness. they want. indeed they need. our help but they do  want patronizing proncements. krishna me once said "it is their affection that we can tolerate." me is friend of the west but he states a generally held feeling about the quasimoralism that is characteristic of our recent efforts in foreign affairs. john foster dulles was frequently criticized for an alleged moralistic approach in the conduct of our foreign affairs. but it must be ed that dulles was describing the rights and wrongs involved in the battle with world communism. the present administrations moralism seems to be. on the other hand. an effort to avoid identifying or advancing any of our own real cold war interests. if we believe that "all men are created equal. that they are endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights. that among these are life. liberty. and the pursuit of happiness" we have an obligation to speak out in strong terms. to act resolutely. in support of our convictions. recent history has demonstrated that the emerging nations "play" east against west as a matter of course. while recognizing their right to independent action. while respecting their freedom to be neutral. we must  confuse that right and that freedom with the serious ramifications they carry. can we  properly urge that these nations. if we are really concerned with the right of their citizens. evidence their opposition to a totalitarian system which would stand forever in the way of the achievement of those rights. indeed. have we  a duty to do so. yet the present administration has to a large degree given the impression that opposition to despotism is irrelevant. the results of this policy can be devastating. we risk spreading our resources so thin that it will  be possible for us to achieve good where it would really help. we commit ourselves to controversies which we do  have the capacity to solve. we solicit disrespect. if. as i stated previously. our interests are those so eloquently expressed by jefferson. is it  time for us. as a nation. vigorously to pursue a policy which would advance those interests. if the fashion of the times prevents us from identifying such a policy as one of "legitimate selfinterest" can we  at least insist upon a policy of "legitimate mutual interest". has  the time come for us to take a direct. honest. forthright approach. has  the time come for us to annce our own objectives and our own aspirations in order to effect the mutuality of interests which is necessary. should we  seek a responsiveness to our own requirements in the conduct of our foreign policy rather than encourage other governments to ige them. can our commitment to the defeat of an imperialistic and totalitarian system ever be understood until we articulate it vigorously. until we demonstrate clearly how it affects the human rights of the peoples of the emerging nations. should we  make clear the reasons for our struggle against communism and demonstrate that our position vitally promotes the true independenceindeed the survivalof the "uncommitted" nations. must we  identify the danger. the common danger. as boldly as possible. different situations require different solutions. we must preserve our ability to take selective action. to take the initiative. these things can be done so long as our foreign policy is enunciated in terms of an apologetic moralism. only when we in fact pursue a policy of mutual interest can we hope most effectively to use our resources and our strength in freedoms cause. such a policy will inspire a more solid effort of all peoples who yearn for liberty. we must satisfy ourselves. in this effort. with modest but concrete accomplishments. but these accomplishments will serve to strengthen the developing nations. to permit them to attain a stability and independence which will promote and protect the rights to which their people. as all people. aspire.
 of the subcommittee for accepting it. what is being accomplished by the adair amendment is to extend. rather than to contract. the concept of veterans rights and privileges. in earlier years i had considerable to do with veterans affairs. in opposing this amendment you are  doing what is proper. for the first time. this amendment would permit the foreign service to give a service to those they are seeking to protect.
. the unanimous ceasefire resolution of the security council is to be welcomed. but it is only a first step. the mistakes and failures of implementation. of and since 1957. must  be repeated. and withdrawal should occur without completely new conditions of stability and peace obtaining. most important is whether the states in the area will  move forward to peace and resolutely away from war. israel can be expected to go back to a status quo antewhere there was peaceand where belligerency was proclaimed as a matter of right by the united arab republic. lest we forget. israel believed her withdrawal of forces in 1957 was based on acceptance of four major assumptions reinforced by recognized principles of international law: first. the suez canal would remain open to israel ships and cargo. second. the strait of tiran and the gulf of aqaba would comprehend international waters with rights of free and inent passage guaranteed to all nations. third. the gaza strip would  be under united arab republic administration. fourth. efforts would be made to move toward relationships of peace and detente. in fact. the past 10 years have seen these concepts violated and the right of belligerency proclaimed and implemented. for the futureand given a ceasefire in placeisrael has the right to expect from the community of nations a new eracompletely new relationships of stability and peace. an end to belligerency contrary to the charter of the united nations. and free and open transit in the gulf of aqaba and the suez canal. as israeli foreign minister abba eban eloquently stated the case before the security council last night. acceptance of israels statehood and rejection of the fiction of existence. direct contacts between the parties as part of pacific settlement. and recognition by external powers of broad principles such as peaceful commerce as opposed to belligerencythese are basic starting points. the united nations should seek to get the parties togetherand work for an enduring and substantive peacethat will  again be shattered in 10 yearsbut hopefully will last for 10 generations.
. in our dangerously divided world. the united nations may  be able to take direct action to right these injustices. but it can keep the spotlight of publicity on such deprivations of individual rights and dignity as the tragic events in hungary. on this anniversary of the hungarian revolution. friends of freedom everywhere join in the fervent hope that the future holds a happier fate for the brave people of hungary.
. there have been a number of expressions of concern for the cause of human rights in recent weeks. months. and years. but i would like to call to the attention of my colleagues an observation made recently. we believe that a government that resorts to coercion and force against its own citizens demonstrates both its own weakness and its contempt for human integrity. these words are from petitions signed by scores of persons attending an interfaith brotherhood meeting held last month by the sanford heights presbyterian church. irvington. n.j.. and the beth david jewish center. of newark. n.j. the petitions to soviet party leader leonid brezhnev and to the soviet ambassador to washington. anatoly dobrynin. remind the soviets of the human rights provisions of the u.n. charter and the 1975 helsinski accord. the petitions. recently delivered to me in the form of two scrolls. also are an illustration of the concern americans feel for the rights of individuals.. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the identical petitions be printed in the record.
. the gentlemen who argue here against this aid to korea. i think. are the very same gentlemen who have been most eloquent and most vocal in arguing for a positive foreign policy in the far east on the ground that is where the whole civilized world is likely to go down the drain. they have argued that the loss we are in a way suffering in the far east would be a loss even greater than the loss we run the risk of suffering if we lose europe. yet these same gentlemen have voted $5.000.000.000 and $3.500.000.000 and will probably vote again about $3.000.000.000 this year for erp toeurope. the demand for a positive policy for the far east. in the face of the opposition to the $60.000.000 in this bill for korea. sounds hollow. if the committee will look at the mutual defense assistance actpublic law 329 of the eightyfirst congresswhich the congress passed and which the committee on foreign affairs reported out. and fully backed. it will find that the committee on foreign affairs of the house has provided a positive far eastern foreign policy. that policy is expressed as follows: . congress hereby expresses itself as favoring the creation among the free countries and the free peoples of the far east of a joint organization consistent with the charter of the united nations to establish a program of selfhelp and mutual cooperation designed to develop their ecoic and social wellbeing to safeguard basic rights and liberties and to protect their security and independence. in other words. this is a call for a fareastern recovery program. of such a program. south korea is an integral and absolutely essential part. that is a positive fareastern policy. and  as a means by which to hold these 21.000.000 people in south korea for 6 months. until there can be a positive fareastern policyto spend $60.000.000 to hold 21.000.000 people in the far east in reserve for the great positive policythese gentlemen say "oh. " let us examine the arguments made against this bill. the first argument is that korea is a very long way from the united states. the second is that it is indefensible militarily. i ask these same gentlemen whether korea is any more indefensible militarily than is berlin. berlin is an isolated island in the very heart of the occupied zone of germany where we have few troops.
 also said that "egypt has in the past violated the armistice agreement and international law" and also "that egypt iged the united nations in exercising belligerent rights in relation to israeli shipping in the suez canal and in the gulf of aqaba." under these circumstances. we face a moral as well as a political determination. and there should be such thing as sanctions or an end to negotiations. but rather a continued effort to find a solution. it is highly doubtful that sanctions would be voted in the united nations at this time with the united states opposing them. as it should under these circumstances. the moral position seems to me to require demands on both egypt and israel. and  on israel only. in a court of law. israel would have the right to counterclaim and have all rights determined in one decree. the new york times said. in a leading editorial on february 11. what is even more true today: the friendship of the arab states. if that is what we are working for. is  worth while if it has to be brought by subterfuges and injustices.
. i call attention to the factwe are reminded of it again. this morningthat the geide convention. pending before us  for 13 years. has  been approved. i urge the foreign relations committee. which is considering three other united nations conventions. on forced labor. slavery. and the political rights of women. to consider the one on geide. as well. at this time. all of these have been approved by the department of state for immediate ratification. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. the editorial entitled "geide." which appeared in the washington post. ember 27.
 taft took his action over the advice of the department of state. which had warned of the serious commercial consequences of such abrogation as well as the larger political considerations. although russia has been historically a major target of american protests. the united states has on other occasions denced persecution of jews by rumania. the austrohungarian empire. italy. and poland. in the 1930s u.s. protests to the nazi government were frequent and vigorous. secretary of state cordell hull wrote in his "memoirs" that "i found myself calling in the german ambassador time after time to protest against violations of the rights of our citizens. against persecution of the jews. and against mistreatment of americans by nazi bullies." secretary hulls "memoirs". were published in 1948 and in the second volume he made the following general comment: palestine was but one facet of the unremitting effort of the state department for over a decade to assist the jews caught by the unspeakable nazi persecution. in the 1930s we had made innumerable representations to the germans and taken concrete steps to evince our condemnation of this persecution and to induce the nazis to desist. we had likewise brought every possible influence to bear on countries adjacent to germany to receive. feed. and clothe the jews of germany. and on other countries to afford them refuge. and. more recently. the 1964 platforms of both the republican and democratic parties contained clear dencements of soviet antisemitism. the democratic platform stated: "we deplore communist oppression of jews and other miities." the republicans stated: "we condemn the persecution of miities. such as the jews. within communist borders." the pending resolution offers the opportunity to give voice to these platform declarations of our two great parties. this resolution. too. will demonstrate that the united states and its people hold firm to the humanitarian tradition that has long been a jewel of our history. and. finally. the resolution will tell those who still suffer under the hand of the oppressor that we. a decade after the events of may 1945. have  forgotten.
