that is an editorial from this mornings new york herald tribune. i think it expresses the feeling which is shared by nearly everyone. one wants to be unreasonable. i do  agree fully with the editorial which i read from the new york times. i am sure that. judging from later statements. which have come from the housing expediter. he does  contemplate decontrolling onethird of controlled areas all at once. as i understand. his latest idea is to try to handle as much as possible. leaving it to local authorities to police and carry out decontrol in cases in which he is unable to do so because of lack of administrative machinery or of personnel. but that does  alter the present situation. i should like to read for the record at this point some statistics from the new york office. before doing so. however
." second. we. are trying to balance out justice here. justice to those in the lowincome level. justice to those in the higherincome levels. i can see how 35.000 public housing units out of an annual constructioi of a million hous3590* ing units. when the federal housing administration has guaranteed and insured 3 million housing units to the tune of $23 billion. will distort the program. i can see how the congress can deny the continuance of this program for the very lowincome groups. third. to the cities this is extremely important. where they have streets. they have fire stations. they have schools. they also can have slum clearance but they have people displaced who can afford other than public housing. they have to be placed in decent housing. to establish public housing in conjunction with slum clearance is humane. this is ecoical. therefore. it is very vital. this modicum of public housing should be made available for the purpose. fourth. there is a lot of talk about socialism concerning this program. is there any talk about socialism when we fertilize the farmers fields and federal money pays for it. is there any talk about socialism when $23 billion of fha mortgage guaranties are issued. is there any talk about socialism when huge amounts of federal funds are spent in rivers and harbors appropriations.  it all depends on whose ox is being gored. right  it is the ox of the lowincome level group. i would like to leave you with this final thought: this is a fundamental -question for the members of this house who have groups in the lower ecoic levels in their districts. their people are the ones who are primarily concerned. there is hing doctrinaire about this. there is socialism or anything else about it. it is just a fundamental question of justice considering the whole housing picture for a group of lowincome people in various communities whom we are called upon to assist with housing.
. one of the amendments establishes an equal opportunity housing commission to implement the housing sections of the bill by administrative action rather than individual court suits. my amendment is patterned after new yorks fair housing law. aher amendment provides for the transfer of certain civil rights cases from states to federal courts. the third amendment creates a civil rights indemnification board with a trust fund of $10 million to pay claims of those injured because of civil rights activities. the fourth amendment provides an automatic trigger which will enable federal courts to act promptly in state jury discrimination situations. the fifth amendment gives the prosecutor in a federal criminal case the right to challenge the method of selection of juries when such method violates the provisions of this act.
. i am brought to my feet by the remarks of the distinguished senator from oregon. i testify to this from personal kledge. we are  going to placate. condone. or appease violence at the same time. senator would wish to reproach himself in his own conscience with the fact that he did  do everything to give justice to all. if we were to neglect to perform our duty under such circumstances. extreme actions performed by people who might be unbalanced would appear to be justified in their eyes merely because congress did  act on something that it should have acted on. the basic law on protecting civil rights workers. for instance with respect to voting rights. has been very much accepted. it has almost become an axiom. and ody really takes great exception. people want to have the situation involving discrimination in the case of housing dealt with. that. too. is almost axiomatic. we do have an executive order. the real difficulty is that the executive order has  been adequately enforced. therefore. as the pending measure does  plow new ground. i think it will be a shocking disappointment to the millions of americans who are watching our action if we do  vote favorably at this time. whatever the papers may write or  write about the situation. if we are unable to act favorably at this time. our action will be injurious to the country. cloture will enable us to act. and that is the only purpose of cloture.
. i would like to say a word about senator gbodells part in the problem. we have both inspected emous areas in new yorkthe south bronx. harlem. a disasterhit area called brownsville in brooklyn. and aher part of the city. bedfordstuyvesant. and have seen the problems existing. we have seen the horrible price paid under almost inhumane circumstances because of these abandoned buildings which become. as the senator so eloquently pointed out. the real dens of inequity of the city for narcotic addicts and pushers. and they become fire hazards. and hazardous to children and unsightly messes. i pay tribute to the junior senator from new york. i joined with him but he carried the ball and he worked very hard to get the matter through. i tried hard to take this message of his effectiveness to the people of our state. i am sure the junior senator from new york is happy to see this matter consummated. king him. it is a greater satisfaction to him to have gotten this matter through than his political campaign. that is the greatest tribute one can pay to a colleague. . i join the senator from illis and the junior senator from new york in expressing my regret about mass transit. but there are other critical important parts of the bill. i like very much the crime insurance part of the bill. that is an emous problem in the ghettos. i like that part which will let small builders qualify for bonds for guarantees. the guarantee for mortgages is a very fine privilege. new york is very grateful to the senator from alabama. the senator from texas. the senator from illis. and my colleague from new york for the assistance with regard to section 236 mortgages and supplement programs. making them available in what we call the mitchelllama housing in new york. as always i have the greatest admiration for the senator from alabama. i have served on his committee and i k of his work firsthand. i wish to express the gratitude of the 18.5 million people of my state to him for the fine work he has done in this matter. while it is  the optimum. it is wonderful progress along the way.
