. these events can be regarded with equanimity by the american people. there is only so far that words can go in these matters. as we saw in respect to the previous berlin crisis. the communists must understand at some stage that the united states means business. apparently the only time they understand that is when we indicate we intend to have forces in being which are adequate to do the jobs which we deeply feel our american security requires. yesterday a car was fired upon in the eastern sector of berlin. it was a u.s. car. that is all reported in the papers. the russians have sent us a very nasty and disagreeable e on the same subject. all this indicates that i hope. at one and the same time that we equip ourselves to meet any eventualitywhich we must do. because these are grimly serious events. as to which the soviet is obviously also grimly seriouswe will also retain. as our government is retaining. the willingness. the desire and the anxiety to negotiate. which we have repeated time and time again. that is fine. second. we must be constantly reviewing policies in terms of seizing the diplomatic initiative ourselves. i have recommended in respect to berlin a number of diffrent ways we could take the initiative. we might annex west berlin to west germany. it might take some other form. such as a boycott of trade between west germany and east germany. or some other thing. i hope that we are proceeding  merely on one front. but on all three. we should have adequate military preparation to back up what our national interest and security requires. second. and equally important. there should be a full and obvious desire to negotiatean anxiety to negotiate to settle these problems peaceably. third. and equally important. we should take the diplomatic initiative. this must  be neglected. we have been found wanting in this regard time and time again. it is possible to take the diplomatic initiative on berlin. it is possible to take it with respect to the organization of american states on cuba. we owe it to the american people. from whom we are asking these sacrifices. to proceed along these other fronts with the same diligence and the same alacrity with which we proceed with respect to the calling up of reservists
