. as the trend toward greater urbanization in the united states continues. we should place at a premium among domestic goals. measures that would preserve the rapidly deteriorating and vanishing nataral assets of our nation. deteriorating natural assets in great need of our attention are the lakes of our country. although the life span of a lake is. under mal conditions. measured in millenniums and eons.1 the aging of a lake is often rapidly advanced due to the unnatural interference of man. this artificially accelerated aging takes place instead of being slowly brought about through various natural changes of the earths surface. the lake restoration act of 1967. which i have introduced today. seeks to prevent any further unnecessary aging and deterioration of our nations lakes. a lake reaches old age. or even its demise. when certain plants growing within the lake reach such a proportion so as to cause the suffocation of desireable aquatic life. consume oxygen. and cause the water to lose its capacity for selfpurification. the aging of a lake is greately accelerated by eutrophication. the excessive fertilization of algae. and other aquatic plants. with nutrients. our highly industrialized society has advanced the eutrophication of many of the lakes throughout the united states by the artificial introduction into our lakes of various nutrients which encourage eutrophication. such nutrients are phosphate in its many forms--a common element found in sewage. human waste. agricultural fertilizers. and industrial dischargesand nitrates.3 in a recent release issued by the department of the interior. frank c. di luzio. assistant secretary of the interior for water pollution control. stated that "until . we have  adequately controlled these causes which help to speed the natural processes of eutrophication." it is clear that the detrimental effects of eutrophication and its artificial acceleration have been observed for far 11967 journal of water pollution 737. industrial water engineering. feb. 1966. p. 27. 1 u.s. dept. of the interior release. aug. 4. 4u.s. dept. of the interior release. june 15. 1967. longer than justified without adequate defensive steps having been taken. eutrophication. which is directly related to the life span of a lake. refers to the rate at which nutrients enter a body of water. it results in the ious premature aging of bodies of water and is  limited to any one part of the united states. critical examples of this problem are the great lakes. especially lake erie. and the marine water surrounding new york city. as well as lakes in california. washington. oregon. minnesota. wisconsin. maine. connecticut. and even the potomac river.5 the effect of eutrophication on a lakes usefulness is both dramatic and costly. the prolific growth of aquatic plants. which can transform a lake into a marshland in a mere two or three generations.  only adversely affects the use of a lake for boating and fishing. but also may completely nullify any use of the lakes shoreline for swimming purposes. due to the formation of a thick slime on the shore. also. swimming in eutrophic lakes often results in odors on the swimmers body the quality of water from eutrophic lakes is also affected. eutrophication produces foul tasting and smelling water. and the removal of such taste and odor increases the cost of treating water for drinking purposes.8 mr. di luzio made it quite clear that the department of the interior is "unpreparedlegally. institutionally. operationally. and technicallyto deal effectively with a major crisis such as the aging and possible death of lake erie." and that the interior department is "also unprepared to cope adequately with the many smaller cases of euthrophication that continue to contaminate our water." 0 the lake restoration act of 1967 that i have introduced today seeks to vest with the department of the interior the major responsibility for solving this very critical problem. my bill directs the department of the interior to encourage local communities and states. through technical assistance and planning grants on a 50percent matching funds basis. to design comprehensive programs to restore eutrophic lakes. this bill also directs the interior department to coordinate the several federal agency programs relating to the restoration of lakesfor example. the department of the interior. the department of health. education. and welfare. the department of housing and urban development. and the department of agricultureemphasizing the development of new and improved methods of solving eutrophication problems. the restoration of eutrophic lakes. and. whenever feasible. improvement of the shorelands and adjacent areas so that full use of the lakes for recreational purposes is possible. this legislation further directs the department of the interior to expand ibid. "industrial water engineering. feb. 1966. p. 33. ibid. 8 ibid. 9u.s. dept. of the interior release. june 15. 1967. its efforts to develop: first. more precise kledge of the eutrophication process. second. more effective programs and methods for the elimination of phosphates. and other substances which encourage unwanted plant growth. from treatment plant effluent. third. better methods of measuring the phosphates and similar substances contributed by industrial waste waters. and fourth. programs to encourage private industry to develop chemical substitutes for phosphate in detergents. to accomplish these aims the lake restoration act of 1967 provides that the department of the interior shall develop special research and demonstration programs for preventing the entry of nutrients into. and removing existing nutrients from. lake waters. for the purpose of such special research and demonstration programs the natural resources and power subcommittee of the committee on government operations recommended 0 that funds be appropriated in an amount comparable to the sum which congress authorized for research on the problems of storm and combined sewers. advanced waste treatment systems. and pollution by industry. thus. my bill asks for an appropriation of $20 million to carry out the goals of the lake restoration act of many lakes which are today used  only as a source of drinking water supply. but also for recreational purposes. are daily threatened with extinction. enactment of the lake restoration act of 1967 is a constructive attempt at preventing this threat from becoming a fait accompl. in the mobile and highly urbanized society in which we live today. a great many people rely on lakes many miles from their homes for recreational purposes. i myself often spend summer weekends in an area of new york state that allows me to take advantage of the recreational facilities of a lake. i k that many of my constituents seek relief from the steel and concrete canyons of manhattan by vacationing near one of the magnificent lakes located in new york state.  is the time to act. and  wait until the word "eutrophication." like "pollution." is a household word.
