 of common cause. fred wertheimer. that illustrates the importance of retaining current hatch act restrictions on involvement in the most active levels of partisan politics. repeal of the hatch acts lbasic protections. as proposed in s. 135. would increase the potential for widespread abuse and open the way for implicit coercion against which there is real protection. with basic restrictions on partisan activity repealed. procedural or other safeguards will be sufficient to protect against subltle forms of political favoritism or coercion of federal workers. s. 135. although often referred to as a reform. would etheless repeal substantial portions of the hatch act. the justice department has relayed a number of examples of patronage abuse at the state and local level that it has investigated. for example. little less than a year ago. a federal grand jury in newark. nj. indicted the mayor and a city councilman of guttenberg township for terminating the services of two police officers and a school crossing guard who refused to perform partisan political services for the city administration. these are the kinds of abuse that the hatch act has. successfully eliminated from the federal civil service. in any hierarchical situation. it is human nature that people will want to please their superiors. the bill would also allow federal employees. some with sensitive responsibilities such as law enforcement. tax collection. and the awarding of government contracts to become partisan political players. for example. under s. 135. federal employees could be officers in political parties. i do  believe the vast majority of taxpayers in my home state of rhode islanda very small state where people more or less k the public activities of many of their fellow citizenswould have much faith in the integrity of their government king that the internal revenue service agent auditing them is a top officer of a political party in opposition to the party with which they are affiliated. this is the kind of conflict of interest that would arise under s. 135. our goal in congress should be to permit as many people as possible to take in the political process. but we must keep in mind the need for a balance between that goal and the right of the public to trust and confidence. as well as impartial administration. in their government. finally. it is worth ing that just 1 day after the senate approved this legislation. which expands by 3 million the number of people who can collect money for their federal employee and postal union political action committees. many of which are already among the biggest pacs. we are debating a bill banning pacs. the latter is an idea i strongly support. i do  think we should be approving with one hand legislation that expands the ability of pacs to solicit money. while seeking to outlaw the very practice with the other hand.*
