. my amendment is simple in character. it would eliminate the requirement in the committee bill that onehalf of the federal contribution to community action fundingamounting to 10 percent of the total fundingbe made in cash rather than in kind. under the present law the local share may be "in cash. or in kind. fairly evaluated. including but  limited to plant. equipment. and services." the amendment i offer along with the gentleman from california would retain the present language of the statute. i need . i think. belabor here on the floor today the reason for this amendment. to put it bluntly. the imposition of a 10percent cash requirement will work a very seriousand in some cases a fatalhardship on many community action agencies throughout the country. as i indicated during the debate yesterday. many communities do  have the cash resources. and sadly. some do  have public officials willing to obligate new tax funds for these purposes. the community action concept has breathed new life into many urban. suburban. and rural areas which were stagnating in despair and hopelessness. let us  underestimate the value of contributions made in kind to the community action program. donated buses. classrooms. materials. food. and perhaps most important. countless hours of work by volunteers dedicated to the service of humanity have enriched the effectiveness of community action throughout the nation. the volunteers have. in many cases. made possible the existence of community action programs. and have contributed much toward improving the lot of the destitute and the disadvantaged and toward brightening their future. voluntary support of the community action program is basic to the spirit of ination. the cash requirement would seriously cripple this effort as the work of volunteers is credited as an inkind contribution. it would curtail much of the effective work of the ymcas. the church groups. religious organizations and other groups. i feel very strongly that we should remove this cash requirement and make it possible for the community action programs to continue and with full voluntary participation.
. i served with the gentleman from alabama on the foreign affairs committee. he is author of the battle act for the control of the eastwest trade. he has made magnificent contributions  only to the committee but to the policy of our whole nation and i think the nation owes him a debt of gratitude. i wish him god speed and the best in the days ahead.
i thank my colleague very much while we are on the problem of treasury consultation with the states on the treaty. i would like to remind my colleagues that the state taxing commission of california had made a very proper complaint to the treasury about a particular provision of the treaty in which it said it would  only protect against imposition through the misuse of the unitary tax system united kingdom corporations. but the protection would also be extended to u.s.-controlled companies which had affiliates in the united kingdom. the treasury recognized the propriety of that particular objection and. hence. negotiated a protocol. which is also before us. and which will be voted on this morning. and that protocol corrects the very objection made by the california taxing authority. . the california franchise board is still. as senator church of idaho has said. opposed. but i wish to point out that both for the substantive reasons senator hayakawa has set forth and because of the treasurys responsiveness to their complaint which resulted in an amendment to the treaty in a protocol arrived at by agreement in 1976 there was a real and reasonable effort. i think a goodfaith effort. to meet the views of california. and i think that is a very important argument in favor of the treaty. . govers generally. contrary to the impression sought to be created here. have expressed approval of the treaty. i have before me a letter from gover carey of new york. and i ask unanimous consent that it may be included in the record. it is dated june 16. 1978. and it is addressed to me. and it is as follows:
