i thank the distin- families needs. guished senator from illis -very americans are justifiably concerned much for letting me proceed briefly. about their future. and their chil-. the amendment is that of the distin- drens futures. they need their govguished senator from kentucky. ernment to act. they expect their govwhich would limit attorneys fees in eminent to act. they are entitled to connection with this legislation. the have their government confront these pending legislation we are dealing problems. with. i might say. i am very. very sym- government may be part of the pathetic with the efforts of the sena- problem. but government can also tor from kentucky. i think these at- lead the way to solutions. that is why torneys fees are excessive in many of we elect a president. that is why i am these cases. and indeed quite possibly in public service. government must in connection with this very case. meet this challenge. we must act. however. we are in a situation where one stepwe ought to be taking is to we have labored long and hard to enact the surface transportation bill. achieve this compromise. and the feel- our infrastructure badly needs ining is that to accept the mcconnell proving. and our ecoy desperately amendment at this time would be up- needs the stimulus this bill will prosetting to the progress of this legisla- vide. tion. i do  want to call it a deal we are  well past the 100 day maker. that seems too harsh a term. deadline the president challenged etheless. the compromise is an congress to meet. even worse. we are agreement with many parties: the ad-  29 days into the new fiscal year. mnt. t29 days into the first year of this bill. ministration. the democratic and re- yet the bill is  yet law. in fact. it publcan sides. and the leaders. has  even gone to conference. since this amendment is  accept- the reason the bill is  yet before able to both sides. despite my belief in the president is all too simple. the bill litigation reform. despite my belief is  moving because of holds placed that the senator from kentucky is on it by senators from the miity correct in this instance. in this par- side of the aisle. all senators are entiticular instance. and in his overall ap- tled to exercise their rights under the proach for the limitation of attorneys rules. however. the administration feesand i hope he will bring it up can have it both ways. mr. presiagain. and i hope we will have some dent. it can criticize the democratlitigation reform before this body ically controlled congress for failing before too longi regretfully will have to act when it is republican members to vote against the senator from ken- who are preventing action. tucky. but i hope he continues his ef- we need this bill. in my own state forts. of illis. enactment of this measure again. i thank the distinguished will bring over $525 million in highway senator from illis very much for construction and rehabilitation funds letting me proceed. this year for badly needed projects. it
