. that we gave some attention to our own past experience. in an effort to learn from our mistakes and to make future efforts more worth while. it is with this interest in mind that i want to bring to the attention of my colleagues the comments of robert e. culbertson. deputy assistant secretary of state for latin america. entitled "what we have learned in 20 years of technical assistance." among the several very.valid and insightful points which mr. culbertson makes about the process of development. and the role which we may play in that process. there is one to which i want to call special attention. it relates to a concept in which i have long had a deep interest. at the outset of this paper. mr. culbertson states: we have learned that development can be induced more effectively if we utilize an interdisciplinary approach to problem solutions. what mr. culbertson is suggesting is that we realize the importance of adopting a systems approach to the problems which our foreign aid program is trying to solve. certainly one of this countrys greatest resources is our technical capacity. we have developed many of the techniques of systems analysis for use in solving defense problems. and to a lesser extent for solving other public problems. one of the most perceptive observations made here is that the developing countries will meet with the greatest success in both ecoic and social growth when they approach their problems in the context of a systems approach which uses the expertise of all the several related disciplines involved. i k that mr. culbertsons observations will be of interest to all of us as we try to bring greater effectiveness to the entire foreign assistance program. and i insert his comments at this point in the record:
i would like to compliment the gentleman on the leadership he has given in this oatis matter. the gentleman may recall i did the same thing in the vogeler case. i have  heari the vogeler case mentioned today. it should be mentioned. what the vogeler case proved. and we might just as well learn from our experience. is that these communist sateliltes are susceptible to world opinion. the hungarians released vogeler because they got the reaction in the final analysis of world opinion. so in respect to this particular resolution. what we are trying to do is mobilize world opinion. and even more effectively because czechoslovakia is a member of the united nations and could be thrown out of the united nations. we are trying to put the ball squarely where it belongs. we are trying to charge the responsibility. hmong other remedies. to the united nations.
. the opposition to the foreign aid program is placing strong emphasis on weakness. waste. and errors in its administration. and in this way serves an important function which i think will result eventually in a stronger. more effective program. but while we focus on this emphasis. we should  mininiize or ige the substantial impact that the foreign aid program has on our domestic ecoy in terms of the jobs. the industry. and the business development here in the united states and to be developed as these newly developing nations become more developed. upstate new york has a very large stake in this program and generally in the development of american trade abroad. and the extent of the impact of this program on a particular upstate county has been the subject of a research project since last year. the project is being conducted by the maxwell graduate school of citizenship and public affairs of syracuse university. under a grant from the rockefeller foundation. and will be completed in june. the project is directed by gerard j. mangone. i ask unanimous consent to print in the record the interim report of the project. entitled "the department of state and onandaga county: american foreign policy at the grassroots." issued in march 1963.
. general services administrator robert l. kunzig has formed a national general services public advisory council for the purpose of creating more public involvement in the operations of gsa. the state of new york is ably represented on the council by mrs. carmel carrington marr. currently a member of the new york state human rights appeals board. mrs. marr is starting the second year of her 6year appointment by gover rockefeller to the human rights appeals board. she is a member of the new york state bar. but left private practice in 1953. when she was appointed to the u.s. mission to the united nations by ambassador henry cabot lodge. during her years of service with the u.s. mission. she was a member of the u.s. delegations to the general assembly. the security council. several sessions of the human rights commission. and other u.n. organs. mrs. marr received her b.a. cum laude from hunter college and her ll. b. from columbia university law school. she is a member of phi beta kappa and alpha chi alpha hoary fraternities. she is active in community affairs. the brooklyn society for prevention of cruelty to children. the board of visitors of the new york state training school for girls. and the govers committee on education and employment of women. administrator kunzig is fortunate to have obtained the services of this outstanding citizen.
. on sepu-.mber 23. 1971. the foreign relations committee met to hear the winners of an essay contest held by the united nations association of new york in the topic "what should be done  to make the united nations a more effective force for peace." the winner in the high school division was paul rosenberg of jamaica. n.y.. who attends the horace mann school in riverdale. bronx. n.y. he wrote a most interesting and enlightened essay on this vital subject. reflecting learning and originality. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of paul rosenbergs essay be printed in the record:
