. i ask that the baccalaurate address of a. bartlett glamatti be printed at this point in the record. the address is as follows: power. poirrcas and a sense op histort one of our most sensible commentators on education and society recently published a brief piece which was deeply disturbing for what it said. yet again. about americas confusion about ideas and power and the power of ideas in our national life. briefly. this commentator. dismayed because professor james coleman had authored a report holding "that private high schools seemed to provide a better education than public ones." went to considerable lengths to chide social scientists for having or wishing to have an impact on the course.and conduct of national life. thinking about society to splendid. it seemed to be said. as long as the thinkers remain uninvolved in public policy and its creation. "sociology gains in prestige and value when it keeps its distance from the political battles of the day" (new york times. may 11. 1981. the editorial ebook). presumably. politicians. who fight the battles of the day. fight them better when they do  have the benefit of thinking. why thoughtful people have chosen to join the gang on the crowded antisocial science bandwagon is a questimn i can answer. ate s 6138 . most disturbing to me is the idea that "if those who wield political power are to make use of sociological studies--and they shouldthe research should be neutral both in fact and appearance." i belleve our commentsinr wants research that is partisan. as 0o : if he wants. however. social science rtecarch that is encouraged to believe itself free of values and disconnected from the world it studies. then he wants soulless. "academic" theorizing that will be of use to anyone. to wish a world where ideas are "value free." freezedried commodities. and political power is necessarily unconnected with reflection or analysis about society. is to wish for more of what we have at a time when we need much less of it. our problem as a society is that we have fostered disconnectedness. we have created a false and falsifying separateness between social research and policy making. thinking and politics. ideas and power. at some point we became unmoored from that fundamental western concept of a society where the leader and the system he energizes were meant to blend thought and action. ideas with force and forceful ethical behavior. read platos statesman. where the leader fosters education and education furthers the weaving of the web of the state. meshing as in a tapestry the various types of citizens. read ciceros republic. where the state is a harmonious orchestra. blending like musical tones the various classes. a concord aided by an idea of justice. read these. and whatever you think of them. you will  find a vision of a state where ideas and power can be distinct. where the power of ideas could ever be unconnected to a forceful public good. i speak tdaay to you. whjose education has been for the purpose of directing ideas to a .life of leadership and service to others. whose education has been to urge you to see and feel and think about the connectedness among thitags and how that connectedness must be fostered so that civilization is sustained. in speaking to you. i take as my theme power and a sense of history in our public life. what concerns me most today is the way we have disconnected ideas from power in america and created for ourselves thoughtful citizens who disdain politics and politicians when more than ever we need to value politics and what politicians do: when more than ever we need to recognize that the. calling to public life is one of the highest callings a society can make. we need to recognize that if we do  summon and send forth from ourselves a few of the highest quality to lead. the many can hold to. gether in civility and dignity. if a society assumes its politicians are venal. stupid or selfserving. it will attract to its public life as an ongoing selffulfilling prophecy the greedy. the knavish and the dim. if. as i will argue later. a culture like ours has wrongly persuaded itself that power is really mere force. and the use of power in its public or private life simply the exercise. of force. then that culture will attract to leadership those who misunderstand power and who therefore can possibly use it correctly or well. how power is conceived in a society has the most to do with determining who is attracted to positions of power. a healthy society must never wish to have as its public servants people who only hunger to be in public life. who..thinking power is a natural force. believe they will become immortal if they can tap into its sheer. natural flow. the best way to avoid such people is to avoid such an idea of power. par better to think historically. to remember the lessons of the past. thus. far better to conceive of power as consisting in part of the kledge of when  to use all the power you have. par better to be one who ks that if you reserve the power  to use all your power. you will lead others far more successfully. and. well. for t restrain power is in elect to share it. to share power. is to give power to those who do  have it.. whoever ks how to restrain and effectively reease power finds. it he is skilled and good. that power flows back to him. power flows back to such a leader because from the sharing of power comes stability in a society. and stability is finally what - humankind aches for. a stability that is just and equitable and humane. on the other hand. those who think of power as simple force to be unleashed. force of personality. force of followers. force of might. force with historical roots and sense of consequence. invariably find that they exhaust their power. or are exhausted by it they find that they only call forth their opposites and that then society inevitably swings. sickeningly. back and forth among those thoughtless egh to consume power because they will  share. and thus replenish. it. under such leaders. the body politic suffers seizures but it never uchieves stability. one wins. this laymans view of how power in a democracy ought to be construed depends for its efficacy upon those who are attracted to public life. it requires those who are impelled by talent for connectedness rather than by ambition for aggrandized private pleasure. its efficacy depends upon politicians who view the act of governing  as the exercise of sheer pressure. but as the assertion of compelling principle. i believe that we have a number of such people serving at the local and national level. and that we do  appreciate them as we should. i also believe we ought to be connerned by the spectacle of so many experienced and able elected officials. at all levels. retiring from public service because they will longer put up with the casual unappreciation by the very people who elected them or with the gnawing of specialinterest groups or with the constant high whine emitted by the herds of lobbyists. finally. we must recognise that we have been so disdainful of or inattentive to our political system that it is increasingly difficult to find candidates who assume the need for any measure of professionalism as a prerequisite for public service. by professionalism in politics i mean that one should serve an apprenticeship. in how to serve. that women and men be encouraged and trained in how to be responsive in a democracy as well as responsible for democratic values. increasingly we elect. on the basis of powerful advertising campaigns. people who do  k how to do anything for anybody. whether it is having a street light installed or protecting a citizen against loss of liberty. increasingly we elect people who are governed by their staffs. whom one elected. by professionalism. i mean we must find people who k how and when to subordinate personal obsession to the wishes or will of those they represent. wishes or will those politicians comprehend by returning to where they came from to talk to the people.  by counting editorials or by reading polls. people with professionalism believe politics is an ancient art.  a necessary trial in the world for secular saints  a new game to be played after the rigors of making money are over. professionalism in public life would never assume that you educate the citizenry to its needs by asserting over and over again that government is best done by dismantling the structures and purposes of government. while it pleases some to repeat that pollties is the art of the possible. i prefer to think that politicians must have the capacity for the impossiblefor king in which direction their moral compass points and for being supple egh to persuade others of the moral rightness of the course they have set. they must be those who have a clear sense of how complex life is and be june .11. 1981 willing to make choices they van then. convince other thinking people are the correct decisions. we are aflicted . and have been for some time. with solo operators for whom hing is complex. because hing is connected to anything else. -who believe the function of government is to impose moralistic schemes rather than to forge complex consensuses. and who treat government as an impediment to mandating purity rather than as a means of connecting. and negotiating among. legitimate needs and achieving a practical. equitable balance. i am disheartened that for at least a decade we have been told by our shepherds that government or the other shepherds are the "enemy." government is  the enemy. and neither are the people who elect governmonts. if we elect those who play on the forces that divide us. who play to our fears. we court a tradegy we may  be able to contain. and it we continue to elect those who denigrate what they pursue. who insist they are outsiders as they claw* their way to the inside. we ought to ask if it is in our common interest to buy any more snake oil. z r. where did it all start in our culture. this worship of power as force. this contempt for restraining or complex connections. and the consequent devaluation of political life. i am  really sure but i choose to speculate it -began in the middle of the last century. as america was collapsing into and struggling out of the ruins of the civil war. i think it began with those who were positioned to bypass the founders and to summon up the original strength of puritan america and to hurl that strength. naked. squalling as if newborn. into the gathering darkness. i believe it began with prophets of the secular religion that was the new ameriea. like emerson. in 1860. emerson published his essay "power" in the conduct of life. in the dark pages of that powerful meditation on power. on the eve of the war. emerson amply reflects a view of politics and politicians that is disdainful of the hurlyburly. the compromising and the dirtiness of it all. but emerson makes it clear that he does  share those fastidious views. those views. he says. are only held by the "timid man". by the "churchmen and men of refinement." implicitly effete and bookish. emerson was  for them. he was for the man who is strong. healthy. unfettered. the man who ks that hing is got for hing and who will stop at hing to put himself in touch with events and their force. he is willing to say. because he believes it. that "society is a troop of thinkers. and the best heads among them take the best places." but the metaphor of the mounted squadron. with the best jostling to the fore. means that this is a special kind of thinker. he is. as the immediately preceding sentence says. one who ks "there is always room for a man of force. and he makes room for many." the "thinkers" emerson really admires are those with "coarse eniergy.-the bruisers. who have run the gauntlet of caucus and tavern through the county or the state.-" the politicians who despite their vices have "the goodnature of strength and courage." and what do the political bruisers k. they k what emerson ks: the key to all ages isimbecility. imbecility in the vast majority of men at all times. and even in heroes in all but certain eminent moments. victims of gravity. custom. and fear. this gives force to the strong.-that the multitude have habit of selfreliance or original action. with extraordinary literary skills at a cm* cial moment in our nations life. it is emerson who freed our politics and our politiolans from any sense of restraint by extolling selfgenerated. unaffiliated power as the best foot to place in the small of the back of the man in front of you and who promoted shoving as. the highest calling abolitionist. moral new england could conceive. emerson was a potent figure in his time. and his influence in our culture to powerful to this day.. you do  have to rord the prophet to realize his ideas are all around us. strangely egh. he lives in the popular imagination as the lover of nature. a sweet. sentimental. yankee kahl gibran. in fact. emerson is as sweet as barbed wire. and his sentimentality as accommodating as a brick. there might have been lasting harm in all this. lasting harm in his hymns to the strong and to a strength deriving from a frenzied harmony with the higher laws of nature. great harm. though egh. from his wishing for a politics where energy. will and ferocious concentration were the royal roads to success. real danger from his worship of "selfreliance and original action." except that. like all implacable saviors. emerson knew where his people were most insecure and where he could best make his balm as indispensible as blood. his everlasting harm comes because he knew americans would forever feel themselves colonists and thus forever feel themselves derived. or secondhand. and so his greatest contribution to our culture. and greatest disservice. lies in the assurances with which in subtle and obvious ways he justified jettisoning history. emerson found in our independent character. xehobia. and he made it into a gospel. he managed to persuade generations that custom was a crutch.  a means of continuity. he assured everyman that he was his own pure source. and that every native &train in his character was a link with higher nature. he wished to sever america from europe. and american culture and scholarship and politics from whatever humankind had fashioned before. and he thought he had done something good. the result is that he infected american culture with a scorn of the past. the result is he encouraged america to shake loose from any constraint on our strength and then to call the resulting power miraculous because. it had moorings. thus. to emerson i believe we owe our worship of a politics which wishes for originality in all things: for a society in its origins pure. for solutions that are wondrously complete. for politicians whose sheer unthinking vigor will cleanse us forever. to emerson we owe that spirit of puritan america that has survived to today. the amug. abstract moralism that is distrustful of any accommodation. that is always certain of its righteousness because it is merely selfregarding. that is scornful of any flexibility of spirit because it has never looked over its shoulder. emerson and those who followed him itcensed that unstable strain in us that would have us begin all over again every morning. every morning to discover evil again in order every morning to focus the will in order to shove our way to ntime. that naive energy that legimizes those gusts of moralistic frenzy masquerading as high principle that periodically selse us by the throat and that. while (lways comfortable with talgia. are ne ar truly attentive to history. emerson licensed our violent swings from extreme to extreme by insisting that whatever willful impulse sat in the throne of the heart. holds legitimate away..in aher creed. his selfreliance would be the sin of pride. rootless save for immersion in the rich soil of the endlessly admiring self. glowing with animal energy. completely devoid of any sense of our common past. a new techrat of force. emersons figure of power formed more thin the nineteenth and much of the twentieth centuries view of the politician. it formed what became an acceptable public personality. and that view of power and its uses i still with ub: and it still calls forth reactions to itself as utreme as it is. that is why i lay at emersons cottage door the encouragement to instability that is one of americas real afflictions. emersons- views are those of a brazen adolescent and we ought to be rid of them. the maturing of america will occur. when we have absorbed.  rejected. our past. our past as various peoples irom diverse cultures.  simply as entrepreneurs of the soul. we will mature fully when we require sense of history in those who lead up and reject those originals who believe. in whatever walk of life. that each of us is created afresh solely for the purpose of baying at every new. pure moon. the maturing of our pol itics. which is to say the fashioning of our national life as a work of art. will come when stability of society.  originality of action. is our goal. to assume that civility.  success in forcing new purities. is the proper end of politics will begin to rid this country of the extraordinary savagery of spirit that is  abroad: the resentment at the advancement of others. the bitterness that begrudges everyone else everything. the increasing and deeply dangerous polarization of the races. the pustular eruptions of sexism. racism and of antisemitism whose stench  fills the air. these are all signs that some  feel licensed to shove again the less numerous. the weaker. the new. the exotic. the foreign. i smell that spirit in the air and read it in the papers. i see it in the mail i get. i read it spray painted on walls. i hear it in the jokes people tell. and it is imperative that all of us condemn and exorcise that spirit. we must civilly but absolutely clearly reject a spirit that instinctively turns to boycott. instead of tough. reasoned debate. to express its disagreement. we must publicly reject the movement that once again cries to ban books in libraries. we must insist on law.  on rule by decree. we must insist that the principles of the constitution be applied through the courts and resist the desire that the constitution be endlessly amended. we must never lose sight of the need for a balanced. pluralistic society. where ideas compete and principles are adjudged by legislative processes and judicial forums. if the day is won by the neopuritans through those means. so be it. but those who simply. arrogantly assert that their morality is in the majority should  expect others who simply do  believeit to stand mute. a civil society can be abattered by the kind of coercion that  seeks to become commonplace. these tensions and many others are the stuff of our local and national public life. and these tensions must be managed by our politicians and by the rest of us. we should ho those who are willing to confront these tensions and we must insist that they and we do  acquiesce to their divisive force. we must encourage a regard for those who manage our public needs and desires and if we do  find that regard justified. then we must find and encourage those in whom we can believe and who are worthy of our trust. we must insist that the goal of our politics is  punishment of some group or tendency. but healing. a healing of the wounds that the world will always inflict on us all. we must remember and insist that our leaders k that exclusion was never the purpose of our countrys dream. we must remember america was  founded to create exiles. ladies and gentlemen of the class of 1981: americas founders intended that we manage. by an act of the will. competing as well as complementary freedoms. in the interests of forging a civil state and a free. generous people. that is  impossibly high idealism and we can let our public life fall to disconnected fragments by scorning its call. or by iging its imperatives. high idealism is americas most practical and durable product. our best native handicraft. those who founded this republio knew that and it is the obligation of our political leaders and of the rest of us who elect them to remember it too. it is our obligation to remember that the promise of our history lives in each of uvs a sacred trust. what a grand and precious gift. that legacy of competing freedoms all urging us to liberality of spirit and a decent public order. women and men of yale. as you lead. let that high idealism which is americas essence lead you.e
