. the distinguished and highly respected chairman of the board of govers of the federal reserve board. dr. arthur burns. made a highly significant speech before the 1972 international banking conference in montreal. canada. on may 12. dr. burns words reveal clearly the purpose of this major addressnamely. to get the negotiations on the reform of the international monetary system underway on an urgent basis. dr. burns concluded his speech by stating: indeed. i feel it is an urgent necessity to start the rebuilding process quite promptly. it is  pleasant to contemplate the kind of world that may evolve if cooperative efforts to rebuild the monetary system are long postponed. we might then find the world ecoy divided into restrictive and inwardlooking blocs. with rules of international conduct concerning exchange rates and monetary reserves altogether absent. as we learned last fall. a world of financial manipulations. ecoic restrictions. and political frictions bears promise for the future. it is the responsibility of financial leaders to make sure that such a world will never come to pass. dr. burns clearly is  setting up a strawman. negotiations regarding the reform of the international monetary system are increasingly urgent. as a recent report of first national city bank of new york makes clear. exchange controls are proliferating throughout the world in response to continuing monetary uncertainty and the continuing u.s. international deficit position which is likely to worsen over the short term because of events in vietnam. i ask unanimous consent that the first national city banks listing of these proliferating foreign exchange controls be printed at this point in the record.
. i introduce today the domestic enterprise bank act to establish a corporation patterned after the world bank authorized to first. make and participate in longterm. lowinterest loans and guarantees and to second. provide supportive technical assistance. in order to stimulate employment opportunities in depressed urban and rural areas and to. third. promote the ecoic survival and preservation of jobs in those businesses substantially harmed by increases in foreign imports or techogical obsolescence.
i should like  to spend a few minutes dealing with the situation of the developing countries and the precariousness of their financial problems due to the magnitude of their borrowing from the commercial banks. especially from those in the united states. while it is true that in the short run. these countries have been able to borrow internationally to meet their payments shortfalls. such borrowing can continue indefinitely. the magnitude of the potential problem is especially alarming when one looks at the debt figures. the outstanding external debt of these countries to both private and public entities in the industrialized countries. while only $83 billion in 1973. stood at over $170 billion by the end of 1976 and has been estimated at nearly $200 billion at the end of 1977. while it is true that until  there have  been any major defaults. continuing developments in such countries as peru. portugal. turkey. and zaire are daily reminders of the precariousness of the situation. commercial banks have played an important role in providing the developing countries with capital. accounting for more than $65 billion in lending to the developing countries since 1973. the fragile nature of the lending of the commercial banks was recently highlighted in the survey of foreign lending by large u.s. banks jointly undertaken by the federal reserve. the comptroller of the currency and the federal deposit insurance corporation. ninetyseven percent of the over $40 billion of the debt of the oil developing countries to the u.s. banks as of june 30. 1977. was  guaranteed. thus. the commercial banks are highly exposedbut adequate capital protects them from being endangeredwith respect to their lending to the developing countries. a condition which will make the banks increasingly conservative about future lending to many countries. yet. the opec oil deposits of developing countries continue to require such intermediation by banks. the private financial markets provided approximately 75 percent or $170 billion of the total $225 billion deficits financed worldwide. including those of the developed countries. in the 197476 period. of which. as i have already indicated. more than $65 billion was incurred by the developing countries. it is expected by administration planners that the commercial banks will provide approximately 60 to 65 percent of an estimated $300 to $350 billion needed to finance the projected deficits likely to be accumulated by oilimporting countries over the next 5 years. developing countries. under the best of circumstances with real increase in the price of oil over the next 5 years. are expected to account for approximately $125 billion of the additional debt. aher fragile element in the system of financing arrangements that has been developed is in the shortterm structure of the opec deposits and the longer term nature of the credits that the banks extend to the deficit countries. the dependence of the banking system on the goodwill of a small group of depositors makes the banks "hostage" to the threat of sudden withdrawals. while in the aggregate the developing countries may well have adequate funds available. we are already witnessing a growing reluctance on the part of the commercial banks. which have until  been the primary vehicle for the financing of the payments imbalances of the developing countries. to continue to finance these deficits at the same level75 percent of total financingas in 197477 period. as forecast by the administration. the banks are quickly coming up against selfimposed or regulatory agency imposed limitations on their exposure in certain countries. we can therefore expect to see soonif  necessarily right awaysevere dislocations as countries scurry around for capital only to find that their internal ecoic policies are judged insufficient for more external capital. we must provide the developing countries with an alternative to the deflationary policies designed to reduce imports which might rectify their balanceofpayments problems and hence make them again creditworthy. but which will create severe political dislocations as real ecoic growth is sacrificed. in addition. stabilization plans designed to cut imports will hurt exports from the developed countries while developing country export stimulation. unless coordinated with structural adjustment in the developed countries. will quickly lead to protectionist demands among the latter. to avoid these dangers. it is imperative that substantially higher levels of carefully targeted capital flows be directed to the developing opec world. in stressing the need to target the use of these funds. i k that i may well be accused of being "paternalistic" or "neocolonialistic" in my approach. to this i say that it is time that we seek to help the developing countries that show they wish to help themselves. we must develop a joint approach to their debt and development problems which recognizes the close interrelationship between our ecoies. solutions to their developmental problems can be made in a vacuum oblivious to the play of ecoic forces in the developed world. thus. structural adjustment is needed in the developed countries. because continued protection of inefficient industries will stifle any hope that we may have to generate real growth in the export earnings of the developing countries. which is the indispensable base for a sustained use by them of foreign credits and the broadening of their internal markets. just as we demand major changes from the industrialized countries so too must we demand changes in the ecoic systems of the developing countries. in exchange for a closer working relationship with the developed countries as well as a much improved political and ecoic climate for foreign investment. we must be prepared to provide increased capital to the oil developing world. bilaterally we must maintain and increase all forms of our aid programs. international lending. direct private investment and bond financing. bilateral u.s. programs in the developing countries must seek to help the neediest segments of the population. while u.s. efforts through the multilateral programs must seek to insure that other avenues of ecoic development. such as infrastructure programs. are supported. the delivery of the u.s. aid programs is also in need of serious improvement. this is among the primary objectives of the international development cooperation act of 1978. which i have cosponsored. in restructuring and reorganizing the ecoic development activities of the u.s. government. the act will provide an overall coherence and unity to our efforts on behalf of the developing countries. multilaterally. we must provide the international financial institutions with the means and authority to play a much greater role in making the transfer of resources and techogy more efficient. we must begin to understand the tremendous stake which we have in terms of the value of our dollar and of our own prosperity in seeing that these international financial agencies are able to do their appointed jobs effectively. it is very clear that the management of both the ibrd and the international monetary fund are hardheaded and conservative. and are  involved in giveaway operations. the world bank. with its insistence on the viability of individual projectsits refusal to give budgetary supportis a sound. effective. and dependable multilateral development agency. similarly the international monetary fund. with its insistence upon conditionality. has  materially dealt with the problems of such nations as the united kingdom and italy. and has demonstrated that it. too. can be entrusted to maintain a stabilizing influence in the system. without which i have very. very deep concerns about what could happen in the very near term to the world ecoy. it is imperative that the congress immediately act upon the administrations request for authority to contribute $1.7 billion to the recently created "witteveen facility" of the international monetary fund. that we have  yet acted on so mi a facility as "witteveen."  is a great mistake on our part. with its additional $10 billion in available credit. this emergency capital pool will expand the imfs ability to meet the challenges posed by the present massive deficits. i regret only that the size of the facility could  have been the $16 billion mr. witteveen had originally asked for. i believe. therefore. that further increases in imf quotes are needed to expand more substantially the capital available to the imf for balance of payments financing and to insure that the international ecoic system will  break down under the strain of continued large deficits. total quotas will stand at $45 billion when the expansion agreed to in the 1976 jamaica agreement goes into effect early this year. a further increase of aher $25-$30 billion should be seriously considered. although the creation of the "witteveen facility" may have reduced the immediate need for the oecd financial support fund. the socalled safety net proposal first made by secretary kissinger in 1974. i continue to believe that its importance has  diminished. this is evidenced by the ecoic and monetary problems of a number of developed countries in western europe. latin america. and asia. by supplementing resources available through the imf. the safety net would provide emergency sources of credit for oecd countries encountering serious balanceofpayments difficulties.
