. on my recent trip to asia i had the opportunity to spend several days in japan. while there. i was impressed by the vitality of that nation while at the same time intrigued by its multitude of contradictions. today. in the new york times. richard halloran has described japan as both "selfconfident and unsure." his excellent article cogently describes the contradictory nature of japanese society. mr. halloran outlines several fascinating characteristics of that country and its involvement in the world: japanese per capita income is fast approaching that of the united states. the average japanese can afford almost all the luxuries enjoyed by his counterpart in america. on the other hand. housing in japan is insufficient "in extremes" for almost everyone. japan is an industrial giant yet its port facilities are woefully inadequate. japans railroads are some of the most modern in the world. yet there is great dissatisfaction among their users because of crowded conditions on them. the work week for the average japanese is becoming shorter but there is little space for adequate recreation facilities to allow beneficial use of increased leisure time. japan has great political and social cohesion. yet experiences continuing incidences of political chaos and violence. internationally. japan is recognized as an ecoic giant and one of the principal actors in the international system. yet she has been unwilling to assume a high diplomatic profile in the world. these aspects of its society and politics illustrate the complex nature of the japanese nation and the position it finds itself in at present. few can argue against the crucial importance of u.s. relations with japan. however. i am deeply troubled by the apparent lack of understanding that a viable relationship can be maintained with japan only if we understand and adjust to the complex nature of japanese society. i speak here of apparent administration disinterest evidenced by cutbacks in funding requests. for the various asian study programs around the united states that have contributed so much to our understanding.  only of japan but of the far east in general. it is crucially important that these programs continue if we are to have a sophisticated source of information on the rapidly changing conditions in that part of the world. i ask unanimous consent that the article by mr. richard halloran. entitled "japan at once selfconfident and unsure as nixon and tanaka go into talks." be printed in the record.
the davisbacon act was extended to those programs because it has fulfilled the purposes for which it was created and proven of immeasurable value to construction contractors. contracting agencies. and the american workingman. as an example. the davisbacon act of 1935. as amended. which is the basic prevailingwage law. covers direct federal construction. alteration. or repair of public buildings or public works. including painting and decorating. where the contract is more than $2.000. it also applies to the initial construction by the states of the interstate system of highways authorized by section 108 of the federalaid highway act of 1956. it includes the construction of projects such as federal buildings. air fields and bases. dams. powerhouses. drainage and irrigation canals. dredging of rivers and harbors. post offices. including post offices and public buildings constructed pursuant to leasepurchase agreements. army. navy. and air force installations. veterans hospitals. roads constructed by the federal government alone. such as those in national parks. roads constructed as a part of the interstate system of highways. and so forth. it applies to all agencies of the federal government and the district of columbia which directly make construction contracts. examples are the department of defense. including the army. navy. and air force. the general services administration. in connection with public buildings. the department of the interior in connection with reclamation and forestry. the atomic energy commission. the department of agriculture. the department of commerce. as related to civil aeronautics administration. the bureau of public roads. both with respect to direct contracts and stateawarded highway contracts on the interstate system. and the veterans administration. the act provides for withholding money from the contractor to pay workers who have  been paid the required wages. and gives the comptroller general the authority to pay out the money for back wages. to obtain payment of unpaid wages from the money withheld. the employee must file a claim with the comptroller general. if egh money has  been withheld to cover all underpayments to laborers or mechanics. a worker who does  receive all that is due him has the right to sue the contractor and the sureties on his bond. it is defense for the contractor that the worker has accepted or agreed to accept wages at rates less than the rates determined by the secretary. or has refunded any of the wages voluntarily. these provisions apply to the united states housing act of 1937. as amended. and the housing act of 1949. as amended. they cover slum clearance. urban renewal. and lowrent public housing. construction contracts are awarded by local authorities on projects financed with the assistance of loans and grants from the federal government. laborers and mechanics employed in any part of the development of these projects must be paid  less than the wage rates determined by the secretary of labor. these provisions apply to the urban renewal administration. in connection with slum clearance and urban renewal. and the public housing administration of the housing and home finance agency. in connection with lowrent public housing. the prevailingwage provisions of the law cover housing for defense workers or for military personnel. and also cover community facilities. such as sewers. water lines. streets. and other facilities in defense areas. outside military installations. these provisions apply under the national housing act. as amended. to certain types of housing construction when the mortgage loans are insured by the federal housing administration. they apply to programs under the school survey and construction act. as amended. the hospital survey and construction act. as amended. the federal airport act. as amended. and the leasepurchase act of 1954.
