. on the eve of the passover holiday. i received reports that soviet officials were preventing jews in the soviet union from obtaining matzoth by impounding 2.000 10pound packages paid for and sent with full import clearances by americans in new york. philadelphia. chicago. and los angeles to friends and relatives in the soviet union. it is hard to believe that in this decade. a major world power such as the soviet union would stoop to this kind of petty but cruel and repressive official harassment of a helpless miity. at my request. our embassy in moscow tried promptly but without success to obtain the release of these packages in time for the holiday. according to the report i received. the spokesman of the soviet ministry of foreign affairs denied that there was any problem regarding matzoth. asserted that sufficient matzoth had been prepared in the soviet union for the use of jews. and that the agitation over this supply was inspired by people outside the soviet union in order to embarrass it. he said that packages from individuals to individuals would be delivered. but those sent by organizations would be returned. he emphasized that in any case this was an internal matter and that the soviet ministry of foreign affairs was surprised that the united states would inquire. on this point. i am proud to say there is ample historical precedent for the action by our embassy. for more than a century the united states has repeatedly protested the persecution of oppressed miities by foreign governments and justified these protests in the name of humanity. since 1840. the united states has done so alone and also in concert with other nations against actions by the ottoman empire. rumania. the austrohungarian empire. the russian tsarist government and the nazi government. we have  been silent in the face of persecution. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the cablegram sent march 25 to premier khrushchev by the american conference on soviet jewry protesting the impounding of matzoth packages. and the report i received from the department of state. dated march 31.
