. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the town board of the town of geddes. n.y.. requesting the congress to continue the income from municipal bonds under a taxexempt status.
i will take 3 minutes. if that is agreeable. to speak in opposition to the amendment. the reason i oppose the amendment is that i believe the provisions with respect to labor are in balance . so far as senators like myself are concerned. i should like to state my understanding of the situation and why i believe the amendment will complicate it rather than improve it. my understanding of the amendment is that the secretary of labor. under the bill. can supersede state law. if state law makes it impossible for the employees of municipal transit systems to bargain collectively. then it makes it impossible. there is hing in the bill that can override it. indeed. i doubt that the constitution will permit it. and i doubt that it can be done under any phase of the tafthartley law. however. what it does. by  mentioning the proposition. is to enable the secretary of labor and the housing administrator. to go into a state where a righttowork law or some other law deprives the municipal employeesthat is. employees of the transit systemof collective bargaining rights. perhaps because the administrator has money to give out. some states may be induced to make some accommodation on. that score by the necessary exemption from the law or any interstate compact entered into with other states. therefore. we have a balanced scheme. we do  override the law. at the same time. we do  compel the federal government to go in where the law is adverse to the interest of labor and labors own point of view. and perhaps also even give encouragement to exempt a situation of this kind where the state desires to get this type of federal help. i think that is giving something on both sides. while at the same time  giving the administrator instructions. the result was anncedyeas 36. which is what the amendment would do. nays 52. as follows: that he must go into such states. - [ 29 leg.] withstanding the fact that the municipal yeas-.1 transit system workers might be deprived allot alot holland pearson of collective bargaining rights. bennett hruska prouty therefore. i believe the amendment carlson johnston russell should be rejected. cotton jordon. idaho saltonstall curtis lausche simpson
. the present turbulent political situation in south vietnam makes it incumbent upon us to discuss once again u.s. policy in vietnam and the extent of our commitments there. the people of the united states must be prepared for the hard choices and decisions which may be required of us as a result of the existing political uncertainty. our own purpose should remain unaltered. side by side with the arvn forces of south vietnam. u.s. troops are waging a struggle for high but limited objectives with the necessary but limited military means. we are seeking a negotiated settlement to preserve freedom of choice for vietnam. our gcals are threefold: first. pacification of the important and populous areas. second. ecoic and social development of the vietnamese people. and. third. the holding of free elections in order to enable the vietnamese to determine their own governmental future. should the government of premier ky remain in office. or should aher government with the same plans for vietnam assume power and responsibility. the united states can continue to play its part in vietnam. should. however. a government come into office which is dissatisfied with our help. or with the presence of our forces in the country. or which is unable to continue the south vietnamese share of the military burden. then we will have to decide whether to first. persist etheless and virtually take over the governmental operations in south vietnam. second. withdraw our troops from the asian mainland. or. third. redeploy our forces to aher asian location. if we are so forced to reappraise our position. i urge that we do so in light of our basic policy to datethat is. we are in vietnam because the actual government and people of that country wish to wage a struggle for their independence and freedom and they desire our help. in event should the struggle there be a struggle carried on by us without south vietnam. for it is at their behest that we are helping to defend them. it must be said at onceand i pay tribute to themthat the arvn forces are carrying a heavy burden in the conflict. indeed. their casualties are six times our own. grievous as are our own. just as i oppose carrying on the effort in vietnam by ourselves. i also reject complete withdrawal from the asian mainland. there are still a number of nations in that area which need and desire our help. the chinese communists still vow tc persist in their socalled wars of aggression which they call wars of national liberation. should conditions force us to leave south vietnam. i believe that our best choice is to redeploy our troops to aher asian country. it is my view that our forces should  be broken up. but should be kept together as an effective unit and redeployed where they can be available to counter any new aggressive move by communist china. thern thailand is so threatened. and should the government of thailand request such assistance. i believe that at least some of our troops ought to be restationed there. one question must be asked: "what would be the effect if we have to do so.  out of choice. of u.s. withdrawal from south vietnam on our other international commitments." i believe that the united states will already have amply justified by what we have done to this point in south vietnamthat we are prepared to back our commitments elsewhere. one could have any right to doubt that we are ready. withstanding the difficulties in money and manpower. to support the cause of freedom. every free nation in asia and elsewhere in the developing world already has been heartened by our determination. in these efforts. however. we can guarantee success. we can only guarantee the effort itself. it would have been. and would be. disastrous voluntarily to pull out of vietnam. but it is disgrace if conditions make our continuance there unwelcome or untenable. yesterday. i uttered these same thoughts in a series of speeches in the th country of my own state. and as i have ed that other senators spoke yesterday. i desire to add my voice to theirs in this. the national record.
there are nine very distinguished business leaders. eight very distinguished labor leaders. and 10 very distinguished public members. including the mayor of nashville. the master of the national grange. and the president of the university of chicago. it is a very distinguished group indeed. then there are the governmental members. who serve more or less ex officio. including the principal members of the cabinet having to do with ecoic matters. led by secretary connally. so we certainly would  be putting our trust in some sketchy outfit that is just getting organized. but really. this thing has simply been neglected.  ks what is going on in this field. a field which is more critical to him than anything else in this country. other than the security of the nation. i hope very much that we will give them the proper job and that this amendment will be adopted. because the administration needs it. and they need to k that if they are  thinking about it. we are.
