. i would point out that i have checked recently with the mayor of new york. john lindsay. he feels that the bill in its present form is one that should be supported. if he were on the floor here tonight. i believe he would oppose this amendment. it is further the case that the board of estimate has approved this. and while new york city has some financial difficulties. i do  think this whole question should be tied to the future of the u.n. i say the future of the u.n. in all seriousness. because although some members here may  be aware of it. there have been efforts from time to time to move the united nations from new york. there has been very real concern expressed from time to time over whether the u.n. should stay in the united states. as a practical matter. the secretary of state. mr. rogers. asked the congress to act on this question last february. this is aher instance of the congress and the united states being somewhat slow to act in a matter that is vital to the future of the u.n. i would say to those here tonight who are disposed to support the amendment here before uswhich i opposei am sure the gentlemen are sincere in trying to get a better allocation for new york city. but what. in fact. they are doing is risking the future of the u.n. in the united states. if there is a delay on this action beyond what we have had. there is a danger that the united nations at some point could leave these united states. i think on its merits and on the basis of the position of the mayor and the position of the u.s. government. we should defeat this amendment and support the bill.
this amendment is simple. i believe. it is directed to insuring that there are programs through which the united states provides funds to any nation which encompasses as a program. the assassination or torture. or programs which violate the standards set forth in the geneva conventions. more explicitly. my amendment would require that u.s. funds would be furnished to programs which are characterized by a pattern of assassination or torture or other violations of the geneva conventions. to which the united states is a signatory. it would cut off assistance only to those programs of a nation which were characterized by such abuses. but would  deny funds to worthy programs being carried out by that nation. this amendment is prompted primarily by the outrageous abuses which have taken place under the phoenix program in south vietnam. . let me explain the phoenix program in more detail. the phoenix program is a program of the gvn. heavily supported by the united states. whose stated purpose is to "eliminate" or "neutralize" the vietcong infrastructurevci. such "neutralization" or "elimination" is accomplished in any one of three ways: rallying. that is. inducing the vci to surrender or come over to the government side voluntarilycapture and sentencing. or killing. in testimony before the house subcommittee on foreign operations and government information last month. ambassador william colby. former director of cords. the agency in vietnam which administers u.s. support to phoenix. stated that since the beginning of 1968 until may 1971. a total of 20.587 persons have been killed under the phoenix program. in the same period. 28.978 have been captured. the vci are officially defined as the "leadership apparatus" of the vietcong insurgency. they are nearly all civilians. including many women. members of vc village. district. and province committees. for example. are classified as vci. in most cases they do  qualify for "prisoners of war" status when captured. thus phoenix is aimed  at the elimination of armed combatants. but at the elimination of unarmed. combatant civilians. by analogy. if the union had had a phoenix program during our civil war. its targets would have been civilians like jefferson davis or the mayor of macon. ga. the abuses and inhumaneness perpetrated by the phoenix program make it imperative that we cease to support it at once and do everything in our power to have the gvn stop the program dead in its tracks. under phoenix. civilians identified as vci have been assassinated without any semblence of judicial process. ambassador colby has ackledged this. although he states that the united states is endeavoring to prevent its recurrence. persons detained under the phoenix program can be incarcerated for up to 2 years without trial under a south vietnamese law kn as the an tri law. again without any semblence of due process. ambassador colby admitted that under this law a phoenix detainee could be jailed without a trial. without right to counsel. and without adequate protection of his rights "under our concept of due process." torture of detainees during interrogation is aher hallmark of the phoenix program. specific instances of torture have been described under oath by witnesses before the subcommittee. theodore jacqueney. a former aid official in vietnam testified: in every province in vietnam there is a province interrogation center--a "pic"with a reputation for using torture to interrogate people accused of viet cong affiliations. these pics have a cia counterpart relationship. and in some cases also have a relationship with the aid police advisor. mr. jacqueney went on to describe an instance of torture. kn as the "rock and roll." of which he had kledge. reports of such torture have come from others as well. and they simply can be iged or downplayed. at least as shocking as the assassinations. torture. and drumhead incarceration of civilians under the phoenix program is the fact that in many cases the intelligence is so bad that inent people are made victims. yesterday two former military intelligence personnel in vietnam. michael uhl and barton osborne. testified that virtually all information identifying an individual as a vci is unverifiable and frequently completely unreliable. both described motives of financial gain. and sometimes pure personal vindictiveness. as factors causing vietnamese intelligence agents to give information about an individual. ambassador colby admitted this problem. in response to the question. "are you certain that we k a member of the vci from a loyal member of the south vietnam citizenry." mr. colby stated: .... i am . who ks how many inent people have been assassinated or tortured in the name of the phoenix program.  only phoenix. but any program or activity conducted by a foreign nation which involves assassination. torture. or other mistreatment of civilians. or which violates the standards of the geneva conventions. should  receive the support of the united states. i have described phoenix as an egregious example. wherever other examples may exist. they too must be cut off from u.s. support. we can hold our heads high as a nation if we continue to condone and support programs such as this.
. i am voting for this appropriation because i can leave our american troops in the lurch without proper protection on a foreign shore. but it must be pointed out that it was a great mistake to have put them and us in this position. the biography of general ridgway. in discussing the filling of the vacuum in indochina when the french pulled out in 1954. shows that we could only be involved in a stalemate at great loss to the united states in lives and money. we should  have been put in our present position. we should  have been involved in an escalation. we should  have waited so long to bring the question to the united nations. when the administration states that it seeks blind escalation. we must question whether it has  already done so and left us in the lurch. an article by murray kempton in the new york worldtelegram and sun on friday. february 25. 1966 entitled. "clear sighted escalation" well describes the situation into which we have been led. i should like to insert mr. kemptons article in the record at this point. the only course left to us to pursue. as my predecessor.  mayor lindsay. has said. is hard diplomacy to seek peace.
i wish to associate myself with what the senator has said about the agreement with turkey. i highly commend president nixon and the secretary of state for fulfilling a major american foreign policy goal by negotiating with turkey. a major- and traditional source of opium. a ban on its opium poppy growing fields after 1972. the turkish people and their government are also to be highly recommended. this has particular significance to ndw york where the heroin epidemc--which has hooked more than 100.000 addicts and has become the leading cause of death of persons between 16 and 35ravages our people. filling the streets with terror and the homes with despair. this diplomatic accomplishment by president nixon is a great step forward. and very much in keeping with my senatepassed amendment  151 to the military selective service act. which i introduced with senator hughes to seek to halt illicit drug traffic. i hope the amendment will survive the conference. when i introduced the amendment. i expressed my confidence that international means can be devised to control illegal drug traffic. the ban negotiated by president nixon and turkish premier nihat erim demonstrates that vigorous diplomacy can achieve results. however. the american people must understand this achievement does . in and of itself. mean we have come close to completely closing off the source of illegal opium production. the worlds illicit production of opium is an estimated 1.250 to 1.400 tons annually. and although turkey is  the source of 80 percent of the heroin smuggled into the united states. it only is estimated to have produced 100 illegal tons. in the ans land of the triangle composed of burma. thailand. and laos. there was an estimated 700 to 750 tons illegally producedmore than onehalf of the worlds illicit output. unfortunately. as we are all too well aware. this newly expanded source has been readily available to our soldiers in vietnam. therefore. although we may have successfully dammed up -the supply from turkey. we must be aware that there is hing to stop such other countries as burma. thailand. and laos. from "taking up the slack" in the illicit heroin market. however. i am confident that illicit drug traffic can be stoppedas we have in turkeyif we seek international cooperation and assist opiumproducing countries to cease their production and find alternative crops.
