madam president. on behalf of myself. my colleague . the senator from oregon . the senator from massachusetts . the senator from new jersey . and the senator from pennsylvania . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a new bill to bring about a basic overhaul in our national immigration policy. it seems to me that this is a very important piece of legislation. at a time when we are discussing civil rights for the people of the united states. there is also the problem of civil rights for the other peoples of the world. and i believe this bill represents an effort to provide civil rights in terms of american peace leadership for all the world. the time has come to end the piecemeal approach to immigration reform. our national immigration policy has produced an incredible epic of broken lives. divided familiescase after case of anguish. despair. and frustration. during the campaign in 1960. the president made a pledge to give high priority to immigration reform. the president has shied away from this critical issue. as a senator. he was an eloquent fighter for immigration reform. as president. he has been virtually unheard from. it is particularly timely that we give our attention to immigration legislation . when we are testing our own civil rights as americans. for. in a real sense. immigration legislation represents civil rights legislation for the world. also. we are in a critical stage in the struggle for an open world among the free nations. and an enlightened immigration policy by our country would be an emous contribution toward that national policy objective. basic immigration reform has for the last 10 years been bedeviled by legislative handouts to deal with particular situations which most glaringly exposed the false direction of our immigration policy. these handouts have included measures dealing with the special problems of the azores. sheepherders. freedom fighters from hungary. and some effort to deal with the backlog of immigration which separated families. desirable as were each of these items. in totality whey were used to block really fundamental immigration reform. in the national interest. it is time to end this selfdelusion and to forgo. if necessary. these individual items in order to fight for and to win an immigration policy of which the country can be proud.  ashamed. the main features of the bill are as follows: first. it provides for the determination of annual quotas on the basis of the 1960 census instead of the 1920 census as provided for by existing law. redetermination of quotas would be required after every 10year census in the future. a minimum annual quota of 200 is set for any quota area. second. it provides for the pooling of unused quotas and their allocation to those on waiting lists by executive order of the president in the next fiscal year. reallocations are subject to disapproval by a concurrent resolution of both houses of congress. third. it eliminates quota provisions which  discriminate against asiatic and colonial peoples. fourth. it establishes a board of visa appeals in the state department to review questions involving the denial of visas and the application or meaning of state department regulations applying to immigration. fifth. it establishes a statute of limitations whereby alien may be deported by reason of conduct occurring more than 10 years prior to the institution of deportation proceedings. sixth. it affords judicial review of citizenship questions and of both exclusion and deportation orders rather than only of deportation orders. seventh. it eliminates a disadvantage of naturalized citizens. as compared with naturalborn citizens. through loss of nationality because of residence abroad. eighth. it grants quota status to fourth preference immigrants. that is. brothers. sisters. sons. or daughters of citizens. whose petitions were approved by the attorney general prior to january 1. 1963. madam president. with unhappy accuracy. our national immigration policy opens our national doors wide for many people who do  care to come in. but slams them in the faces of people who would cherish the opportunity to be u.s. citizens. like most spite walls. it is as harassing to those within as to those without. it is so offensive to fair minded americans. whom it is presumably designed to protect. that it has produced a flood of backdoor finagling and occasional circumvention by congress itself. each week scores of families stream into congressional officesincluding my own. in new york cityto appeal for he.p. private immigration bills make up a major portion of our federal legislation. and yet immigration reform today is largely a dormant issue.
