. it is with great pleasure that i take this opportunity to salute and commend the youth for understanding international teenage student exchange program. originally founded in 1951 when german and austrian youngsters were brought to live with american families. the program has  expanded to encompass more than 40 countries in europe. asia. africa. and the americas. the program brings youngsters from these countries to the united states and. in addition. sends american teenagers overseas for periods of from 2 months to 1 year. youth for understanding. one of three teenage exchange programs recognized by the state department. is operated on a profit basis from its headquarters in ann arbor. mich.. and seeks to foster greater international understanding through a family living experience. i am particularly impressed and encouraged by the eworthy development and success of youth for understandings exchange program with south and central america. yfiu overseas currently has extensive exchange programs operating in argentina. bolivia. brazil. chile. colombia. ecuador. guatemala. mexico. paraguay. peru. and uruguay. in fact. the program in brazil is the largest and most rapidly growing yfu program in the world. i believe that the kind of intercultural program exemplified by yfu is unsurpassed for encouraging true understanding between americans and people throughout the world. young people are natural goodwill ambassadors. able to make the necessary adjustments to fully understand. appreciate. and enjoy their experience and contact with unfamiliar cultures and life styles. they retain the memory of their experiences clearly and eagerly share them with their own communities when they return home. it is just an exchange which holds out the greatest hope for the continued growth of true mutual undbrstanding and respect among all: the countries of the americas and all the nations of the world. and it is quality programs such as youth for understanding. carefully and thoughtfully conceived and executed. with high standards yet great flexibility. that make the exchange experience so memorable and productive for so many youngsters. i salute the youth for understanding exchange program and wish it many more years of continued success.
