. i wish to commend the gentleman from florida for reserving the time for a number of us to participate in a discussion on the dangers and costs of a protectionist trade policy. i have long been opposed to imposing high trade barriers or restrictions.  only because i believe in general that free trade benefits our ecoy and the ecoy of other countries. but also because i believe that protectionism hurts the american worker. if this country raises trade barriers. retaliation from others will be imminent. thus .reducing our exports as well as our imports. as i have pointed out before. we have probably more than 2.7 million exportrelated jobs. we must consider these in the light of protectionism and the dangers of other countries placing barriers against our goods. having looked into this question in some detail. i insert in the record at this point my individual views on title iii of h.r. 7130. the fair labor standards amendments of 1971. a title which moves dangerously toward protectionism:
my reaction would be that it would  be acceptable. when you are dealing with cfcs. you are dealing with a worldwide substance that is. on a global scale. affecting the health of everybody all over the world. and it is a substance. these cfcs are. recognized internationally. as evidenced by the montreal protocol where a whole series of nations have signed. what you are trying to do is step from there and say that every law that we pass must be applied on a worldwide basis or else we will  import their products. for instance. you start with the toxic air emissions. what about child labor laws. suppose the country that sells to us does  observe the same child labor laws we do. suppose they do  observe the same limitation on a workweek that we have. suppose they do  require time and a half for overtime beyond 40 hours. so this could go on and on. in the first place. i think the proposal is impossible to enforce. i do  k who would do the enforcing. second. it would completely devastate the international trade system that has been set up under the general agreement on tariffs and trade. the socalled gatt. so the amendment. as suggested by the senator. would  be acceptable to us.
. the congress in debating this bill is in a situation very analogous to this one: the body of the american ecoy and therefore the american people is lying exposed before the surgeon. the incision has been made. yet according to these amendments the surgeons are playing with the scalpels. when the doctors have a patient under an anesthetic they can easily cut his jugular vein and he will bleed to death. he is under ether and at that point does  k the difference. after all. every member ks that what is being done in these amendments is just a lot of legislative maneuvering and juggling. one member makes an impossible amendment. then aher offers an amendment to it and the third member to demonstrate the invalidity of the proposition throws something else in. and then he says he will have to vote for it. the whole thing does  add up. the davis amendment puts the squeeze right on salary and wage earners. it does  freeze most food prices or rents. yet they constitute well over 50 percent of the moderateincome familys budget. it fails to take into account the essential oil. rubber. nickel. manganese. and other strategic materials we import from abroad so essential to the defense effort. when the ops tried to freeze the ecoy on january 25. you had strong complaints from every part of the countryfrom workers. consumers. smallbusiness men. because adjustments had to be made and promptly. yet. that is exactly what is proposed in these amendments without any opportunity for correcting inequalities. members k as well as i do that when this provision. if it passes. goes to conference it will probably be the first provision stricken out.  are we going to show ourselves to be responsible legislators. i am going to vote against all these amendments. and i urge the members to do the same.
i think. with all respect. unless we take some action upon that. and unless the administration will give it some backing. the administration may find a very difficult atmosphere for the reciprocal trade act. one has a greater respect for my colleagues ecoic judgment than i. but the portentous implications. in respect to american trade especiallyin view of the imbalance in international payments. and the fact that a deficiency in world trade can nullify any aid efforts of which anyone can conceive in terms of amountare so serious that if the united states is going to contract its foreign trade policy simply because we do  have the wit or the wisdom to look after the problems of people. in business and labor alike. who are harmed by concentrated imports. we shall be doing one of the greatest disservices to foreign policy of which we are capable. one far more serious than even the terrible reverse freedom suffered in cuba.
of course. the senator is correctto encourage our foreign trade and foreign investment. we are  beginning to jeopardize big things. such as foreign trade. in which we have a $6 /4 billion surplus. the income from foreign private investments far exceeds those investments. we are really getting into the big league. considering this is a bill which was supposed merely to trim around the edges.
. as long ago as last august i have commented on the british ecoic situation. and suggested that the united states join others in oecd to provide substantial longterm assistance to the united kingdom to help the modernization of the british production machine. in my view. that is the fundamental problem underlying britains recurrent balanceofpayments crisis. i suggested the creation of a $10 billion modernization fund financed by loans from the united states and other industrialized nations. under the auspices of the world bank as one means to bring about this modernization. i also proposed that we offer britain a new trade arrangementshould it prove impossible for her to join the european common market within a reasonable timeleading toward a free trade area including the united states. the united kingdom. canada. the efta countries and other industrialized nations including those in the eec which agree to adhere to the provisions of such a free trade area. with special arrangements for developing nations. on august 21 there appeared a challenging article in the new york times magazine analyzing britains basic ecoic problems and the recent measures taken by the wilson government to deal with them. the article was written by andrew shonfield. director of studies. of britains royal institute of international affairs. and a ed ecoic authority. it is must reading on britains plightone of the worst critical of the worlds problems. mr. shonfield is critical of the recent deflationary measures and the 6month freeze of wages put into effect in britain on the grounds that it will discourage investment in new plant and equipment and reduce rather than encourage labor mobility. both of which are needed desperately if the recurrent cycle of the balance of payments crises is to be broken. he blames the wilson government for sacrificing long term change for short term balance of payments relief. he reports that manufacturing investment has already slowed down. imports of capital equipments are expected to decline as business slows down with the result that new productive capacity required for faster ecoic growth will  be built. mr. shonfleld concludes that only a reform of the structure of the british ecoy can solve britains problems and recommends higher rates of investment in productive equipment than in europe. the systematic training of managers and skilled workers. higher wages to increase labor mobility. more credit to business for modernization. and most importantly. financial assistance from britains creditors abroad to provide the conditions necessary for a shift in britains industrial structure. he recommends that britains creditors be asked first. to give britain till 1974 to repay the $3 billion loaned to britain to stem her last balance of payments crisis and due in 1970 and second. to extend to britain a major international loan to permit 3 to 4 years respite from balance pressures. the purchase of necessary equipment abroad and the buildup of extra currency reserves i consider this article to be an extraordinarily perceptive analysis of the british ecoy. one which should be read with great care by us. as well as the wilson government. and acted upon on high priority. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
i am very grateful to my colleague. and i am hopeful that we can succeed . as we are halfway up the hill. having passed this very measure in the other body. after considerable hearings and controversy. to bear out what senator sparkman has said. i should like to give the schedule of fee rates on guaranteesthat is. a business guaranteefor loss of investment. of which there is presently roughly $100 million outstanding under the extended risk guaranty provision. the fee is one and threequarter percent of the principal per annum. where that risk is spread with other institutions. that rate might be reduced to as low as threequarters of 1 percent. political risk insurance. which is the coverage for war. revolution. and insurrection. pays a premium of onehalf of 1 percent per annum. expropriation is an additional fee of onehalf of 1 percent. currency inconvertibility is an additional fee of onequarter of 1 percent. so that a total fee with respect to complete insurance coverage for political risks is 11/4 percent. this represents a very appreciable source of income for the guaranties and. therefore. for this corporation. it represents an income which is far more than its cost. far more than the actual record of claims paid. which up to dateof $11.1 million as of june 30. 1969. it is worth ing that this program has been in effect for roughly 20 years. though it has grown and has been changed in that time. i think that is a very important point in considering the actuarial soundness which is involved. the question of policy involved in this whole matter is this: do we wish to expand this kind of activity. . those are the only items of capital involved. e of them involve any "expenditure" by the united states. it simply means taking the money from one pocket and putting it in aher pocket so that it backs up the guaranty and the insurance which this corporation is allowed to write according to the amendment before us. organizations which back this concept are the u.s. chamber of commerce. the u.s. association of manufacturers. the u.s. council of international chambers of commerce. the national foreign trade council. the national industrial conference board. the committee for ecoic development. the agribusiness council. and the council for latin america. also. it has the backing of farm cooperatives. savings and loan associations. citizens groups. national planning associations. and overseas development concerns. finally. so that members do  get the idea that this is some idea of mine. it is the proposal of aid and the administration. it is fully supported by the secretary of state. who authorized me as late as this morning to represent to the senate. secretary rogers thought it was a very fine thing and he hoped the senate would join the other body in voting for it. so that this is by means a concoction of my own. the senator from alabama referred to the fact that last year i had submitted an amendment. which i did  press. but accepted instead a study amendment. which has resulted in the proposal  before us. my amendment then related to the effort to mutualize the whole foreign aid program in effect. in the hands of american investors. i still think that is a great idea. but its time has  yet come. the fact is. the senator from arkansas
1 this morning be really been very i spect to the trad before the congre a very admira dertaken by a bi other body. they tion to what is t of this trade bill. those of us here same way express the trade leg will come up on they return fror closed rule. it is will be changed. up or down. my voted up. when it comes will. the real issu it will be amend stantively as tra has been. the principal against the billquota concept o entirely upon th the united state with "hands acr about internatic they are based o will impose an consumers of the give demonstratio second. quotas w of the united st americans jobs. jobs. yet that i made for the qu on the questio we are  run surplus. and tha ads of working poor under tion of the united states. millions of 311continued jobs are at stake on the export side. bethousands] cause it is clear there will be retaliation working and serious retaliation if the united poor families increase in states goes into the quota business. receiving numer of fap and/or working we are longer "cock of the walk" rking state sup- pour as we were right after world war ii. poor plement if families milies working who woald we have tough competition from geriving poor are receive many and japan. to name two countries. only supplemented benefit and every other exporting country. we can run this matter as we would 23.2 64.9 41.6 like. so this competition. which is caus33.2 34.5 1.3 20.9 51.5 30.5 ing us trouble already. when buttressed 14.4 40.9 26.5 by retaliation action will make it more 9.0 10.3 1.3 40.3 106.3 66.0 difficult for the workers in the united 46.5 46.5 ------------ states. 31.8 31.8 --------11.6 12.9 i5 . ial .commission to make clear. that where the japanese ar6 imposing upon us. we will  accept it. that will  involve. retaliation. on the contrary. it will be language the japanese very well understand. and is very likely to produce an agreement. whereas if we give them the objective of quotas and a complete reversal of the policy of the united states we put them. both ecoically and politically. in a position where they can do hing else but retaliate against us. so we would guarantee a trade war instead of trying to cure. in an intelligent way. the difficulty between the two. countries. i believe. as we begin to look into this question. as more members of the senate begin to learn what is at stake. as more members of the senate begin to check into their own states to find out what the effects of imports as compared with exports mean to their own states. they will  be so affrighted that there are so many hundreds of thousands of workers affected. this is especially true of the agricultural states. from which so many senators come. in which agriculture represents a very important ecoic base. finally. it is an ecoic truism that our most efficient highwage industries are also our best export industries. in turn. our least efficient low wage industries are generally protectionist. a move to protect the inefficient sectors of our ecoy could lead to retaliation against the efficient. high wage sectors. through the working of this process. protectionism can weaken the domestic ecoy. maintain inflationary pressures. and be detrimental to our national security. i thank the senate.
let me quote from mr. witteveens sneech: the funds conditionality is. in fact. an essential complement to the assistance it provides. without the conditionality. the financial assistance can be used to its maximum potential advantage. while. without the assistance. the process of adjustment would be much more painful. in analyzing what conditions the fund must insist upon. it is important for us to remember that the fund has become a lender of the last resort. once again i would like to quote from mr. witteveen. it has become increasingly common for countries to perceive the fund as a lender of the last resort. approaching it only when all other sources are exhausted. and the ecoic system has. in the meanwhile. greatly deteriorated. a deteriorated ecoic system and. hence. balance of payments difficulties. generally are the result of attempts by a member countries design to deal with resources than it can currently generate. the stabilization programs. which the member country to avail itself of more these problems. involve. especially in the short run. cutting back on the aggregate real income and the use of resources by that country. this is a harsh task. but. using a term that has become very popular today and is very apposite. "there is such thing as a free lunch." this past week there appeared in the washington post a series of articles on the imf. i ask unanimous consent that they be inserted at this point in the record.
