. yesterday. my distinguished colleagues from new jersey. senators lautenberg and bradley. introduced legislation which will. by 1991. put a halt to the dumping of municipal sludge at the 106mile dumpsite. i join with my colleagues as an original sponsor of this necessary legislation. the bill requires new york and new jersey. states currently utilizing the 106mile dumpsite. to identify and develop alternatives to sewage sludge dumping. these states will be required to identify the steps being taken by municipalities to implement programs. including sludge pretreatment programs. to facilitate the beneficial use of sewage sludge. pretreatment removes many of the most harmful toxins in sludge. and renders it useful for landfilling and fertilization. congress made its intent regarding ocean dumping very clear when. in 1972. it passed the ocean dumping act. which stated: the congress declares that it is the policy of the united states to regulate the dumping of all types of materials into ocean waters and to prevent or strictly limit the dumping into ocean waters of any material which would adversely affect human health. welfare. or amenities. or tile marine environment. ecological systems. or ecoic potentialities. despite this declaration. we are still permitting the dumping of sewage sludge. which contains high levels of heavy metals and is kn to be toxic. in our nearcoastal waters. i am concerned. and the fishermen of my state and of new england are concerned. that this sludge is already having an adverse effect on the fisheries. one lobsterman stopped by my office to tell me that. his take of lobster from an area affected by this sludge is down 80 percent. dumping at the 106mile site has  been going on long egh for the environmental protection agency to assess what impact it will have on the environment. we do k a great deal. however. about the effect of sludge dumping at the 12mile site which has just been closed. out of concern for human health. shellfishing in the area around this site has been curtailed. the food and drug administration closed a 150mile area around the dumpsite to shellfishing due to concern about elevated levels of bacteria from municipal sludge dumping. fish that are found in this area are usually diseased. and show bioaccumulation of toxins and heavy metals. including mercury and cadmium. we k that pollution at the 12mile dumpsite has harmed. perhaps irreparably. a large ocean area. the same fate awaits the 106mile dumpsite area. however. at the 106mile dumpsite. the potential for seriously damaging the fisheries of the east coast is much greater. a report by the national oceanic and atmospheric administration characterizes the site as a "highly dispersive environment where waste contaminants will be mixed effectively and transported in unpredictable ways from points of input." in a separate report a estimated the potential area of influence of dumped wastes to encompass 116.000square kilometers. the fish and shellfish that inhabit this potential area of influence constitute a significant segment of the coinmercial and recreational fisheries of the east coast. these fisheries contribute over $1 billion annually to the ecoies of coastal states from maine to th carolina. hing could sink the fishing industry of the united states faster than to have fresh fish associated with contamination. if dumping municipal sludge in the ocean were the only. or the best alternative. then fine. but epa has said unequivocally that the states utilizing the 106mile dumpslte have  fully explored other options. philadelphia has found inative methods for dealing with its sludge. and. through pretreatment. is able to utilize sludge products for land reclamation. cities in the midwest do  have ocean dumping of sludge as an option. and have found other. more environmentally sound methods for processing sludge. yet. for coastal states. the temptation to use the ocean as a dumping site is hard to resist. in the case of municipal sludge. this temptation must be resisted. the legislation we are introducing today sends a clear message that we are serious about protecting our marine habitat. municipalities utilizing the 106mile dumpsite must apply themselves in earnest to the development of viable alternatives to the ocean dumping of sludge. we can continue to jeopardize the wellbeing of our fisheries. and the health of our ocean. it is worth ing that this legislation will require epa to report to congress on progress to detect and prevent alleged "short dumping" of sewage sludge. if haulers are intentionally dumping sludge before they reach the 106mile site. then this practice must be stopped. i look forward to working with my distinguished colleagues from new jersey in moving this legislation through the senate.*
