i believe that represents a rather fundamental difference of outlook between the senator from wisconsin and me. my answer is "" i will tell the senator why. the breadbasket idea follows. and does  precede. control. the control exists. i believe. as a result of military means and propaganda and ideological control of the entire apparatus of the countries and of the minds of the people. the supply follows. the soviet union has a problem. how many soldiers should be used. how much repression should be used. how much force should be used. obviously. even in terms of a relatively primitive ecoy. the soviet union would wish to use as little as possible. grain is cheaper than soldiers. it seems to me that the breadbasket idea becomes with the soviet union an aspect of the way in which it controls. but it is  essential to its control. the essentials to its control are the military. the propaganda. and the party machinery. both in the satellite countries and in the soviet union. which give it a stranglehold upon those countries. we have seen demonstrated the fact that even if there were a much lower level of food consumption in those countries. that would  allow them to escape from soviet control. we also k that a higher level of food consumption does  inhibit freedom fighters. such as those in hungary. from "taking on" russian tanks when the people are sufficiently angry. . i respect the view of the senator from wisconsin. he sincerely espouses his view. and is joined by other senators in espousing it. however. it is  my judgment that the control factor is the food supply. rather. the food supply represents the implementation of domination. which would take place without any question otherwise. and is  what maintains the domination.
i point out to the senator that the satellites are  free to obtain their grain from the united states. they can do so only with the implicit or explicit agreement of the soviet union. the soviet union would repress such a purchase completely. if it chose to do so. if it thought a satellite country was going beyond what the soviet union was willing to permit. they would get by with that. because of their control. which is so complete. as we saw in hungary. i am sure the senator remembers the bloody riots in poland which preceded some alleviation of the situation between poland and the soviet union. i point out also that what i am proposing for the handling of this situation would permit the president to use trade as a flexible instrument of policy. today the president has his hands very much tied. i wish to free the presidents hands to use an enhancement of trade with the soviet bloc as a tool which might produce some results in the lessening of tensions. particularly in the ecoic field. the senator from wisconsin is very astute. i mean it. the senator understands my point completely. i am  recommending trying to build up trade on the basis of longterm credit. for that i think the soviet bloc would have to meet the test of credit worthiness. in other words. we should have confidence that there would  be a "blowup" with the soviet union for a long time. that they would  turn on us. as has been the situation many times in the past. i am talking in realistic terms only about enhancing trade. which is possible. within the limits of longterm credits. provided that the financial and ecoic issues could be worked out with the soviet union. i would do hing other than to free the presidents hands so that he might deal upon a "most favored nation" basis. with perhaps some flexibility as to the terms of sale. with any part of the soviet bloc if he believed that it would serve our purposes. that might very well mean that we would be dealing first with the satellites instead of the soviet union. it is precisely that kind of flexibility i wish to give to the president. for the reasons i have stated.
i think it is absolutely marvelous. but who produces the clothes that country people wear. the automobiles that they ride in. the moving pictures and television shows and the culture they enjoy. all of which makes life a little better down on the farm than it was before they saw paris. the people in the cities.
