it is. there is a good deal of american investment in israel. the fact that large american companies and other american investors have invested there is an added tie with our country and an expression of their confidence in israel. . i think the members of the committee on foreign affairs will bear witness to the fact i have been as devoted a friend of the solution of the palestine arab refugee problem as there is on the committee. i am opposed with equal strength to both parts of the pending amendments. in the first place. with respect to the arab refugees. they seek to cut the only promising program for their permanent resettlement. the united nations program for $250.000.000. of which we contibute only a part. let me emphasize before we make a mistake on this question of equalization that i appreciate both of these amendments are  unfriendly and i want to emphasize that i feel the people of israel have  a more devoted friend in the house than the gentleman from minnesota . in the technical assistance part of this section. in the $55.000.000. there is $23.500.000 for the arab states and only $3.000.000 for israel. if you add $23.500.000 to either sixtyfive or fifty million the equalization figures offered to us. the arab part of the bill is still receiving very much more than israel and this average is emphasized by both these amendments over what it is already in the bill. so you do  get equal amounts even with these amendments. as to the situation of israel. i have always argued this question on the floor. and i did it last year. purely as an american legislator. the reason you have a right to aid israel is the reason just expressed by my colleague from new jersey. because of israels strength in terms of free world security. the reason we give the 396.000 unabsorbed refugees in israel a somewhat higher amount than we give the 600.000 to 800.000 arab refugees is that the israeli refugees are building strength and it costs more to do that. yes even in military terms. almost the first thing that is done with a young refugee in israel is that he goes into the army. when i was in israel i spent a day with the army. and that is exactly what i saw. israeli is the one fighting. dependable force in that whole area of the world in terms of the struggle we are fighting. if you need any proof as to the orientation of israel toward the united states. i point out to you that it is my information that about 160 of israels army. navy. and air force officers have already studied in our military schools. . do you think our military people would let them do that if they had any doubt as to where israel would stand in the event of a show down. this is a strong reason why we should vote for the authorization as it is contained in the bill. furthermore. this is  a program that developed in the committee as it did last year. this is the program of the department of state. they have gone through this thing with a finetooth comb. people have said they were at one time unfriendly to israel. so much the more important when we come to the program this year. which they have brought in. which they have supported. and which they are enthusiastic about. and with reference to which they say israel has done a fine job with the last appropriation given.
