first. . i realize exactly what my colleagues have argued. that it would be counterproductive. that we would cut off our own scientists from contact with aher great reservoir of scientific activity. that we would tend to isolate more the scientists in the soviet union. and that if there is going to be some new enlightenment in terms of human rights in the soviet union. the tremendous agents of that enlightenment will be these very people whom we would be cutting off. as we saw in the figures on jewish emigration from the soviet union. they can turn the valve on or they can turn it off. the answer would be that they would simply turn it off and take the position that if they can choose the scientists who are to go. e will go. we will have a period of a freeze as far as the world is concerned. i have one last thing to mention which comes from my experience as a member of the foreign relations committee for a very long time. it is hard for us to understand it in this country. but this is a very ambivalent struggle which we are waging with the soviet union and the world. the fact is that on the one hand we have to be firm and strong when it comes to efforts to subvert other countries by sending in cubans who. for all practical effect. are mercenaries. and to efforts to undermine world peace and stability by feeding arms into iraq. libya. and other countries. and at the same time we have to negotiate about salt. we have to have scientific interchange. we have to have any other interchange which the soviet union will allow us to have. even though if one were following a strict and consistent standard. one would say they have richly earned and deserved to be absolutely immunized as far as the world is concerned. we ought to have hingto do with them. considering what they have done to human beings and human rights by the millions. let alone to the dissidents we k about so well. but that is  the kind of a world in which we live. we all k that. probably. as the decades go on. the soviet union will remain the system it is. i say to my colleague. i doubt very much that the system will change. what will change will be the ability to see what is happening in the system. what costs us so much. both in concern and inhibition to really liberate from the world poverty and want which all of us want to do. and in arms costwhich is what this budget is all about. their beating us over the head so far. with the american people seeing that very clearlyis that we do  see what is going on there. suddenly. on a wednesday morning there can be a change in leadership. a change in policy. and god ks what can happen by 12 oclock that day. so we have to be prepared for the worst case always. and yet at one and the same time we have to do our utmost to try to alleviate the situation. the only hope will be when the soviet union is open to the sky. eisenhower coined that idea. that is going to be the only hope. i deeply believe that these very men. who we might inhibit by this amendmentconsidering the obtuseness of the people who run the kremlin. from seeing the western world. the japanese world. whatever world is an enlightening worldmay be the very people and their successors who will be the ones to open it up so we can see. i really believe deeply. and i hope the russians hear this. that we are  trying to change their system. we are . it is gone. that is it. but we want to open their system so we k as much about that system as we k about our own. and as they k about their own. that is the fundamental foreign policy rationale. i join my colleague. mr. ribicoff. who i believe has made a very fine statement on this matter. in keeping that understanding of the motivation of the senator from kansas. and hoing it. i felt the same way when i first looked .at it. i said. "why . the rascals. look what they are doing to these scientists." yet it would be counterproductive and would  work out. and is  in pursuance of a line of policy which ought to be. in foreign policy terms. our policy. i believe this debate has been very constructive and very useful. but i very much hope that the senator will consider the withdrawal of his amendment.
