 truman as u.s. representative on the united nations atomic energy commission.  alone for what he accomplishedwhich was substantialbut for what he stood. which was. in my judgment. basic to america and fundamental to its future. two quotations of mr. baruch illustrate this. he was to say: i for one will never concede that we can do as much in defense of our freedoms as any enemy may be doing to destroy them. and he was to say at the united nations on june 14. 1946: we are here to make a choice between the quick and the dead. we must provide the mechanism to assure that atomic energy is used for peaceful purposes and preclude its use in war. i have had the privilege of king mr. baruch as a friend for a number of years and i would mention two things in brief tribute. one was that he always understood. matter what the ups and downs of his government service might be. that the important thing was  the hole in the doughnut the petty criticisms--but the doughnut itselfthe vitality of our free government and the magnanimity and faith of our people in peace and in war. second. he was aware. as few americans of our time were. of the importance of controlling nuclear energy. of preventing the terrible danger of the proliferation of atomic weapons. he made plain to the soviets in the late 1940s that unless we put the genie back in the bottle we would face a situation where atomic bombs could come to be like the sixgun of the west. when the sheer number of them would represent a clear and present threat to the peace. so i would join. i am sure. with all members of this house. in paying the highest possible ho to a great american in war and peace. a man who stood for the best in this country. who stood with the men and women of this country for a strong america dedicated to peace and a free enterprise ecoy conscious of its high social and ecoic responsibilities. bernie baruchs faith will always be part of america. his belief in what freemen could accomplish for the common good will remain an inspiration. his impatience with government redtape and petty politics will illuminate for all to see the speed and the responsibility with which government is capable of acting. above all. bernie baruch believed in his country and its destiny. i am sure all in this house deeply mourn his passing and extend all sympathy to his family.
 frei. of chile. and other leaders who agree with him do  speak to unresponsive ears in the united states when they assert that the interamerican system can be based upon u.s. hegemonywith which i feel the american people agreeor when they suggest that western europe become. as it has already. particularly through adela. which i initiated. more interested in latin american developmentwhich i feel the .people of the united states also believe to be desirable. but latin america can at the same moment look to us for the main resources needed for its accelerated development and for its security without recognizing our mutual importance to each other.. just as the nations of latin america are to be equal partners with us. so we are to be equal partners with them too. latin americans must be offered a choice which is attractive .to them. as well as to the united states and canada. this choice must be increasing participation in the great decisions of the hemispherepolitical. ecoic and social. and military. and. it is also high time to bring actively into the interamerican family of nations our great partner to the th. canada. in trade. national power and world responsibility. canada belongs in the interamerican system. which is  complete without it. a prime objective of the diplomacy of the united states and every other country of the americas should be to invite canada to take the seat awaiting it in the organization of american states. in many ways we have recognized that. over the long term. the ecoic development and social progress of latin america will enrich the lives. increase the security. and contribute to the political stability of the people of the americas. whatever its problems. the alliance for progress committed the nations of the americas to a violent. but accelerated ecoic and social revolution in latin america. great strides have already been made and. with renewed dedication. still greater ecoic and social gains are ahead. but. the military and political aspects of american life have  kept pace with the social and ecoic aspects. the evolution of concept and philosophy that characterized the alliance have  been matched by similar concepts designed to provide for military security and political stability in the hemisphere. the resolution which is introduced today. in addition to declaring once again the determination of the united states to encourage and support accelerated ecoic development apd social progress in the americas. in accordance with the principles of the alliance for progress. seeks to focus attention on problems we shall have to face up to even before the results of the alliance are fully visibleproblems of military security and pdlitical stability which santo domingo laid bare. the two basic problems are these: first. how can the interamerican system best deal with subversion. whether communist or ultrarightist. second. how can the american states counter political instability resulting from the overthrow of democratic governments by the communists or the ultraright. the problem of communist subversion on a large scale is relatively new to this hemisphere. whereas.a rapid turer of governments and the seizure of power by dictators have been features of the latin american scene for decades. but. it is the concurrence of these two factors. in the current ecoic and social atmosphere of present day latin america. which  threatens central and south america with massive and violent governmental upheavals. the american states have tried for years to cope with this danger. and thought they had made gfeat progress. but it was santo domingo which revealed how inadequate still remain the instruments of the american system at our command. it was santo domingo which demonstrated that the interamerican system is  yet fully pre.pared to deal with the kind of situation it faced in early april. i one significant development which -could result from santo domingo is a heightened realization on the part of the nations of this hemisphere that the interamerican security system needs strengthening. the united states moved a into the dominican republicinitiallyto save lives and subsequently to prevent a communist takeoveralone. on the basis. of evidence. : gathered by. u.s. sources. the u.s. government made the decision to use u.s. forces in santo domingo. whether the evidence warranted the u.s. action will be argued for .a long time. the fact remains that we did go in. this is reason to believe the united states moved unilaterally with any special enthusiasmwe are long past the days of gunboat diplomacy. which is as unpopular in the united states as in the rest of the western hemisphere. the united states had interest in sharpening either domestic divisions or international criticisms relating to the conduct of our foreign policy. yet. however reluctantly. the united states did act to fill what was considered to be a power vacuum into which the oas was  prepared to move in time. there is question that once it was seized of the issue. the oas moved with great diligence within the limits of its authority and possibilities under the circumstances. by its handling of the cuban missile crisis. the oas has also shown with what remarkable speed it can make decisions when the danger is perceived as clear and present. but it just did  have at its disposal the means to take immediate and effective action in santo domingo. the concern  is  so much whether there was or was  a substantial and significant danger of a communist takeover in santo domingo. the fact is that other situations are likely to occur in latin america in which conclusions will be hard to draw from incomplete and contradictory evidence. the real question is how to handle these problems in the future. rather than simply to protest the unilateral nature of the initial u.s. involvement in. the dominican republic. it is  more constructive for the nations of this hemisphere to decide on a means to deal together with the growing problem of subversion in the americas. collective responsibility and collective action for the security of the hemisphere is the only alternative to unilateral u.s. action. attempting to create a realization of the need to face the facts of contemporary life in the americas and to provide a multilateral system with the means to react in time in a crisis is  just a matter of persuading others to do our job with us or take the onus of intervention off our shoulders. the american republics have time and time again declared their devotion to the ideals of selfdetermination and democratic government and recognized that it is in the interest of all to prevent the emergence of regimes allied with extrahemispheric powers hostile to the proclaimed goals of the interamerican system or based on military takeover. the stake of latin america is as great as. and more direct than. the- stake of the united states in the fulfillment of these goals. the task is  to developthe meaiis of dealing with the problem of hemispheric security both effectively and col4ectively. agreement on the methods and procedures of -collective action. for hemispheric security against subversion will -.be easy to. arrive at. the -establishment of any properly functioning and truly multilateral security system would have to overcome a variety of sizable obstacles. but something of this nature must be done: together the american states must begin  to work for a solution. i propose that they do so and that high on the agenda for discussion. for example at the forthcoming foreign ministers conference. be a project for a defense alliance of the americas with a multilateral organization having the means readily available to preserve freedom and selfdetermination in this hemisphere. ii an aspect of the status of democracy in latin america which was vividly brought home by santo domingo is the number of latin american countries that still lack constitutional. democratic governments. nine military coups have occurred in latin america since the beginning of 1962. it may be argued very convincingly that  all of these takeovers were necessarily undesirable. but it may be argued with equal persuasiveness that. however. transitional may be the entry of the military into the political affairs of some latin countries. in their totality these coups are a manifestation of continued political instability which has become increasingly damaging to latin americas development and should therefore inspire great hemispheric concern. while military takeovers are just one symptom of the political instability which afflicts so much of latin america. they are so important and. in a sense. so historic a symptom that in some countries they have tended to become a cause. as well as a result. of the underlying political problems. in some cases they seem to perpetuate those problems to such a degree that a succession of military juntas turns into a form of governmenteven a form of government having the passive consent of the people. the shortrun consequences of a military takeover in a particular country may  always be wholly undesirable. to an important extent. the immediate advantages or disadvantages of any specific coup to the country in which it takes place must be measured with an eye to what went before and what is likely to follow. even so. the uncertainty which frequently follows the overthrow of an established government may be slow to dissipate. and in many instances the momentum of a development program tends to be seriously slowed down by the mere disruption of mal procedures and relationships following an abrupt political shift. but the real danger is in the continued erosion of the hope and faith of the people in the viability of democratic government. in the comparative ease with which successive coups can follow the path broken by prior ones. and in the frequent or prolonged absence of the democratic experience. there are those who have already abandoned hope in democratic development in latin america as a whole. preferring to place their reliance instead on the young. progressive brand of military government which has emerged in some places in the hemisphere in recent years. the ecoic and social goals of the alliance for progress. it is said. may more quickly and easily be reached by the methods available to such governments than by the trials and errors of democracy. but while some significant reforms have undoubtedly been pushed through by military regimes in certain latin american countries. and while a progressive military regime is of course preferable to a reactionary one. the promotion and encouragement of latin american military regimes in politics is  a policy goal for which many civilians in the americas could feel much enthusiasm. the question is what can be donea question which. incidentally. has taxed some of the best minds of the hemisphere for decades. the resolution suggests that we encourage common efforts to come to grips with the issue. and it also tries to attack the problem at its most pernicious pointthe unconstitutional overthrow of freely elected. constitutional. democratic governments which have  become dictatorships or jeopardized their\countries security. there is specific effort in this resolution to spell out measures against existing takeover governments. though the possibility of adjusting the hemispheric attitude toward such regimes should be the basis of discussion ag the american states. but it does attempt to declare our opposition to the crushing of truly democratic governments in latin america. it does suggest a procedure whereby. in consultation with the other oas members and with canada. this opposition might be of some effect in protecting democratic governments from overhasty takeover by military regimes. and in restoring democratic government where it has fallen. there is question that a matter of such complexity and individual variation must be dealt with with great flexibility. the resolution. therefore. merely expresses the sense of congress that the united states should encourage and support consultations among the members of the interamerican system and with canada to consider together the advisability of withholding the immediate establishment of diplomatic relations and extension of aid to regimes which come to power by crushing truly democratic goernments. but more than anything else. i believe it is necessary to put the united states on record as judging it wise to take a hard looktogether with canada and the latin american statesat these. regimes. before deciding how to treat with them. it may under certain circumstances seem necessary. after the consultations provided for by this resolution. to provide support for regimes of this kind. the terms of the resolution would  prevent this. it may also. on other occasions. be believed to be in the interest of the united states to provide immediate aid to such regimes. nevertheless. i believe it is ultimately in the interest of the united states and the hemisphere to retain whatever influence we and the other oas members have had in the nation concerned.  merely by keeping our foot in the door. but by taking action on the basis of collective consultation to encourage a more rapid return to constitutional and democratic government. the experience of santo domingo suggests that common efforts to deal with this problem require immediate consideration at the highest level. like the ecoic and social aspects of latin america. the military and political aspects which i have discussed must be dealt with increasingly on a multilateral basis.  only will collective action in all these areas be more effective. but collective responsibility will tend to obviate the need for unilateral united states action in matters of great hemispheric concern. united states interest can be gainsaidthe united states affects latin america emously. the united states is a most enduring fact of life in latin americaand we are just  going to fade away. but the united states does  want to or need to exercise hegemony over latin america. collective responsibility. collective decision. and collective action are the only sensible courses for the americas. only in this way can we recapture the presanto domingo spiritand move on beyond santo domingo to a new and evermore satisfying level of cooperation and alliance. for dignity. selfdetermination. friendship. true progress. and peace.
