 to the congress is required to include a summary of the actions the united states and the international coffee organization have taken to protect the interests on u.s. consumers. these protections coupled with the u.s. voting weight in the international coffee organization surely provide the guarantees asked by many members of congress and many consumers. while the u.s. consumer interest is clear and well defined. the interests of the united states in the stability of latin american nations are less clear to many in our country. as we enjoy our coffee we do  often think that it is the lifeblood of millions of latin american people. six countries earn more than 50 percent of their export earnings through coffee. this figure averaged 25 percent for all 14 coffeeexporting nations in latin america. this dependence on coffee is all the more acute when we consider that the coffeegrowing process is full of ecoic and climatic uncertainty. the average crop takes from 5 to 10 years to mature. in times of high prices more trees are planted. when bad weather or a change in the market forces makes these plantings failures or surplus. the entire ecoic stability of a nation can deteriorate drastically. we have seen the drastic consequences for brazil of a series of poor harvests. it has been argued that the stabilization of coffee prices through the mechanism of the international coffee agreement discourages necessary ecoic and agricultural diversification. i respectfully disagree. even diversification requires capital. if coffee prices plummet and cause acute shortages of capital. diversification can occur. what is needed is both the stabilization of prices and the recognition on the part of the coffeeproducing nations that the benefits of this stabilization must be channeled into diversification. i am happy to see that this process is taking place. in colombia for example. the interamerican development bank. in cooperation with the fund for development and diversification of coffeegrowing areas and numerous producing elements. has begun a program for diversification. under this program family coffee farms will be transferred to production of livestock and other crops. it is hoped that within 2 years the program will include 20.500 hectares of marginal coffee plantations. the program includes funds for the purchase of materials. equipment. seed. fertilizer. and other items needed by farmers to develop other types of agricultural production in formerly marginal coffee areas. technical assistance is also part of the program to eliminate unproductive coffee production. increase output per hectare and improve employment possibilities in the affected areas. in my judgment a program of this nature represents good sense on the part of the coffee producer who is represented through the national federation of coffee growers. the departmental committee of coffee growers of caldas. the colombian institute of agrarian reformincoraand the other participating groups. it shows that stabilization is  incompatible with diversification. and it demonstrates that the political wisdom of many latin american countries is far more advanced than the credit given it in our own country and elsewhere. it is true that the concept of an international group controlling output and importation of a product is contrary to our traditional free trade principles. but it is also true that many of the same people urging the defeat of an international agreement on coffee are the same who urge the creation of international agreements regarding other commodities to protect domestic industry and production. in short. i think that there is a far greater community of interest between the thern and southern portions of the western hemisphere than we generally admit. our failure to provide the necessary implementing legislation for this agreement has been a source of embarrassment to the united states. and needlessly so. time has permitted the improvement in the vehicle of our approval but it has  mitigated the need. the house of representatives can longer escape our responsibilities. this legislation. in my judgment. affords us with an opportunity to demonstrate our determination to play a major role in the exercise by the united states of the leadership of the forces of freedom throughout the world.
. i sup port the quayle/tsongas amendnnt to cut sugar price supports. last year. the vigorous congressional debate over the farm bills price support provisions. and their budgetary effects. indicated a growing belief that the federal government can longer afford to suppoi t farm programs to the extent that it has done in the past. the costs of support guarantees to the federal government and the u.s. consumer are an outrageparticularly in light of the cuts being made in social programs. for example. world sugar prices are 7 cents a pound and the domestic price is about 20 cents a pound. this creates a situation in which consumers are forced to pay 13 cents over and above the world price. at an annual costs of $3.7 billion to the american consumer. this is a consumer tax for which we in congress are responsible because we continue to vote for sugar price supports. the sugar price support program has required the administration to impose import quotas on sugar. without quotas the demand for domestic sugar would drop significantly. and the commodity credit corporation (ccc) would have to purchase the excess. and unlike other crop programs. u.s. sugar producers can produce all they want. this is  reflected in lower prices for the consumerbut in greater government purchases. thus. the justification for import quotas. the midatlantic and theastern states have been dependent upon imported sugar. simply stated. the consumer is paying more for his sugar consumption than he would if quotas and price guarantees were . in effect. the quayle/tsongas amendment would lower the loan level from 17 cents per pound to 14 cents per pound. this is still two times the world sugar price. were the amendment adopted. it would save the consumer an estimat.ed $1 billion per year. those opposing the amendment may say that congress had promised american sugar producers a particular price support level. and that it is unfair to reduce the price once the crop has been planted. this argument can be refuted by asking whether or  there ever is a right time to lower price supports. clearly. the savings propounded by this amendment far outweigh the costs of the current price supports and the ramifications that i have outlined. i. therefore. will vote against tabling the amendment.
. i am pleased to join with senators javits and stevenson in cosponsoring legislation which mandates a necessary balance between our interests in foreign trade and the needs of our domestic ecoy. this proposal. s. 2411. institutes a system that requires the secretary of agriculture. at the beginning of each crop year. to estimate crop production for raw agricultural products and determine the amounts necessary for domestic use. including a reasonable carryover to build up u.s. stock. through this process. the amount of various commodities available for export will be kn in advance. and foreign buyers can react accordingly. this nation has begun to suffer the effects of uncontrolled market action in all agricultural commodities. especially in corn. wheat. and soybean futures. this reckless speculation has raised the issue of imposition of export controls. such stopgap measures applied at short ice this summer to soybeans and cotton seed oil. for example. have seriously disturbed and disrupted the system of international trade. with an adequate advance assessment of our domestic needs and production. such disruptive action would have been avoided. with the devaluation of the dollar making our commodities more competitive and a food crisis gripping many nations of the world. the american market has experienced an unprecedented foreign demand and sudden. upward pressure on prices of american agricultural commodities. the administration has sorely failed to develop a logical and comprehensive policy to stem this tide of inflation at home. one can escape the spiraling cost of food. in august alone. food prices skyrocketed by an astounding 20 percent. while the critical wholesale price" index increased by 6.2 percent. i strongly believe the united states will continue to play a vital role as a supplier of foodstuffs for the rest of the world. by increasing our productivity to meet increasing demands. we can secure our position as the major supplier of agricultural commodities for world consumption. as one who is committed to a free and open market system. i am fully aware of the benefits of agricultural exports on both our balance of payments and our international relations. however. while playing this vital supplier role on the international level. we must institute a system that assures adequate supplies are available to meet our domestic needs. in a recent report on the russian wheat deal by the general accounting office. the nature of the issue confronting the congress was capsuled in the following gao statement: u.s. agricultures productive capacity has traditionally resulted in surplus stocks which were stored at great expense or exported with subsidy. although exports are important to achieving u.s. trade objectives. they can have an adverse effect. recent dramatic changes in the world supply demand situation surfaced a need for assessing agricultural exports in a broader national context. congress should consider requiring that agencies develop definitive ground rules so that expected benefits from exports can be appropriately weighed against their impact on various segments of the domestic ecoy. given the present conditions in the world market. it is this balanced perspective that is called for in the legislation which i am cosponsoring today. the weaknesses in our present system are exemplified by a close analysis of the wheat export situation. as of august 3. 1973. the department of agriculture reported export commitments aggregating 1.2 billion bushels. including carryover. the total supply of wheat available for domestic consumption and export is 2.125 billion bushels. assuming a domestic need of 800 million bushels and a need to maintain a minimum carryover of 250 million bushels. it becomes increasingly evident that despite a bumper crop of wheat we could face domestic shortages by early spring. this overselling has resulted in huge increases in future prices of wheat. within the past year. the cost of flour has soared by over 300 percent. despite slow increases in the price of bread during that time. in august. a loaf of bread increased by 7 cents in new york and other major cities. there is little excuse for this present situation. and certainly excuse for such bungling of agricultural policy in the future. therefore. in cosponsoring the javitsstevenson legislation. i urge congress to act to assure that rational assessment of domestic food needs and reasonable regulation of the commodity markets are the policy rule rather than the exception.
. on july 30. in a strong and thoughtful editorial. the new york times condemned the action taken last wednesday by the senate in approving a bill that would impose stiff quotas on u.s. beef and veal imports. i strongly opposed that measure. because i believed it would.  help our cattlemen. would be injurious to millions of our consumers. would endanger our agricultural exports. and would undermine our international trade negotiations. which are vital to our workers and our industry. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks the editorial. from the new york times. entitled "protected beef."
. i have heard the argument of the senator from nebraska with great interest. but all the senator argues is that we should  do it.  that we should  give ourselves the authority if we wish it. all i am arguing is for the authority. in short. we must exercise whatever authority we have providently. but that does  mean we should  have the authority. the senator argues that agricultural prices are  too high today and. therefore. let us  impose export controls. i do  say to impose export controls. but i do say that. having gone through the experience we have. the policy of the united states should take into contemplation what has occurred in terms of our difficulties. it is very well kn and there has been widespread discussion about the fact that. as far as farm commodities are concerned. the consumer has to have something to say in respect to them if there is going to be a balanced policy on the part of the united states. we can just go on pouring out resources of the united states. whatever may be the effect on the internal ecoy of the united states. right  i think we have a right to balance our situation by at least giving us the necessary authority. i might point out. too. that i think the house of representatives is probably just as compassionate to the farmer as the senate. the house. in its version of this very bill. has done exactly what i am urging upon the senate. the house has provided that the secretary of commerce. in consultation with the appropriate u.s. departments and agencies and any technical advisory committee. shall undertake an investigation to determine which materials or commodities shall be subject to export controls because of the present or prospective domestic inflationary impact on short supply of such material. that is exactly what i suggested.  even making it as strong as what is contained in the house bill. but just saying we should recognize  the equal interest of the consumer in inflation and the farmer. i am  trying to inhibit. i am just trying to give us the necessary policy that will be evenhanded in that regard. i would like to point out that i am sustained in this by very considerable authority. a very distinguished newspaper like the london ecoist. in its april 1974. issue reports the fact that in their opinion it is the unprecedented tripling of wheat prices and the doubling of soybeans. animal feed. and beef prices over the past 2 years more than any other factor that stoked up ecoic inflation. i believe that is a widely held belief in the united states. that that has been the situation. i believe our farm people have been very cognizant of this. we should have a definition of our policy which at least calls for an even balance as between the demands of the farmer. and we are very proud to state that affirmatively. and the productivity. techogy and tremendous contribution our farm people make to this whole country. but we should have some balance in the consumers interests. in terms of inflation. the reason i asked the senator from nebraska to wait a minute before asking for the yeas and nays is the following. i did  frankly think we would have any great problem about the policy.
