. on behalf of myself and senators buckley. case. williams. weicker. and ribicoff. the members of the senate from the connecticut. new york. new jersey metropolitan area. i would like to call to the attention of our colleagues an unusually important project to give citizens a more direct voice on the urban problems facing our region. called choices for 76. because it is designed to help determine the direction in which the region should move as our republic enters its third century. the project is a series of 20th century town meetings connecting people through our 20th century mass mediatelevision. the press. radio. magazines. the region stretches from trenton to new haven. from poughkeepsie to the end of long island. it has a population of 20 million people. onetenth of the nation. as the oldest urbanized section of the united states. its problems are more severe: a severe housing shortage. racial tensions. air and water pollution. financially starved public transportation. high unemployment among miity citizens. valuable open space urbanized and little saved for future generations. too often .our constituents feel overwhelmed by such problems. solutions are lost in a torrent of words and pictures which emphasize the difficulties. or plans for solving them conflict. and the citizen may be confused. or the search for improvement is limited. because citizens see only the viewpoint of their local community. . the regional plan association. the oldest and one of the most respected metropolitan planning organizations in the world. has devised a means of allowing our constituents to reason together by using the collective mass media of our region. starting on march 17. the 18 television stations of the metropolitan area will broadcast a series of five 1hour programson housing. transportation. environment. poverty. and cities and subrubs. a sixth on government will be shown in the fall. these programs. appearing every 2 weeks at various times on saturday. sunday. and monday. will focus on the solutions to our urban ills. they will use. in posing the solutions. the extensive research of the region. much of which has been funded by congress. to assist the regional plan association in selecting the issues. in posing the range of solutions and in formulating the questions. a citizen advisory committee was organized. headed by francis keppel. the former u.s. commissioner of education. its membership is widely diverse to represent the many political views and ethnic groups of the region. of importance. the committee members are local civic leaders. well kn in their communities. but most importantlyand the most unique aspectis that everyone can respond by filling out ballots that will be run in many newspapers and distributed by the association. on the tv programs. alternative policies will be proposed. illustrated. and argued. newspapers throughout the region will print background articles in advance of the television presentation. and radio stations will offer discussion programs focused on the choices that will be asked. a paperback book. further explaining the issues and possible solutions. is being published. under the title "how to save urban america." finally. hundreds of thousands of persons are being urged to come together in small groupsin homes. classrooms. meeting hallsto watch and then discuss the issues before filling out their ballots. churches. civic organizations. labor unions. schools. miity organizations throughout the region are assembling these discussionviewing groups. the completed ballots will be returned to the gallup organization for tabulation and the results will be widely published. it is fair to say that we will be watching for the results with great interest. never before has the mass media ever participated so overwhelmingly in a public service project. this is the first time that so many television stations in an area have agreed to cooperate on showing the same program. and the first time that newspapers and radio have joined television in the same largescale enterprise. the six senators from our three states. in successfully urging the department of housing and urban development to provide an initial grant to the program. stated: in recent years. the federal government has been urging greater citizen participation in planning for the expenditure of federal dollars. the focus has largely been on efforts to involve the poor. but we believe the time has come to find a way to get a crosssection of citizens from all walks of life to talk to each other about their common destiny. one thing is certain. if it can be done in the new yorknew jerseyconnecticut urban region. it can be done anywhere in the country. this project could thus be a major advance for all of urban america. other funding for the project has come from foundations and corporations. to indicate the wide acclaim this program is receiving. allow us to read intc the record portions of editorials from three of our respected newspapers endorsing choices for 76. the new york times. in its editorial on choices. stated: the regional plan association. an organization of long established usefulness in the metropolitan area. has launched a campaign to involve citizens. to a greater degree than is common. in decisions affecting their future ... the ferment that it should stir up. the focusing of public interest. the informed discussion of pressing problemsthese are hopeful products to be expected from what promises to be a constructive and creditable project. the westchesterrockland newspapers. covering part of suburban new york state. commented: aher attempt to bring to the people the urgent message of the need for planning will be undertaken by regional plan association. through an elaborate and ambitious project called "choices for 76." rpa will use the mass media and thousands of local "town meetings" to try to break the related logjams of apathy. fear. and statusquoworship that are holding up attempts to solve regional problems. the thern new jersey newspaper. the record. in endorsing choices said: the regional plan association may have come up with one of the epochs more brilliant ideas. everyone ks the new york urban region is going to change. the trick is to get people who are  associated with government or planning or academia interested egh in whats ahead to inform themselves about the options and come to some conclusions that are sustained by more than prejudice and obstinacy ... the point is  that here we will have a. referendum on change and development. the point is rather that if a widely representative part of the public will become informed on what the broad issues are the whole area will be in a better position to proceed. using. brains instead of narrow selfinterest. its. a bold effort rpa is making. it deserves to. succeed. the members of the senate from the tristate region wish choices for 76 success. our citizens who participate in it certainly will be well briefed on the possible solutions to urban problems. with wellinformed citizens. it is our belief that we can move on a course of our choice to give our country real reason for celebrating the occasion of our 200th birthday.
