. this amendment has several parts and it resuits in a net reduction in budget authority provided under the bill. first. it reduces the appropriation for salaries and expenses of the department of state by $10.000.000 to $902.258.000. the reduction. is entirely from foreign currency gains which have resulted since the preparation of the budget. it does  affect the program level proposed by the department. second. the amendment provides $2 million to the federal bureau of investigation. these funds are specifically provided for personnel and equipment necessary to resume servicing state and local applications for fingerprint identification. on october 1. the fbi suspended processing of all federal fingerprint identification requests other than those from criminal justice agencies for i year. state and local agencies affected by the suspension include employment. and licensing agencies. and regulatory boards. in committee we approved a provision enabling the fbi to establish a fee structure so that it can receive reimbursement for this service. the fee structure will allow the fbi to hire personnel necessary to process these requests. the amendment which i am offering will enable the fbi to proceed quickly and hire and train necessary personnel s 13204 col and purchase equipment so that it can proceed quickly and resume this vital service earlier than planned. finally. the amendment provides $828.000 in additional funds for the national institute of corrections. during full committee markup on this appropriations5 bill my colleague from pennsylvania raised a concern that the amount requested by the administration in the september revised budget and the amount recommended by the committee ight cut severely into the training of state and local corrections officers. i gave my assurance to senhtor spectrz that i would look further into this matter. the amount recommended by this amendment will provide for the training of 1.400 state and local corrections officers. as i have mentioned. the net effect of the amendment is to reduce the amount of budget authority recommended by the committee by $7.172.000.
