. i wish to annce that beginning on tuesday. may 19. and continuing through may 19. 20. 21. and 22. and presumably the first 3 days of the following week. the subcommittee on civil rights of the committee on labor and public welfare will hold hearings. in the old supreme court chamber. on senate bill 692. a bill to prohibit discrimination in employment because of race. color. religion. national origin. or ancestry. in this connection i urge all civic groups of national importance who are interested in this subject to be represented at the hearings. most of all i would urge those who are represented to have the heads of their organizations present to testify. i happen to k that many outstanding organizations in the united states favor this type of legislation. but unfortunately too many times the heads of the organizations themselves do  see fit to appear. i believe the time has come when they themselves should be present at the hearings.
. today i am introducing a bill along with the distinguished gentleman from new york to provide for more effective regulation of employee pension and welfare funds. a similar bill has been introduced in the other body by senator jacob k. javits. this bill will  affect those unions and/or companies which are administering welfare and pension funds in accordance with customary fiduciary standardsit is aimed solely at those unscrupulous persons who would deprive employees and union members of the benefits earned by long years of service. the bill would amend the tafthartley act to: first. prohibit any officer of a firm or a union from receiving. directly or indirectly. any money other than mal pension benefits from an employee benefit fund. second. insure that all fund assets will ultimately be distributed to the beneficiaries of the fund and  diverted for any other purpose. or to the personal use of those in control of the fund and prohibit the transfer of fund assets outside the united states. third. extend existing federal law and regulations so that they cover all employee benefit funds. whether or  they are established jointly by labor and management. fourth. authorize the secretary of labor to sue in federal court to regain illegally diverted assets for the fund. to restrain such diversions or to compel payment of benefits. and to put the fund into receivership if necessary. fifth. allow individual beneficiaries to sue in federal court to recover benefits or to protect or recover the funds assets. it is shocking that there are loopholes in existing law which would allow the misappropriations of employee benefit fund assets. yet. such appears to be the case. during hearings recently held by the senate permanent investigations subcommittee on the administration of welfare and pension funds. it was revealed that a "union officer transferred several million dollars in trust fund assets arising out of a union welfare fund to a dummy corporation organized in liberia and completely controlled by union officers who have the power to dissolve that corporation at any time and to distribute the assets to themselves." according to the department of justice and the labor department. this is probably within the law. it should be corrected. the bill. i propose. would close these loopholes and in addition would provide a battery of procedural avenues of enforcement. first. an individual beneficiary could sue in federal district court to recover any benefit denied him in violation of the statute. second. any beneficiary could sue on behalf of the fund to compel any person to return to the fund or on behalf of a beneficiary to recover benefits. compel return of misappropriated funds. or restrain violations of the statute. and if the secretary requests it and the court finds it appropriate. the district court could appoint a receiver to take possession of the assets and conserve and administer the fund until the violations of the statute have been remedied.
. i oppose the antiaffirmative action amendment to hr. 7555. the fiscal year 1978 laborhew appropriations bill. this section is an attempt to circumvent the constitution by precluding the department of health. education. and welfare from enforcing title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. title ix of the education amendments of 1972. and from carrying out its responsibilities under executive order 11246. the hayakawahelms amendment would prohibit hew from expending any funds in connection with the implementation or enforcement of certain civil rights requirements relating to the employment or admissions policies of institutions receiving federal grants or contracts. the amendment to hr. 7555 states: e of the funds appropriated in this act may be obligated or expended in connection with the issuance. implementation or enforcement of any rule. regulation. standard. guideline. recommendation or order issued by the secretary of health. education and welfare which for purposes of compliance with any timetable. goal. ratio. quota. or other numerical requirement related to race. creed. color. national origin. or sex requires any individual or entity to take any action with respect to (1) the hiring or promotion policies or practices of such individual or entity. or (2) the admissions policies or practices of such individual or entity. the apparent effects of the amendment would be threefold. first. it would limit severely the enforcement of executive order 11246. which prohibits discrimination by federal contractors. under executive order 11246. federal contractors are required to adopt an affirmative action plan designed to insure that the contractor does  discriminate on the basis of race. sex. et cetera. and is making a reasonable effort to employ miities and women in proportion to their availability in the labor force. where the contractor fails to meet established standards relating to the employment of such individuals. the contractors affirmative action plan must establish certain timetables and goals to increase the employment of miities and women. however. hew does  take any enforcement action against such a contractor to obtain "compliance" with any such timetables or goals. hew takes action only if it determines that the contractor has  made a goodfaith effort to meet its timetables and goals. while the amendment does  precisely address this type of enforcement action. it does speak in terms of prohibiting hew. for purposes of complying with goals and timetables. from requiring a recipient "to comply" with any ratio. quota. or other numerical requirement respecting hiring or promotion policies or practices. the amendment would significantly restrict hews authority to enforce executive order 11246. second. the amendment would prohibit hew from requiring certain types of remedial action by recipients who have been determined to be in violation of either title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race. color. or national origin in federally assisted programs. or title ix of the education amendments of 1972. which prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex in federally assisted education programs. where recipients are found to have discriminated in violation of those statutes. remedial action may be necessary to overcome the effects of past discrimination. the case law under title vii of the civil rights act and the executive order makes it clear that goals and timetables are an appropriate means of correcting past discrimination. as in the case of the executive order. hew does  attempt to enforce compliance with numerical requirements as such. but looks to the policies and practices of the recipient to determine if a goodfaith effort has been made to eradicate the effects of past discrimination. because the proposed amendment is apparently intended to prohibit hew from requiring use of any remedial "numerical requirement." it would restrict the ability of hew to enforce title vi of the civil rights act of 1964 and title ix of the education amendments of third. the amendment would interfere with the ability of hew to comply with several court orders. such as adams against califa which require hew to issue and enforce desegregation guidelines which may require the use of goals and timetables to correct employment discrimination against. or underutilization of. miity and female administrators and teachers. this amendment  only precludes the executive branch from faithfully executing two laws enacted by the congress. but. in effect. places hew in a position of compliance with an order of a federal court. ultimately we will have orchestrated a conflict between the other two branches of government. the court will tell them to remedy a longstanding wrong against women and miities. and we will have made the remedy unavailable. there is. however. a monstrous myth surrounding the whole antiaffirmative action syndrome and the "reverse discrimination" rhetoric which gives rise to such amendments as the one contained in this bill. the plain facts are theseprohibiting discrimination in admissions in higher education did  and has  increased significantly the participation of miities in professional and higher education. with regard to employment. this is especially true at the doctoral level. if there were truly much "reverse discrimination" in the land. there would  exist such a paucity of miity and femal doctors. lawyers. ph. d.s in the physical and biomedical sciences. in mathematics. engineering. et cetera. black american citizens make up about 1 percent of those annually receiving doctoral degrees. mexican. puerto rican. and native american citizens receive such degrees in even smaller percentages. although women appear to fare better. we have in way reached the millennium. if affimative action were so successful. why is it that. 30 years after the federal government required discrimination among government contractors. federal agencies are backlogged with complaints of discrimination. and why do federal courts regularly order backpay remedies in the millions of dollars thus deing extensive patterns of race and sex discrimination in this country. the amendment before us would set us back 25 years or more. it iges the glaring realities of the education and employment status of miity and female americans in 1977. because of this. i urge my colleagues to halt this retreat from our governments commitments to equality of opportunity. equality of employment. equality of education. i ask that this amendment be defeated.
. it has been suggested. on the basis of the barrons article. that the powers of the eeoc should be curbed rather than expanded. as the cosponsor of s. 1308 and s. 1667. the two bills  being considered by the committee on labor and public welfare which would give the eeoc cease and desist order power. i am particularly concerned to set the record straight on this article. it would indeed be a travesty of justice if this story had any real influence on the important legislation regarding the eeoc.
the actual cost is $6.700. we investigated the entire job corps program recently. the committee is completely satisfied. this goes for both sides of the aisle. i am the ranking member on the labor and public welfare committee. mr. kelly. the new administrator of the job corps. is doing an extraordinary job of really bringing down the costs. they will be brought down even further. i can certify that to the senator as a fact. whatever deductions he may draw to meet his own conscience. fourteen thousand will be let out. there is other way. a very creditable record is  being made on costs. costs are being brought down even further. this is the raw material for the very crime and juvenile delinquency which senators in this chamber are inveighing against every day. these boys are here instead of out where they could make that 16percent increase in crime32 percent. this is money well spent. to turn the kids out would be a real disaster. i hope it will  happen. i hope that the senate will be much wiser than that.
