. i congratulate my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who sponsored the concurrent resolution. it expresses  only the conscience of every member of the senate. but i think of almost everyone in the united states. i am certain that the vote on the resolution will be unanimous. i may say to my colleagues that what gives the resolution peculiar significance and gives it the greatest urgency. with respect to the backing of our government to have a special session of the general assembly of the united nations called. is the fact that the report is the report of the small nations.  of the great powers. it is the report of nations some of whom have been identified with the neutralist aspect of world political affairs. i think that when the representatives of australia. ceylon. uruguay. tunisia. and denmark take the position of unquestioned condemnation of what occurred in hungary. as it is stated in their report. the report is entitled to our wholehearted approval. i am pleased with the expeditious action with which the resolution has been reported. i thank my colleagues for their outstanding public service in bringing it before the senate so rapidly. i congratulate also the members and the staff of the committee on foreign relations for having acted so promptly.
 for what he is seeking to do to save the program. i hope he will go further and count on a program heavily premised upon the private sector as well as the public sector and bring it to congress in connection with the message on the subject. instead of leaving the bill on foreign aid on a tentative basis. as was done last year
if one takes the world bank and the international develop-. ment association together. the benefits to the united states are somewhat mitigated. but are still substantial. during the 5 fiscal years from 1961 through 1965. the favorable effect on the u.s. balance of payments of world bank operations averaged in the range of $150 million per year. ida operations have a negative impact of approximately $30 million per year. combining these two. there still is a net positive effect. beneficial to the u.s. balance of payments. in the average of considerably more than $100 million a year during the last 5 fiscal years. again. i should point out that even these figures are conservative. the negative impact of ida operations has in the past arisen from the fact that procurement could be made more cheaply in countries other than the united states. and funds made available by ida were. of course. used by the borrowers in the ways most beneficial to them. however. in the course of the past years. worldwide pricing has changed so that u.s. industry is. in fact. considerably more competitive than it was some years ago. and the trend of the u.s. share of earnings from bankfinanced procurement has risen some 6 percentage points in the first 6 months of 1966from 21 percent in 1965 to 27.5 percent in the first 6 month of 1966. it. therefore. seems clear that the operations of theworld bank and its softloan affiliate. the international development association.  only have been beneficial to overall u.s. foreign policy and to the american national interest in promoting the effective ecoic and social development of the less developed part of the world. but also have had a favorable effect on the american balance of payments. the senator from missouri also points to an apparent discrepancy between the estimate of the world bank that 60 percent of the u.s. contribution to ida comes back to the united states in the form of orders for american goods and services and a treasury memorandum of february 3 which states that in fiscal year 196768 u.s. procurement under loans of the ibrd and ida would be 25 percent. inasmuch as about 40 percent of the subscribed capital of both institutions is contributed by the united states. the two figures are consistent. if the united states gets 60 percent of the u.s. contribution to ida in the form of orders for u.s. goods and servicesequivalent to 40 percent of subscribed capitalthe united states should get. roughly. 25 percent of the total procurement made under ida and ibrd loans. according to world bank estimates. this is just about what the u.s. share should be in second. it has been suggested that soft loans by the international development association are helping borrowers repay their "hard" world bank obligations. i submit that the facts do  bear this out. in the first place. it is the policy of the world bank. reiterated to me by its president. to maintain the level of its outstanding loans in those developing countries which are receiving ida loans at a constant level allowing for shortterm fluctuations. in other words. to take the specific example of india. the bank expects to receive in the forthcoming years repayments on earlier loans of some $50 to $60 million per year. but at the same time the bank expects to make new loans replacing these earlier commitments. which will maintain the net existing level. and thus will mean that the bank. on balance. is  drawing any money out of india. in the second place. the bank is continuing such a policy even in countries in which ida does  extend any creditscountries such as brazil. here again. the bank is maintaining a policy of  drawing down ory its commitments. but of replacing payments on old loans with new loan commitments. in the third place. it is clear that it is  the bank that would be injured if the developing countries were in a position to have to reduce their service of foreign debt. all experience indicates that in such circumstances. the bank would be paid and is paid even in the absence of any ida credits. but that private creditors are those who have to take the burden of reduced inability to serv-
