. a year ago today communism admitted defeat. for. on august 13. 1961. when they closed the border between east and west berlin by erecting a concrete curtain to deny freedom to the people of east berlin. the communists laid before the world indelible evidence of the decay of communism. by putting up their reviled wall. the communists may have retarded the flow of east germans who yearn for the freedom of the west. but it has failed to stifle their spirit. decent men everywhere hope that the reds will soon recognize their follythat the wall has created more unrest than it has obscuredand realize that it stands as an evil. ridiculous monument to their failure.
. i rise to call to the attention of the senate the deplorable lack of action in the senate with respect to displacedpersons legislation during this session. since january 10. 1949. 14 bills have been introduced in the senate. designed to correct serious deficiencies in the displaced persons act of 1948. all of them are before the judiciary committee. in addition. h. r. 4567. which passed the house on june 2. 1949. is also pending before that committee. three of these bills. s. 98. s. 99. and s. 100. of which i am a cosponsor. as well as the house bill. if enacted. would liberalize the 1948 act and enable the united states to take at least a step toward assuming its full share of world refugee and displacedpersons responsibilities. on june 8. 1949. the committee on expenditures in the executive departments submitted to the senate a report on the international refugee organization. prepared by the subcommittee on relations with international organizations. headed by the able junior senator from maryland [. i take the liberty of urging members of the senate to give careful consideration to this reportsenate report  476. in it is to be found the incontrovertible evidence of the failure on the part of our government to assume its full measure of responsibility with respect to displaced persons and refugees. in it is also disclosed the fact that between 1945. when world war ii came to an end. and may 1949. the united states has accepted only 72.500 persons for permanent immigration. of those persons. 44.000 were admitted by executive authority. pursuant to existing law prior to the enactment of the displaced persons act of 1948. only 28.500 persons have been admitted under the act itself as of may 1. 1949. aside from the humanitarian aspects of the proposed amendments. this report points out that liberalizing existing legislation might well result in effecting a considerable saving of the taxpayers money. by june 30. 1949. the united states will have spent approximately $141.800.000 in connection with its participation in the international refugee organization.. the international organization charged with the care. maintenance. and resettlement of displaced persons and refugees. by june 30. 1950. when the iro is supposed to have completed its mission. this government will have spent an estimated total of $212.230.000 in this connection. there are still approximately 700.000 displaced persons and refugees to be resettled. of this number. 360.900. or more than half. are in the united states zone of germany. direct care by the united states government in 1947. prior to the operations of the international refugee organization. cost the united states $130.000.000. all the evidence points to the fact that the international refugee organization will  be able to complete its task by june 30. 1950. and this government will again be called upon to contribute a substantial amount of money. action is called for and action is necessary. unless we take the lead in liber7 alizing our displacedpersons legislation. american taxpayers may be faced with a steady drain of approximately $70.000.000 a year. the enactment of workable 9nd reasonable legislation at this time should  only effect a substantial saving. but should go a long way toward solving a serious and perplexing world problem. action is sorely needed .
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to amend section 406 of the nationality act of 1940. and i ask unanimous consent that a statement i have prepared. explaining the purpose of the bill be printed in the record.
on behalf of the junior senator from new york . the senior senator from massachusetts . the senior senator from new jersey . the junior senator from new jersey . and myself. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill which would amend the immigration and nationality act. similar legislation was introduced in the 83d and 84th congresses in both the senate and the house of representatives. this bill contains three titles. the first title is designed to eliminate certain serious injustices under the existing law. which were specifically pointed out by the president in a letter to the then chairman of the subcommittee on immigration of the senate committee on the judiciary. the senior senator from utah dated december 5. 1953. among the problems dealt with are the unrestricted authority of consuls and the attorney general to give or deny visas without supporting evidence. the repeal of sections 350 and 352355. which provide for loss of citizenship because of residence abroad for both nativeborn and naturalized citizens. the restoration of preexamination which permitted an alien in the united states to become a permanent resident by obtaining his visa in canada. and the change in the standard for granting suspension of deportation from "exceptionally and extremely unusual hardship" to "serious hardship." the second title deals with procedural injustices and inequities which have developed in the administration of the law. among these are the need for the statutory creation of an administrative appeals board in visa cases to review the questions involving the denial of visa and the application or meaning of state department regulations applying to immigration. the third title modernizes the quota system by establishing the 1950 instead of the 1920 census figures as the basis for determining national quotas. this would go far toward alleviating the serious discrimination that exists with respect to nationalities of southern and southeastern europe. from which area immigration is practically impossible today. moreover. it provides for the redistribution of unused annual quotas to those on waiting lists of countries with quotas of 12.000 and under. i realize that other proposed legislation to amend the immigration and nationality act has been introduced embodying certain recommendations of the eisenhower administration. this bill should  in any sense be considered to be in any way a substitute for the legislation proposed by the administration. this bill contains many provisions. including the ones which i have herein mentioned. which are  touched upon in the administrations proposed legislation. with the exception title 3. therefore. i am hopeful that the most important provisions of this bill will be included in urgently needed legislation amending the immigration and nationality act. i ask unanimous consent that this bill lie on the desk until the close of business next monday in order that other senators who may desire to act as cosponsors may be able to do so. i further ask unanimous consent that the text of an analysis of this bill be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
i thank the distinguished gentleman from new york for his eloquent. pertinent. forceful. and thoughtful remarks. because indeed we do have a contract outstanding. a contract outstanding since the formation of the state of israel. a contract hoed by every president of the united states. i believe it is essential that we do those things. as the gentleman from new york just pointed out. that would represent taking action  before accidents might occur that could set off a conflagrationthe implications and the scope of which member here today could foresee. the danger. i believe. and i used to talk with former secretary of state dulles on this subject. is that frequently when the position of the u.s. government has become unclear. it is  because documents have  been clear but because our willingness to act has been questioned. secretary dulles felt the greatest danger in foreign relations is miscalculation of the intentions of any state and particularly those of the most powerful state in the world todaythe united states. hence. we have an obligation to make crystal clear the main elements and intentions of our foreign policy and our willingness to act in accordance with these policies. i think we have a situation in the near east today where we have something that we can ho. we can ho peaceful relations with peaceful nations in the area. we can ho the integrity of israel. we believe deeply in this. the relations between the united states and israel are basic in the free world. but we would  be hoing that if at this juncture. in the light of the statements our government has already made in the diplomatic channels. the united states did  speak more clearly at the same time and with one voice. it would be my hope that at this time we approve a bipartisan resolution that would express the will of the congress. of the american people. and of the government. it is my belief that in so doing. were this congress so to act. the president could reaffirm that this resolution would be understood by those who appreciate human liberty and human dignity. and by all who oppose outside intervention. our purpose must be to see that peace in our time is a reality. and to do those things that would keep the peace before any dangers can come along that would disturb the peace and would violate the border or territory of any country in the area. and quite obviously and most particularly israel in this instance.
. recent events in the near east on the israelsyrian border at the israel border settlement at almagor are a matter of concern. this morning. there are reports that the united arab republic has placed its armed forces on "emergency alert" and that iraq has placed her armed forces "under syrian command." it is my understanding that gen. odd bull. chief of staff of the united nations truce supervisory organization is in damascus today and that in new york the security council is being polled as to the advisability of calling a meeting of the security council. it is my hope that the united states will urge a prompt calling of the council to ascertain the facts concerning the syrian ambush of israelisfatal to twomonday night. the subsequent exchange of fire on the border and the aerial incident of tuesday. it would be my hope that the council would also assess responsibility for the violation or violators of the armistice agreement involved. prompt action by the security council could be central to keeping the peace and to the prevention of the escalation of this situation into serious hostilities. [from the new york times. aug. 21. 1963]
 decides an emergency exists. such refugees may be given immigration status after 2 years in numbers up to 25.000 per year. sixth. secondclass citizenship as between nativeborn and naturalized americans is abolished. this places in legislation that principle which the supreme court has recently affirmed. seventh. a fourth preference is established for brothers. sisters. married sons and daughters of u.s. citizens. thus doubling the number of visas available to them under former provisions. and parents of resident aliens are added to the preference list. unused numbers are made available to persons willing to work at jobs for which a shortage of willing workers exists in the united states. eighth. quotas are abolished for all independent countries and islands in the americas. ninth. provisions for naturalizing persons who have served hoably in our armed forces are liberalized. . we are truly a nation of immigrants. if we would ho our .heritage we must put an endhere and to discriminatory national origins quotas. secondclass citizenship. and divided families. h.r. 11437 a bill to amend titles i. ii. and iii of the immigration and nationality act and for other purposes be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that this act may be cited as the "immigration and nationality act amendments of 1964." section 201 of the immigration and nationality act (66 stat. 175. 8 u.s.c. 1151) is amended to read as follows:
s truman. eisenhower. kenlegislation which embodied a compre- nedy. and johnson all have said. dishensive revision of our immigration laws crimination against certain peoples of in the 89th congressh.r. 5324 on feb- the world by failing to welcome them ruary 23. 1965. equally with others is in direct variance i firmly believe our immigration laws with our american ideals. should be based on principle and be made i share with my colleagues on both a matter of clear and progressive law- sides of the asile pride in representing equally applicable to all.  subject to americans of diverse national origins. caprice and winds of political pressure that pride. in part. has led us to amend which can affect administrative judg- the immigration and nationality act to ment. i am happy to say that the bill reject the national origins limitations we are considering today is consonant and replace them with a system authorwith these objectives. izing equal numbers of immigrants from specifically. i testified on april 6. 1965 the various countries. before the house judiciary subcommit- it is pertinent to point out. however. tee on immigration and nationality that . i think this special emphasis on reuniting families and in continuing our longstanding policy as a haven for political and religious refugees without regard to national origin is one of the finest things we have done this year.
. i believe three things here are required. first. i believe it is unconscionable for the olympics  to end its endeavors at this point. to continue the olympics and  pay the deepest kinad of respect to this tragic action would be a desecration. second. i think the united states in particular must show very strong leadership so that. once and for all. all nations who have given sanctuary and comfort. direct or indirect support to violence. to guerillas. and to those who would kill without mercy and without thought will k once and for all that this is something the united states will  tolerate and something the united states is determined to put an end to. for too long there have been statements out of cairo saying they could  take responsibility. yet it is high time that nations take responsibility in the clearest sense and in the fullest meaning of that for actions perpetrated by people sheltered on their soil. and in case anyone is in doubt on this question. it is very clear that the press release describing the attack by black september was being distributed in cairo almost simultaneously with the action itself. i think that speaks volumes. finally. aside from the united states taking the leadership to see if we can put an endas we must put an end to hijackingto this kind of violence. we must recognize that the statesmen of the world have failed to deal with the fundamental refugee question in the near east. until we do something to address ourselves to a lost generation and until certain arab states recognize they must longer use the refugee question as a political football. we are apt to continue to see repeated violence. so i hope we will take a longer range view and work to resolve equitably the refugee question. while taking the strongest possible measures against any country that continues to give comfort and sanctuary to those who would wantonly destroy life.
. disastwo .-natural. techogical.- or otimr-- seem to happen with such regulri:. in todays world that their etfectl are numbing. 500 people die in plar- riaah. 2.000 people perish in an eilthqulake. victims conveniently bei.vt .ftilsiics. numbersstaggering -. ulxbtrs -ai c bandied about without rzrgard. and v.e are dehumanizaed. we lost focus of the meaning of a hunian ue. cheryl is dif erent. alreadv estimates are being i.odoe t s to how many hundreds might d.4e. how many thousands night be advrsuly affectcd for life. mr. pesient. ive shcul lry to bear closely in mind the "humati" aspect of this tragedy over the next few days. it is  "russian" peopie that are dying. it is that "people" who are dying. childrenjust like ours are dying. nationality or ethnicity has hing to do with it. a disaster of this scope is indiscriminate in choosing its casualticu. john donne best described my feelings when he said nearly 400 years ago: man is an island. entire of itself. every man is a piece of the continent. a part of the main. any mans death diminishes me. because i am involved in mankind. -and therefore never send to k for whom the bell tolls. it tolls for thee.
. disastwo .-natural. techogical.- or otimr-- seem to happen with such regulri:. in todays world that their etfectl are numbing. 500 people die in plar- riaah. 2.000 people perish in an eilthqulake. victims conveniently bei.vt .ftilsiics. numbersstaggering -. ulxbtrs -ai c bandied about without rzrgard. and v.e are dehumanizaed. we lost focus of the meaning of a hunian ue. cheryl is dif erent. alreadv estimates are being i.odoe t s to how many hundreds might d.4e. how many thousands night be advrsuly affectcd for life. mr. pesient. ive shcul lry to bear closely in mind the "humati" aspect of this tragedy over the next few days. it is  "russian" peopie that are dying. it is that "people" who are dying. childrenjust like ours are dying. nationality or ethnicity has hing to do with it. a disaster of this scope is indiscriminate in choosing its casualticu. john donne best described my feelings when he said nearly 400 years ago: man is an island. entire of itself. every man is a piece of the continent. a part of the main. any mans death diminishes me. because i am involved in mankind. -and therefore never send to k for whom the bell tolls. it tolls for thee.
. today i am introducing legislation in the senate to correct a serious flaw in the new immigration lawits failure to provide for the unity of families. the immigration reform and control act passed by congress and signed into law last year was the product of years of debate and negotiation. and a considerable amount of compromise. many believed that. given the strong feelings on every side of the issue. it would be impossible to write an immigration reform law that would gain egh support to pass congress. we beat the odds by passing such a law. and in general i believe we did a good job. the centerpiece of the law. the amnesty program. is based on the reality that there are many aliens who have made new lives for themselves in this country and should be allowed to stay. since the immigration law went into effect. however. many immigrants and people who work with immigrants have iced a glaring deficiency in the amnesty program. i held a conference on the new law in april. at which a number of social service providers and clergymen asked. on behalf of the illegal aliens they counsel. "what is the ins going to do about family members who do  qualify for legalization. will the new law result in the separation of families. at that time i assured these people that. in devising the amnesty program. congress did  mean for families to be separated. i advised rhode islanders concerned about the potential separation of families to wait for the immigration and naturalization service to issue its final regulations. which might have addressed the problem. on may 1. the ins issued its final regulations. which fail to deal specifically the problem of ineligible family members. in other words. the regulations do  tell ins officials how to treat a family in which one member or some members qualify for amnesty. while others do . ins field officers have been given broad discretion in this area. which leaves the entire problem unresolved. in my opinion this is  fair to the families concerned about separation. a family can be sure. for example. if the fathers application for amnesty will result in the deportation of the mother. reports are already coming in to suggest that the law is being applied stringently in some cities and leniently in others. immigration experts and counselors here in rhode island tell me that the failure of the ins to confront the problem of ineligible family members has resulted in a climate of fear and uncertainty among undocumented aliens. many who are eligible for legalization are  coming forward because of their fear that their ineligible spouses and children will be deported. in rhode island. only 600 of the estimated 5.000 eligible aliens have filed applications for amnesty. the others would rather remain illegal and keep their families intact than risk being separated from them.. i cant say that i blame them. for example. i k of a family in central falls. ri. that faces a painful decision. the mother entered the united states with her three small children before the cutoff date of january 1. 1982. and thus all four are eligible for legalization. the father. however. entered the country shortly after the cutoff date. and therefore. is ineligible for amnesty. as the law  stands. there is a possibility that he will be deported and separated from his family. furthermore. even if he decides to remain with his family illegally. he will be unable to work because of the new laws strict prohibition against hiring illegals. aher such case came to light a few weeks ago during a candlelight vigil held recently in rhode island to protest the lack of guidelines on family untiy. an 1 1yearold girl. an undocumented alien. came forward and annced that only her father had applied for legalization. the little girl. her mother. and her two siblings had entered the country on january 20. 1982. just 3 weeks after the cutoff date for legalization. and will  be able to join their father in applying for amnesty. in my opinion. hers is a tragic situation. and an intolerable one that congress should remedy. across the country. there are thousands of such cases. i believe that they offer one explanation for the low level of activity in the amnesty program. which has been receiving a trickle of applications rather than the flood that was expected. many. many hardworking. honest. immigrant families. fearful of deportation of one or more ineligible members. are choosing  to participate. the irony is that these are exactly the kinds of people the new law was meant to help. rather than offering them a new beginning. as was our intention in passing the law. the amensty program has given them more cause for confusion and anxiety. immigration officials and some members of congress argue that ins officials will use the flexibility of the regulations to avoid the separation of family members. that is encouraging to hear. but it is  egh for me. family unity is too important to leave to the goodfaith efforts of busy bureaucrats. in recent weeks. i have received letters and petitions from thousands of constituents. asking that congress correct this problem. these friends and neighbors of undocumented aliens insist that the law as it stands is. as one petition stated. "punitive to family life in our community." i agree with them that it is time for us to act. and believe the solution is legislation that will leave doubt about the unity of immigrant families. the bill i am introducing today will allow spouses and children of eligible aliens to remain here legally with their families. since my bill will only assist individuals who were already in this country when the immigration law was passed. it will  increase immigration levels whatsoever.  will it pose a new threat to american jobs. in fact. many sectors of our ecoy. especially agriculture and the service industry. would welcome additional labor. i believe that the family unit is sacred. law or federal program should threaten the integrity of the family. which is the foundation of american society. my legislation is based on this principle. and i urge all senators who believe in the importance of family unity to support it. let us help those immigrant families who  find themselves in the axcruclating position of having to choose between family unity and citizenship. i ask that the bill be printed in the record at this point.
i tried to answer this in the statament that i made. the senator is absolutely right. the illegal alien is being treated in a preferential fashion over the legal alien. but that is what the legislation is all about. if the senator when he proposed legislation was dedicated to the proposition that illegal aliens would receive preference over legal aliens we never would have had the amnesty program. that is what the amnesty program is all about. that you say those who are here at a certain time. you came in illegally. but we are going to recognize this. we are gong to give you a preference. but i do  think in giving them this preference we wanted to impose upon those illegal aliens that we are giving you. and obtain your citizenship and send your children home. your wife can obtain a job. she remains in this black shady area of nevernever land where she is kgressionasenate octr-.7 an illegal alienand is subject to all the restrictions that are placed upon ille gal aliens. and thus the family is split. i do  think that was the objec tive. i would like to point out the senator several times mentioned that this bill barely passed the house of representatives. but this bill passed the senate 69 to 30. and one of the principal reasons was the advocacy and the dedication that the distinguished senator from wyoming had given to this legislation. but i do  think it meant that it was set in concrete. frankly. i do  think many of us realize that we are possibly breaking up families in giving this amnesty.
. today i am pleased to join my colleague senator kennedy and others in cosponsorship of s. 2015. legislation that would amend the immigration and nationality act to extend for 1 year the application period under the legalization program. in my view. extending the application period for the legalization program is a positive step toward this elusive success. an extension would  change the legalization program in any way. and it would give us the time we need to do some studied finetuning. i have often been on record as a supporter of the landmark immigration reform and control act. one of the most carefully crafted compromises that the senate has worked out. it was a hardfought battle. and a job well done. nevertheless. we should  rest on our laurels. we must keep a vigilant eye on this at once compassionate and pragmatic program. and be willing to do what it takes to meet its goals. numerous midprogram changes in eligibility requirements. backlog. poor advertisement and explanation of the program. and unanswered questions about family unity are factors which are contributing to the low turt for amnesty. there is a growing consensus that the confusion generated by the legalization program warrants an extension of the application period. i believe that an extension of the application will give immigration advocates and the ins time to solve these problems. and make the legalization program a success. of particular concern is how the immigration and naturalization service will treat families in which one spouse qualifies for amnesty while the other spouse and the children do . i am aware that many of my colleagues are convinced that this problem has been adequately addressed by ins commissioner nelsons anncement last fall of a family fairness plan. yet the evidence from my home state suggests widespread fear and uncertainty. it is still my hope that hearings will be held on my legislation. s. 1408. the humanitarian family unity act. i am  satisfied that the problem of family unity is at all solved. and i urge my colleagues  to drop the issue.  to ige it.  to rest until immigrant families can be absolutely certain that they will  be separated under the new immigration law. thus. i am pleased to become a consponsor of s. 2015. i do hope that an extension of the application period will lead to increased public education. which in turn will encourage many more qualified aliens to come forward. out of the shadows. and apply for legal status. i also hope we will continue to look hard at this program. and do whatever it takes in the time we have remaining to make it a complete success. the most reverned louis e. gelneau. roman catholic bishop of providence. ri. recently called for a truly humanitarian family unity policy and an extension of the legalization programs deadline. as objectives which go handinhand. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of bishop gelineaus ember 30. 1987. editorial in the providence journal be printed in the record. the editorial follows: [from the providence cr1) journal. . 30.
i want to say. in some instances. there is concern that we are going to protect the border to the border to the border of some piece of property. let me say. i think we all should be extremely grateful as citizens of our nation that in the past. members of this congress. senate or house. have stepped out as a body and purchased land that is  available for all the citizens to enjoy. there are very few pieces of land that have been purchased by our governments. be they state. county. or national. that we are  glad we  have. whether it is central park in new york or whether it is yellowstone park or whether it is the battleground down at fredricksburg or the seven days battlefieldor wherever it might beantietam. gettysburg. so whereas we are concerned about the costs. i think we also should be grateful to those who went out and purchased these lands. second. there is american heritage trust fund legislation that i have proposed which i hope those who are discussing this matter will think about. it is there to buy lands contiguous to our national parks or lands of importance to the nation. the problem is getting it funded. i have a method of funding it. and i hope those involved will think about it. i thank the chair and i thank the distinguished senator from new hampshire who. i was going to say. has been patient. but perhaps he has been impatient.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on immigration of the committee on the judiciary be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on thursday. may 11. 1995. at 2:30 p.m. to hold a hearing on immigration and naturalization service oversight.
the senator is correct. through the efforts of senator boxer. i have become aware of the need for border infrastructure investment and of her own legislation which has been referred to our cchnmittee. the transportation finance and ination act embraces the inative finance objectives of the boxer bill. border crossing facilities and multistate trade corridors are clearly eligible and the selection criteria specifically includes those projects which promote international commerce. this bill will enable united states manufacturers to deliver their goods to domestic and foreign markets in a more timely. and costeffective manner.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on immigration. of the senate judiciary committee. be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on thursday. march 5. 1998. at 2 p.m. to hold a hearing in room 226. senate dirksen building. . on: "immigration and naturalization service oversight: reforming the naturalization process."
the senator is correct. through the efforts of senator boxer. i have become aware of the need for border infrastructure investment and of her own legislation which has been referred to our cchnmittee. the transportation finance and ination act embraces the inative finance objectives of the boxer bill. border crossing facilities and multistate trade corridors are clearly eligible and the selection criteria specifically includes those projects which promote international commerce. this bill will enable united states manufacturers to deliver their goods to domestic and foreign markets in a more timely. and costeffective manner.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on immigration. of the senate judiciary committee. be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on thursday. march 5. 1998. at 2 p.m. to hold a hearing in room 226. senate dirksen building. . on: "immigration and naturalization service oversight: reforming the naturalization process."
 to deal with the problem by proclamation within the next 6 months by either waiving the citizenship requirement or adopting aher approach to achieve the objective. in the consular assistance area. for example. provisions could be made administratively under the trusteeship agreement. only one change is being made in the language offered by the administration at the hearing. aside from some technical and clarifying changes in dates which the administration agrees were in error. and that is the inclusion of the language in rection 18 dealing with those particular federal service or financial assistance pro grams directly extended to the marl anas. those programs specifically contemnplated the participation of residents of the thern marianas and section 18 provides that a citizenship requirement in those areas will  bar a citizen of the thern mariana islands from participation. the administration had requested that the relevant pages of the interim report of the commission be printed as a senate document for reference. in lieu of that approach. i ask unanimous consent that those pages of the interim report. pages 6374. be printed at the close of my remarks. sections 17 to 25. therefore. are the administrations proposed solution to the problem raised by the commission and is acceptable to the marianas.
. do you realize what the u.s. senate has done compared to the house. which was to try to take the easy road. just focusing on one problem which could or could  have anything to do with drunken driving. at least we have sat down  quietly and thought this out and brought different perspectives to it. exchanged our views. and i think have a far better piece of legislation in the lautenberg and danforth amendment than anybody has discussed heretofore. i hope the amendment passes. and i hope that we continue our efforts in a way that is fair and equal to all americans. there are very few times i disagree with my colleague from maine. very few times. i happen to think that in terms of his kledge of constitutional law and his appreciation of both the spirit and the ltter of that document. there is finer senator on this floor. but it seems to me the highest burden of citizenship is giving your life for your country. it really does. i do  k any higher obligation that rests on anyone. and that being the case. it seems to me you are also entitled to the simplest of its privileges. whether you want to determine it right here. or whenever you will. that is what bothers me. maybe the voting and drinking does  relate. but i still am very bothered by it. i suppose just having come back from the ceremonies at mandy and seeing all those rows of white crosses and king most of the people lying under them are 18-. 19-. and 20yearolds. i have difficulty with this and i am troubled by it. as i am troubled by this matter of individual constitutional rights. we all concede the nature and the emity and the tragedy of the problem and we tried to come at it in a unique and a thoughtful way. we have each given a little of ourselves in trying to achieve a solution. the senator from new jersey and the senator from missouri have been very decent and good to work with. and in the sense that at least we get a start on the matter that is important to me. the matter of license revocation. which i consider to be the key step to getting the drunk driver off the road. i think this is a good start and i hope the amendment will pass.
 to deal with the problem by proclamation within the next 6 months by either waiving the citizenship requirement or adopting aher approach to achieve the objective. in the consular assistance area. for example. provisions could be made administratively under the trusteeship agreement. only one change is being made in the language offered by the administration at the hearing. aside from some technical and clarifying changes in dates which the administration agrees were in error. and that is the inclusion of the language in rection 18 dealing with those particular federal service or financial assistance pro grams directly extended to the marl anas. those programs specifically contemnplated the participation of residents of the thern marianas and section 18 provides that a citizenship requirement in those areas will  bar a citizen of the thern mariana islands from participation. the administration had requested that the relevant pages of the interim report of the commission be printed as a senate document for reference. in lieu of that approach. i ask unanimous consent that those pages of the interim report. pages 6374. be printed at the close of my remarks. sections 17 to 25. therefore. are the administrations proposed solution to the problem raised by the commission and is acceptable to the marianas.
. do you realize what the u.s. senate has done compared to the house. which was to try to take the easy road. just focusing on one problem which could or could  have anything to do with drunken driving. at least we have sat down  quietly and thought this out and brought different perspectives to it. exchanged our views. and i think have a far better piece of legislation in the lautenberg and danforth amendment than anybody has discussed heretofore. i hope the amendment passes. and i hope that we continue our efforts in a way that is fair and equal to all americans. there are very few times i disagree with my colleague from maine. very few times. i happen to think that in terms of his kledge of constitutional law and his appreciation of both the spirit and the ltter of that document. there is finer senator on this floor. but it seems to me the highest burden of citizenship is giving your life for your country. it really does. i do  k any higher obligation that rests on anyone. and that being the case. it seems to me you are also entitled to the simplest of its privileges. whether you want to determine it right here. or whenever you will. that is what bothers me. maybe the voting and drinking does  relate. but i still am very bothered by it. i suppose just having come back from the ceremonies at mandy and seeing all those rows of white crosses and king most of the people lying under them are 18-. 19-. and 20yearolds. i have difficulty with this and i am troubled by it. as i am troubled by this matter of individual constitutional rights. we all concede the nature and the emity and the tragedy of the problem and we tried to come at it in a unique and a thoughtful way. we have each given a little of ourselves in trying to achieve a solution. the senator from new jersey and the senator from missouri have been very decent and good to work with. and in the sense that at least we get a start on the matter that is important to me. the matter of license revocation. which i consider to be the key step to getting the drunk driver off the road. i think this is a good start and i hope the amendment will pass.
. what happened last saturday in brooklyn was pogrom. it was  the work of our government or some secret police. teenagers.  storm troopers. were to blame. still. that desecration must  be lightly dismissed as youthful folly. for it and hundreds of similar incidents which take place every year are ugly reminders that antisemitism continues to sully our nation. in a country where religious freedom is too often taken for granted. people are still persecuted for their beliefs. and e of us. u.s. senator or average citizen. can afford to remain silent in the face of it. we must do all we can to condemn all manner of bigotry and persecution. whether because of religion or race. nationality or class. for it is the vandals. the bigots and the racistsand  the object of their natredwhich besmirch our nation nd are at variance with all we star i for as a people. tomorrow marks .he most sacred of holidays on the jewish calendar. yom kippur. the day of atonement. it is a time of remembering and learning from the past. so with kristallnacht. we can and must remember it and. whatever our own faith. work to rid the united states of all vestiges of prejudice and persecution. only then can we take pride in a country as good as its constitution. (at the request of mr. danforth. the following statement was ordered to be printed in the record:)
. i commend the floor manager. the senator from hawaii . for the speed with which he has acted in having hearings on this bill. marking it up and reporting it to the senate. i also commend his decision -to request that two committee amendments be dropped in order to facilitate enactment of this bill into law. concern has been expressed by many americans over the anticipated resettlement of vietnamese and cambodian refugees in the united states. such concern does  indicate a widespread rejection of our ideals. rather. it -is a natural consequence of the uncertainties arising from our ecoic situation and the aftermath of our final withdrawal from vietnam. as we gain the perspective that only time can give. i have doubts that the response of the american people to the plight of these refugees will be one reflective of our humanitarian ideals. the dramatic upsurge in sponsorship offers for these refugees indicates that such a response is already underway. the essential outlines of the refugee problem are  yet fully kn. however. some factors are becoming evident. estimates of the total refugee population range as high as 150.000. after participating in hearings on the subject. i believe a more realistic figure to be 130.000. of this figure. approximately 15.000 will likely be resettled in countries other than the united states. thus. we are really faced with the task of assimilating approximately 115.000 refugees. there are an estimated 30.000 to 35.000 vietnamese and cambodian heads of households who eventually will need employment. this is far less than the number originally estimated by some. it is a number i believe our ecoy can assimilate without undue strain although some difficulties are bound to be encountered. the administration estimates that the initial cost of resettlement will be $507 million. this is in addition to the $98 million that has already been expended in effecting the evacuation from indochina. this $98 million represents funds that had already been appropriated for aid to indochina. the committee recommendation of $405 million represents what we believe to be a more reasonable estimation of the costs that will be incurred in resettling the refugees. the administration has stated its intent to resettle the refugees in a manner in which one region of the country receives a disproportionate number. to the extent that this is feasible. it is a correct operating procedure. however. certain factors. such as climatic conditions or the present distribution of vietnamese and cambodians living in the united states will probably mean that certain regions will receive a greater number of refugees than others. it is likely that some of the refugees may wish to return to their homeland once conditions have been malized in indochina. and they should be free to do so. the congress has received assurances that obstacles will be placed in their path. on the other hand. it would be unconscionable to force any refugees to return against their wishes. the mcgovern amendment adopted today should meet this problem. in questioning ambassador brown when he appeared before our subcommittee i asked him about those refugees who may have sufficient money to support themselves. i was informed that the standard procedures will include a means test that will be given to all refugees to determine their financial ability to support themselves. of course. those who do have the financial ability to support themselves will be required to do so. and the taxpayers will  have to extend their assistance. we do have some indication that some of the refugees may be selfsupporting. and we hope that such will be the case. the need to move immediately on this issue is evident. therefore. i urge the senate to speedily give its concurrence to the committees recommendations.
i can give the senator my understanding of the matter. and there are present representatives of the committee on foreign relations who. i am sure. can expand my answer further for the senators benefit. as i understand. a treaty. of course. must be handled precisely as the senator has stated. and i state that in my opinion an instrument which rises to the dignity of the one referred to in the discussion we are carrying on. which involves peace among all the nations. to endure from  on. through an organization or otherwise. would certainly rise to the point of the greatest*dignity among international agreements. and should be a treaty. and should come under the provision which requires ratification by a vote of twothirds of the senate. however. i understand that there are many agreements which are  treaties. for example. agreements often of short duration. for instance. there was the recent action of the senate and the house together in authorizing reciprocal trade agreements. those are  subject to ratification by twothirds of the senate. but by authorization of a majority of the house and the senate an agreement may be entered into. and then the agreement.  a treaty. is carried out under the provisions of the act of congress. furthermore. i have understood that in some instances there has been action by both houses in cases whioh have been on the border line. such cases where it has been rather difficult to determine whether the matter in question happened to be a treaty or was  a treaty. as i understand. there was some controversy when the state of texas was admitted to the union as to whether it should come in by treaty or by agreement. i believe it came in by agreement. am i correct. i ask the senator from texas
i should like to make the particular point that i agree fully with the suggestion that we ought  stop here. but should continue to open our gates. certainly with respect to those hungarians  in austria who have relatives in this country. this is a matter  only of fairness to the indi* viduals whose hopes have been aroused. but also a matter of the appearance this country gives. depending upon whether or  it fulfills its moral obligations and obligations to humanity in this regard. it is very important that we  stop . before the job is done. because of the effect stopping would have upon -other countries whose cooperation is necessary if the whole job is to be done and if the escapees and refugees in austria . as well as the great number who recently came into yugoslavia. are to be taken care of by free countries. our continued effort is necessary if the presidents committee for hungarian refugee relief and the intergovernmental committee are to get the job done completely.
s refugee proposals. which deal only with escapees from communist countries. in order to permit entry of  more than 5.000 escapees who fled from areas other than communist. communist dominated or occupied. the department of state has approved this proposal. and i ask unanimous consent that a letter confirming this fact written to me by assistant secretary of state robert c. hill be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. on june 30. 1959. i testified before the senate immigration subcommittee in support of senate bill 1919. cosponsored by senators saltonstall. javits. keating. and me. which deals with refugee and immigration matters. at the hearing. i mentioned the need for aher desirable amendment to the immigration and nationality act which was  part of our omnibus proposal. an amendment which. as i said at the time. would definitely be "in the interest of love and marriage." i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to permit an alien fiance or fiancee of an american citizen to come to the united states for the purpose of getting married. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record. at present. if an american wants to marry an alien who is a native of a country with an oversubscribed quota. there is way for the alien to be admitted to the united states to celebrate the marriage. the result. of course. can be heartbreak and broken romance. at the least. it has long delayed marriages by permitting marriages for only those affluent and patient suitors who are able to afford to go abroad and. subsequently. to file a petition for the issuance of a quota visa for the spouse. once married. there is problem. recently we have had a dramatic instance of the kind of situation to which my bill would apply. we all rejoice at the good fortune of young steven rockefeller. who met miss annemarie rasmussen. of way. while she was in this country. subsequently he went to way and won the ladys hand. their nuptials. as everyone ks. will be celebrated in a few days. their courtship has a happy ending. but for many aher young american less blessed with financial resources. there may be many months or years of weary waiting for the girl of his dreams to reach her turn on a quota list. love and marriage. as the song puts it. go together like a horse and carriage. surely. it is  inappropriate for the united states to help smooth the path of true love. and that with proper safeguards to prevent abuses is the simple purpose of my bill.
. philip hochstein. a distinguished new jersey newspaperman. is  serving here in washington as editor of the advance news service of the newhouse newspapers. for nearly 40 years. philip hochstein has been an editorial executive. serving as editor of the newark star ledger among many important newspaper positions in a number of cities. but he has never lost his interest in covering important stories personally. one problem to which he has devoted his reportorial and analytical skills is the still unresolved problem of the palestinian arab refugees .who left their homes during the arab attack on israel shortly after the founding of israel 16 years ago. i believe his analysis sheds light on many aspects of the unbelievably complex refugee problem which have thus far escaped widespread attention. i ask unanimous consent to have inserted in the record an article by philip hochstein about the arab refugee problem. published in the todays world section of the philadelphia inquirer on sunday. may 24. 1964.
. one thing emerges clearly from the confusing and conflicting reports from leba. thousands of inent civilianslebanese and palestinianare being killed. some of this killing is a direct consequence of the battles being waged. some of it appears random. unfortunately some of the killing is occurring because the refugee camps are being deliberately shelled by artillery fire directed at them. the refugee camps have always been centers of political activities and are also arsenals. etheless. the people in these camps. are  combatants and they should  be subject to the bombardment  going on. both sides should give them a chance to get out. if they want to do so. these people have suffered egh from the various conflicting ideologies and diverse political ambitions of their leaders. one central element of the latest cease fire negotiations should be arrangements to give those in the camps who wish to leave the right to do so.
. a meeting of the preparatory commission for the international refugee organization. an affiliate of the united nations designed to take over from unrra the care of refugees and displaced persons in europe. is  being held in geneva. the plight of these living dead. the walking casualties of world war ii. cries out for help to the conscience of the world. some 1.000.000 refugees and displaced persons are largely under the care of the united states and great britain. fourfifths of them are poles. white russians. and ukrainians. most of whom refuse to be repatriated because of their opposition to the regimes  governing their countries. itis a popular misconception that most of these displaced persons are jews but. in fact. only about 25 percent of the aggregate number in austria. italy. and germany are jews. while 75 percent are christians. but this 25 percent. the martyred remnant of the jews of europe long only for the true opening of the jewish national home in palestine. the united states is  spending an estimated eight to ten million dollars a month to maintain displaced persons in the american zone of occupation in europe. our prospective contribution to the international refugee organization is $71.030.000. or roughly about 8 months operation. the best way to spend money is to try to find a solution. the united states has sent an official of the state department as a delegate to geneva and. subject to appropriation by congress. has subscribed 45.75 percent of the operating budget of the new organization. even great britain. despite her own desperate plight. has agreed to subscribe 14.75 percent. her share of this budget. canada has joined. too. as have france and way. the philippines. liberia. and denmark. and three of our sister american republics. honduras. the dominican republic. and guatemala. thus bringing the organization into reality through agreements to subscribe for almost 75 percent of its budget. let us pray that with united effort through this international refugee organization and through a just solution in palestine. a ray of light may be introduced in the blackness--which is lifefor the displaced persons and refugees in europe in 1947.
 it does . it depends upon the national processes of each of the countries involved. the international refugee organization will be compelled to deal at arms length with us and with every other country concerned. although that country may be a member of the organization. and that brings me to the point of immigration.. i do  think i need impress upon the house my deep interest in this whole question of resettling the refugees and dps by immigration into various countries. i want to assure the house that there is moral basis arising out of this legislation which will give any better or different claim to whatever efforts are being made to get the united states to take some of these refugees and dps under our immigration laws. different. or stronger. or better moral basis is being created by this legislation whatsoever. on the contrary. the organization of the international- refugee organization will divest our army of responsibility for the refugees and dps and relieve us of the pressure which would come from the armys desire otherwise to divest itself of this jurisdiction. the passage of this legislation clears the atmosphere for an opportunity to debate the immigration issue directly between the various people who have different ideas on the subject. we in the united sates will deal. then. at arms length with an international organization which will have the whole matter in charge. i think that every argument that can be made regarding this matter is covered in the committee hearings. the committee went into it very thoroughly and very exhaustively. taking an initial responsibility as if it had  been heard by the senate at all. the committee came to the unanimous conclusion that membership in the internation. i refugee organization was the best way to handle the situation. i hope the house will pass the bill.
i do  imply it either way. i only say that they have come out against the outlawing of the communist party. and i think i can demonstrate that this bill does outlaw the communist party. the second reason for my opposition to this bill is that it makes certain sweeping findings of fact about a movement which condemn individuals without proof of individual guilt. but just because they are members. and if the house can find what it does as facts in this bill. in regard to the communists. then it could. tomorrow. make the same sweeping findings of fact in regard to any other international movement. whether it is educational or moral or even religious. and could effectively outlaw that movement tomorrow just as it is trying to outlaw the communist movement today. my third ground of opposition is that this bill defines a new kind of treason and i do  want the congress to define a new kind of treason by a majority vote when the only authority for the definition of treason is in article iii. section 3. of the constitution. if the constitution is to be amended. it is a very thorough and deliberate process. requiring concurrence of the states. as the founding fathers sought it to be and as i and every other citizen and every miity in the united states would want it to be. . to go over these points: i said that this bill outlaws the communist party. the provisions of paragraph 3 of section 3 of this bill require a finding that the "communist political organization." which is affected by the bill. is under the control ofa foreign government or foreign governmental or political organization defined as communist. which has as its objective the establishment of a "communist totalitarian dictatorship." or it requires the finding that it is one of the principal instrumentalities utilized to attain its objectives by this foreign government or foreign political organization. . paragraphs (3) and (6) of section 2 of the bill state that this very objective of establishing a communist totalitarian dictatorship is the objective of the foreign government or governmental or political organization referred to. section 4 of the bill makes it a felony  alone to attempt in any manner to establish in the united states a totalitarian dictatorship under foreign control. but to perform or attempt to perform any .act with intent to facilitate or aid in bringing about the establishment in the united states of such a totalitarian dictatorship. hence. any officer or any member actively interested in a communist political organization as defined in this bill. and with the findings of fact set forth in this bill as to the objectives of such organization. will be in grave jeopardy of standing indictment and trial for felony under section 4 of the act the minute the communist political organization registers as required by section 8 of the bill. more than that. such a person will lose his citizenship if convicted. and  only lose his citizenship but. if he is a nativeborn american. even lose his nationality. that is a very grave punishment. a punishment which we generally reserve for treason. and we are here creating a new kind of treason. we say to any communist political organization. "when you register. your officers and active members are done in. they are practically prima fadie guilty of a felony." if they are. do you think they are going to register. or are they going to go underground. that is exactly why gover dewey and senator taft are opposed to the outlawry of the communist party. and i will read their statements to that effect. gover dewey in a speech reported from portland. oreg.. on may 3. and i read the news report. said: it is thoughtcontrol borrowed from the japanese war leadership. he is speaking of the outlawry of the communist party. it is an attempt to beat down ideas with a club. it is surrender of everything we believe in. it is a philosophy which i shall fight to the limit of my strength. senator taft said. and i quote a news report from milwaukee on may 8: under our constitution. we can. and should . make it illegal for an american citizen to think communism or express his opinions. so long as he does  advocate a violent overthrow of the government. there are laws on our statute booles. the smith act. the voorhis act. and the mccormack act. with respect to organizations that advocate the overthrow of the government by force or violence. you can substitute for the enforcement of laws new laws. if we will enforce the laws on the books today we can reach the communists who ought to be reached. and if strengthening amendments are needed they should be made to these laws. the best proof of the pudding is that the gentleman who preceded me and other gentlemen have referred today to prosecution after prosecution for contempt against people charged with being subversive who have actually gone to jail. the fact is  that subversives are getting away with anything. the fact is that when a determined effort is made to reach those who are guilty of criminal acts they can be reached. one other point. which i think is very important: despite the fact that some members come on the floor here and speak strongly for this bill. there is grave disquiet in this house among the rank and file of the members with respect to this bill. and it seems apparent that so far great interest has been aroused in this measure in the other body. if this bill deals effectively with communists. i think they in the other body are just as american as we are and would be just as exercised gs we are about an effective way to deal with any menace to  american liberties. we may be engaged here in a very elaborate but a very footless exercise. i made reference to a new kind of treason. i think it is very important to speak of that. this bill does find a new kind of treason. because it makes a felony and it makes a loss of citizenship and nationality dependent upon the advocacy of a certain type of idea. that is generally the punishment for treason. those two things i mentioned. yet here it is premised upon the advocacy of certain types of ideas. to demonstrate the disquiet this bill has aroused among many whose opposition to communism is as clear as mine. the liberal party of new york. which is in part responsible for my being here. and which was organized as an anticommunist party. has come out against this bill. i will put its resolution in the record as a part of my remarks.
. this amendfient appoints a watchdog committee to do the one thing that the american people want to see done. and that is to see that the civilian and  the military are dominant in the military policy of the united states. it is germane to the bill also because it seeks to provide for the coordination of the military and the foreign policy of the united states. and for the training of selectees  alone in military matters. but in citizenship and the purposes for which they are being called upon to serve.
yes. but many dps are being kept out. too. and they are the same dps the number of whom we are prepared to expand somewhat in this bill. second. and a very gratifying thing to me. is that we are longer talking in this debate about the fact that only 23 percent of the dps in the displaced persons camps are jewish. out of the number of resettlees handled by the iro. israel has taken more resottlees than any other country in the world. some 94.000 jews have. by the heroic effort of that little country. been adequately taken care of. the problems of the jewish displaced persons are being solved. and this makes it a lot easier and a lot happier for me to speak to the problem here on the floor today and to urge that the house adopt this bill. we have already adopted the principle that we want to admit dps. the arguments which we have heard from the gentleman from texas and from other gentlemen here on the floor who have spoken or who will speak are addressed to a decision which has already passed and has been made. the question is. shall this displaced persons bill  be improved along the lines advocated by the subcommittee headed by the distinguished gentleman from pennsylvania . i think the facts indicate it should be. and for three reasons. first. the united states needs the additional skilled population which these dps bring into our country. second. it will reduce the burden of expense which we are  paying through the iio. which for this current year is $70.000.000. and tend to bring us to a goal which we set of july 1. 1950. at which time we expected to be able to terminate. or at least to so materially reduce our support of iro that it would longer be a major factor. third. the moral obligation which we owe to the dps. and this is  based on any abstruse proposition. but is based on our adoption in this house of the international refugee organization charter. we joined that organization. and along with the other nations which are members agreed to bring about resettlement of displaced persons. on the question of the skills of thtse people it is very important to e that these displaced persons who are left are  devoid of skills. on the contrary. various useful skills are very much present in these people. an actual survey made by the international. refugee organization as of the fall of last year of 283.188 dps. a very considerable sample. showed that professional and management personnel among that 283.000 constituted 12.8 percent: agricultural workers still constituted 22 percent. skilled workers in manufacturing and manufacturing employment constituted a total of over 28 percent. far more than the majority of the adults in these groups are still very skilled workers. and are available to us. of course. as we all k. we are short of certain skills in this country. and those skills are provided for in this bill. by giving preference to farm. household and construction workers. tailors. and so forth. everybody ks about the shortage of domestic servants. there is secret in that. by admitting the additional number of dps called for by this bill. we are doing the three things which i have mentioned. first. we are discharging our own obligation undertaken with other nations to resettle the dps in connection with the iro. second. we are cutting down our own expense to support iro. and. third. we are getting people who are very good for the united states. something has been said about the fact that we are to be overrun with population. let us take a look at that very briefly. from 1790 to 1880 our population increased 3 percent annually. from 1930 to 1940 it increased 0.7 percent annually. from 1940 to 1947 it has increased 1.3 percent annually. it is calculated that unless we can move on with respect to population. we are likely to lag to the extent of about 90.000.000 in population behind the soviet union. which is our big rival in the world. by 1970. one who has traversed the wide spaces of our country can say for a minute that we are overcrowded or that we can absorb ecoically many more people in our own country.
the gentleman ks that this bill provides for people only who held citizenship at the time of nationalization. there are others in the united states as permanent citizens who have applied for citizenship and who would  be covered by this bill although they may bec6me citizens of the*united states ultimately and hold their first papers . the senate wrote in a provision against future agreements saying that in connection with future agreements the senate desired that those who are permanent residents of the united states and have gotten their first papers and declared their intention of becoming united states citizens should be considered nationals. the senate report states: the committee feels that the executive branch should attempt to negotiate the inclusion of the claims of the above category of american citizens in settlement agreements although this is  made obligatory. does the gentleman believe that when the conferees struck the whole proviso they were intending to prohibit or inhibit the state department from extending the definition of nationals in any future agreement.
i certainly do  think so. and one of the points which i believe has held up the implementation of the refugee relief act of 1953 has been a reluctance to use the experienced type of personnel from the displaced persons program which could be properly securitycleared for utilization under the refugee relief program.
. reserving the right to object. and i shall . the whole question before the house  is that the house is passing certain senate bills for the relief of individuals. it is  passing others. i have been told that there is an understanding with the immigration and naturalization authorities to the effect that those individuals who have had a bill passed by one house will  be deported before there is an opportunity to act early next year. that being so we should have it stated authoritatively under this reservation. as to the rest of the bills which were passed by either body and will  be brought up at this session for final concurrence.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the program board of the council of churches of buffalo and erie counties. n. y.. at its meeting march 13. 1957. relating to a revision of the immigration and nationality act of 1952.
i hope the senator will go along with me a little bit. because i have very deep respect for his effort and his desire to do the just and wise thing. i might say. too. if the senator will allow me. that. coming as he does from a border area. what he says on this subject. coming as it does from the standpoint of living experience. is of great significance to me. dedicated as i am to this bill. i nevertheless listened to the senator from kentucky with a very open mind.
. i- present. for appropriate reference. a resolution adopted by the federation of jewish womens organizations. inc.. of new york. n. y.. favoring the enactment of legislation to revise the immigration and nationality laws. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution may be printed in the record.
 on september 11. 1957. public law 85216. to extend the use of the remaining visas under the refugee relief act of 1953. i think the program has moved so very slowly as to be almost scandalous in terms of the original intention of the congress. i shall specify some of the details in order to draw to the problem the attention of the department. which is handling the matter. and the attention of my colleagues as to the need for speeding up this program. as is always the case in these matters. it is probably the fault of particular person. however. this is the situation which exists. out of a total of 18.656 visas to be issued. 14.556 were to be for socalled escapee refugees. those persons. as defined by the law. who had fled the iron curtain and could  return because of fear of persecution on account of their political opinions. religion or race. and also those who had escaped from any area of the middle east and could  return because of fear of persecution because of religion. race. or political opinion. although we provided a small number of visas for such persons. the least we could have hoped was that people who are located in such jeopardy. those who are living in silent fear for having served the cause of the free world. ought to get prompt action. from a news story in the new y6rk times of sunday. may 25. 1958. which i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record as a part of my remarks. up to  only 457 visas had been issued to those of dutch ethnic extraction. when they were entitled to 1.600 under the statute. 100 visas had been issued to german expellees. when they were entitled to 2.500 visas under this section. as to the other 14.556. about the most one could hope for. from these figures. is that some 1.020 had been approved. the procedures which were initially initiated. which was true of the refugee relief act of 1953. until a few of us. including myself. got after it. were obsessed with security. the theory was that the screening had to be so fine as to go beyond all other screenings. all kinds of complicated interdepartmental procedures were provided. for example. there was one questionnaire which contained 56 questions as one of the required documents. each question of which had to be answered. the agency suffered from small staffs. it suffered at times from appropriations. in that respect i communicated with the department in regard to this matter in january 1958. at that time their troubles were those pertaining to lack of appropriations. it seems to me that when we have an act of this character. critically important both to our humanitarian instincts and to our foreign policy. its virtue is that whatever is done must be done with dispatch. what is done slowly or cumbersomely can sometimes work the reverse of benefit. it could easily result in disaster. without pinning anybody to the wall and saying it is his fault or her fault. i take this opportunity to introduce these facts and figures to urge speed upon the officials of our government. to urge that they  be obsessed with concern for security. to urge upon them that the intention of the congress was that action be taken promptly. that such action is needed in our national interest. that the time is  too late yet. and that action can take place and the program be truly completed within. i certainly hope. a measurable period of time. say 1 year. rather than a longer period. because. according to the story. it is estimated that the program will be wound up in 1960. i urgently make these representations and strongly urge that my colleagues acquaint themselves with this situation.
i rise to answer only one point. incidentally. i think the senator from kentucky is altogether too modest about his willingness to share with us his great experience in india. i. like other senators. have been to india. i got off the plane with the senator from kentucky when he and his wife first arrived there. they were greeted with the greatest of enthusiasm and attention. john cooper is very highly regarded in india by millions of people who often do  k of the american ambassador. i think it is all to the good that the senator from kentucky was able to be in india. and is  in the senate. willing to share his experience with us. i appreciate the comment of the senator from kentucky upon the question why india was named in the bill. i think there is a very good reason which has  been discussed yet. the reason is that india has a 5year plan. the south american countries do . one congress can control aher congress. but one congress can. by expressing its great moral sympathy with aher state. give a clear indication of such sympathetic backing of what that other state is trying to do. so as to make a record for the congresses which will follow. that was done in the marshall plan. any of us who have had experience in these matters are under a duty to share it with others in the body in which we serve. i was a member of the house committee on foreign affairs when the marshall plan was drafted. we faced exactly the same problem. what should we do in order to guarantee 4 years of support. when one congress can bind aher. we can do anything. we can make a guaranty. we can make such a provision in a bill. but we can express a sympathetic understanding of what aher nation is facing. we can let that nation feel that the united states. through its congress. expresses its sympathetic understanding. and that there is every likelihood that if things continue on pretty much an even keel. they will continue to get the backing of this great nation. the reason we refer to india is because this is right  where we are being asked for the answer due to indias serious financial problem. congress wrote exactly that kind of provision into the original marshall plan legislation. as anyone can see who will read the original appropriation section which. together with representative vorys and other members of the house. i had the ho to help in drafting. i think the senator from new hampshire . who is one of our most distinguished senators and for whom i have great personal affection. has done a great service in asking for the yeas and nays on this amendment. this proposal should have been considered separately as a resolution. but we will vote yea or nay. and we will do a great service if we carry the day for this particular provision as it stands in the bill. because the united states senate will be saying to the people of india. "we understand you have a 5year plan. we can give you a guaranty that you will be backed up on this plan year by year. the next congress may  do so. but. at least. you will have the kledge that we think you are on the right track about it." . we are  living in a vacuum. we are confronted with burning competition by the soviet union. the soviet union is doing a terrific job in communist china.  in terms of $225 million. but in terms of 2 and 3 times that. the soviet union has much less production than we have. but everyone is watching across that border between india and communist china. are we adult egh and wise egh to meet competition when we see it. or shall we let ourselves be led away by other considerations which are  germane to the burning issue of survival. i am glad the senator from kentucky has taken the time of the senate to give us the benefit of his experience and to share with us his kledge. i share with him his substantive reason for including in the bill the provision referring to india.
i did  k that the bill was to be called up. i am  for the first time getting a copy of the bill and the report. it is my understanding that the bill contains a provision with respect to italian claims. in addition to czechoslovakian claims. i have objection to the italian claims provision. but it embodies a very important principle about which i should like to ask the senator. the principle adopted with respect to the italian claims is that the citizenship of a claimant as a united states citizen is to be determined. so far as it enables him to qualify to make the claim.  at the time of the loss. but at the time of the claim. this is an exception to the rule which the committee has followed rather consistently and which has caused dismay to a great many persons who are very deserving and who have been persecuted and expelled from foreign countriesfor example. by the nazis. when they occupied. roughly. the same position the communists occupy today. these people are  american citizens. but obviously were  american citizens when the loss occurred. and therefore have  been able to obtain any relief. i hope the senator from louisiana will explain to us why this departure from policy is being madeand let me say i favor very much the departureand whether we may look forward. therefore. to a reconsideration by the foreign relations committee of the substantial question involved. against which i and. i believe. a number of other members of congress have had very serious objections. we have felt that many persons were being prejudiced. through fault of their own. because they did  become american citizens until too late to participate. and yet we pride ourselves on the fact that. once a person is an american citizen. he has all the rights. prerogatives. and standing that are had by other american citizens. including those born to american citizenship. will the senator from louisiana be kind egh to comment on that situation.
the scrutiny argument was made primarily with respect to the other funds. such as the czechoslovakian funds. that is true of other funds which are created or will be created. the ground rules which i should like to see more universally applied are these: first. that there be citizenship on the part of any claimant. second. that it does  cost the american taxpayer any money. that relates only to a fund established by negotiation and paid by a foreign government. in the case of communist governments. we k very well that they are  going to recognize claims. they will  negotiate until somehow they get out from behind the iron curtain. in those cases we knew that there are many more claims than can be paid with the money available. that situation might  be permanent. it may very well be that these claims can be liquidated for less than the assets available. the principle i am seeking to establish is that. at the very least. i think a good argument can be made that all american citizens should be treated the same way. whether they are citizens by naturalization or birth. in any event. american citizens should be treated equally on two scores: first. that the claims will be very carefully handled. so that if humanly possible there will be a surplus. and. second. if there is a surplus. they will be recognized as next in line.
i thank my colleague from illis. i might say i understand and accept the views of both the senator from illis and the senator from vermont. it would be very easy to let this matter rest and simply  discuss it. but i think that would be a disservice to my colleagues. as well as a disservice to our nation and to peace of the world. i believe we should discuss the matter. as we are discussing it today. in an effort to arrive at a meeting of minds so far as is humanly possible. or at least to air our differences in an effort to bring our divergent views as close together as possible. that is one thing which will move us to action. i might say that we have troubles with this question. and we are going to suffer with it. but i do  think it is helped by loading the situation in favor of a particular point of view. i think we have to have an evenhanded approach to the problem if we are going to get a constructive result. it is rather my guess that the most constructive result will be on a piecebypiece basis. i think the idea of moving into the refugee problem. the idea of using that as an opening wedge to deal with the situation. as i have been advocating for years. is still the soundest approach.
. i ask unanimous consent that the junior senator from pennsylvania may be permitted to join as a cosponsor of the resolution (s. res. 357) favoring an international conference of free nations to consider european refugee problems. submitted by me on
with respect to the law we  have on the books. the refugee act as extended 2 years. which expires in july of 1959. as of july 28 last there were 12.524 applicants under the section of the law for the 14.556 visas available. and only 252 visas had been issued. in short. we constantly stymie ourselves with a tremendously slow executive operation in this field.
finally. . i k the views of the senator from mississippi on the question of the quota system of the united states. but nevertheless a great many of us feel that maintaining. as we do. the 1920 census3 censuses before the lastas the basis for establishing nationality quotas. which arbitrarily cuts off some 65.000 additional opportunities for worthy immigration into the united states. is simply wrong. the administration is against it. i think a great body of opinion in the country is against it. may we ask the senator from mississippi whether he will afford a hearing early in the next session of congress on the entire question of the quota system.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the rdsumd of the findings and recommendations of the zellerbach commission on the european refugee situation. i do so because i feel it contains many significant and stimulating proposals which deserve the close attention of legislators and members of government. the zellerbach commission. i should like to point out. was originally set up as an ad hoc body of private citizens for the purpose of trying to do something about the problem. after 18 months of pioneering activity in the fields of research and public education. the commission is  about to disband. i should. therefore. like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to mr. harold l. zellerbach. hon. angler biddle duke. and the other members of the commissionhon. eugenie anderson. mr. irving brown. mrs. david levy. mr. eugene lyons. and bishop james a. pikefor their public spirit in initiating the undertaking. and for their good services in the interest of our country and of the refugees from totalitarian tyranny.
i wish to associate myself with the expression of the distinguished senator from arizona about the use of the phrase "an enemy of the people." the senator from oregon has a perfect right on the floor of the senate to call anybody anything he pleases. but i think it would be less than just and dignified for those of us who. like myself. k  of the united states. on the contrary. i think mr. strauss will make a splendid. hoable. dignified secretary of commerce. i shall vote for him with the feeling that i am doing exactly the right thing in the interests of the american. people. it is all right for the senator from oregon to say that that is my business. just as his views are his business. but i should like to say a word about antisemitism. this is pretty slippery business. when it begins to intrude itself into the debate on the qualifications of a inee it is bound to confuse and becloud the atmosphere. it is well kn that i am jewish. i am very proud of the fact. i have from time to time found it necessary to speak on the floor with kledge and pride in my faith. so i should like to make this point: * i have reason whatsover to question a single sentence or implication of the senator from oregon. and would  do so. of course. but whatever may have * been said or done by any individual or the head of any organization which is * considered a jewish organization. it is my conviction that the jewish people of the united states. like all other american citizens. are either for or against lewis strauss. depending on whether or  they would like him to be secretary of commerce. i do  say that either affirmatively or negatively. but i do  think the issue should be raised or be used that strauss is jewish. that should  be used as an element in the confirmation of his ination in any way. i express the hope that the great capability which the jewish people of our country have shown for being useful citizens will be hoed at a time like this by letting the subject stand as is. strictly upon the record of citizenship and patriotism on the part of each individual. i do  think any of our colleagues will vote on the basis of the inee being of the jewish faith. and i hope that senator will allow that thought to intrude in any way into his consciousness. i have received letters from many persons who. from their names. i would take to be jewish. who are either for or against admiral strauss. that is eminently proper. that is the american way. i appreciate the views of the senator from oregon and his bringing this matter to our attention in an endeavor to put it in focus in his way. i hope. perhaps. that i may help to put it in focus in my way. i hope and trust the fact that mr. strauss is jewish will  intrude in any way into our discussions. i emphasize. either in an affirmative or a negative way. either by rebutting it or confirming it. for it does  belong to the considerations of the senate of the united states. it is my deep conviction that it does  intrude in the consciousness of the overwhelming majority of the citizens of the united states who are of my faith.
. one of the greatest men of our time and the worlds leading scientist was albert einstein. who died in 1955. there have been many great men in our generation. but his name stands out among the others as one whose work will probably temper the course of the world for many generations still to come. without his genius. the tremendous achievements in the physical sciences and in the exploration of space may in all likelihood  have occurred in our lifetimes. albert einstein published his theory of special relativity as far back as 1905. albert einstein was an immigrant to the united states. a refugee who fled nazi persecution. a winner of the el prize in 1921. he became a special target of the nazis. he fled finally in 1933 and came to princeton. n.j.. where the university made it possible for him to continue his work. had he  been a man of exceptional distinction. our present immigration laws might very well have kept him out of our country. to the very great detriment of world progress. in this connection i should like to point out urgent need of amendments to the immigration and naturalization act which would seek to modernize and correct many weaknesses in our present immigration procedures. and include the admission into the united states of a fair share of the iron curtain refugees. our country was extremely fortunate in being able to provide a home and an atmosphere in which a man like albert einstein could continue his incomparable work. his name will be an inspiration in science to the present and future generations of young scientists as well as to the youth of our country. who have  been privileged to k him. i believe it would be eminently fitting that we establish in the capital of the united states a memorial to albert einstein which would stand as an expression of our nations high regard for this extraordinary. yet very modest and humble man. and i propose this resolution to that effect. i expect that there will be adequate private subscription for this memorial.
. i think it is very important that all of us understand something of the background of what is going on in this perilous part of the world. which is so incendiary. as we all k. for. according to recent reports. soviet bloc weapons of all types have been flowing into the united arab republic in increasing quantities. the recent fighting on the syrianisraeli border may  be directly the outcome of that arms flow. but it certainly seems fair to say it is very unlikely it would have happened except in consequence of intransigency and belligerency in that quarter of the world because of the arms buildup. the gravity of this danger is recognized in editorials this morning. i am sure. throughout the country. but i have iced such editorials in both the new york times and the new york herald tribune. and i ask unanimous consent that those editorials be made a part of my remarks.
i congratulate the senator from kentucky. who comes from a border state. on his position. he does  always take a position like my own on civil rights. but essentially he has the deep conviction. which i think comes from his reason. that to sustain the power of law rather than to let lawless elements. on whichever side. take over. is the right way to proceed. the senator from kentucky has made an address today which is so much in character that i think it should be deeply gratifying.  only to his colleagues. but to all other americans. i am very grateful to the senator.
. i would  want my failure this action only as an element in the at this time to say more on the subject conflict between the arab states and to be interpreted to mean that i accept israel. i have very strong feelings on all of the characterization of the situathis subject. i think it is shameful and tion which has been given by the sen in the interest of world peace that we ator from new york. i will say that i allow the state of ferment to continue as welcome the statement the senator has the result of the united arab republics made about hoping for and desiring a insistence on maintaining a state of war solution to the problem. with israel. i think anyone who visits that area but the fact is  germane to this must be impressed by the fact that so situation. in acting as it did with respect long as the situation continues it is a to the declaration on freedom of navi- reproach to the world. it is a reproach cvi-*to the united nations. and it is a reproach to humanity for children to be born into the world and to grow up in the conditions of these refugee camps. i was at the camp at jericho. i saw the children there. who were 8 or 9 or 10 or 12 years old. with kledge of the world other than what they obtained from the hovels in which they lived in the refugee camp. it suggests that something ought to be done. there ought to be a permanent solution. rather than continue to have the situation fester as it is.
. i send to the desk. on behalf of myself and senators morse. saltonstall. case of new jersey. and scott. a bill to amend the immigration and nationality laws of the united states. and ask that it be appropriately referred.
subsequently said: . earlier today. the senator from pennsylvania made a very interesting and very able speech about the arab refugee situation. it happens that earlier today i. too. spoke about that matter. i wish to state my pleasure at the thesis adopted by senator scott. which is so closely in keeping with and in the same spirit with the same general conclusion and the same thesis on this subject which i espoused today. i take great comfort from the support of his independent thinking on this subject. and i join him in the belief that the problems of the arab refugees are very serious. and that what we do in that regard will be a very important element of the stability in the near east and of the hope for ultimate peace there. i also join the senator from pennsylvania in the belief that it will  serve well the solution of that problem to inundate the new state of israel with a flood of repatriated arabs who might become a fifth column there and. in that way. might endanger the new state. and that therefore we must remain faithful to our commitments. undertaken through the years. that we wish to help in a very material way in the resolution of this problem. as we have offered our help time and time again. but in order to be fair. such help must be based on the practical problem and its solution. which is essentially resettlement. together with whatever steps may be necessary and consistent with the maintenance of stability for the new state of israel and the concept of the fair share. again i commend the senator from pennsylvania for the excellent address he made today on this subject.
 should demand refugee relief legislation as part of the package to meet the berlin crisis. and the congress should vote it without the selfimposed long delay and frustrations which  seem to be the rule. again i renew my pledge that i will  stand still and see approved any ineffective. superficial. and tiny immigration measure. and that i shall exercise every prerogative i have as a senator to endeavor to include in that measure the necessary immigration legislation generally. and do everything i can to relieve this refugee situation. i hope and pray that our leadership in the senate and in the house will see the light in the face of this emous opportunity which is afforded to the free world with respect to this flood of refugees. which is increasing every day from east germany.
but we are dealing here with claims much more current and with the statute applicable to this period and to this general group. it is a fact that those in the group are americans. and probably they value their american citizenship even more than they value whatever payments they may receive under the provisions of this bill. in the second place. i do  think they would be defined as germans. czechs. or poles. in view of what was done to them in those countries. i do  think the argument has to be stretched that far. and i do  think international law is applicable in this case. because we made a special arrangement in connection with this matterthe senator has already referred to itand thereby agreed to pay the claims. ourselves. under international law. the payment is to be made by the nation which did the wrongs. in discussing the matter of priorities. i should like to ask the senator a question. it seems to me that in connection with the matter of priorities. the amendment of the senator from illis has a rather special status. so on that basis. whether we decide for or against the amendment. i believe we should at least point out that these persons suffered grievously in one of the most awful holocausts the world has ever seen. it is a fact that under the legislation of the german republic and even under the inadequate legislation of the austrian republic. these people have received hing. but they need such assistance very badly. in addition. some of them are the subjects of assistance by the jewish survivors organization. which has received some reparations from germany. but many of them in this country need help very badly. i should like to suggest to the senator that he consider this subject. it may well be that we are dealing with three classes of persons. in addition to those who qualify according to what has been a tradition in connection with such cases other than the italian ones. for which provision was made. for those who were nationals at the time the loss was suffered. and also for those who were nationals. but it seems to me that we may be dealing with three different classes: first. the american citizens who qualify under this bill. second. those being discussed by the senator from illis . who is moved by his compassion for their need. third. those who really should be considered americans. in view of the exigencies which drove them out of their homelands and brought them to be nationals of the united states. but who can get any relief of this sort unless they fit into the provisions of this bill. it may very well be that some categories of priority. such as have been referred to by the senator. may be necessary. in view of the exigencies of the situation. the figures we obtained are that they expect the number of claims to be somewhere between 25.000 and 75.000. and the claims are estimated to amount to approximately $300 million. it is also learned from the hand count. as it is called. in 1956 and 1957. when the claims were filed. showed that approximately 28.000 persons who thought they had claims were told that they did  have any claim. and that those amounted to approximately $214 million. therefore. these categories. which are covered by the amendment of the senator from illis and by my amendment. must be considerably less than that.
this proposal would  necessarily commit us to a longtime refugee program. we could look it over to decide if we did or did  wish to do it. it is only a temporary measure in which we would participate. as the senator has advocated. because of our wellkn feelings about the refugees. the unhappy and unfortunate people who are in a country shattered by a terrible civil war. a country  trying to put itself together again. is that correct.
 ody ks better than i the problem in th africa. the problem faced by the arab world is  a moithic one. there are various elements in it. like the tunisian. algerian. and moroccan elements. it is very important that we maintain our relationship as the great power which has a heart for the people. withstanding that perhaps in other places in the near east we can take an attitude entirely suitable to the arab world. that is the reason why i wish to reexpress our position. so that we will all understand what we are doing. we are  going into some new. big. broadscale refugee program.
s and by our nation for service to the american tradition. and with the exercise of the responsibilities of citizenship by all members. i believe this is of great significance and importance to all of us and our nation. i ask unanimous consent that it may be made a part of my remarks. signalizing the 15 years of service of this outstandingly fine organization.
. it will be recalled that when chairman khrushchev was here some years ago he came over on a vessel called the baltika. in new york harbor viktor jaanimets. a seaman on that vessel. sought asylum here in the united states. since then i have been trying to get his admission here regularized. for that purpose i send to the desk a private bill for the relief of viktor jaanimets. i ask unanimous consent that there may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks a newspaper story from the utica. n.y.. observer dispatch. explaining the situation in detail. and what animated mr. jaanimets to make his break for freedom. together with an article published in the new york sunday news of september 17. 1961.
madam president. almost 200.000 peoplerelatives of american citizens who have come from italy and from greece. aloneare penalized today because of the backwardness of our immigration laws. yet to this day we continue to be unable to do anything about them. instead. we take special steps at times of national emergency. such as during the crisis in hungary. at which time many refugees or escapees streamed from that country. and. of course. in such situations it is desirable that we take them in. it has been a decade since our immigration wall was perpetuated by the immigration and nationality act of 1952. better kn as the mccarranwalter act. time and experience have more than dramatized the fact that. as its opponents contended 11 years ago. it is perhaps as unique a law as we have on our statute books. but these 11 years have also produced an atmosphere of political helplessness to exasperate even the most determined immigration reformers. so that today most are resigned to the  annual practice of settling for piecemeal revisions or temporary relief rather than an effective overhaul of our entire policy of immigration. the backdoor methods congress has used to cover up deficiencies in the basic law is the greatest proof of the laws inadequacies. since the mccarranwalter act was enacted. congress has passed special. shortterm immigration and refugee legislation which has had the cumulative effect of admitting into the united states more than twice as many persons as permitted under the basic mccarranwalter act. but even this piecemeal legislation has represented relief to the thousands of american families within countries with heavily mortgaged and oversubscribed immigration quotas. this tragic situation is the result of that section of the mccarranwalter act which is admittedly based on national and racial discriminationthe national origins quota system. which remains today as the core of our immigration policy. creating ill will abroad. furnishing a target for communist propaganda. and making our effort to win over the uncommitted nations more difficult. it is based on the rejected racist assumption that people of one ethnic origin are superior. socially and culturally to those of aher. it was designed and is administered  to admit as many immigrants as we can readily absorb. but to exclude as many as possible. throughout his congressional career. president kennedy was a dedicated foe of the mccarranwalter act. called it in 1955 the "most blatant piece of discrimination" in history. during his 1960 campaign. he called for the abolition of the national origins quota system and pledged to give the democratic cix758 platform promises on immigration reform "high priority." the president came into office. backed by a stirring democratic platform plank on immigration. and with reasonable assurances of support for immigration reform from republicans. who adopted an equally strong immigration plank. the president had every reason to press forward. but those who expected. at long last. fighting leadership in this field were disappointedfirst. by president kennedys failure even to mention immigration in three state of the union messages. second. by the failure to send an immigration message to congress although the president has sent messages to congress on almost every other major national issue. and third. by the failure to break new ground in the administration of the immigration service. it is to be hoped that the president will begin to show the vigorous presidential leadership required. at the same time. we in congress have a responsibility to suggest the direction of immigration reform. my bill is designed to eliminate the most glaring deficiencies in existing law and is the result of long and careful study by experts in the field. as originally introduced in the 87th congress. as s. 551. the bill was thoroughly reviewed by the committee on federal legislation of the association of the bar of the city of new york. a distinguished group of experienced attorneys who performed an extremely valuable public service by issuing a detailed report. the report described the bill as "most desirable" and recommended enactment. the present bill takes into account various recommendations made by the committee as well as the developments in the law since that time. it also incorporates additional features so that. in its new form. it presents a complete proposal for immigration reform. i e that hearings on general immigration legislation which had been scheduled by the senate immigration subcommittee for this week have  been postponed. i urge that they be rescheduled promptly and that this bill be included in the subcommittees deliberations along with s. 747. introduced by senator hart and of which i am a cosponsor. and with other measures on the same subject. since the present bill includes a number of features  incorporated in the other measures and in some instances provides a different approach to the problems sought to be resolved by all the bills. the bill also includes liberalized provisions relating to refugees. displaced persons and escapees from various forms of tyranny. including the castro tyranny. we continue to this day to be unable to do anything should we be faced with a national emergencyas we were at the time of the hungarian uprisingin which refugees and escapees may come streaming in from east germany. from hungary. or from some other place and it would be very desirable to take them. we would then face. as we did before. a new situation. again we would have to improvise action. madam president. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the recorn at this point an analysis of my bill and excerpts from the report of the committee on federal legislation of the association of the bar of the city of new york on the predecessor bill. s. 551.
i am very delighted to hear that story. i should like to ask the senator one or two additional questions. because i think certain features of his statement should be highlighted. i k that earlier in his statement the senator said that of all the grievances which have called forth demonstrations. the particular subject which we are discussing accounted for most of them. the senator was referring to the fact that about twothirds of the demonstrations in the year 1963 which occurred in racial matters were attributable. in whole or in part. to grievances of that character. under those circumstances i should like to ask the senator whether or  we can justify refraining from legislation when we find that. withstanding all these protests many cities in the 15 states of the south. including both the old confederacy and the border states. continue to segregate in this kind of establishment. for example. in these 15 states of some 275 cities with populations of over 10.000. in 65 percent. all or part of the hotels and motels were still segregated as of july 1963. and in close to 60 percent all or part of the restaurants and theaters were segregated and 43 percent still had segregated lunch counters. where almost all the protest has taken place. and of 98 cities in the same states with populations of less than 10.000. in 85 to 90 percent. all or part of these types of establishments remained segregated. under those circumstances can we refrain. where there is such a deeply felt grievance. and where it has involved such threats to public order and tranquillity. from legislating to afford some measure of justice.
in view of what the senator from south carolina says about the traditions and practices of the south in regard to racial matters and the souths being law abidingi believe it wants to be law abiding. and that is why i think this bill should be passedwhat does the senator from south carolina say about the fact that a citizen of south carolina is also a citizen of the united states. and that. as a citizen of the united states. he is entitled to the benefit of the law. as interpreted by the supreme court. which provides that the public schools shall be desegregated.. would the senator from south carolina say there is anything in his philosophy which would  allow that particular person. who happens to live in south carolina. at the same time to enjoy the benefits of citizenship of the united states.
. americans have a long and hoed tradition of providing help under governmental auspices to those who come to these shores in search of freedom. the american council for emigr~s in the professions is an organization in that tradition. and its founder. dr. else staudinger. is  marking 30 years of dedicated. selfless service in salvaging the lives and talents of refugee scholars. scientists. and other professional people who have sought refuge in our country. dr. staudinger is to be commended for her efforts in founding the american council for emigrs in the professions. inc.. in 1945. and since that time the organization has helped thousands of refugee professional and highly trained men and women to fill ecoic needs in our country. these men and women represent human resources that are of inestimable value to the strength of our nation. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a condensation of an article. written by murray teigh bloom. entitled "else staudingers $100 million gift to uncle sam". which was published in readers digest for august 1964.
. for myself. the senator from pennsylvania . and the senator from oregon . i send to the desk. for appropriate reference. a bill to amend the immigration and nationality law. this morning i presented my views on this subject to the subcommittee on immigration and naturalization of the committee on the judiciary. i ask unanimous consent that the bill may lie on the table for additional cosponsors until the close of business on the 17th of february.
 johnsons immigration message. these include the pooling of unused quotas. the elimination of the discriminatory asianpacific triangle provisions. abolition of discrimination against the newly independent countries of the western hemisphere by providing quota status for immigrants from jamaica. trinidad. and tobago and adjacent islands which may become independent countries. and the removal of restrictions on the immigration of refugees. under present laws our national immigration policy opens our national doors wide for many people who do  care to come in. and slams them in the faces of people who would cherish the opportunity to be u.s. citizens. like most spite walls it is as harassing to those within as those without. it is so offensive to fairminded americans. whom it is presumably designed to protect. that it has produced a flood of backdoor finagling and occasional circumvention by congress itself. each week scores of families stream into congressional offices to appeal for help. private immigration bills make up a major portion of our federal legislation. it has been a decade since our immigration wall was perpetuated by the immigration and nationality act of 1952. better kn as the mccarranwalter act. time and experience have more than dramatized the fact that. as its opponents contended 13 years ago. it is perhaps as unique a law as vie have on our statute books. but these 13 years have also produced an atmosphere of political helplessness to exasperate even the most determined immigration reformers. so that today most as resigned to the  annual practice of settling for piecemeal revisions or temporary relief rather than an effective overhaul of our entire policy of immigration. the backdoor methods congress has used to cover up deficiencies in the basic law is the greatest proof of the laws inadequacies. since the mccarranwalter act was enacted. congress has passed special. shortterm immigration and refugee legislation which has had the cumulative effect of admitting into the united states more than twice as many persons as permitted under the basic mccarranwalter act. but even this piecemeal legislation has represented relief to the thousands of american families with relatives in countries with heavily mortgaged and oversubscribed immigration quotas. this tragic situation is the result of that section of the mccarranwalter act which is admittedly based on national and racial discriminationthe national origins quota system. which remains today a target for communst propaganda and making our effort to win over the uncommitted nations more difficult. it is based on the rejected racist assumption that people of one ethnic origin are superior socially and culturally to those of aher. it was designed and is administered  to admit as many immigrants as we can readily absorb. but to exclude as many as possible. the time has come to end this blot on our national image with meaningful reform of our immigration policies. i urge prompt congressional action in this field so that we can fashion an immigration policy of which the country can be proud.  ashamed.
. the immigration and naturalization subcommittee of the senate judiciary committee has pending before it important immigration reform legislation in the form of s. 500. introduced on behalf of a number of senators by the senator from michigan . aher measure pending before the subcommittee is s. 1093. an immigration reform bill. which i introduced on february 10 together with the senator from pennsylvania and the senator from oregon . some of the ways in which this measure differs from s. 500 are: first. provisions to accelerate the 5year phaseout of the national origins quota in line with the prompt elimination by the bill of similar discrimination in the asianpacific triangle. second. establishing of authority for judicial review of claims to u.s. nationality under the administrative procedure act or declaratory judgment act. third. the establishment of the 10year statute of limitations for deportation cases. and. fourth. the creation of a board of visa appeals in the department of state to review. upon the request of the secretary of state. any consular officer concerned. or of any person aggrieved all decisions denying or revoking visas or extensions thereof or the application of any state department immigration regulations. the latter two proposals were endorsed by the association of the bar of the state of new york in 1961 during its consideration of s. 551. immigration reform legislation which i introduced in the 87th congress. on april 1 of this year. the report of the committee on federal legislation of the new york state bar association was published. the report urges the prompt enactment of s. 500 and favors the inclusion in s. 500 or enactment of separate legislation containing the provision of s. 1093 establishing a 10year statute of limitations for deportation cases. on march 29. the new york county lawyers associations committee on american citizenship issued its report also favoring enactment of s. 500. i hope that the subcommittee will give both s. 500which i have cosponsoredand s. 1093 its serious consideration. along with other measures. pending before it. and that prompt and favorable action will be taken by the senate to enact badly needed immigration reform legislation during this session of congress. it is time for the patchwork and piecemeal approach to immigration reform to be overhauled and a comprehensive new law codified. it has been a decade since our immigration wall was perpetuated by the immigration and nationality act of 1952. better kn as the mccarranwalter act. time and experience have more than dramatized the fact that. as its opponents contended 11 years ago. it is perhaps as unique a law as we have on our statute books. but these 11 years have also produced an atmosphere of political helplessness to exasperate even the most determined immigration reformers. so that today most are resigned to the  annual practice of settling for piecemeal revisions or temporary relief. rather than an effective overhaul of our entire policy of immigration. the backdoor methods congress has used to cover up deficiencies in the basic law is the greatest proof of the laws inadequacies. since the mccarranwalter act was enacted. congress has passed special. shortterm immigration and refugee legislation which has had the cumulative effect of admitting into the united states more than twice as many persons as permitted under the basic mccarranwalter act. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the report by the committee on federal legislation of the new york state bar association.
. this is rarely the case. we rarely hear such an outcry when a bill is pending in congress. sometimes it happens. but most often it does . it is only when a bill becomes law and the people begin to feel the pressure of the bill upon them that they begin to react and protest. i am deeply concerned about the strong propaganda tool which the limitation of 120.000 would give to demagogues. especially communist demagogues. in latin america. who may play this theme to a faretheewell. they may say that the united states is following the dominican episode. which hurt us materially in latin america. that the united states is imposing a limitation upon immigration from the other american republics. a limitation which has never been imposed before. thereby confirming the historic exclusionist policy of the united states. hing could be further from the truth. even this limitation accommodates the number of quota immigrants the united states has had. on the average. in the last decade. and the number we had last year. because added to the 120.000 would be the unmarried children and spouses who would be free of the 120.000 limitation. making an estimated 20.000 to 30.000 in addition. so the level of availability of immigration into the united states from the western hemisphere would be approximately the same as the level reached last year. however. we shall never break through the barrage of calumny which will be hurled against us. it will be used and reused to a faretheewell. the restriction will harvest aher problem for usa problem relating to our relations with latin america. which area is extremely sensitive on this point in terms of both personal dignity and national dignity of the respective countries concerned. it would also impose a useless limitation upon the other american states concerned. to impose a useless limitation on the other american states is most unwise and improvident in my judgment. as attorney general katzenbach testified. approximately 70.000 of the western hemisphere immigrants come from mexico and canada. i point out that the house did set this limitation. but that we are proposing to do it. the house. in fact. voted down by 218 to 189 on august 25 an amendment to impose a ceiling of 115.000 for the western hemisphere. i k that this limitation is discussed as a part of a package by which the entire bill would be accepted in the senate. and that it might otherwise be blocked by an extended debate or a filibuster. or that it might  have gotten out of the committee if that point had  successfully carried. i make criticism of those who would go along with that policy. perhaps a e count which i and others are making may very well indicate that there is hing to be done about it in the senate at this time. however. this does  in any way prevent me from protesting it.  so much on an emotional ground as upon the ground that it is most unwise and improvident in terms of the relationships of the united states with the other countries of the americas. the question of whether specific efforts will be undertaken about the matter on the floor. or even be attempted. still remains to be decided. however. i raise my voice. as i did in subcommittee and in committee. against it as an action which. in my judgment. is most unwise. unnecessary. and very sad indeed in this very sensitive area. i am pleased that with respect to aher issue the committee on the judiciary has accepted an amendment which i proposed. along with some of my colleagues on the committee. the senator in charge of the bill. the senator from massachusetts . and the senator from michigan . and the senator from hawaii to permit western hemisphere refugees to adjust their status to that of lawful. permanent residents once they have arrived in the united states. and without leaving the country. as is required for other western hemisphere immigrants under the provisions of the pending bill. at this time. such a provision would apply to those who escape from cuba. because the united states does  have diplomatic relations with cuba. it is impossible for cubans to obtain immigrant visas through mal channels. as is the case for people in other western hemisphere countries. since the takeover in cuba by fidel castro on january 1. 1959. some 280.058 people of cuban birth entered the united states. of which number 55.535 were immigrants and 100.284 were paroled refugees. the year 1962 was the peak year for the admission of parolees. with the number reaching almost 65.000. since the break in diplomatic relations with cuba. the peak year for entering immigrants was 1964 with 12.554. though it is impossible to state exactly how many. it is fair to assume that a reasonable proportion of these immigrants were parolees who first entered the united states and then journeyed to canada or mexico in order to enter as immigrants. my amendment would make that very heavy expense and burden unnecessary for those who had left cuba. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a tabulation supplied by the immigration and naturalization service of cubans who have entered the united states year by year. this tabulation is headed. "cubans who have entered the united states. 1959 to 1965."
woefully inadequate. does the senator from massachusetts agree with me that the saigon government. which has  done nearly as much as it should do with respect to the refugee problem. should do something more. and that if the refugee program is made a strong one. it will be one of the most effective antivieteong forces. these refugees represent those very same people who used to live in the villages run by the vietcong. these are the people whose hearts and minds we must win in order to pursue our real objectives in vietnam. if they are left in squalor. the military effort will be to real avail. we in the senate must insist that the refugee problem is properly taken care of.
. as a cosponsor of this measure. i want to voice my approval and urge its speedy passage. the report clearly indicates the special problem of the more than 240.000 cuban refugees who have entered this country since the advent of the castro regime. many came as refugees and desire to become citizens. but they. as well as other citizens of western hemisphere nations are precluded from adjusting their status to permanent resident while in this country. while others can return to their country of origin for appropriate processing. cubans can return. and even if they could. there is u.s. embassy in their country to issue the correct visa. for many cubans. this has meant a costly and inconvenient trip outside the united statesusually to canada or mexicowhere the required documents can be obtained. this measure will relieve them of that burden and will facilitate their applications for citizenship. last year. when the congress revised the immigration and nationality act. i proposed an amendment similar to this bill which would have allowed adjustment of status in the united states. my amendment was accepted in committee and was passed by the senate. but was lost in conference. the vast majority of these cuban refugees have already made a contribution to our nation in the form of skills. education. and initiative. this bill will assure them the opportunity to continue their new lives in freedom and security.
is it  also aggression to say to a country: i am about to liquidate you. and then to mobilize upon its frontiers fighting forces infinitely greater than required for border forces. with every paraphernalia for aggression. the other nation is required to mobilize and nasser ks that this is also a way to strangle israel. the strain of mobilization on the ecoy. with its diversion of men and resources. could as effectively strangle a nation as overt attack. does the senator agree.
 eisenhower himself. just the other day. spoke of the need to "formulate a more sensible policy on vietnam." therefore. suggestions that debate on this vital issue give aid and comfort to the enemy and border on disloyalty can be reconciled with the constitutional responsibilities of the u.s. senate.
. i rise today to say a word about a new crisis in the middle east. the middle east and a nervous world face a new crisis today over the sinking this past weekend of israels destroyer. elath. this violent breach of the ceasefire. following other outbreaks of sporadic fighting on land. sea. and in the air. could well shatter in a tragic instant the tenuous truce in the area. i hope very much that israel will restrain a very understandable military reaction in force since a new round of fullscale warfare could seriously endanger efforts to effect a peace. however. if israel exercises such restraint. the other nations. especially the major powers. must face up to their responsibilities and at once. first. negotiations for a peace settlement can  be deferred. it is the duty of the united states and the other major power members of the security council of the u.n. to press for such negotiations promptly. as peace negotiations demand concurrence of the parties. direct negotiations between israel and the arab states are really the only way. true peace can be imposed from outside by third parties. since israel is in possession of territories the arab states wish to have returned. the united states and the other powers should be able to bring the arab states to some form of direct negotiations at this time. second. the soviet union must be warned that its crash program of rearming the united arab republic and other arab states only in quantity but with the latest in advanced sophisticated weaponryhas again reached a peril point of endangering world peace. this needs to be said openly and publicly by the united states in and outside of the united nations. since 1948. the peace of the middle east has been shattered by three fullscale wars between israel and the arab states. plus innumerable skirmishes. border raids. terrorism. ecoic warfare. boycotts and blockades. propaganda and diplomatic assaults. how long world peace can survive under these conditions and under sudden emergencies like the attack and sinking of the elath is just too dangerous to risk. a massive and aggressive effort. especially of u.s. diplomacy. is urgently required. considering the posture of both israel and the arab states. a formula for at least undertaking negotiations can be found. the only way. in my judgment. to supersede the new crisis atmosphere clearly indicating a resumption of hostilities is by peace negotiations between the principal parties and an end to the sovietspurred arms race in the middle east. the hour is late. let us  hold off decisive action until it is beyond recall. i ask unanimous consent to have 2 additional minutes.
i would say that after secretary rogers speech there is less assurance on that score than before. so much depends upon the interpretation of the security councils resolution of ember 27. 1967and what we emphasized and where we throw our influence in that regard. the u.s. interpretation has always been that strategic corrections need to be made in the armistice lines. which have been the de facto borders. to deal with the realistic strategic situation. the radical arabs and the soviets have contended that such corrections are permissible. that is what secretary rogers was moving toward in his speechin ruling out any significant adjustments which is potentially dangerous and very worrisome. it does  maintain with our attitude that if there is going to be any border correction and giving up of occupied territory. they must be agreed upon contemporaneously. i have doubt that israel is going to get out of most of the occupied territoryin return for a real peace settlementbut if we are going to twist her armand we can do itand make her give up what is essential to her national survival. that is where the danger lies. that was foreshadowed in the tone of the speech of the secretary of state. in an effort to make the arabs feel that we are  agfinst them. i agree that that was the effect.
. i am extremely gratified that s. 2593. as amended. has been finally accepted by the senate. the passage of this bill signals the end of a long struggle beginning in april 1963 the first time i wrote a letter to secretary of state rusk and again in april 1964 when i wrote again pointing out how over the last few years my office had been flooded with hundreds of exchangevisitor cases where use of the "exchangevisitor visa" also kn as the j visa had been extended to cover large numbers of foreign nationals teaching or otherwise employed here who were issued j visas but were  sponsored by the u.s. government within the meaning of public law 87256 or the predecessor laws. these people were  supported in any way from public funds or funds provided for the purpose of the program by private organizations of either the united states or their own countries. all came to the united states without travel grants and in many cases without any type of grant. but because they were participants in a program designated by the secretary of state and were issued a j visa. they were  eligible to apply for permanent residence until they had resided and been physically present in the country of their nationality for an aggregate of at least 2 years following departure from the united states. i recommended that action be taken with all possible speed to amend all improperly issued j visas and that the holders of these visas be reclassified so that an alien of distinguished merit and ability coming temporarily to the united states would be eligible to apply for adjustment of status. s. 2593. as amended. changes section 212(e) of the immigration and nationality act. and imposes a foreign residence requirement only where the exchange visitors participation was financed by the united states. section 101(a) (15) (h) (1) is amended to permit entry of aliens for a temporary period to perform services which may be temporary in nature or permanent in nature. before this amendment. aliens admitted on an (h) (1) petition could only come to the united states if the position were temporary in nature. i would like to single out for special praise mary mcferran of my staff who has labored long and hard over the past 7 years for the passage of this bill. i am very pleased her labors have finally borne fruit. i ask unanimous consent that my letters of april 10. 1963. april 14. 1964. and new york times articles on this problem appearing on june 23. 1963. and august 22. 1964. be inserted in the record as part of my remarks.
. i point out that the russians* are also faced with a crisis in the mideast as well as on the border of red china. is it  a correct answer to the pertinent question of the senator from wisconsin to state that we would have a right to say to the executive branch. "we will give you money for everything you have disclosed. we are satisfied and will adjudge the amount. we will give you money for everything you have  disclosed if you give good reason for  having disclosed it. it is a fact that democracies may have to have some secrets. but we will  give you money in a very selective way for what you have  disclosed and for what you can give us good reason for  having disclosed." is that  a good rule in accord with senate resolution 85. the commitments resolution and the first in this whole direction adopted by the senate.
.  one of the hostages is any different from aher with regard to national origin or religion. and the civilized world is responsible for and can accept hing less than the release of all. whether they be from britain. switzerland. germany. or the united states. looked at beyond this crisis. the palestinearab refugee situation which spawned these hijackings reflects the bankruptcy of international policy as manifested by unrwa. this is the whirlwind reaped by those arab states which have used the refugees as pawns in their efforts to try to discredit israel. and the tragedy of the palestinianarab refugees caught in a historic crisis is what they have suffered at the hands of their arab brothers.  this catastrophic policy has produced the commando madness. one of the first items on the agenda of the u.n. general assembly at its coming session must be the palestinearab refugee question. the nations maintaining unrwa simply can continue to pour money into this selfperpetuating failure. a better and saner way must be found. error has been compounded for so long on this question that disaster has overtaken us.
. i would like to be sure that the unrwa resolves this matter in a way that assures it does  give aid to any refugee involved in commando activities or of such people being on the ration list. as the senator says. i am sure there are plenty of holes in that. however. at least the senator ed that our people are trying to see that the people who receive rations are  commandos. one never ks what happens to the rations when they get into the hands of a family. undoubtedly. commandos eat many of the rations. there is one thing that we should k about this matter. although they do  actually maintain camps. they do furnish certain essential services. for example. water and sanitation are supplied by unrwa. they furnish also other types of services. i would hope very much that the committee would make it very clear to our authorities that we expect strict accountability in this matter. as we already k. because we have seen it. these camps have been used as the bastion of the effort to overthrow the government of king hussein. they have even been used as a place in which the hostages from the hijacked aircraft were kept. this is  acceptable to the united states and is contrary to the legislation passed by congress concerning the use of u.s. funds by unrwa. when the chance is present. i hope that something far more constructive will be done about the palestinian refugees than has been done until .
. i call to the attention of the senate the granting of permission by the soviet union to an american. leonid rigerman. and his mother. mrs. esther rigerman. to come to the united states. this is most heartening. it should  be interpreted as any major shift in soviet policy. indeed. the soviet union has postponed other departures relating to the reunion of families of soviet jewish citizens. apparently out of some feeling that it had to protest the forthcoming conference in brussels. the attitude of the soviet union toward its jewish citizens by this clearance of the rigermans does indicate that the government of the soviet union is paying some attention to the cause of humanity and international comity which is represented by it. mrs. rigerman is a u.s.-born american citizen. married to a naturalized american.  deceased. and went to the soviet union in 1931 on an american passport. leonid rigerman. born in the u.s.s.r. in 1940. derived his american citizenship from his two u.s.-citizer parents. the u.s. government has confirmed the u.s. citizenship of both ol these individuals. the soviets. through arrests and harassment. endeavored to prevent the rigermans from visiting the american embassy in moscow. thus hindering their efforts to confirm their u.s. citizenship and facilitate their return to this country. my interest in the case stemmed from the fact that mrs. rigerman is a new yorker. i found the state department most cooperative in indicating american concern to the soviet union that our citizens should be thus harassed and barred from visiting their embassy and in facilitating the return to new york of these two individuals. aristotle once observed that one swallow does  make a spring. but the release of the rigermans is a breath of that spring which it is hoped will  be too long in coming for all the jews of the u.s.s.r. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article from the new york times of today describing the case.
let me just fihish my thought. surely. it is a risk to say they have got to negotiate. whether it is a rhodestyp5e of negotiation or direct negotiation. but i think it is the only way to get a viable agreement. there will be a great deal of withdrawal. obviously. israel is  going to stay on all these territories. everybody ks it. she ks it and we k it. it is just an illusion. but the use of the words "insubstantial border adjustments." the question of absoiute assurance of transit through the suez. command of sharm el sheik.the demilitarization questionthese are subjects for intense negotiation. it would be much easier if we could write the ticket and the parties could sign it. then we would k the negotiation would succeed because we would have made all the decisions. but these are human beings. with deep interests and concerns of their own. and we simply have to run the risk that  the climate is such that a peace is possible. we have got to. in my judgment. reduce the rhetoric. reduce the heat. and reduce the profile of everything but the insistence on negotiations
. at the recent annual convention of the american red cross. frank l. kellogg. special assistant to the secretary of state for refugee and migration affairs. described the tragic plight of the more than 8 million international refugees and the dedicated efforts of the red cross to extend aid and comfort to these unfortunate lonely wanderers. the increasing cooperation between the united states and the red cross. and washingtons "increasing support of and reliance on" geneva as the new look of the future are stressed by mr. kellogg. i commend the full text of the statement. entitled "the government and the red cross." to the attention of the senate and ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. most older americans seek from the government only that which they can obtain for themselves. they want to be treated as full citizens and welcomed as participants in the mainstream of american life. s. 50 as amended is a salutory effort to restore first class citizenship to all older americans. by strengthening the older americans act and providing more adequate support for ongoing and future programs under the act. we will have made a great stride forward to assure that quality of life that we owe to our elderly citizens.
. while i was recently in abidjan. ivory coast. attending the world peace through law conference. i had the opportunity to hear the hoable frank l. kellogg. special assistant to the secretary for refugee and migration affairs of the department of state. address the conference on the subject of the plight of the worlds refugees and the international convention on the status of refugees and its protocol. mr. kellogg. who presently serves as the special assistant to the secretary of state for refugee and migration affairs. is a close acquaintance of mine. and i ask unanimous consent that his address be printed in the record.
. s. 2145 would authorize payments based on the attendance of these children aged 5 to 17. therefore. it will  support needed educational services for the 54 percent of the refugee population--estimated at 64.000 of the 117.000 personswho are 18 years of age and older. many of these persons currently remain in the refugee camps awaiting resettlement. the interagency task force on refugees estimates that on august 1 over 60.000 refugees were still in relocation centers in the united states and guam. in order that these refugees might become productive members of society. they must first be provided an opportunity to learn basic coping skills. in addition to refugees in relocation centers. approximately 64.000 refugees have already been resettled in the united states. these persons are  dealing with a wide variety of problems associated with beginning a new life in a new land. they have located in every state of the union. although they are  evenly distributed. i ask unanimous consent that a table showing the distribution by states of refugees be printed in the record.
 on may 23 as public law 9423. thus this is a limited bill to meet a specific need for a fixed period of time. i should e that under the authority of public law 9423. hew is currently planning to distribute $5 million to support special refugee education projects for adults. i am pleased that this start has been made. but i am concerned that this amount of $5 million will  meet adequately the needs which i have just outlined. the national advisory council on adult education estimated that approximately $21.4 million over 2 years will be necessary to meet these needs. thus. this proposed amendment will create specific authority for education aid for adult refugees as a companion to aid for refugee children authorized in s. 2145. the senate has already acted on may 8 to welcome the indochina refugees to our nation by senate resolution 148. i am hopeful that my colleagues will support s. 2145 and the adult education amendment so that these refugees will receive the education services necessary in the resettlement process to integrate them into the fabric of american society. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this amendment be published in the record.
