. i was pleased to meet today with members of the organization kn as joinjob orientation in neighborhoodscomposed of new york city youths who have sponsored a citywide petition in support of the narcotics legislation which i have cosponsored with senator kennedy. these young people are helped through the valuable join program to find jobs in their communities. many have friends who have been addicts and k how acutely these addicts are in need of medical helpinstead of being treated as criminals. i ask unanimous consent to place in the record the petition which the group has circulated all over new york city. and which  lists more than 70.000 signatures. in addition i also ask permission to include in the record a speech which was delivered today by henry lopez. who is chairman of the join alumni antinarcotics project.
. i send to the desk an amendment to h.a 13196. the allied health professional personnel training act of 1966. my proposal is directed at helping to relieve the criticaland growingnurse shortage which is seriously threatening patient care throughout the nation. i am introducing it as an amendment to a related. housepassed measure in order that the congress might have an opportunity to act this year on one of the nations most pressing health problems. my amendment would: first. establish a new scholarship program for needy nursing students. second. a new program to encourage young people to enter into the nursing profession. third. expand construction of nursing schools. and fourth. increase nursing school teaching improvement grants. the additional cost to the government for all aspects of this program would be $21.1 million in the current fiscal year. the nursing shortage is widespread and universal. striking both affluent and affluent communities. the cities. the suburbs and the rural areas. seriously threatening patient care throughout the nation. the life or death aspects of this critical problem were amply illustrated in recent newspaper reports on conditions in new york city municipal hospitals. in these articles physicians reported that practical nurses were forced to run entire wards on afterns. evenings. and weekends due to the shortage of registered nurses. despite the fact that by law. practical nurses must work under the supervision of registered nurses. in some hospitals practical nurses were covering up to 12 wards apiece on some days without any supervision. presenting grave dangers to the health of patients. the department of health. education. and welfare estimates the nurse shortage at 125.000. in new york city. for example. 25 percent of the registered nursing positions in 150 private hospitals are unfilled. for the citys 21 municipal hospitals. the situation is more drastic60 percent of the positions are unfilled. the u.s. army itself is short 3.650 nurses. a few years ago. it was estimated that 850.000 nurses would be needed by 1975. there is  some indication that this estimated need will be revised upward to 1 million. the legislation i am introducing today is designed to mobilize the resources needed to meet this shortage . before it worsens. the scholarship program envisioned by my bill is patterned after the educational opportunity grant program enacted last year by the congress as a part of the higher education act of 1965. by following this established pattern. i hope to minimize the controversy which might surround the establishment of a new program. funded at $5 million for the current fiscal year. $10 million is authorized for each of fiscal years 1968 and 1969. recipients of nursing scholarships would receive up to $800 annually. based on need. and those who prove themselves by ranking in the upper half of their nursing class would be awarded an additional $200. nursing. students could meet the balance of their schooling costs through the loan program established by the nurses training act of 1964. federal scholarships for student nurses is one of the few remaining unfilled recommendations of the surgeon generals consultant group on nursing which issued its report. "toward quality in nursingneeds and goals." in february 1963. other principal recommendations in the report were brought to fruition in the nurses training act of 1964. the provision to encourage young people to enter nursing school is also patterned after a similar provision in the higher education act of 1965. under this part. the secretary of health. education. and welfare can enter into contracts with state and local educational agencies and other public or profit organizations. for up to $100.000 annually. to encourage young people to undertake educational training in the field of nursing. entries into nursing school are decreasing. to illustrate. in 1955. six girls were admitted to college for every one admitted to a professional nursing program of any type. by 1964 this ratio has changed to 9 to 1. this amendment will be especially useful in recruiting young negro girls for nursing. although 11 percent of the population. negroes comprise only 5 percent of the nursing profession. nursing offers an excellent opportunity for these young people to expand their horizons and to fill a national need. my amendment also expands the nursing school construction grants authorized by the nurses training act of 1964. increasing the fiscal year 1967 authorization from $25 million to $40 million and increasing the fiscal year 1968 authorization from $25 million to $50 million. i propose leaving the fiscal year 1969 authorization open. so that congress and the administration will be obliged to review the entire act a year earlier and thus evaluate and meet the needs as they appear at that time. this expansion is very much needed. the public health service indicates that if all the nursing school construction  authorized by law is completed. there still would be a shortage of at least 41.300 firstyear places in nursing schools by 1972. presently indicated requests for nursing school construction funds for the next 3 years are already $22.5 million beyond the amounts  authorized by law. and the actual needs are still greater. the public health service tabulates the need for federal construction funds for fiscal year 1969 at $284 million. for fiscal year 1970 at $154 million. for fiscal year 1971 at $206 million and $82 million for fiscal year 1972. aher amendment to present law contained in my proposal would permit funds authorized for associate degree and diploma programs to be interchangeable with funds for baccalaureate and higher degree programs in instances where one program has insufficient applications and the other is underfunded. in practice. this would aid the 4year schools where experience has shown that requests for construction funds are in excess of the authorization and requests for diploma programs. on the other hand. fall short of the authorization. finally. to meet the needs of additional nursing schools. my proposal amends the nurses training act to increase from $4 million to $5 million the authorization for teaching improvement grants for fiscal year 1968 and $5 million for fiscal year 1969. these grants enable public and public collegiate. associate degree. and diploma schools of nursing to strengthen. improve. and expand their programs of nursing education. because of the desperate need for a great number of highly trained nurses. today. and the certain acceleration of that need in the years ahead. i hope that the senate will act favorably on this proposal.
s budget is for $9 million and that is for continuation only and  for new student loans. while i am reluctant to advocate funding without appropriate authorization. it appears by the overwhelmingly large margins of passage in both houses of congress of the nurse training act. that it is indeed the intent of the congress to continue the nursing education programs and  to eliminate them. it is essential that we  reduce the ability of nursing schools to educate egh nurses to meet the already existing shortages and keep up with the growing demand for more nurses and trained nurse specialists. the nurse training act is different from other health manpower measures  before the congress in that it has already passed both houses by wide margins. i urge my colleagues to recognize this difference and adopt this amendment.
