i agree with the senators conclusion and i so indicated in my prepared text. however. i did point out that even multilateral loans are in the future. and although we have adopted a policy of getting away from bilateral assistance. nevertheless i did find that most of these countries. even though they are looking toward regional assistance and cooperation. are still at the stage of their development where they still need bilateral assistance. i do  believe that these forms of assistance have to be mutually exclusive. i believe we can have both. as the senator from kansas pointed out. and  just on the hydroelectric projects and matters of that nature. i believe this is the thinking of africans themselves. i talked with two vice presidents of the african development bank who are thinking in terms of regionalism. i agree with the conclusion of the distinguished junior senator from illis that we can assist these african nations through the world bank and the other development banks. the objective of african nations is to help themselves. our objective should be help them help themselves. we can best do this in the manner which the senator suggested. i thank the senator for his contribution.
s special trade representative william eberle. deputy u.s. representative for trade negotiations harold malmgren. deputy assistant secretary of state for international finance and development sidney weintraub. elliot richardson. salt negotiator u. alexis johnson. kenneth rush. joint chiefs chairman admiral moorer. john ingersoll of the u.s. bureau of narcotics and dangerous drugs. julius katz. deputy assistant secretary of state for international resources and food policy. under secretary of commerce james lynn. russell train. william ruckelshaus. and ambassador armin meyer. the state departments coordinator for combating terrorism. that is an impressive and. as i say. only a partial roster. it says something very important about usia and how the flow of policy explanations is conveyed by u.s. officials charged with international negotiations and the conduct of other diplomatic business. it represents what i believe is a strong vote of confidence in the ability of usia to help advance american policy interests and objectives abroad. and i can believe that any different measure was applied by the nearly 40 u.s. senators and representatives who over the past couple of years have contrbuted byline articles and statements of their own to the agencys press and publications output. these on subjects that included trade restrictions. foreign aid. detente. multilateral corporations. the sst program. collective security. china policy. vietnam. executivelegislative branch relations. energy problems. the election process and american isolationism. there is one additional point i would like to make in closing. many of us are concerned that the world may overreact to current u.s. foreign policies and domestic problems. we have good reason  for wanting precise understanding overseas that the united states is  withdrawing inward in ways that prevent it from remaining a strong and active power in world affairs. that cause will  be served if we dismember the nations overseas information program which is itself a clear symbol and major source of information of americas cooperative purposes abroad. i urge the senate to support the significant work of this small but important agency.
. the energy crisis and its linkage to the present arab employment of oil diplomacy is of central concern to both the united states and its allies in the developed world. western europe. some 73- to 80percent dependent on external sources for its oil needs. and japan. over 90 percent dependent on external oil sources. have been the main focal points of attention in the immediate crisis  being faced. while the main emphasis has been on the effects of the arab boycott on the developed portion of the world. there has been far too little recognition of the debilitating effects of the energy crisis. and especially of rising costs of oil. on the developing countries. in a recent issue of the ecoist. there appeared an article summarizing what was termed "the calamitous effect of dearer oil on many of the struggling ecoies of the third world." i commend this article to my colleagues. as the article points out: the rise in the underdeveloped countries oil bill will just about wipe out the whole official aid effort of the united states. equal to 25 per cent of the foreign currency that the rich world  hands to the poor. most of the underdevelopeds have backed the arab cause politically. yet they are going to be at least 1.7 billion a year poorer in consequence. it goes on to state: much of the world aid programme has been eradicated at a stroke. this assessment. of course. oversimplifies the problem. american aid is  given on a basis that makes it amenable for use as the recipient country sees fit. it is oriented toward funding of specific projects. nevertheless. the general weakening of the ecoies of the ldcs brought on by the escalating prices of oil and its derivatives. will certainly have a debilitating effect on development programs throughout the third world. saudi arabias oil minister. sheikh ahmed yamani. sensitive to the effect that the socalled oil diplomacy may have on the arabs third world supporters. has suggested a possible twotier pricing system that would mitigate the negative consequences of increased oil prices for the ldcs. however. there is evidence as yet that such a system is in the offing. moreover. arab oil producers such as nigeria or venezuela. are likely to oppose any twotier system that might cut into the growth in profits they are  experiencing. should the negative effects predicted in this article actually occur. the hopes and aspirations of a great number of earths underprivileged peoples will be seriously eroded. in the long run. this would be one of the most tragic consequences to stem from the use of energy resources as a political weapon. i ask unanimous consent that the ecoist article entitled "kicking the poor." be printed in the record.
. i am hoed to be a member of the united statespuerto rico commission on the status of puerto rico. and to cosponsor s. 2154 to provide the commission with the further time and funds it needs to complete its studies and submit a firstrate report. since i have been a member of the commission. i have seen its very able staff. under ambassador ben stephansky. the commissions executive director. devote a great deal of energy and dedication to developing a very comprehensive list of studies which the staff has already begun to carry out. over the next year. every relevant factor bearing upon the status of puerto rico will be thoroughly examined and placed in appropriate relation to the other factors. so that the members of the commission will be able to draft their report in the light of what will doubtless be the most wideranging. indepth review ever made of the entire status question. the interest of the united states in the question of the status of puerto rico continues to lie in the will of the people of puerto rico. i am indeed glad to offer my every support for the critically important work of the commission. and to participate in these efforts toward the resolution of a problem of such vital concern to me and to all our citizens from puerto rico.
i said $72 billion or $73 billion or $71 billion or $70 billion or $69 billion. if we can cut even $2 billion. to avoid the opportunity of contributing to a war. let alone destroying the world. it is worth it. we can equate a bridge in new york or a housing project in new york with what we do in jordan or israel or in some other country. it is an added burden that we have to carry. just as we have to pay insurance on our automobiles. and so forth. it is a burden. but there is other way to do it in a country like ours. for a country like ours  to carry part of that burden in the world would be shocking. in my judgment. counterproductive. and  justifiable. i served as a delegate from the united states to the united nations when the 1percent target for foreign aid was established. which was decent and hoable. even if we were poorer. we should respond to that. but. be that as it may. i quite agree with the senator from arkansas that we have to justify this amendment on its merits and i should like to advert to one or two other points on the merits. jordan had an excellent rate of growth between 1948 and the war in 1967. she made a terrible mistake in getting into the 1967 war. it wellnigh destroyed her.  she is back on the track. in the hope of restoring herself with a record to show that she has the capability of doing so. with selfhelp. and with an intelligent development plan for her own future. it is on that basis we are proposing to help her. second. in strategic terms. jordan borders both iraq and syria. which countries are kn to be radical arab states. heavily supported by the soviet union. jordan borders on iraq and syria. two radical states. and also on saudi arabia. the greatest source of energy for europe and japan. and. probably tomorrow. for the united states. the position. therefore. is critical. so far as hope for some stability. sometime. in the middle east. is concerned. but critical also in immediate strategic terms in terms of energy resources of the worldfor the next 10 yearswhich are concentrated in that particular area. . $30 million is absolutely a lot of money. but in relation to the problems we have. and the order of magnitude of expenditures we could be stuck with if things went wrong. they could do in that area of the world. i respectfully submit that these expenditures are entirely warranted and that they should be made. and i hope the senate will adopt the amendment.
. george f. kennan is one of our most ed diplomat and scholar whose works have contributed greatly to our foreign policy over the last 25 years. i believe his comments on the wisdom of reliance on arab oil are most cogent and especially pertinent at this time of shortage and rethinking of our basic assumptions about energy policy and foreign policy. i ask unanimous consent that mr. kennans article in the new york times of december 2. 1973. on this subject be printed in the record.
. that as we debate this issue we will keep our eye on the ball and on the main theme. which is why i have been so deeply devoted to this particular effort which we have here. the united states was a primary force behind the establishment of witteveen facility. which totals approximately $10.5 billion. yet. we are the only country which has  completed its constitutional procedures for participation. in its negotiations with the other do countries in the imf. the administration took into account congressional concerns about an earlier attempt made by the ford administration to develop a program to meet the balance of payments needs of the world. the oecd safety net. in response to congressional criticism of the safety net that it did  include money from the opec countries and would  be used to meet the balance of payments needs of the developing countries. the administration favored a facility within the imp which specifically met our concerns. let it be clear to my colleagues that we are  talking about a foreign aid program. the imf is the worlds central monetary institution and serves as a common storehouse of international monetary reserves to which all the members of the imf have contributed. the member countries thus are eligible to draw upon the reserves for official ballance of payments financing which must be accompanied by steps to stabilize their ecoies and correct any excessive deficit in the balance of payments. once a country has been accepted for membership and has paid its entrance fees by contributing hard currencies. gold. and some of its local currency. it has the right to draw on its share in imf resources to which it is entitled. all imp members contribute to the reserve pool. and nearly every member. including the united states. has drawn a portion of its reserve quota to meet balance of payments needs at one time or aher. the united states. in fact. has drawn on 23 occasions in the amount of $3.5 billion. the witteveen facility is specifically geared to meeting the needs of the international ecoy for increased flows of capital from countries in balanceofpayments surplus to those in deficit. increased flows are. however.  egh. the international ecoy has suffered greatly since the quadrupling of oil prices by the opec countries in 19731974. and we need further to insure that the increased capital flows are put to productive use in capital investment in order to generate the needed funds to pay for the increased energy costs that these countries are incurring. in the light of this cataclysmic shock that has severely affected the world ecoy. it is imperative that the international institutions that were created to deal with balanceofpayments problems adapt their programs to meet these changed conditions. in the immediate period following the opec price rise. the commercial banking system rose to the occasion by recycling much of the funds from the surplus to the deficit countries. the fact that the international monetary system did  collapse. as was predicted by many in the immediate aftermath of the 197374 opec price rise. was due to the resiliency of the private commercial banking sector. the official institutions. responded. too. albeit more slowly. the witteven facility is part of that official response. the other official institutionsthe world bank and the regional development bankshave only begun  to increase their lending to the deficit countries. the witteveen facility is needed in order to permit the imf to meet these increased world balanceof -payments financing needs and to promote ecoic stabilization for member countries in this period of particular financial difficulty and uncertainty. the facility will total approximately $10.5 billion. with opec countries sharing in the financing on a roughly 5050 basis with the major industrial countries. saudi arabia is the largest participant. providing about 24 percent of the financing. the u.s. share. about 17 percent. is appropriate to our large stake in a healthy world ecoy. this financing involves net interest cost to the treasury and gives us a highly liquid assetfor each dollar we provide. we receive an equivalent increase in our international monetary reserves which we can encash in the event of balanceofpayments need. we have heard much criticism of the imp because of the conditions that the imf insists upon. the socalled "conditionality." in order to permit countries to draw upon imf resources. it is often argued that these corrective actions are much too harsh and that they impose severe restrictions on the ecoies of the borrowing countries. this issue has been explored in depth. i ask unanimous consent that a recent speech given by the former managing director of the fund. johannes witteveen. who negotiated the facility and for whom it is named. be inserted in the record.
